st STr Ra At Te EG GI iC c R re EP POR orT t G GO OVVEERN RNAAN NCCEE f Fi Inan NANc Ci Ial AL s St Ta At Te Em Me Ent NTs S a Add DDi It Ti Ion ONa Al L i IN nF fOR orM mA aT tI iON on Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2014 51 Dear Shareholder the risks identified by the business.
Committee LETTER FROM THE In addition to its core audit and valuation members were able to use their experience gained in responsibilities, the Committee has had a busy other businesses to advise management and provide CHAIRMAN OF THE year addressing a number of new challenges.
We will continue to monitor In response to new regulations our corporate these key risks regularly with the assistance of the AUDIT COMMITTEE reporting has seen significant change, which was Groups internal audit team.
We devoted time to The independent valuers, Knight Frank LLP and ensure that the Groups new auditor, Ernst & Young Jones Lang LaSalle in relation to the X-Leisure LLP EY, was able to get up to speed quickly and properties, play a key role in determining the results identify the key areas of risk that would help shape of the Group so their work remains a primary focus their audit plan.
The Groups principal valuers, The changing business environment caused some Knight Frank, attended two committee meetings and existing risks to increase and others to emerge.
were questioned about their valuation of the Groups Macro risks, such as the maturing property cycle and properties.
The external auditor also met with the structural changes to the retail market, were dealt valuers as part of their audit of the Companys with at meetings of the full Board in order to benefit financial statements.
The degree of oversight and from its broader range of skills and experience.
More challenge applied to the valuation process meant the specific and emerging risks, which I have outlined Committee was confident that the valuations were below, were considered by the Committee.
conducted appropriately, independently and in Preparation for the 2014 reporting cycle began accordance with the valuers professional standards.
with a specially convened meeting in September to Last year, EY was appointed auditor following a receive training on the new reporting regulations.
They have settled in quickly At that meeting a framework was established for having been in office for the review of the Half Year ensuring the Companys Annual Report was fair, results.
They have also invested significant time in balanced and understandable.
Training was then learning about the Group and its business and the provided to senior managers and those responsible Committee has been pleased with their progress and for producing the Annual Report.
A full review of their performance will be meeting of the Committee took place in April to undertaken later in the year.
consider an advance draft of the Annual Report Finally, the appointment of a new auditor and to challenge management on its content.
presented a good opportunity for the Committee to The Committee found the additional meeting carry out a review of its policy on non-audit services.
useful and may repeat it next year.
More details In adopting our new policy, we were keen to of the process are provided later in this report.
incorporate additional safeguards to ensure their We also considered emerging risks facing the independence.
Details of the review are set out in business, together with mitigating actions proposed the body of this Committee report.
These included the integration of I hope this report provides you with a useful guide the new X-Leisure business, cyber security, security to the activities of the Committee during the year.
of energy supply, energy efficiency, fraud and flood risks.
Managements mitigating actions were Kevin OByrne considered and challenged by the Committee to Chairman, Audit Committee ensure that such mitigation remains appropriate for Committee members Kevin OByrne Chairman and Senior Independent Director David Rough Independent Non-executive Director left the Although all of the Committee members are Committee on 8 May 2014 considered to be appropriately experienced to fulfil their role, Kevin OByrne is considered to have Stacey Rauch Independent significant, recent and relevant financial experience in Non-executive Director line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Further biographical details of each of the members of the Cressida Hogg CBE Independent Committee are set out in the Directors section of the Annual Report.
The Committees written terms of Non-executive Director joined reference are available on the Companys website at the Committee on 26 March 2014 www.
com about-us corporate-governance board-committees 52 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 External auditor and non-audit work Valuers accountaBilitY Effectiveness of the external auditor The valuations of the Groups portfolios by valuers The Committee places great importance on ensuring Knight Frank and Jones Lang Lasalle help to a high quality, effective external audit process.
determine a very significant part of the Groups Audit Committee agenda Following a successful tender in early 2013, EY were reported performance and remuneration for senior The Committee met five times.
Amongst the appointed as auditor for the financial year under management.
it is therefore of great importance to items considered were the following: review.
The Committee was keen for the new auditor ensure measures and processes are in place to to settle quickly into their new role and provided a support and monitor the valuers independence and new reporting regulations and proposals for number of opportunities to meet key employees objectivity.
Valuations prepared at the full and half implementing them on formal and informal occasions prior to the year were reviewed and challenged by management the degree to which the Annual Report is fair, commencement of their work to help familiarise as well as the Audit Committee.
The valuers met balanced and understandable themselves with the business.
The Committee is separately with the external auditor and exchanged the final and interim financial statements pleased with the insights brought by the new audit information independently of management.
The and matters raised by management and the team and the start they have made.
An assessment external auditor has chartered surveyors within their external and internal auditors of EYs effectiveness, its processes, audit quality and team who consider the valuers qualifications, assess the effectiveness of the Groups system of performance will be undertaken after completion of and challenge the valuation approach and internal control and risk management this years audit.
A similar review was carried out by assumptions made by the valuers.
This year 25 the Committee in connection with the performance properties were chosen for particular attention, the results of internal audit reviews, of the outgoing auditor,  LLP, on the basis of their value, type and geography.
management action plans to resolve issues where feedback from Directors and senior managers The external auditor performed site visits for a arising and the tracking of their resolution was sought in the form of a questionnaire, the results sample of assets including those under development the Groups key risk registers of which were discussed by the Committee.
No and completed analytical and substantive reviews Key Risks including cyber security, energy material issues were raised during that assessment over the input data for the valuations, comparing this security, X-Leisure integration, flooding and the Committee would like to put on record its to market data.
Their findings were reviewed by the the introduction of the new auditor and the appreciation for many years of excellent service.
in addition, members of the Audit scope of their audit The Committee reviewed EYs proposals for the Committee attended key valuation meetings to audit and is confident that appropriate plans were put satisfy themselves with regard to the independence the adoption of a new non audit services policy in place to carry out an effective and high quality and rigour of the process.
No issues were raised the external auditor, their effectiveness, audit.
Particular attention was paid to the audit plan during the review.
objectivity and independence, and the terms and its appropriateness for the Group.
There have A fixed fee arrangement is in place with our of engagement and the scope of the audit been no significant issues.
EY confirmed to the valuers Knight Frank and Jones Lang Lasalle.
Given internal audit plans Committee that they maintained appropriate internal the importance of the work undertaken by them, the full and half year valuations and the safeguards to ensure their independence and we have disclosed the fees we pay in note 8 to the external valuation process objectivity.
The Committee considered and approved financial statements.
The total fees paid by the EYs assessment of their independence.
it has Company to Knight Frank and Jones Lang Lasalle in performance of the Companys auditor and recommended their reappointment to the Board the year represented less than 5% of their respective the external valuer.
which will seek the approval of shareholders.
EY raised total fee incomes for the year.
no significant issues during the course of the audit.
In conjunction with the Board evaluation outlined on Significant judgements, key assumptions page 49, the Committee evaluation concluded that Non-audit services and estimates it remained an effective Audit Committee.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and The Audit Committee pays particular attention reviewing the objectivity and independence of the to significant issues in relation to the financial external auditor.
To support this, the Committee has statements and how they are addressed.
The a non-audit services policy in place that sets out the significant issues are important by virtue of their circumstances in which the external auditor may be impact on the Groups results and remuneration of permitted to undertake non-audit services.
The main areas of focus during the Committee reviewed its policy to ensure it was in the year are set out in table 29 on the following page.
it was keen to limit the type of Internal controls and risk management non-audit work undertaken by the external auditor.
The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of A copy of the new policy can be found at internal control including financial control and has www.
com about-us corporateworked hard over a number of years to embed them governance .
The into the culture of the business.
This has been existing threshold level of 25,000 per engagement designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of of specific pre-approved services that the auditor is any failure to meet business objectives.
The systems able to provide to Land securities without referral to of internal control can only provide reasonable not the Committee was confirmed and the Committee absolute assurance against material misstatement is satisfied that the limit provides an adequate or loss.
The Boards approach to risk management is safeguard.
Any service above this level must be supported by an oversight structure that includes the approved by the Chairman of the Audit Committee Audit Committee.
During the year no The Board has an ongoing process to identify, such approval was sought as the non-audit work evaluate and manage the significant risks faced by provided by EY did not reach the threshold level.
the Group, details of which can be found on page 32.
Details of the non-audit services provided by EY This was in place throughout the year and up to the can be found on page 96. date of the approval of the Annual Report and financial statements.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board, and accords with the FRCs strateGic rePort GOVERNANCE financial statements additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2014 53 internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on Significant accounting judgements Table 29 the Combined Code.
in addition, the Board reviews Matter considered Action annually the effectiveness of the risk management Valuation of the property portfolio The Audit Committee reviewed the methodology and outcomes of and internal control systems.
Details of our Three Although conducted externally by the valuation.
The valuers presented their valuation at the half and lines of defence risk and control model can be found independent valuers, the valuation full year results meetings.
No significant failings or weaknesses of the property portfolio is inherently The valuers proposed significant increases in the values of our were identified.
subjective, requiring the making of developments, which were discussed by the Committee in detail significant judgements and assumptions and accepted on a case-by-case basis.
A number of our investment Assurance by management and the valuers.
The properties also saw significant upward and downward movements The Audit Committee and the Board reviewed the outcome is significant for the Group in in value.
effectiveness of the Groups system of risk terms of its investment decisions, results The valuations were scrutinised separately by management, the and remuneration.
management and internal control including financial, Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Committee itself and the operational and compliance controls.
The auditor was assisted by its specialist team of chartered primarily achieved by: surveyors who are familiar with the valuation process.
Knight Frank LLP were asked to attend a meeting of the full Board to reviewing the Groups system of internal control to present their valuations, highlight any significant judgements and ensure controls were embedded and operating any significant disagreements with management.
effectively within the business The Committee is confident that the valuation was independently reviewing the internal audit plan and the reports and properly undertaken.
The objectivity of the valuers was also from the Risk management and internal Audit monitored by the Committee and more information on this can be team on any issues identified in the course of found earlier in this section.
The Director of Risk management Revenue recognition on the disposal The Committee considered the progress of sales within the and internal Audit met regularly with senior of Bankside 4, SE1 development, the prices achieved, the likelihood of selling the management and attended all meetings of In December 2005, the Group sold land remaining flats and the price they might achieve.
The Committee the Committee on Londons South Bank to a residential supported managements judgement that the amount of profit reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit property developer in return for an recognised last year remained appropriate.
upfront payment and a share of any function development profit.
Last year, the reviewing the external audit plan and reports from Committee agreed to recognise 15.4m the external auditor on any issues identified in the as an estimate of the profit expected to course of their work, including an internal control be received.
This year, the Committee considered whether that figure remained report on control weaknesses.
From the review of the risk management and internal control system, the Board confirms that no significant Judgements affecting the calculation The Committee considered the accounting treatment for each of revenue profit transaction to ensure it was consistent with similar transactions failings or weaknesses have been identified.
Where For certain transactions, judgement is this year and last.
It also considered the scope of the accounting areas for improvement were identified, processes are applied by management as to whether, standard and the degree of the judgement made.
in place to ensure that the necessary action is taken and to what extent, they should form In its assessment, the Committee considered the underlying facts and that progress is monitored.
of each case, the recoverability of the sums, the options that Fair, balanced and understandable Whilst none of the individual items in this management had in terms of accounting treatment and the category were of a sufficient size to be appropriateness of the recommendations of management.
These The Audit Committee established additional significant for the Groups results, the were discussed with the auditor, which had looked into each item procedures to ensure the Groups Annual Report was Committee and the auditor considered with management.
Both the Committee and the auditor concurred fair, balanced and understandable.
in september the appropriateness of the accounting with the recommendations of management.
2013, the Audit Committee attended a training treatment applied by management.
session on its obligations and agreed how it would comply with them.
This included bringing forward Further details on significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates can be found in note 2 to the financial the Annual Report process so that the Committee statements on page 89 could assess whether the entire Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable, taking into account Risk and control Three lines of defence Diagram 30 the commentary and tone and whether it included the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and Senior management audit Committee strategy.
The Committee also verified and questioned management on information included and excluded from the report, and that the narrative in the front of the report was consistent with the financial 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence statements.
Executive Financial control Internal audit Committee Whistleblowing Risk management External audit Senior Leaders The Audit Committee also oversees an independent Health and safety Internal controls third-party run whistleblowing facility to enable Environment and annual self employees to raise issues on a confidential basis.
Technology assessments The Audit Committee ensures that independent Legal Internal policies and investigation of any whistleblowing incidents is training undertaken when required and confirmations given to the auditor.
Further details on our risk and controls can be found on pages 3235 PR OP E R T Y V A L U E S 54 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 At Land securities, governance is not just the adherence to a set of rules.
it is a way of governance doing business and is at the heart of everything we do.
Here you will find examples of our governance in action, bringing to life how governance is embedded in our day to day work.
in action Dame Alison Carnwath, Chairman We produce forecasts for supply of office space in of course, data is just a series of numbers, charts Case study each of the main areas within central London, for the and graphs.
For it to be of any short and medium term.
These are broadly based on use, it needs to be accurately interpreted and for cYclewatch the potential for new buildings to be built and other predictions to be made based on it that give the our aim is to deliver sustainable, long-term refurbished or surplus space being brought to the Company a competitive advantage.
The cyclicality of the markets in market.
We look at large lease expiries in the coming The Board considers the data on three occasions which we operate presents a significant threat to this years, forecasts for additional space requirements during the year.
The diversity of the disciplines, objective and is one of our key risks.
We explain how and the affordability of rents.
From this, we build a backgrounds, skills and perspectives among the the market cycle operates on page 19. picture of likely demand, supply and rents.
Board complements those available within the We consider trends for rents, yields and business.
As a result, the Board is able to provide a The risk investment values and use these to inform our view significant contribution in terms of challenge for The consequences of a failure to read the cycle and as to the sustainability of pricing and its direction.
management, new insights and direction.
The act can be devastating.
in the last downturn, many Finally, we look at factors external to property perspectives and lessons from other industries property companies became insolvent.
many others itself, such as investment returns in the wider and the past provide particularly useful context.
sought additional capital from shareholders, economy, the likely performance of the economy and The outcomes including Land securities.
Conversely, the geo-political events that may influence the markets.
The outcome of the work enables us to produce a consequences of a failure to benefit from the upswing The work of our Board and internal model for the next five years upon which our budget can be severe for shareholders too, as a company that committees and forecasts are made.
it helps inform decisions is too cautious will miss out on some of the strongest The data we collect is prepared and considered by made by the Groups investment Committee in terms returns which often occur just before the cycle peaks.
numerous people from different disciplines across of potential purchases, sales and developments.
As we move through the cycle, the risk of the the business and externally.
it helps inform decisions to commit to new current favourable market conditions turning it is prepared by our research teams and speculative developments, that is, developments increases.
in this case study, which focuses on the considered by our London and Retail Executive that are not pre-let.
it helps build a picture of the more cyclical London market, we explain how we Committees, who add their insights based on a likely financial performance for each property and address this risk and the role of our Committees detailed knowledge of their own property markets.
informs decisions whether to buy, sell or invest and the Board in this.
it is then considered by the Groups Asset and in existing properties.
it informs our borrowing Our data Liability Committee, which is comprised of people decisions and gearing for the business.
it enables us We collect and analyse a lot of data.
with specialist disciplines across the Group.
members to set targets to ensure that our properties are well We look at previous cycles and assess the use their own experience and forecasts provided let on long leases at the top of the cycle in order to triggers for them.
These are often quite different by a number of institutions to challenge the figures.
minimise the impact of any downturn and produce but nevertheless might act as signposts for the once a consensus is reached, the Committee returns that outperform our competitors.
We study the severity of the various considers what it means for the Group in terms of interpretation of the cycle is essential for corrections, the impact on different categories of its investment activity, gearing and balance sheet.
generating the best returns for investors.
property and the speed of the subsequent recovery.
Market cycle Diagram 31 How we aim to match our activity to the movements of the market.
SELL Selling some assets at BuY Falling values the right point in a rising market means value can bring opportunities to buy assets at be crystallised and the portfolio can be biased attractive prices.
towards high quality DEVELOP assets with long lease Starting schemes at the lengths.
right point in a rising market helps maximise value and minimise risk.
MANAGE Active management of assets through the cycle helps to reduce voids and ensure space meets occupiers changing needs.
P R O P E R T Y V A L UES strateGic rePort GOVERNANCE financial statements additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2014 55 External Our policy Case study Partnerships, relationships and sharing of best The existing policy was reviewed by people working practice are all crucial to the success of our business.
in our operations who are most closely affected health and saFetY For this reason, we engage with external by it.
All areas of principal risk were identified and organisations like the Health and safety Executive, Health and safety is one of our key risks.
We are mitigating actions included within our policy which Environmental Health Local Authority, Construction committed to providing a healthy, safe environment encourages people to assume responsibility and deal industry Advisory Committee, Construction Clients for every visitor to our properties.
our aim is that no with them proactively.
The policy was reviewed by Group, Property Health and safety Forum, and one suffers an avoidable injury.
This is not driven by all three of our health and safety committees, our Considerate Constructors scheme.
it is driven by London and Retail Executive Committees and legal a desire to build and maintain a first class reputation team.
it was then rolled out to every employee with Committee and reporting oversight and trust amongst all of our stakeholders for the long the endorsement of our Chief Executive.
The executive committees of the London and Retail term.
in this case study we describe some of the businesses and the Group receive presentations on Training health and safety initiatives undertaken during the activities, progress and incidents at least quarterly.
The Groups Health and safety Committee year.
We also give a flavour for how health and safety Reports are reviewed by the Board who take a keen commissioned a review of health and safety training is embedded within our governance.
The training requirements of every Our committees and team employee were considered and bespoke courses Each of our London and Retail businesses has their were designed.
Every role was allocated mandatory own health and safety committee.
There is also a and voluntary training.
The process involved input Group-wide Health and safety Committee which is from the health and safety team, human resources chaired by our Chief Executive.
This reports to the and the London and Retail Executive Committees.
Groups Executive Committee and has a high profile within our business.
in this way, we ensure health and safety is constantly on the agenda for discussion amongst the most senior people within our organisation.
The committees are supported by an in house team of experienced health and safety professionals.
Every property has a member of this team allocated to and accountable for it.
Our objectives for the year our health and safety record is very good.
We are committed to improving awareness and accountability and ensuring we remain at the forefront of best practice.
The objectives set by our Group Health and safety Committee were to: provide a vision for behavioural change amongst our employees and supply chain encourage visible leadership in health and safety in the industry work towards an incident and injury free environment, which we have called destination zero bring the health back into health and safety introducing occupational medical support on our development projects.
The Committee was keen to ensure that our health and safety processes and procedures remained clear, relevant and mandatory with a zero tolerance approach to non-compliance across the business.
This year, there has been a strong focus on reviewing our policy and providing bespoke training for all of our people, not just those working in development or asset management teams.
56 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 Case study development at 1 & 2 new ludgate, ec4 The risk speculative development, where a building is constructed without a tenant in place, is another of our keys risks.
Demolishing an income producing property results in a loss of revenue, which is exacerbated by the interest costs incurred in funding the development.
A building that is unlet will adversely affect its value and can, if of sufficient size, impact on our ability to pay dividends.
Demolition and construction are inherently dangerous activities and present health and safety issues that need to be addressed.
As a result, the Group has a number of internal controls in place designed to identify, mitigate and manage risks both in relation to individual developments and its whole development programme.
The interaction of our controls and it also considered the funding requirements for the This case study gives a flavour for the operation committees scheme in the context of other activities requiring of our controls and the role of our Committees in The London Executive Committee then considered funding over the period.
This data is shared with and decision making.
it does not look at the extensive the likely returns in the context of other potential discussed regularly at meetings of the Board.
interaction with planning authorities and other developments and investments in the London As our other developments found tenants, the stakeholders or how we ensured our Health and Portfolio.
in making this assessment, the committee headroom within the Groups development controls safety procedures are followed during construction.
used data prepared for the Asset and Liability increased and capacity became available to build the Oversight Committee on the likely demand for and supply of scheme.
At the same time, our data was showing The Group operates clear delegations of authority space in that part of London and the impact of that that there was likely to be unsatisfied demand for and financial controls which are embedded across on rental values.
much of the risk of having an unlet space in the City in 2015, driven by a number of the business.
These include restrictions on the building can be mitigated by identifying a window of large lease expiries and a lack of new space coming amount of unlet property within the development opportunity where demand is likely to be high and to the market.
programme in order to supply constrained.
it is The London Executive Committee determined preserve our ability to pay important to be in a the best time to deliver the scheme and then made dividends and limit our position to deliver a recommendation to the investment Committee, financial exposure.
Their analysis information on these Whilst it was considered alternative investments, the prospects controls appears in the recognised that the for letting the space, the likely rents and whether the Principal risks and how our data was showing that returns were likely to be returns would meet the Groups hurdle rates and we manage them section attractive, the size of the provide an adequate reward for the risk.
there was likely to be at pages 3235. speculative development The scale of the scheme meant it required Board unsatisfied demand for programme in the approval.
The scheme had been flagged to the Board Background to our remainder of the Group at several meetings before it was proposed for decision to develop space in the City in 2015. and some uncertainty as approval in order to help familiarise them with the at New Ludgate to the likely demand for project.
The Board scrutinised the proposal, its New Ludgate occupies a space meant that we did returns and the assumptions upon which the prominent island site not commit to the development straight away.
recommendation was made, before approving it.
facing Ludgate Hill, close to st Pauls Cathedral and instead, we proceeded to fide-risk the delivery of the Completion of this 379,000 sq ft scheme is adjacent to the old Bailey.
it was previously occupied scheme by taking steps to demolish the existing expected in April 2015. more details of the letting by two dated 1950s commercial buildings known as building, prepare the site for development and progress of this development appear in the review 50 Ludgate Hill and Hillgate House, which became tender the construction works.
This enabled us to of the London Portfolio.
The site is already well connected respond quickly to any uptick in demand.
Demolition and is set to benefit further when a new Crossrail was completed in April 2012 and everything put in station opens in 2018.
As a result, occupier demand place to enable us to build the scheme within two is likely to be high.
The London Executive Committee considered The Groups Asset and Liability Committee a number of options, which included reletting, continued to meet and monitor the operation of our refurbishment, sale or redevelopment, concluding development controls.
it considered local market that the returns from redevelopment were likely data, which assisted in its determination of likely to be higher.
demand and supply of space in particular markets.
strateGic rePort GOVERNANCE financial statements additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2014 57 Industry conferences shareholders who attended the AGm relations with industry conferences were given a detailed provide Executive investors presentation by the Chief Directors with a chance Executive on the activities to meet a large number Approach to Investor Relations The culture of the and performance of the of investors on a formal The Company has a comprehensive investor Group over the preceding organisation is one that and informal basis.
Relations programme which aims to help existing year.
The results of voting Conferences that were and potential investors understand the Group.
is willing to listen and to at general meetings are attended by Executive The investor Relations programme is designed for published on the Directors included the engage, and they are there institutional investors, private shareholders and debt Companys website, UBs Global Property, investors.
shareholder feedback is provided to the if you need them.
com JP morgan and Bank of Board to ensure that they understand the views of investors shareholderAmerica merril Lynch Feedback from an institutional investor major investors.
During the year, the programme investor-information conferences in London, of investor events included:  CEo conference in Institutional shareholders programme meeting.
Florida, merrill Lynch conference in New York, Meetings with principal shareholders and the Kempen conference in Amsterdam, Independent feedback on investor relations meetings with Directors and the Chairman were amongst others.
The Board commissioned a report from the leading offered throughout the year.
independent adviser makinson Cowell on investor Other initiatives perceptions of the Company, its management, The Chairman maintained contact with principal The Chairman and Chief Executive held a dinner for strategy and governance.
makinson Cowell also shareholders and kept the Board informed of their the senior heads of equities from UK institutions.
undertook a comprehensive benchmarking exercise views.
she has planned an investor tour in June Digital communication with investors was on all aspects of the investor Relations programme.
and July 2014 to meet investors in the UK and developed further this year with investors offered This included face-to-face interviews with the Netherlands.
live streaming of the results presentations.
principal investors to obtain their views on As well as Non-executive Directors, the senior management and business performance.
The results independent Director was available to meet Private shareholders programme were then presented to the Board, with suggestions with shareholders.
Private shareholders are encouraged to give feedback and improvements being taken forward by to and communicate with the Directors through the The investor Relations programme continued in management.
Recommendations and actions Company secretary.
During the year they were also Europe, North America and the Far East.
included the long-term vision for the Retail business able to meet Directors at the United Kingdom to investors: improving the visibility of the new Roadshows shareholders Association UKsA meeting, held members of the Groups Executive Committee to institutional shareholders were invited to annual annually at our head office, and at the Annual investors: providing more guidance on the Groups and half yearly results meetings.
longer term strategy and plans post the current Investor conference Debt investors programme phase of development and maintaining the Credit side institutional investors and analysts Chairmans high standing with investors through The investor conference is held annually and periodic engagement.
focuses on the Retail and London portfolios in meetings were held with our Chief Financial officer The investor Relations department also received alternate years.
This year, the conference was held and our Treasury team after the annual and half feedback from analysts and investors during the year at Gunwharf Quays in Portsmouth and focused year results.
through the Groups corporate advisers.
The Groups on the Retail Portfolio.
senior management from Banks secretariat received feedback on governance matters the Retail Portfolio presented updates on market There was regular dialogue with our key directly from investors and shareholder bodies.
conditions and all aspects of the business, including relationship banks including quarterly meetings The information was shared with the Board to leisure.
This was followed by a property tour of with our Treasury team and in-house dinners with help members develop their understanding of Gunwharf Quays.
The conference also provided an Executive and Non-executive Directors.
opportunity for attendees to meet management below Executive Director level our Treasury team also actively engaged with Other disclosures potential lenders.
The presentations and an audiocast of the other disclosures required by paragraph 7.2.
6 of conference were made available on the corporate the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Credit rating agencies website to enable those investors who could not Companies Act 2006 are set out in the Report of During the year meetings were held by our Treasury attend to access the information provided at the the Directors on page 77. team and senior management with both standard conference.
The Governance Report was approved by the Investor presentations and tours Further information on our debt investors Board of Directors on 14 may 2014 and signed on in addition to our annual investor conference there can be found at its behalf by: were also presentations and tours of some of our www.
Adrian fide Souza major assets in the Retail and London portfolios.
Annual General Meeting AGM Group General Counsel and Company secretary Tours were conducted at Trinity Leeds, White The AGm provided all shareholders with an Rose, The Bridges in sunderland, Glasgow and opportunity to question the Board and the Livingstone, and our portfolio of developments Chairmen of the Board Committees on matters and properties in Victoria.
put to the meeting, including the Annual Report.
