co. uk annual report 2014 corporate governance THE bOaRD chairmansstatement on governance The Board is responsible for the leadership of the Group and the This is my first full year as Chairman.
long-term success of the business.
It oversees the Groups strategy and its implementation, ensuring that an appropriate TheBoard is committed to maintaining financial and operational structure is in place.
high standards of corporate governance see pages 8 to 22 for further detail on the Groups strategy and business model.
and transparency throughout all aspects Jonathan Lane as Chairman is responsible for the leadership of of our business.
the Board, ensuring it operates effectively and setting the agenda.
The Group has continued to comply with the principles of the UK Brian Bickell, as Chief Executive, is responsible for the Groups Corporate Governance Code with the exception that, owing to my day-to-day operations.
There is a clear division of responsibilities previous tenure as an executive, I was not independent upon my between the two roles.
The Board delegates responsibility within appointment as Chairman.
specific parameters to management to enable effective operation of the business.
There have been changes in the regulatory regime over the last twelve months with more on the horizon.
Corporate governance The Board has three Committees with responsibilities defined in is always high on the Boards agenda and the Board has been their terms of reference.
Each Committees terms of reference monitoring and responding to these changes.
Each Committee were reviewed and updated during the year.
These are available has met regularly and the work it has undertaken this year is on the Groups website.
The independent non-executive summarised in the individual Committee reports.
directors are members of all three committees.
At the 2014 AGM, Gordon McQueen retired from the Board and The company secretary is responsible for advising the Board, was succeeded as Senior Independent Director by Jill Little and through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
Dermot Mathias as chairman of the Audit Committee.
Jill Little stood down as chairman of the Remuneration Committee and was succeeded by Sally Walden.
Corporate Strategy Performance Risk responsibility Jonathan Lane Chairman BOARD Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee financial reporting remuneration policy Succession planning Monitor external auditors annual remuneration recommend candidates risk and internal control including bonus and Ltip to the Board awards Board performance Set annual performance evaluation objectives Diversity Audit Committee Remuneration Nomination Report page 63 Report page 67 Committee Report page 61 #058 Corporate governance continued goverNaNce bOaRD COmpOSITIOn The composition of the Board is important to ensure that there is effective leadership of the Group.
There is a balance of executive and non-executive directors with a wide range of business skills, including property, finance, retail and fund management that contribute to the Groups operations.
Each of the non-executive directors, other than the Chairman, is considered by the Board to beindependent.
4 5 1 Executive directors Independent non-executive directors Chairman Committees comprise only independent non-executive directors, other than the Nomination Committee, which is chaired by Jonathan Lane as permitted by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Attendance by the directors at Board meetings is set out below.
Attendance at Committee meetings is set out in each Committee report.
There was 100% attendance at Board and Committee meetings.
NuMBER Of MEETINGS MEMBER POSITION ATTENDED 5 HELD Brian Bickell Chief Executive Simon Quayle Property director Thomas Welton Property director Christopher Ward Finance director Jonathan Lane Chairman Gordon McQueen Non-executive director and Senior Independent Director to 7.2.
2014 Oliver Marriott Non-executive director Dermot Mathias Non-executive director Jill Little Senior Independent Director from 7.2.
2014 and non-executive director Hilary Riva Non-executive director Sally Walden Non-executive director Gordon McQueen: two meetings were held in the period prior to his retirement on 7 February 2014.
The non-executive directors met on a number of occasions during the year without management present.
see pages 61 to 79 for committee reports bOaRD pERFORmanCE EVaLuaTIOn The results of the evaluation were tabled at meetings of the Nomination Committee and the Board.
Following interviews of a number of external consultants by the Chairman and company secretary, Jane Kirton Consulting was No major issues were identified.
The Board felt that recent appointed by the Board to undertake the board performance changes in its composition were working well, that it was review this year.
The scope and focus of the review was agreed working cohesively and that there was a good quality of with the Chairman.
Interviews were conducted with each discussion at meetings.
Regular visits to the Groups holdings member of the Board and the company secretary to ascertain were considered to be exceptionally valuable.
their views on the following subjects: A review of the performance of the directors and Chairman was operation of the Board also undertaken.
principal business risks performance of the Committees topics for discussion at the Board timing of meetings and time management priorities for the Board for the year ahead process for future reviews #059 @shaftesbury.
co. uk annual report 2014 Corporate governance continued The Audit Committee has not identified any material RISk manaGEmEnT anD InTERnaL COnTROL weaknesses inthe Groups control structure during the year.
The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent see the Audit Committee report on pages 63 to 66 of the significant risks impacting the Groups operations and maintaining the risk management framework and internal GOInG COnCERn control systems.
The Board reviews these arrangements annually.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors affecting performance, financial position and future Such systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, development are set out inthe Strategic Report on pages 1 to the risks faced by the business and can provide only reasonable, 53.
The financial position of the Group including cash flow, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
liquidity, borrowings, undrawn facilities anddebt maturity Their adequacy and effectiveness are monitored through the analysis is set out on pages 43 to 44. risk management and audit processes which include financial and property management audits.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the The Group has established processes and procedures to identify, foreseeable future.
Therefore, they continue to adopt the going assess and manage the significant risks it faces.
These concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
processes and procedures were in place throughout the year and remained in place up to the date of the approval of the REmunERaTIOn Annual Report and comply with the Financial Reporting see Remuneration report on pages 67 to 79 Councils guidance Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
RELaTIOnS WITH SHaREHOLDERS The key elements of the Groups procedures and internal The Board places great importance on regular contact with both financial control framework, which are monitored throughout shareholders and potential investors, in order to explain the the year, are: Groups strategy and its implementation.
Investor relations is Cl ose involvement of the executive directors in all aspects of the responsibility of the Chief Executive.
day-to-day operations, including regular meetings with Annual and half year results are presented to formal meetings employees to review all operational aspects of the business, of real estate analysts.
Dial-in and replay facilities are made including risks and controls.
Copies of these presentations are available on the Cl early defined responsibilities and limits of authority, which corporate website from the time of the meeting.
Analysts are have recently been reviewed.
encouraged to tour the portfolio, so they maintain a good Defined schedul e of matters for decision by the Board understanding of the Groups activities.
including significant acquisitions, disposals, major contracts During the year, the Chief Executive and executive directors met and material refurbishment or development proposals and any around 200 UK and overseas institutional investors comprising other item outside the normal course of business.
both current and potential shareholders.
175 meetings were A c omprehensive system of financial reporting and held in the UK, the Netherlands, the USA and Switzerland.
Meetings comprised individual and group presentations and The da y-to-day management of the Groups portfolio is tours of the portfolio.
The tours provide an opportunity to see outsourced to three managing agents.
The Group monitors the the Groups assets, understand management initiatives, and performance of each managing agent and has established also to meet members of the team below Board level.
In extensive financial and operational controls to ensure that addition, during the year, members of the UK Shareholders each maintains an acceptable level of service and provides Association, which represents the interests of private investors, reliable information.
The managing agents share with the attended a tour of the portfolio.
Meetings are offered to key Group their internal control assessments.
The Group corporate contacts including bankers and debt providers.
periodically uses the services of an external consultant to Feedback from presentations and meetings is provided to the review the managing agents operational processes and Board, together with published analyst comments on the Group.
The corporate website, together with the websites and social A c omprehensive risk and control register which is reviewed media channels used to promote the villages, are important regularly and reported to the Audit Committee and Board.
sources of information on the Group, explaining the Groups see pages 47 to 49 for a summary of the risk management framework, the principal risks and uncertainties identified by the Board, and how they are philosophy, strategy, current activities and events across managed or mitigated.
