goverNaNce Nomination committee report COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE Dear shareholder NuMBER Of MEETINGS The role of the Committee is to lead the MEMBER POSITION ATTENDED 3 HELD process for board appointments and Jonathan Lane Chairman evaluate the balance of skills, experience Jill Little Senior Independent Director from and independence of board members.
2014 and Member Committee also has oversight of the Gordon Senior Independent Groups training and development McQueen Director and Member until 7.2.
2014 processes below Board level to ensure that Oliver Marriott Member employees have appropriate skills and that Dermot Mathias Member they continue to develop in their roles.
Hilary Riva Member The Committee continues to monitor the composition of the Board so that future succession is managed effectively.
The Sally Walden Member Committee oversaw the changes in non-executive director roles Gor don McQueen: one meeting was held in the period prior to his retirement on which came into effect at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
7February 2014 COMMITTEE ATTENDEES BY INVITATION ONLY Jonathan Lane ATTENDEES POSITION Chairman Nomination Committee Brian Bickell Chief Executive Penny Thomas Secretary to the Committee kEY ACTIVITIES DuRING THE YEAR Succession planning for the Board and senior executives Considered the Board and Committee performance evaluation results Evaluated the skills of the directors for re-election Proposed directors for re-election Reviewed training undertaken by directors Reviewed the annual committee report Recommended to the Board the appointment of the Senior Independent Director Recommended to the Board the appointment of chairs of Board committees Recommended to the Board updated Committee terms of reference #061 @shaftesbury.
co. uk annual report 2014 nomination Committee report continued pOLICy On DIVERSITy SuCCESSIOn pLannInG All aspects of diversity, including but not limited to gender, are The Board comprises a team of four executive directors, three of considered at every level of recruitment.
All appointments to the whom have an average length of service with the Company of 27 Board are made on merit.
The Board has a policy on diversity and years.
Continuity of experience and knowledge, particularly of states clearly that the Board seeks a composition with the right the unique environment of Londons West End, is particularly balance of skills and diversity to meet the demands of the business.
important in a focused, long-term business.
The executive team The Board does not consider that quotas are appropriate in determining is complemented by six non-executive directors who have wide its composition and has therefore chosen not to set targets.
business experience and skills as well as a detailed understanding of the Groups philosophy and strategy.
The Board has 30% female representation, which exceeds Lord Davies target for FTSE 100 company boards to be 25% female A key responsibility of the Committee is to advise the Board on by 2015.
Gender diversity of the Board and Company is set out succession planning.
The Committee ensures that evolution of below showing both number of employees total 23 and percentage the Boards membership is planned and properly managed, and that this relates to.
that in the event of unforeseen changes, management and oversight ofthe Groups business and long-term strategy will BOARD not be disrupted.
Male The Committee also addresses continuity in, and development Female of, theexecutive management team below board level.
Development of the Groups employees is considered at each 3 30% meeting of the Committee.
7 70% DIRECTORS STanDInG FOR RE-ELECTIOn All directors will stand for re-election at the 2015 AGM.
Following the annual Board performance reviews of individual directors, the Chairman considers that each director continues to operate as an effective member of the Board and has the SENIOR MANAGEMENT skills, knowledge and experience that enables them to Male discharge their duties properly.
On the advice of the Committee, Female the Board, therefore, recommends the re-election of each director standing for re-election.
5 50% 5 50% The current tenure of independent non-executives is set out below.
Oliver Marriott 5 years Hilary Riva 4 years ALL EMPLOYEES INCLuDING EXECuTIVE DIRECTORS Jill Little 4 years Male Female Dermot Mathias 2 years Sally Walden 2 years 12 52% 11 48% see pages 56 to 57 and the website for biographical information on each director The Group supports initiatives to promote diversity within the property industry.
Brian Bickell is a board member of Freehold, a networking forum for LGBT people working directly in real estate and the professions associated with the industry.
The Group has policies for flexible working which are utilised by 3 of 23 employees.
