42 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES AND COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT GOVERNANCE CODE The Board is committed to maintaining high standards It is the Boards view that the Group has been fully of corporate governance and we support and apply compliant with the Code throughout the year ended the principles of good governance advocated by the 31 March 2014.
The application of the principles contained UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Board in the Code is described below.
Detailed reports on works with honesty and integrity which it considers Directors remuneration and the Audit Committee can is vital to building a sustainable business for all of be found on pages 55 to 72 and pages 51 to 54. our stakeholders.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The Board believes that implementing a robust The Board is responsible to shareholders for the strategic governance and corporate social responsibility direction of the Group and the stewardship of its activities.
framework in which appropriate management structures, processes and safeguards are adopted and are The Board has a number of standing committees to transparently communicated to shareholders is essential which specific responsibilities have been delegated and in aiding sustainable long-term economic performance.
for which written terms of reference have been agreed.
LEADERSHIP CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THE BOARD STRUCTURE STRATEGY SUCCESSION PLANNING PERFORMANCE SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS RISK Approve the business Approve changes to the Review and monitor Engagement with shareholders is through Review and monitor strategy and business size and structure of the performance meetings, presentations and roadshows.
risk factors which objectives in order to Board, and ensure the against strategy, may adversely The corporate website, create long-term value necessary resources are budgets and impact the business www.
co. uk also allows visitors for shareholders.
available to fulfil the business objectives.
access to Company information such as strategic objectives.
annual reports, results and presentations.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REMUNERATION AUDIT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE A ddress Group-wide issues A ssess what new skills: E nsure the integrity of financial and initiatives.
knowledge and experience O versee all aspects reporting and audit processes.
are required on the Board.
of remuneration for R eview and approve capital E nsure maintenance of a Executive Directors.
expenditure, disposals and certain R ecommend to the Board sound internal control and property acquisitions within candidates for appointment Recommend risk management system.
as Executive and Nonthe Chairmans R eview and monitor the external Executive Directors NEDs remuneration.
M onitor the operating and auditors independence, of the Group.
financial results against plans Consider remuneration objectivity and effectiveness and budgets.
C onsider succession policies policy and practices of of the audit process.
R eview the effectiveness of risk E stablish and implement the management and control procedures.
SENIOR INVESTMENT EXTERNAL ADVISORS EXTERNAL FINANCE RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE RECRUITMENT AUDITOR COMMITTEE A dvise on all Produce the Assist the Approve any Advise and aspects of Audit and interim and Review and Executive acquisition or disposal assist the executive express an annual financial identify risks Committee in of investment property Committee remuneration, opinion on reports and facing the the running of assets.
in the search best practice the financial associated Group.
day-to-day for appropriate and aspects statements announcements.
R eview and monitor Ensure that operations in candidates.
associated in accordance integration plans for Establish and appropriate line with Group with the LTIP.
Advise and monitor financial controls are strategy.
law and assist the Advise on processes of in place to A pprove and monitor International Review and Nominations administration control and cash review each development Standards on track major Committee in and the tax management.
increasing the treatment of Provides and Ireland.
A pprove and monitor effectiveness of share option Attend regular reports to asset management the Board and schemes and meetings with the Audit and property ensure that deferred share the Executive Committee.
Committee continues to be Make recommendations to review a major factor to the Board for its performance in profiling approval of any and operational candidates.
Overview 01-15Strategy 16-21Performance 22-36Governance 37-77 Financial statements 78-119 Shareholder information 120-125 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43 AN EFFECTIVE LEADERSHIP STRUCTURE A nnual and interim results, interim management statements and dividends: ROLE OF THE BOARD A pproval of redevelopment activity and The Board is collectively responsible for the major developments: performance and long-term success of the Company, S ignificant investment decisions including property for its leadership, strategy, control and management.
acquisitions during the year of 18.1m.
In addition, The Board will review and monitor strategic plans and we realised 12.4m from the disposal of four objectives, approval of acquisition of investment non-core properties: properties, disposals, financing arrangements and U ndertaking a review of its own performance capital expenditure and of the Groups systems of and that of its committees, the independence internal control, governance and risk management.
of the Non-Executive Directors and reviewing the governance framework in place: Other day-to-day operational decisions are delegated by R eview of risk and the Groups health and the Board to the Executive Committee, subject to formal safety arrangements: delegated authority limits: however certain matters have A pproval of Board appointments and retirements been reserved for consideration by the Board.
and ensuring adequate succession planning is in place: and The Chairman promotes open discussion among the I n September 2013, the Board held its annual Board members and encourages the Non-Executive Strategy Day which included, amongst other Directors to constructively challenge strategic and matters, a review of the business plan objectives, other business related debate in order to ensure that a discussion on the economic outlook and the decisions adopted by the Board have been consideration given to other growth opportunities.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS ATTENDANCE To assist the Board in effectively discharging its duties, The Board has regular scheduled meetings and met Directors receive relevant supporting information, 10 times during the past financial year.
Supplementary which includes but is not limited to the Groups financial meetings are also held as and when necessary.
results, performance reports and risk assessment reports.
Equally, the Board routinely considers safety, The Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the environmental, ethical and reputational issues in order Board, and of those Committees on which they serve to ensure that they are fully reflected in the risk and the Annual General Meeting AGM, and to devote management process.
sufficient time to the Companys affairs to enable them to fulfil their duties as Directors.
Details of Directors The governance framework implemented by the Group attendance at each of the Board and Committee ensures that open communication channels exist meetings during the year ended 31 March 2014 are between the Board, its principal committees and set out in the table below.
Copies of committee minutes are distributed to all Directors and Committee Chairmen Board Audit Remuneration Nominations report back to the Board.
Name 10 meetings 3 meetings 7 meetings 2 meetings Chairman BOARD ACTIVITIES Daniel Kitchen 10 10 7 7 2 2 The full schedule of matters reserved for the Executive Directors Board can be found on the Company website at www.
At least once a year the Board Jamie Hopkins 10 10 reviews the nature and scale of matters reserved for its Graham Clemett 10 10 decision and these include: Dividend Policy, Company Non-Executive Directors Strategy, Board and Committee composition, significant Bernard Cragg 10 10 3 3 7 7 2 2 funding decisions and corporate transactions.
1 John Bywater 4 10 1 3 5 7 1 2 Maria Moloney 10 10 3 3 7 7 2 2 Board activities in 2013 14 Chris Girling 10 10 3 3 7 7 2 2 2 During the year under review, the Board considered Damon Russell 6 10 2 3 3 7 1 2 the following: Notes: R eviewed progress of the strategy and business 1.
John Bywater retired from the Board on 25 July 2013. objectives: 2.
Damon Russell was appointed to the Board with effect from Monitored trading performance of the business: 29 May 2013, consequently, Mr Russell attended his first Board Considered the Groups property valuation: Meeting on 25 July 2013.
F inance matters including budgets, business plans and significant refinancing opportunities.
In June Where Directors are unable to attend meetings, their 2013, the Company announced the refinancing of comments, as appropriate, are provided to the Board its bank debt facilities.
All facilities 410m are now or Committee Chairman prior to the meeting.
provided on an unsecured basis with over 60% of funding from non-bank sources: 44 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS The Executive Committee consists of the Executive Directors together with the Operations Director BOARD COMPOSITION and Development Director.
It is chaired by the Chief The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is Executive Officer.
The purpose of the Committee is vital to the success of the Company.
The Board considers to facilitate and assist the Chief Executive Officer in there to be an appropriate balance between Executive managing the day-to-day activities of the Group and and Non-Executive Directors required to lead the addressing Group-wide issues and initiatives.
The business and safeguard the interest of shareholders.
Executive Committee is responsible for reviewing The Boards current composition of a Non-Executive and approving capital expenditure at certain levels Chairman, two Executive Directors and four Nonas determined by the Board: the monitoring of the Executive Directors meets the requirement of the code operating and financial results against plans and for at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, to budgets: and to ensure the effectiveness of risk be independent Non-Executive Directors.
In the Boards management and control procedures.
The Executive view, all of the current Non-Executive Directors are Committee has its own terms of reference.
independent and this is explained in more detail on page 45.
The Committee has met 17 times during the year ended 31 March 2014.
The Non-Executive Chairman was considered by the Board to be independent upon his appointment.
The responsibilities of the Executive Committee members include: Mr Damon Russell was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 29 May 2013.
The biographies of all members of the Board are set out on pages 40 and 41.
Jamie Hopkins, Chief Executive Officer The Nominations Committee regularly reviews the Strategic management: investor relations: day-tocomposition of the Board to ensure that we have an day operations: acquisitions and disposals: health and appropriate and diverse mix of skills, experience, safety: staff: equal opportunities: remuneration: and independence and knowledge of the Group.
The following table illustrates the balance of NonExecutive Directors to Executive Directors, excluding Graham Clemett, Chief Financial Officer the Chairman, on the Board during the past year.
Finance: treasury: company secretarial: investor relations: and the Groups IT strategy.
Chris Pieroni, Operations Director BALANCE OF NON-EXECUTIVE AND EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Portfolio performance: asset management: lettings and marketing: rent reviews: and renewals.
31 March 2014 Angus Boag, Development Director 31 March 2013 Planning consents: development of assets: valuations: disposals: sustainability: and environmental strategy.
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 % THE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors The Investment Committee consists of the Executive Directors, the Operations Director and the COMMITMENT Development Director.
It is also attended by the Head The Board is satisfied that each of the Non-Executive of Asset Management, Head of Investment and Head Directors is able to devote sufficient time to the of Business Development.
The Investment Committee Companys business.
Non-Executive Directors are is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer.
The purpose advised on appointment of the time required to fulfil of the Committee is to review and approve disposals the role and asked to confirm that they can make the and acquisitions of investment property assets: required commitment.
Letters of appointment for the approve and monitor asset management property Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at improvements and make recommendations to the the AGM.
Board for its approval of any property initiative with a value of more than 2m.
Executive Directors are encouraged to take a nonexecutive position in other companies and organisations.
The appointment to such positions is subject to the approval of the Board which considers, in particular, the time commitment required.
Overview 01-15Strategy 16-21Performance 22-36Governance 37-77 Financial statements 78-119 Shareholder information 120-125 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 BACKGROUND AND EXPERIENCE OF THE BOARD with the exercise of their independent judgement.
All The Board currently has seven Directors that bring Non-Executive Directors act in a robustly independent considerable and diverse experience which enables manner and bring constructive challenge to Board them to make a valuable contribution to the Group.
discussions and independent decision-making to Their experience, gained from varied commercial their Board and Committee duties.
backgrounds, enables them to bring specific insights and make valuable contributions to the Company.
The Board believes that no long-standing relationship which may be deemed to compromise independence The Board is actively considering diversity and believes has been formed with any of the Executive Directors this to be an important factor when considering or senior executives at Workspace.
Furthermore, the appointments to the Board.
As part of the recruitment longest-standing professional relationship between process, the composition of the Board will be kept Bernard Cragg and any existing Executive Directors under review to ensure the best balance of skills and is no more than seven years.
Further details on our diversity policy can be found on page 48.
The Board is committed to actively refresh its membership and that of its committees in line with its ROLES OF THE CHAIRMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE succession planning process which has been evident OFFICER AND SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR during the last 12 months with the appointment of The roles and responsibilities of the Non-Executive Damon Russell as a Non-Executive Director in May 2013.
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Senior Independent Director are separate and the division As explained last year, Bernard Cragg will retire as a of responsibilities has been clearly established.
Board Director at the Annual General Meeting in 2014.
Chris Girling will succeed Bernard Cragg as Chairman The Chairman is primarily responsible for leadership of the of the Audit Committee at the conclusion of the Annual Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
General Meeting on 16 July 2014 given his background, The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of knowledge and in-depth experience within finance the Non-Executive Directors and ensures all Directors which are essential in order to perform the role of Chair receive accurate, timely and clear information.
He is also of the Audit Committee.
At the same time, Chris will responsible for effective communication between the also assume the role of Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman is not involved in an executive capacity in any of the Groups activities.
We continue to review and monitor Board and Board Committee composition against our skills and During the year the Chairman held a number of experience requirements.
meetings with the Non-Executive Directors, without the Executive Directors being present.
The discussions The tenure of independent Non-Executive Directors largely revolved around succession planning.
as at 31 March 2014 is set out in the chart below.
The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the TENURE OF INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE Board for the financial and operational performance of DIRECTORS AS AT 31 MARCH 2014 the Group and the determination of the strategy and Years achievement of its objectives.
12 The Senior Independent Director is responsible for 10 chairing the meeting of the Non-Executive Directors for the purpose of evaluating the Chairmans performance and to provide an alternative communication channel 8 for shareholders if required.
6 INDEPENDENCE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Board has considered the independence of all of 4 the Non-Executive Directors, and in particular that of Bernard Cragg given that his tenure will have reached 2 a threshold at which his independence could be called into question by some shareholders under the criteria 0 set by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Bernard Maria Chris Damon Cragg Moloney Girling Russell The Board concluded that each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered to be independent of the executive management and free from any business Bernard Cragg will not stand for re-election at the or other relationship which could materially interfere 2014 AGM.
n o B i t o a u a l r d a v a e n d e e t c t o i m m 46 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED INDUCTION, TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT A tailored induction programme is provided for each new Director.
Overall, the aim of the induction BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION programme is to introduce new Directors to the The Board recognises the benefit of annual Groups business and its governance arrangements.
evaluation, enabling it to improve its effectiveness Such inductions typically include meetings with senior and focus and that of its Committees and Directors.
management, site visits and presentations of key business areas and other relevant documentation.
In For 2011 12, the annual evaluation of the Board and addition, Directors are encouraged to update their skills, Committee performance was facilitated externally knowledge and familiarity with the Group by attending through an independent external consultancy.
external seminars and briefings, through participation at meetings and through visits to estates, meetings with This years questionnaires were sent to Board senior management and advisers.
We recognise that members covering the Board, its Directors our Directors have a diverse range of experience, and and Committees.
so we encourage them to attend external seminars and briefings that will assist them individually.
The questionnaires covered such issues as detailed in the diagram below: The Directors are kept informed of changes in relevant legislation, regulations and corporate governance matters, with the assistance of the Companys legal BOARD AND COMMITTEE EVALUATION advisors and external auditor, where appropriate.
Directors have access to independent professional advice at the Companys expense where they judge this to be necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
This is in addition to the access that every Risk Management Director has to the advice and services of the Company Controls and Corporate Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring Governance that Board procedures are complied with.
COMPANY SECRETARY Carmelina Carfora is the Company Secretary to the Board of Workspace.
Her biography can be found on Induction page 41.
Carmelina is responsible for ensuring good Succession and information flows within the Board and its committees Planning Training and between senior management and Non-Executive Directors.
She is also responsible for advising the Issues covered Board, on corporate governance matters and ensures that Board procedures are followed.
Ongoing Development of Strategy The responses to the questionnaires were collated independently by the Company Secretary who prepared reports for the Company Chairman and the Chairman of each Committee.
These reports were discussed at the relevant Committee meetings and the Board discussed the results at its meeting in April 2014.
The results of this years evaluation were constructive and positive.
The themes noted for further action are detailed below together with the progress achieved during the year for those actions identified as part of the Board evaluation conducted in 2012 13. m m i o tt c e d e n e a v a d l r u a a o t B i o n Overview 01-15Strategy 16-21Performance 22-36Governance 37-77 Financial statements 78-119 Shareholder information 120-125 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 2012 13 BOARD EVALUATION 2013 14 BOARD EVALUATION Actions Progress during the year under review Actions Continued focus A nnual Board strategy Continue to develop on testing and day was held.
development A ctions from the strategy of strategy.
day were formally recorded in a plan which is monitored and updated by the Board.
Ongoing review of O ne new Non-Executive Director, Conscious of changing Board composition, Damon Russell, was appointed legislation, dedicated updates succession planning to the Board during the year and presentations to continue and implementation.
during the course of the year.
Board updates on D uring the year, Directors With the assistance of the both potential and received updates at the Board Company Secretary, specific impending legal and and Committee meetings on needs and interests of Directors regulatory changes external corporate governance to be considered as part of the across areas of the and other regulatory changes Board Development Programme.
likely to impact the Company.
In particular, the Directors considered changes to the remuneration reporting requirements and corporate Further site visits will be arranged reporting changes.
for Directors during the course of U pdates were also provided the year.
by the Company Secretary on impending regulatory changes.
The review includes the assessment of individual CHAIRMANS EVALUATION Directors performance, which in the case of the Executive The Senior Independent Director chairs an annual Directors is undertaken as part of the wider performance meeting of Executive and Non-Executive Directors appraisal process applied to staff across the Group.
without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance and to address any other The Directors concluded that following the Board matters which the Directors might wish to raise.
effectiveness evaluation for the year under review, the The outcome of these discussions is conveyed by Board and its Committees operate effectively and that the Senior Independent Director to the Chairman.
each Director continues to contribute effectively and demonstrates commitment to the role.
48 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS The appointment of Bernard Cragg may be terminated The Articles of Association of the Group require that by either the Company or by him giving six months Directors should submit themselves for election at the notice in writing.
first opportunity after their appointment and thereafter for re-election at least every three years.
However, at the The appointment of Chris Girling, Maria Moloney 2011 Annual General Meeting the Group had adopted and Damon Russell may be terminated by either the the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Company or any one of them giving three months Code June 2010 in relation to Directors appointments notice in writing.
and in particular the annual re-election of all Directors.
Therefore, in accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Biographies for the Directors can be found on pages Corporate Governance Code, all the Directors will retire 40 and 41. at the Annual General Meeting, and being eligible, offer themselves up for re-election.
DIVERSITY The Board considers that all of the Directors have the Workspace employs enthusiastic, committed and necessary skills and experience needed to effectively well-trained people, whose diversity reflects that lead the business.
In addition, the Non-Executive of London itself.
The Board is fully committed to an Directors are considered to bring independent active Equal Opportunities Policy from recruitment objectivity in order to safeguard and promote the and selection, through training and development, interest of shareholders.
All decisions relating to employment practices are objective, free The Board has considered the outcome of the Board from bias and based solely upon work criteria and effectiveness review as well as the performance of individual merit.
Workspace has a good record of each individual Director, including how they operate promoting and appointing women to senior positions.
as a collective in fulfilling their duties on the Board or The employee gender profile is fairly evenly split with as members of the Boards Committees.
The Board a total of 46% female and 54% male employees.
has accepted the recommendations provided by the Nominations Committee and is of the opinion that the The Board recognises the benefits of diversity of skills, Directors seeking re-election at the Annual General knowledge and independence, as well as gender Meeting have continued to give effective counsel and diversity.
During the year, the Board formally discussed commitment to the Company and accordingly should and reviewed its policy regarding diversity, including be reappointed by the Groups shareholders at the gender, on the Board and within the Group as a whole.
As a result the Board requested that going forward: diversity becomes a formal area for consideration in Mr Hopkins and Mr Clemett have service contracts Board effectiveness reviews and in its succession and details can be found on page 61. planning.
Consequently, diversity will form part of considerations afforded to the search and selection None of the Non-Executive Directors have process for Directors and staff.
The Board does not consider it appropriate at this time Daniel Kitchens first term of appointment as Nonto set targets on gender diversity as all appointments Executive Chairman is due to expire on 6 June 2014. will be made on merit.
Gender and wider diversity, Following a review of his performance, the Nominations however, will continue to be taken into account when Committee recommended that his appointment evaluating the skills and experience desired to fill each should be extended for a further three-year term.
This recommendation was agreed by the Board.
The appointment of Daniel Kitchen may be terminated by either him or the Company giving six months notice in writing.
Overview 01-15Strategy 16-21Performance 22-36Governance 37-77 Financial statements 78-119 Shareholder information 120-125 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49 TAKEOVER DIRECTIVE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Share capital structures are included in the Directors The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with Report on page 75. an opportunity to communicate with, and answer questions from, private and institutional shareholders GOING CONCERN and the whole Board is available after the meeting, Going Concern disclosures are included in the Directors in particular, for shareholders to meet new Directors.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 16 July 2014 can be found in the RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Notice of Annual General Meeting which is available Communication with shareholders is given a high priority at www.
and is despatched to and the Company undertakes regular dialogue with major shareholders who have requested a hard copy shareholders and fund managers.
of the documentation from the Company.
In October 2013, an investor and analyst event was The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and held which highlighted Workspaces targeted in-house Nominations Committees normally attend the Annual marketing approach and how active asset management General Meeting and are available to answer any and real time market information enables the Company questions.
All Directors normally attend the meeting.
to deliver superior performance and shareholder value.
A copy of the Annual Report and Accounts is sent Executive Directors are the Companys principal to shareholders and is also available on the Groups representatives with investors, analysts, fund managers, website, which additionally contains up-to-date press and other interested parties.
Discussions with information on the Groups activities and published institutional shareholders are held on a range of issues financial information.
throughout the year affecting the Groups performance, which include meetings following the announcements BOARD COMMITTEES of the annual and interim results.
The Board has a number of standing committees, namely the Remuneration, Audit, and Nominations Other ad hoc meetings, presentations and site visits Committees, to which specific responsibilities have been are arranged for shareholders throughout the year delegated and for which written terms of reference in the UK, Europe and the United States.
The Board receives reports of meetings with The terms of reference for the Nominations, Audit and institutional shareholders together with regular market Remuneration Committees are available for inspection reports and brokers reports which enable the Directors on the Companys website at www.
to understand the views of shareholders.
Each of these Committees is comprised of Independent The Annual Report and Accounts is sent to all Non-Executive Directors of the Company who are shareholders who wish to receive a copy.
It is also appointed by the Board.
Board members receive available in the investor section of the Companys minutes of meetings of all the Boards Committees and website www.
co. uk, which additionally can request presentations or reports on areas of interest.
contains up-to-date information on the Groups activities and published financial results The Company Secretary is secretary to each Committee.
The activity of each Committee is described on pages 50 to 72.
50 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED NOMINA TIONS COMMITTEE REPORT The Nominations Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on Board and Committee composition, for developing succession plans for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors, and for making recommendations to the Board on Board appointments.
The Committee periodically assesses what new skills, knowledge and experience are required on the Board and, if necessary, the balance of independence.
If appropriate, a candidate profile is recommended which DANIEL KITCHEN is then used to brief recruitment consultants appointed Chairman of the Nominations Committee by the Committee to undertake the selection process.
Initial meetings are generally held by the Company Members of the Committee Chairman with prospective candidates, and a shortlist Bernard Cragg of individuals is then selected by the Chairman, with Maria Moloney Chris Girling assistance from the recruitment consultants, to meet Damon Russell with other Nominations Committee members and the Executive Directors.
The Nominations Committee For full biographies see pages 40 to 41. then meets and decides which candidate, if any, will be recommended to join the Board.
Diversity has been addressed on page 48.
We continue to look During the year, the Nominations Committee was for the right capabilities chaired by the Company Chairman, Daniel Kitchen and comprised all of the Non-Executive Directors as listed and competencies for above.
The Nominations Committee met twice during the future.
the year and attendance at these meetings is shown in the table on page 43.
During the year the Nominations Committee continued Daniel Kitchen does not Chair the Committee when it to consider Board composition and succession planning.
It is planned that Bernard Cragg will retire from the is considering matters relating to his position.
In these circumstances, the Senior Independent Director acts Board at the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
I am very pleased to confirm that Chris Girling as Chairman of the Committee.
has agreed to take on the roles of Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director following The full terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are available for inspection on the the Annual General Meeting.
The Nominations Committee will continue to review its skills, experience, independence and knowledge Matters considered by the Committee during the year of Board members and this will be reflected in the Di scussed Board composition and determined Committees recommendations to the Board on the ongoing skills and experience required on any future appointments.
the Board: P repared candidate specifications for potential DANIEL KITCHEN Non-Executive Director candidates: CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE E xternal search agents, Spencer Stuart, 3 June 2014 were engaged to assist in finding a new Non-Executive Director: T he Committee met with a number of candidates: R ecommended to the Board the appointment of Damon Russell as Non-Executive Director: C onducted the performance review of the Chairman: R ecommended to the Board that the Chairmans appointment be extended for a further three-year term from 6 June 2014.
Overview 01-15Strategy 16-21Performance 22-36Governance 37-77 Financial statements 78-119 Shareholder information 120-125 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit Committee collectively has the skills and experience required to fully discharge its duties, and it has access to independent advice at the Companys expense.
During the year, the Committee met in private sessions with its external auditors,  LLP PwC, in the absence of management.
COMMITTEE MEETINGS Meetings of the Audit Committee coincide with key BERNARD CRAGG BSC ACA dates in the financial reporting and audit cycle.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee and Committee Chairman reports the outcome of meetings Senior Independent Non-Executive Director to the Board.
During the year under review the Committee met three times.
Members of the Committee Maria Moloney Chris Girling The Committee has a rolling agenda that ensures it Damon Russell gives thorough consideration to matters of particular importance to the Company, and additional matters are For full biographies see pages 40 to 41. considered when appropriate.
The Committee receives appropriate information far enough in advance to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
This includes not only This is my final report as Chairman of the Audit Committee as I will step down as a Non-Executive information from management but also detailed reports from the external auditor.
Director following the Annual General Meeting in July 2014.
Chris Girling, a fellow Non-Executive Director and The Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive a current member of the Committee will succeed me as Chairman.
Chris has served as Group Finance Director Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and other members of the senior management team together with senior of Carillion PLC and is currently Chairman of the Audit Committee of Keller PLC and so has the required representatives of the external auditor are invited to attend all or part of meetings as appropriate.
experience to fulfil the role.
MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR During the year under review the Audit Committee considered a number of topics, the most significant of The agendas for the three scheduled meetings of the Committee during the year under review were which are described below.
A description of the work and information about the other significant issues that organised around the Companys reporting schedule.
The Committee considered amongst other matters: the Committee considered during the year can be found on page 52. the interim and annual financial statements and matters raised by management and the BERNARD CRAGG external auditors: the appropriateness of the Groups accounting CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 3 June 2014 policies and practices: the full and half year valuations and the external The Audit Committee ensures the integrity of financial valuation process: the review of the Groups system of internal controls reporting and audit processes and the maintenance of a sound internal control and risk management system, and risk management: health and safety update: representation letters to the external auditors: details of which are described on pages 53 and 54.
The Committees main role and responsibilities are set the strategic risks for the Group and emerging risks: out in its terms of reference and are available on the Corporate reporting updates and approach to the Companys website at www.
2014 Annual Report: the Groups compliance with REIT legislation: The Audit Committee comprises all the Non-Executive the Companys approach to compliance with Directors, except the Chairman, and is chaired by legislation and regulations, including arrangements Bernard Cragg.
During the year, Damon Russell joined for staff to raise concerns in confidence: the Committee.
The Group audit partner from the the performance relationship with the external external auditor attends the Audit Committee Meeting auditor, the external audit process, the audit and at least twice a year.
non-audit fee and independence: the need and use for an internal audit function: The Board is satisfied that both Bernard Cragg and Chris the review of fraud risk: and Girling have the required level of relevant and financial the terms of reference of the Audit Committee.
and accounting experience required by the provisions of the Code, having previously held chief financial officer positions in public companies.
Currently both Bernard and Chris, who are Chartered Accountants, also hold various positions with public companies.
52 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE The Audit Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers to be important by virtue of their impact on the Groups results, or the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application on the consolidated financial statements.
The main areas of focus during the year are set out below: Matter considered Action taken by the Committee Valuation of the investment The valuation is conducted externally by independent valuers.
The valuers property portfolio presented the year-end valuation to the Audit Committee.
The Audit The valuation of the investment Committee reviewed the methodology and outcomes of the valuation, property portfolio is inherently challenging the key assumptions and judgements.
The valuers proposed subjective, requiring significant significant increases in the values, particularly in relation to properties judgement.
The outcome is where developments have progressed and active management has significant for the Group in increased current rents.
These values were discussed in detail by the Audit terms of its investment Committee in consideration of the current market outlook and the stage of decisions, results progress on significant developments.
The objectivity and independence and remuneration.
of the valuers is monitored by the Audit Committee.
PwC also met with the valuers and presented their views on the valuation to the Committee.
Based on the above, the Committee was satisfied that the methodology, assumptions and judgements used by the valuers were appropriate and that the valuations were suitable for inclusion in the financial statements.
Accounting for the Glebe The Group has decided to change its policy for the Glebe proceeds share proceeds share agreement agreement proceeds share.
This is now accounted for as an equity instrument under IAS 32 representing a non-controlling interest NCI in the assets of Workspace Glebe Limited: previously it was accounted for as a contingent liability under IAS 37.
IFRS does not deal explicitly with agreements of this nature, and, consequently, this is a judgemental area.
Therefore, in determining an appropriate policy, the Group analysed the key features of the proceeds share in the context of relevant accounting pronouncements weighing the importance of each feature in faithfully representing the overall commercial effect and economic substance.
Details of the proceeds share and implications of the change in policy can be found in note 20 to the financial statements and in the accounting policies.
In measuring the amount attributable to NCI, the Group takes into account the likelihood that a property will be sold and that a payment may be made.
On this basis, the Group attributes amounts to NCI when it considers there is a legal or constructive obligation to sell the relevant properties.
No amounts are attributed to NCI in relation to properties that the Group has no intention of selling.
The Group is in discussions with the Financial Reporting Council FRC regarding the accounting for the Glebe Proceeds share agreement and has yet to agree with the FRC how this non-controlling interest should be measured.
The Audit Committee has considered the accounting treatment of the proceeds share agreement including the questions raised by the FRC.
It believes that the Groups measurement of the amount attributable to NCI best reflects the commercial objectives and economic substance of the proceeds share.
In particular that no amounts should be attributed to NCI for proceeds that are highly unlikely to arise.
The maximum amount that would be payable if all the properties were sold would be 48m 31 March 2013: 32m.
This would increase the attributed amounts at 31 March 2014 by 37m 31 March 2013: 32m with a net impact of reducing EPRA NAV per share by 25p 31 March 2013: 22p.
In addition, the Audit Committee has considered a number of other judgements which have been made by management, none of which had a material impact on the Group results.
Overview 01-15Strategy 16-21Performance 22-36Governance 37-77 Financial statements 78-119 Shareholder information 120-125 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53 INTERNAL AUDIT Committee may challenge and in some instances refuse Due to its size and structure, the Group does not have proposals in respect of non-audit work to be performed an internal audit function, a matter which is kept under by the external auditor.
review by the Audit Committee.
However, management instructs the undertaking of a programme of financial, In addition, the Audit Committee will assess the threats operational and health and safety internal audits at its of self-review by the external auditors, self-interest, estates.
These are carried out by qualified senior Head advocacy and familiarity these are set out below Office personnel on a rotational basis.
All findings are and considered in relation to PwCs services: reported to the Risk Committee with any significant findings reported to the Audit Committee.
A self-review threat this is where, in providing a service, the PwC audit team could potentially AUDIT TENDERING evaluate the results of a previous PwC service.
The comply-or-explain provision in the UK Corporate The Audit Committee specifically will not allow the Governance Code applies to the Company for the auditors to: first time this year.
However, in the light of the recent Do anything that is a management responsibility agreement of the European proposals in this area and e. g. such as setting performance targets or the UK Competition Commissions final report, the FRC determining employees actual compensation.
has indicated that it will consult on withdrawing the Provide accounting or book-keeping services.
Prepare financial statement disclosure items.
The relevant European Directive will become 2.
A self-interest threat where a financial or other applicable in the UK in June 2016, subject to an interest of an individual or PwC will inappropriately implementation exercise by the UK regulators.
PwC influence an individuals judgement or behaviour.
has been Workspaces auditor since 1988, which means The Audit Committee will specifically perform that the EUs transitional rules would prevent their the following: reappointment from six years after June 2014.
The If the external auditor is to be considered for the UK Competition Commission had previously proposed provision of non-audit services, their scope of work mandatory audit tenders at least every ten years and fees must be approved in advance by the Chief with different transitional rules, but has delayed Financial Officer and the Committee Secretary and, its implementation programme to consider fully the in the case of fees in excess of 50,000 for a single implications of the EU Directive on its proposals.
project, by the Audit Committee or if approval is required before the next meeting, by the Audit The current PwC audit partner has completed five years Committee Chairman.
For larger assignments in in the role and will be replaced by a new partner for excess of 100,000 this would involve a competitive next years audit.
Subject to the outcome of the annual tender process unless there are compelling assessment of audit quality and auditor independence commercial or timescale reasons to use the external continuing to be satisfactory, it is currently expected auditor or another specific accountancy firm.
that we would look to rotate PwC within the next five It does not accept significant contingent fee years when the current regulatory uncertainty is arrangements with the external auditors.
A resolution to reappoint them for the 2015 audit will therefore be proposed at the AGM.
An advocacy threat this is where PwC or PwC personnel promote an audit clients position to NON-AUDIT SERVICES the extent where PwCs objectivity as auditor The Audit Committee terms of reference establish a is compromised.
process for monitoring and approving the nature and The Group will not use PwC in an advocacy role.
the level of related fees for non-audit services e. g. accounting, tax or due diligence work paid to the Group 4.
A familiarity threat this is where, because of a external auditors.
The process requires prior approval by too long or too close a relationship, the external the Audit Committee Chairman for non-audit work with auditors independence is affected.
The Audit Committee will prohibit the hiring of former employees of the external auditor associated with the The Group uses the external auditor for relevant Groups audit into management roles with significant financial work for a variety of reasons, including their influence within the Group within two years following knowledge of the Group, the audit-related nature of their association with the audit, unless the Chairman the work and the need to maintain confidentiality.
of the Audit Committee gives prior consent.
Annually, the Audit Committee will be advised of any new hires At each meeting, the Audit Committee will be advised of caught by this policy.
However, there have been no any significant non-audit work awarded to the external instances of this occurring.
In addition, PwC will auditor since the previous meeting and the related fees.
rotate their lead audit partner every five years.
At the annual May meeting, the Audit Committee The Audit Committee will monitor on an ongoing receive a report of fees, both audit and non-audit from basis the relationship with the external auditor to PwC for the past financial year.
The Committee has ensure its continuing independence, objectivity considered in detail the nature and level of non-audit and effectiveness.
services provided by PwC and the related fees.
The 54 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED AUDIT FEES The Risk Committee reviews and identifies risks facing Fees paid to PwC can be found in note 2 on page 90. the Group and ensures that appropriate controls are in place to review each issue raised.
Each identified risk FINANCIAL REPORTING is assigned a Risk Owner.
The Risk Committee have The Audit Committee considers all financial information also devised an annual plan of work where a review published in the annual and half year financial is undertaken of particular areas of the business.
statements and considers accounting policies adopted Depending on the nature of the project, a third-party by the Group, presentation and disclosure of the consultant may be appointed to assist in the review.
The Group has continued to develop its risk The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual management framework and has reappraised its risks Report.
At the request of the Board, the Committee in the light of the changes in the external environment considered whether the 2014 Annual Report was fair, during the last year.
balanced and understandable and whether it provided the necessary information for shareholders to assess The Group has also considered the requirements of the Workspaces performance, business model and strategy.
Bribery Act 2010 and taken steps to ensure that it has It was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2014 Annual adequate procedures as set out by the Act.
Report is fair, balanced and understandable and included the necessary information.
It confirmed this to The Group continues to strengthen its risk management the Board, whose statement in this regard is set out in processes to ensure these are embedded as part of the the Directors Responsibility Statement on page 77.
The Turnbull Guidance sets out best practice on internal control to assist companies in INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT applying the Codes principles with regards to internal The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups risk control.
The Board, with advice from the Audit management framework and system of internal control Committee continues to review the effectiveness and the ongoing review of their effectiveness.
The Board of internal control with no significant failings or has reviewed the Groups system of controls including weaknesses identified.
financial, operational, compliance and risk management on a regular basis throughout the year.
However, any Further information on the Groups risks is detailed on such system can only provide reasonable and not pages 18 to 21. absolute assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
WHISTLEBLOWING The Group has a whistleblowing procedure by which The Company has established processes and procedures employees may report suspicion of fraud, financial necessary to enable the Directors to report on internal irregularity or other malpractice.
There is also a process controls in compliance with the Code.
These processes in place for staff to report operational risks and issues and procedures involve the analysis, evaluation and to the Risk Committee.
management of the key risks to the Group.
CODE OF CONDUCT The other key elements of the Groups system of internal The Group has a Code of Conduct which explains how control include: employees are expected to fulfil their responsibilities a comprehensive system of financial reporting: by acting in the best interests of the Group.
This includes an organisational and management Board structure compliance with laws and regulations: acting fairly with clearly defined levels of authority and division in dealing with customers, suppliers and other of responsibilities: stakeholders: treating people with respect and a Risk Committee, which is chaired by the Chief operating within a control framework.
Executive Officer and is attended by representatives from senior management and operational staff.
RISK COMMITTEE The Risk Committee formally reports to the Audit The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer Committee twice a year: and and comprises the Operations Director, Company a programme of site audit visits, covering a significant Secretary and Head of Finance.
Meetings of the proportion of the sites each year.
Although the Group Committee are attended by employees from across does not have a dedicated internal audit function, an the business.
The role of the Risk Committee is to: operational, finance and health and safety audit are Promote the application of the risk carried out at the estates by qualified Head Office management framework: personnel.
The results of the audits are reported to Agree an annual internal control review programme: and reviewed by the Risk and Audit Committees Consider the results of reviews and implementation and appropriate action taken as required.
