goverNaNce Audit committee report COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE Dear shareholder NuMBER Of This is my first report as Chairman of the MEETINGS ATTENDED Audit Committee, following my MEMBER POSITION 3 HELD appointment to the role at the conclusion Dermot Mathias Chairman from 7.2.
Gordon McQueen Chairman and The Committee is tasked with reviewing and reporting to the Senior Independent Board on financial reporting, internal control andrisk Director until management, and reviews the performance, independence and 7.2.
2014 effectiveness oftheexternal auditors in carrying out the Jill Little Senior Independent statutory audit.
Director from The Committee advises the Board on the statement by directors 7.2.
2014 and that the Annual Report, when read as a whole, is fair, balanced member and understandable and provides the information necessary for Oliver Marriott Member shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model andstrategy.
Following significant changes to narrative Dermot Mathias Member reporting and corporate governance disclosures in the Annual Hilary Riva Member Report last year, the Committee has, this year, monitored Sally Walden Member emerging practice in these areas.
Gor don McQueen: one meeting was held in the period prior to his retirement on 7February 2014 Dermot Mathias Both Gordon McQueen and Dermot Mathias have been or are Chairman - Audit Committee the members of the Committee with recent and relevant financial experience.
COMMITTEE ATTENDEES BY INVITATION ONLY ATTENDEES POSITION Penny Thomas Secretary to the Committee Christopher Ward Finance Director Gareth Field Senior members of the financeteam Robert Jessett  Independent auditors At each meeting, the Committee has time with the auditors without management present.
co. uk annual report 2014 audit Committee report continued The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report.
kEY ACTIVITIES DuRING THE YEAR The Committee considered whether the Annual Report was fair, Reviewed and monitored the integrity of the published balanced and understandable and whether itprovided the financial information including the year end results, necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups preliminary announcement, Annual Report, half year results, performance, business model and strategy.
In carrying out this and the Interim Management Statements exercise the Committee had regard to the systems and controls Considered emerging best practice in relation to corporate around the preparation of the accounts, the procedures to bring reporting relevant information to the attention of the preparers of the accounts, the consistency of the reports and whether they are in Reviewed significant issues and areas of judgement with the accordance with the information provided to the Board during potential to have a material impact on the financial statements, the year.
It also considered whether the Annual Report had been making any consequent recommendations to the Board written in straightforward language, without unnecessary Advised the Board on the statement by directors that the repetition of information.
Annual Report, when read as a whole, is fair, balanced and The Committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual understandable and provides the information necessary for Report is fair, balanced and understandable and included the shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business necessary information as set out above.
It confirmed this to the model andstrategy Board, whose statement in this regard is set out on page 82.
Met with the Groups valuers to discuss the valuation process The Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers Reviewed the risk and internal control framework to be important by virtue of their impact on the Groups results Considered the appropriateness of the going concern and remuneration, and particularly those which involve a high assumption level of complexity, judgement or estimation by management.
Planned for year end and reviewed the audit plan Valuation of investment properties Reviewed the whistle-blowing policy The valuation opinion is provided by independent external Considered the need for an internal audit function valuers and is one of the critical components of the annual and half year financial results.
It is inherently subjective, Reviewed the Committees performance requiring significant judgement.
As well as a detailed review of Reviewed the Committee Report the valuations by management, members of the Committee Approved non-audit assignments awarded to the external met the Groups valuers, without management present, before audit firm finalisation of the annual and half year results.
At these meetings, they discussed the valuations, reviewed the key Monitored audit and non-audit fees judgements and discussed whether there were any significant Considered the independence and objectivity of the auditors disagreements with management.
They also discussed Reviewed the auditors performance and made a current market conditions, recent transactions in the market recommendation for the re-appointment of the Groups and any impact these have had on the valuation.
auditors by shareholders The auditors use internal real estate specialists, who meet Monitored developments in mandatory auditor tendering with the valuers as part of their audit and report their findings and conclusions to the Committee.
A member of the Recommended to the Board updated Committee terms of Committee discussed the valuation with the auditors real reference estate expert who had reviewed this years valuation.
The Board considered the valuation in detail at its meeting to FInanCIaL REpORTInG anD SIGnIFICanT approve the financial statements: as part of this the Groups FInanCIaLJuDGEmEnTS wholly-owned portfolio valuers presented their valuation The Committee considers all financial information published in the opinion.
annual and half year financial statements and considers accounting policies adopted by the Group, presentation and disclosure of the financial information and, in particular, the key judgements made by management in preparing the financial statements.
#064 audit Committee report continued goverNaNce Other areas of judgement EXTERnaL auDITORS In addition, the Committ ee has considered a number of other The Committee remains satisfied with the effectiveness of the judgements which have been made by management, none of external audit.
The auditors are required to rotate the audit which were material in the context of the Groups results or partners responsible for the Group audit at least every five years net assets.
These include judgements concerning the charge and those responsible for the subsidiary company audits at least for equity settled remuneration and the valuation of derivative every seven years.
The current lead audit partner has been in financial instruments.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditor.
Going concern The Committ ee reviewed whether it was appropriate to adopt Regulatory developments during the year will affect the audit the going concern assumption in the preparation of the arrangements of listed companies.
In considering this, it reviews the Groups three-year LLP or its predecessor firms has been the Groups auditors profit, cash flow and investment forecasts, availability of since it listed on the London Stock Exchange in October 1987. committed bank and debt facilities and expected headroom Although the audit was last tendered in 2010, under the new under the financial covenants in those facilities.
Following the regulations they will no longer be permitted to act as the review, it recommended to the Board that it was appropriate to Groups auditor after 2020.
In view of this and emerging best adopt the going concern basis.
practice, and notwithstanding the professional level of service provided by , the Committee has Management confirmed to the Committee that they were not decided to tender the audit with a view to changing auditor from aware of any material misstatements and the auditors confirmed the year ending 30 September 2016.
This will coincide with the that they had found no material misstatements in the course of rotation of the current audit partner at the conclusion of the their work.
audit for the year ending 30 September 2015.
After reviewing the reports from management and following its discussions with the auditors and valuers, the Committee is aWaRD OF nOn-auDIT aSSIGnmEnTS TO THE satisfied that the financial statements appropriately address the EXTERnaL auDIT FIRm critical judgements and key estimates, both in respect of the The policy of the Committee is that non-audit assignments are amounts reported and the disclosures.
The Committee is also not awarded to the external audit firm if there is a risk that their satisfied that the processes used for determining the value of audit independence and objectivity could be compromised and the assets and liabilities have been appropriately reviewed, that, other than in exceptional circumstances, non-audit fees challenged and are sufficiently robust.
should not exceed audit and assurance fees.
RISk REVIEW pROCESS In addition, the award of any non-audit assignment to the Groups auditors in excess of 25,000 is subject to the prior As part of standing matters, the Committee and the Board approval of the Committee.
One assignment was approved review the business risks and internal controls framework during the year, under this policy, for the Groups tax compliance during the year.
The Groups principal risks and uncertainties are reported in the Strategic Report and the Groups internal control and risk management procedures are set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
see risk management pages 47 to 49 and corporate governance page 60 #065 @shaftesbury.
co. uk annual report 2014 audit Committee report continued auDIT FEES annuaL auDITOR aSSESSmEnT Fees payable to the Groups auditors for audit and non-audit Annually, the Committee assesses the qualifications, expertise services are set out below: and resources, and independence of the Groups external auditors, as well as the effectiveness of the audit process.
It 2014 2013 does this through discussion with the Finance Director, review of 000 000 a detailed assessment questionnaire and confirmation from the Audit of the parent companys 56 50 external auditor.
The Chairman of the Committee and the annualaccounts Finance Director meet with an independent partner from the external audit firm without the audit team present.
Audit of the consolidated Group 93 83 Total audit services 149 133  LLP has confirmed to the Committee that: Audit related assurance services 20 20 They have internal procedures in place to identify any aspects halfyear review of non-audit work which could compromise their role as Other assurance services - - auditors and to ensure the objectivity of their audit report.
Total assurance services 20 20 The total fees paid by the Group during the year do not Total audit and assurance services 169 153 represent amaterial part of their firms fee income.
Tax compliance services 36 36 They consider that they have maintained their audit independence throughout the year.
Tax advisory services 73 24 The Committee has completed its assessment of the external Services related to taxation 109 60 auditors for the financial period under review.
It has satisfied Other non-audit services 7 6 itself as to their qualifications, expertise and resources and Total fees related to taxation 116 66 remains confident that their objectivity and independence are andother non-audit services not in any way impaired by reason of the non-audit services Total fees 285 219 which they provide to the Group.
The Committee recommended to the Board that Total fees related to taxation and other non-audit services  LLP continue as auditors and the represented 69% of the total fees for audit and assurance Board recommends their re-appointment at the 2015 AGM.
Tax advisory services represent various assignments carried out during the year, none of which were InTERnaL auDIT individually significant.
In view of the focused nature of the Groups business, the close The audit fees for the Company and the Group are relatively low involvement of the executive directors in day-to-day decision due primarily to the simple Group corporate structure.
making and relatively simple structure, together with the regular independent reviews of the processes and controls of managing agents, the Committee recommended to the Board that, at the present time, it considers there is no need to establish an internal audit function.
