Corporate Governance Statement Chairmans introduction Andrew Higginson Chairman : The board, having carried out a The board is committed to meeting a Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE: performance evaluation, believes the high standard of corporate governance Ivan Fallon: performance of all directors and their and compliance with the principles in the John McGuire resigned 31 March 2014 : commitment to the role of director UK Corporate Governance Code issued Anna Ford: continues to be fully effective.
Further by the UK Financial Reporting Council in Fiona Laird appointed 1 April 2013 : details of this evaluation can be found 2012 the Code.
My role is to ensure Simon Patterson appointed 1 April on page 23. the board operates effectively, is well 2013 : and managed, complies with the requirements Ron McMillan appointed 1 April 2013.
Appointments to the board are made of the Code and has the correct balance solely on merit based on the skills and of skills and experience to execute the Ivan Fallon relinquished his roles as senior experience offered by the candidate and strategy set by the board.
The companys non-executive director and chair of the required by the role.
This ensures that all continued success is a reflection of remuneration committee and stepped appointees have the best mix of skills and its strong governance and effective down from all other committees on which time to devote themselves effectively to management.
he sat with effect from 1 October 2013. the business of the board and to discharge Ron McMillan assumed the role of senior their duties to the best of their ability.
Andrew Higginson non-executive director on the same date.
Chairman of the Board Ivan Fallon will remain on the board for the Details of directors contract terms are foreseeable future as the board considers shown in the Remuneration Report on Statement of compliance with the Code that he still has much to offer in terms page 40.
In accordance with the Code, The group complied with the provisions of of his knowledge and experience.
John the company has made the terms and the Code and the UK Financial Conduct McGuire relinquished his role as chair of conditions of appointment of the nonAuthoritys Disclosure and Transparency the audit committee on 1 October 2013, to executive directors available for inspection.
The board be replaced by Ron McMillan with effect decided that, although one was due, an from the same date, and subsequently Diversity external review of board effectiveness retired from the board on 31 March 2014.
The board recognises the importance of Code provision B.
6.2 was not appropriate diversity, including gender, at all levels this year for the reasons given on page 23.
In view of the foregoing, the board of the company as well as on the board.
An external evaluation will be conducted in considers that, throughout the year, The company is committed to equal the second half of 2014.
All other provisions at least half of the board, excluding opportunities and increasing diversity of the Code have been complied with.
The the chairman, comprised independent across our operations in terms of relevant following paragraphs explain how the main non-executive directors and that the skills, experience, ethnicity and gender.
principles of the Code have been applied.
composition of the board had the With the appointment of Angela Spindler The Remuneration Report contains further necessary balance of executive and as Chief Executive on 1 July 2013 and details on pages 33 to 50.
Disclosures non-executive directors to provide the Fiona Laird as non-executive director on 1 required by the Disclosure and Transparency requisite skills, experience, challenge April 2013, the board is proud to announce Rules rule 7.2.
6 regarding share capital and judgement appropriate for the that it now comprises six male directors can be found in the Directors Report.
requirements of the business and full and three female directors.
The board will board effectiveness.
continue to consider how diversity can Board composition be enhanced through the board and the The board comprises nine directors of All board members remain in place as at senior management teams and across whom seven are non-executive including the date of this report.
the group generally, whilst ensuring that the Chairman.
Of the seven non-executive it appoints only the most appropriate directors, Lord Alliance of Manchester Pursuant to the Code, all directors are candidates to the board.
and Ivan Fallon are not considered by the required to retire and submit themselves board to be independent.
The Chairman for re-election annually.
Accordingly, Gender diversity was considered independent at the time each of the directors will retire at the We currently have 33% female diversity of his appointment.
forthcoming annual general meeting and, at board level and 40% on the Home with the exception of Anna Ford who Shopping board.
This is above the current Full biographical details of all directors is stepping down from the board, offer Government target of 25% by 2015, appear on page 16. themselves for reappointment at that established in the Davies review, and meeting.
significantly higher than the current FTSE There is a clear division of responsibilities 250 who have achieved representation between the Chairman, Andrew With the exception of Ivan Fallon, at 15.6%.
We believe that gender Higginson, who is responsible for the who remains on a three month rolling representation makes good business effective operation of the board and the arrangement, all non-executive directors sense, given that women make up over Chief Executive, Angela Spindler, who is serve on letters of appointments stipulating half of the UK population and almost 60% responsible for the groups operational 3 year terms.
All appointments are of our total workforce.
terminable, without compensation, on between three and six months notice Strengthening our executive pipeline The board understands the need for by either party and are subject to other remains a permanent task for us and we non-executive directors to be and remain early termination provisions without continue to open up new opportunities independent of the management in order compensation, for example in the event for women in the business, working with to be able to exercise proper oversight a director is not re-elected at the annual head-hunters and agencies that can and effectively challenge the executive general meeting.
provide true gender diversification in directors.
The non-executive directors who their candidate bases.
served during the financial year ended 1 March 2014 were: 24 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Statement To provide role models in the business operational matters to its committees and knowledge and understanding of the and break the glass ceiling we are sub-committees, and to its executive and company and its activities and also so members of Women on Boards and operational directors and senior officers.
that the broader population of the group have two representatives who serve in that The board is collectively responsible can derive benefit from the skills and organisation Caroline Massingham - for providing effective leadership and experience of the non-executive directors.
human resources director and Linda Quinn promoting the success of the group and trading director.
Our aim is to allow works to a formal list of matters reserved All board members are permitted to development of board directors and to for the board a copy of which is available obtain independent professional advice in allow directors to take up non-executive on the companys website, www.
respect of their own fiduciary duties and roles in other businesses where appropriate.
Matters reserved to the board obligations and have direct access to the include, amongst other things, decisions Company Secretary, who is a qualified The next stage is to have clarity, through on business strategy, the approval of solicitor and who attends all board succession and talent identification financial statements, the annual capital and and committee meetings as secretary.
processes, of our policies and measures operating expenditure plans, investment, The Company Secretary provides an aimed at increasing the number of women treasury and dividend policies, governance on-going programme of briefings for in senior management.
This will provide a issues, major capital projects, overseeing directors covering legal and regulatory true internal pipeline over time for board the groups risk control procedures, board changes and developments relevant to succession.
membership and the composition of its the groups activities and directors areas committees and the groups ethical, social of responsibility.
The Company Secretary We will also apply the same approach and environmental policies.
is also responsible for the induction of when reviewing the appointment or new directors.
New directors are provided re-election of non-executive directors The board governs through clearly with a comprehensive pack of information to ensure gender balance.
mandated committees, accompanied by including terms of reference, information robust monitoring and reporting systems.
regarding the business and guidance on Gender split Further detail is given below.
their roles and duties as directors and At the date of this report the gender split meetings site visits with key employee male female, senior management and Day-to-day management of the groups contacts are arranged as appropriate.
entire workforce is as follows:- activities is delegated to the operational Inductions to the business for new board, known as the Home Shopping directors are designed to expose them Male Female board, on which both Angela Spindler and to all areas of the groups operations Heads %Split Heads %Split Dean Moore sit as chief executive officer but with particular emphasis on each and finance director respectively.
Other directors area of expertise.
Senior members of the Home Shopping board are management 47 67.1 23 32.9 Paul Kendrick International Director, Neil Board effectiveness appraisal Total McGowan IT Director, Ian Carr Logistics The board has undertaken an internal employees 1,516 40.8 2,199 59.2 Director, Mark Cheshire Customer appraisal of its own performance and Services Director, Caroline Massingham effectiveness and also that of the Board operation and evaluation HR Director and Joe Fogwill and Linda Chairman, other directors and the boards An effective board of directors leads and Quinn trading directors of hardware and committees.
The engagement of an controls the group.
The members of the fashion respectively.
external body to manage the performance board are named below.
The board met 8 evaluation process is now due under the times during the year.
Directors attendance In January of each year the members of Code.
After careful consideration, the at board meetings was as follows: the board meet with members of the Home board concluded that, because of the Shopping board over a two day period to changes to the board during the year in Attendance review the progress being made against, terms of the appointment of three new Andrew Higginson 8 and the future development of, the groups independent non-executive directors and Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE 7 long-term rolling strategic plan.
the appointment of a new chief executive, Angela Spindler it was sensible to allow the new board to appointed 1 July 2013 7 Board papers include detailed bed down and get experience of the way Ivan Fallon 8 management reports from the Chief it and individual directors worked together Alan White Executive and the Finance Director, before employing the services of an resigned 31 October 2013 4 management accounts, broker analyses, external evaluator.
An external evaluation Dean Moore 8 compliance and regulatory briefings and of board effectiveness will be conducted in John McGuire bespoke reports.
A comprehensive pack the second half of 2014 and its outcomes resigned 31 March 2014 7 of papers is electronically circulated to reported next year.
Anna Ford 7 each director not less than seven days Fiona Laird prior to each board meeting.
Budgetary Consequently, an internal evaluation appointed 1 April 2013 7 performance and forecasts are reviewed was conducted by means of a written Simon Patterson and revised at each meeting.
Outside questionnaire containing 26 detailed appointed 1 April 2013 6 of the meeting there is a regular flow of questions ranging from the effectiveness Ron McMillan information between the directors including of individual members, the size and appointed 1 April 2013 7 the weekly dissemination of management number of board reports, relationships information statistics.
with management, the mix of skill-sets, The board is responsible for all major to individual contributions at board policy decisions and for determining the Non-executive directors meet with meetings.
The questionnaire was operational and strategic risks it is willing operational teams and the Home Shopping completed by all directors in relation to to take in achieving its objectives.
The board and undertake site visits to ensure the board and also any committee of board has, where necessary, delegated that they have the most up-to-date which they were a member.
The process N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 25 Corporate Governance Statement is designed to establish whether each The board has complied with these Audit Committee director continues to meet the boards procedures during the year.
Introduction by Ron McMillan, requirements in terms of effective Chairman of the Audit Committee contribution, skills and devotion to the role.
Two potential conflicts of interest were The evaluation results were collated by reported in the year ended 1 March Dear Shareholder, the Company Secretary for review by the 2014 in circumstances where the nonThe Audit Committee exercises oversight Chairman and then a joint review by the executives concerned were neither directly of the groups financial policies and board.
The performance of the Chairman or indirectly involved in any potential reporting.
It monitors the integrity of was reviewed and appraised by Ron dealings between the group and the the financial statements and reviews McMillan, the new senior non-executive companies concerned.
In each case, the and considers significant financial and director, in consultation with the other conflicts were authorised by the board with accounting estimates and judgements.
The Chief Executives appropriate safeguards being put in place.
The committee satisfies itself that the performance was reviewed and appraised disclosures in the financial statements by the Chairman and the non-executive Board activities in 2013 14 about these judgements and estimates are directors.
The performance of the Finance Some of the key activities that the board appropriate and obtains from the external Director the only other executive director has covered over the past year are: auditor an independent view of the key on the board was carried out in a similar disclosure issues and risks.
manner to the Chief Executive.
Rolling out and communicating the groups 2020 Vision long-term strategy, Amongst other things, during the year the The evaluation concluded that the board setting out the goals and priorities: committee considered: and committees perform well and are Assessing the progress of the groups effective and that all non-executive Business Transformation Project which, The regulatory environment in which directors contribute to an informed amongst other things, will lead to a the group operates, which is both discussion with, and mount a robust complete re-engineering of the groups complex and changing with the transfer challenge to, the operational and executive IT platform: of regulatory supervision from the directors whenever necessary.
The survey Reviewing the groups strategy in the OFT to the FCA.
Changes in laws and also found that the board and committees USA and the investment in High Street regulations may have a material impact continue to be effectively led by their Stores in the UK for Simply Be and on the groups business, sector and respective chairmen and that information Jacamo: and market: provided to the directors was regarded Reviewing the work of the audit The groups approach to and as comprehensive, timely and sufficient committee and internal auditors on risk.
methodology for provisioning for bad for the directors needs.
It was also and doubtful receivables, in light of the concluded that each director is individually Committees of the board significant judgements and assumptions contributing to the overall effectiveness The board has delegated authority to which need to be made in this area: and success of the group.
No material a number of committees to deal with The groups approach to and issues were raised.
specific aspects of management and to methodology for provisioning for maintain supervision over the internal inventory which may end up being sold The board therefore believes it has control procedures of the group.
These at below cost: undertaken a formal and rigorous committees meet regularly and have The groups exposure to corporate tax evaluation of its own performance and that formal written terms of reference which are and VAT risks through open items with of its committees and individual directors, available for inspection on the companys tax authorities: in compliance with Main Principle B.
The minutes of the meetings The valuation of the groups defined the Code.
of these committees are circulated to benefit pension scheme: all committee members in advance of The carrying value of goodwill and Beyond the annual evaluation, the the next following committee meeting, the related disclosures in the financial performance of the executive directors is at which they are ratified.
The following statements: continuously monitored throughout the committees of the board have been Revenue recognition: and year by the Chairman and the senior nonestablished: Financial instrument valuations and executive director.
an audit committee: The Chairman reviews and agrees a remuneration committee: and A key responsibility of the committee with each director their training and a nominations committee.
is to review the scope, nature and development needs.
effectiveness of internal and external A new committee, the Corporate Social audits.
The committee ensured that the Directors conflicts of interest Responsibility Committee, headed by head of internal audit has appropriate The Articles of Association of the company Anna Ford, was also constituted in independence and authority, that the give the directors the power to consider December 2013. scope of internal audits work is not and, if appropriate, authorise conflict restricted and that the function has situations where a directors declared After each committee meeting the adequate resources.
The head of internal interest may conflict or does conflict with chairman of that committee makes a audit has a direct reporting line to me and the interests of the company.
formal report to the board of directors I will continue to work with him as we seek detailing the business carried out to strengthen further the function next Procedures are in place at every meeting by the committee and setting out its year.
The committee will also continue to for individual directors to report and record recommendations.
monitor and review the key aspects of the any potential or actual conflicts which groups external audit.
The register of reported conflicts is reviewed by the board at least annually.
Lastly, in relation to risk and control, the committee oversaw during the year 26 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Statement the development of a new three lines Finance Director, the head of internal audit committee to receive, in confidence, of defence model that clearly attributes and the external auditor on a number of complaints on all operational matters.
responsibilities and accountability for occasions during the year.
Reviewing the performance of the controls.
This model is expected to be external auditor, including their fully embedded next year.
Responsibilities relationship with the group, the groups The committee is responsible for: use of the auditor for non-audit services Further information on the committees and the balance of audit and non-audit responsibilities and the way in which they Monitoring the integrity of the groups fees paid to the auditor.
Non-audit have been discharged is set out below.
financial statements and reviewing services are generally subject to tender significant financial judgements and processes and the allocations of work I will be available at the annual general estimates in advance of these being are done on the basis of competence, meeting in July to answer any questions considered by the board: cost effectiveness, regulatory you may have on this report and would In conjunction with internal audit and requirements, the potential for conflicts like to thank my colleagues on the audit the external auditor, reviewing internal to arise and knowledge of the groups committee for their help and support financial controls and managements business.
Deloitte LLP has, during the this year.
response to required corrective action: year, provided non-audit services in the Monitoring and reviewing the role and form of corporate tax, and VAT advisory Ron McMillan effectiveness of the groups internal work and regulatory compliance.
It was Chairman of the Audit Committee audit function, including activities and considered that Deloitte LLP was best resources: and placed to provide such advice in view Audit Committee report Overseeing the role and effectiveness of its knowledge of the groups financial of the groups external auditor, reviewing position.
The committee is satisfied that, Committee composition and monitoring their objectivity and in relation to these services, Deloitte The committee comprises a minimum independence and agreeing the scope LLP has taken actions to ensure that any of three members, all of whom are of this work and fees for audit and nonpotential conflicts of interest are properly non-executive directors.
The committee Reporting to the board on how it has requires the inclusion of one financially Activities discharged its responsibilities, and qualified member with recent and relevant In addition to the matters referred to in the Making recommendations to the board financial experience.
The committee letter from the chairman of the committee in respect of its findings in respect of all chairman fulfils that requirement.
All on page 24, the work of the committee of the above matters.
members are expected to have an during the year included: understanding of financial reporting, the The committee has established a groups internal audit control environment, Reviewing the draft interim and annual continuous process for identifying, relevant corporate legislation, the roles and reports and considering: evaluating and managing the significant functions of internal and external audit and 1 The accounting principles, policies risks the group faces.
This monitoring is the regulatory framework of the business.
and practices adopted and the principally based on reviewing reports adequacy of related disclosures in from senior management to consider The members of the committee during the reports: whether significant operational risks are the year were: 2 The significant accounting issues, being identified, evaluated, managed and Ron McMillan Chairman appointed estimates and judgements of controlled and whether any significant 1 October 2013 management in relation to financial weaknesses exist which need to be John McGuire former Chairman retired reporting: addressed.
During the year, committee 1 October 2013 3 Whether any significant adjustments members have continued to receive, Ivan Fallon retired 1 October 2013 were required arising from the audit: consider and approve updated risk Simon Patterson appointed 1 April 2013 and evaluations from the operational directors.
Fiona Laird appointed 1 April 2013 4 Compliance with statutory tax Further details are given later in the Risk Anna Ford obligations and the groups tax policy.
Management section of this report.
The Chief Executive, the Finance Director, Meeting with the internal and external The board considers that the processes the head of internal audit and the external auditor, both with and in the absence of undertaken by the audit committee auditor are invited to attend audit the executive directors.
continue to be appropriately robust and committee meetings where appropriate.
Reviewing and approving the resources effective and in compliance with the of, the scope of work undertaken by and guidance issued by the Financial Reporting The committee met 3 times during the year the reports prepared by internal audit.
During the year the board has not and attendance was as follows:- Reviewing the reports prepared by the been advised by the audit committee of, external auditor on key audit findings nor identified itself, any failings, frauds or Attendance and any significant deficiencies in the weaknesses in internal control which it has financial control environment.
determined to be material in the context of Ron McMillan 3 Reviewing and considering the groups the financial statements.
John McGuire 2 systems of internal risk control, sources Ivan Fallon 2 of assurance and exposure to fraud and Deloitte LLP has been the groups auditor Simon Patterson 2 overseeing the development of a new for twelve years and, in light of changing Fiona Laird 3 risk model for aligning identified risks practice, it is the groups intention to Anna Ford 3 with mitigating actions.
formally review their appointment in 2015, Overseeing the management of the which coincides with the completion of the In addition to scheduled meetings, the groups whistleblowing procedures current five year cycle of the audit partners chairman of the committee met with the which contain procedures for the rotation.
The committee has recommended N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 27 Corporate Governance Statement that Deloitte LLP be reappointed as auditor and reviewed the key risks facing the The risk committee met on two occasions at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
business and appraised the structure of during the year and received presentations Deloitte LLP has signified its willingness to internal controls and identified current from operational management covering continue in office and ordinary resolutions and proposed activities to mitigate these group security, information security appointing Deloitte LLP as auditors and risks.
The committee was provided including Payment Card Industry authorising the directors to set their with the outputs from this process and compliance, risk management and remuneration will be proposed at the given the opportunity to conduct its own Payment Protection Insurance regulatory annual general meeting.
The total fees paid assessment of risk across strategic, compliance.
to Deloitte LLP for the year ended 1 March financial and operational areas.
The results 2014 were 1.6m, of which 1.3m was were circulated by internal audit as a key The committee believes that appropriate in respect of non-audit services.
Further driver in the annual internal audit plan.
internal controls are in place throughout details are set out in Note 5 to the financial the group, the most significant of which statements.
An enterprise wide mapping of activities have been specifically referred to in this across business functions was also report.
The group has a well-defined Risk management undertaken by internal audit during the organisational structure, with clear lines The directors have overall responsibility year to assess the level of risk within each of responsibility and explicit authority for ensuring that the group maintains a activity.
Output from this process has also delegated to divisional boards and sound system of internal control.
There been reflected in the annual audit plan.
The group also are inherent limitations in any system of has a comprehensive financial reporting internal control and no system can provide Appropriate responsibilities and system with good communication of plans, absolute assurance against material accountabilities have been set to ensure budgets and monthly results to relevant misstatement, loss or failure.
Equally no that there is ownership of the actions levels of management and the board.
system can guarantee elimination of the required to mitigate risk across the risk of failure to meet the objectives of business.
The group has complied, and continues the business.
Against this background, to comply, with the provisions of the Code the board has established a continuous Risk committee on internal controls.
There is an on-going process for identifying, evaluating and A risk committee has been established as process in place for identifying, evaluating managing the significant risks the group a sub-committee of the audit committee and managing the significant risks faces in order to give it reasonable on which the Chief Executive, Finance facing the group that has been in place assurances regarding its operations and Director, the Company Secretary and throughout the year and to the date of this compliance with laws and regulations.
head of internal audit sit, to focus on report.
The process has been reviewed by reviewing management's activities and the committee and the board and accords In order to ensure key business to continually monitor and manage the with guidance appended to the Code.
developments and emerging risks are risks identified.
Operational management appropriately factored into the risk is asked to present to the risk committee The principal risks which the group has management process, the groups internal on a cyclical basis on the progress of identified, together with actions to mitigate auditors facilitated two board level risk agreed actions against the major risks those risks are set out below: sessions in the year.
The Chief Executive identified by the process.
The output from and Finance Director along with the the risk committee is shared with the audit operational directors identified, ranked committee and the full board.
Risk Mitigating activities Failure to recognise the need for change Board strategic planning away-days The business does not recognise the need for change, is Business Transformation Programme which will facilitate the unsuccessful in delivering the best course of action or fails to omni-channel retail vision execute chosen strategy.
Monitoring of performance against strategic objectives and targets Robust change management programme Responsive to market demands.
For example, introduction of cash payment option Competition Continuous monitoring and benchmarking of competitor Failure to compete effectively through product and service activity propositions.
Dedicated Customer Insight team undertakes customer perceptual gap surveys Investment in price programmes Business Transformation Programme which provides platforms to meet customer requirements Warehouse expansion project to develop and expand the customer delivery proposition Regulatory environment The Group employs specialists in relevant fields to provide Failure to ensure the Group complies with existing and emerging in-house and external expertise UK and overseas legislation and regulation.
Steering groups manage and control change Dedicated regulatory compliance function Pro-active engagement with appropriate regulatory bodies Membership of the British Retail Consortium 28 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Statement IT systems Group recruits specialist in-house and external resources The replacement of core legacy IT systems is too slow, Business Transformation Programme which is focused on the expensive or ineffective.
replacement and standardisation of IT platforms Monitoring of performance against targets and postinvestment implementation reviews Overseas ventures Employment of dedicated executive and management teams Overseas ventures under-perform against expectations and Recruitment of specialist external consultancy services expose the group to additional risk.
Development of credit offer in the USA Review of performance against targets People Succession planning process developed by HR Over-reliance on key personnel and inability to recruit and retain Group internal opportunities and reward systems required skill sets.
Employee engagement surveys Benchmarking of competitors' reward packages and terms and conditions Business interruption Business Continuity Planning programmes A significant event impacts the ability of the business to continue IT disaster recovery plans including penetration testing trading.
Business Transformation Programme Remuneration Committee The nomination committee is chaired Corporate social responsibility A Remuneration Report and Remuneration by me, and the members are Andrew Committee CSR Policy in accordance with the requirements Higginson, Anna Ford, Ron McMillan A CSR committee under the chairmanship of the Large and Medium-sized and Fiona Laird.
The formal terms of of Anna Ford was established during the Companies and Groups Accounts and reference for this committee require it to year.
Reports Regulations 2008 as amended, make recommendations to the board for together with a letter from the chairman of appointments of directors including, when Introduction by Anna Ford.
the remuneration committee, are included appropriate, the Chairman of the board Chairman of the CSR Committee.
Information concerning and also directors of the operating board the committees activities during the year and other senior executive staff of the Dear Shareholder, is set out in those reports.
Where appropriate, I am pleased to report that the group and policy will be put to members at the the Chief Executive and Company established a Corporate Social companys 2014 annual general meeting Secretary are invited to attend meetings Responsibility CSR committee during for approval.
the year to formalise and focus on the CSR work the group has been undertaking.
The Nomination Committee The nomination committee evaluates board inaugural meeting of the committee took Introduction by Simon Patterson, candidates on merit, against objective place in December 2013.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
criteria, taking into account the skills and experience required to perform the duties The members of the committee are me, Dear Shareholder, of the post with due regard to diversity Andy York ethical trading manager, the It has been a busy year in terms of and gender.
Where appropriate, external company secretary.
Angela Spindler and succession planning for N Brown.
The search consultants are engaged.
Caroline Massingham group HR director.
"last year has seen us add three new nonThe committee met once in the year in executive directors, myself, Ron McMillan MWM Consulting LLP ""MWM"" was review."
and Fiona Laird, and also a new Chief appointed by the Committee to assist in Executive Officer, Angela Spindler.
the discharge of its duties.
The three nonThe committee has responsibility for executive directors who were appointed on making recommendations to the board The new board members completed a 1 April 2013 were identified by means of regarding the following areas of interest: full induction programme, which involved an external candidate search and selection looking after the environment, ethically spending time with the main functions process conducted by MWM.
MWM have sourcing our products and working with and departments of the business.
The no other connection with the company.
our employees and the wider community.
new non-executive directors each took The committee has baselined the groups up positions as chairs of committees, and As the new members of the board were current level of compliance and is working commenced by reviewing and updating the busy settling into their respective roles, on an overall CSR strategic plan and will charters and practices of the committees.
no need for a meeting of the nomination report next year against agreed targets Overall the new board and its committees committee was considered necessary and measurable KPIs.
We will seek to are now well established and well this year.
embed these throughout the business.
positioned to support and challenge the executive team.
Simon Patterson Further details on the groups compliance Chairman of the Nomination Committee in the field of CSR are set out below.
The objectives of the nomination committee is to ensure the board At the inaugural meeting, membership comprises individuals possessing the and terms of reference were agreed and requisite skills, knowledge and experience a benchmarking report together with an to ensure effective oversight and update on the groups involvement on the governance.
Accord for Fire and Building Safety N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 29 Corporate Governance Statement in Bangladesh were received.
I would, ethical conduct at all levels within the staff and investors.
Responsibility for in particular, like to place on record my organisation: group-wide sustainability has been thanks for all the work that our Ethical avoid any situation or action, which assigned to Ian Carr, director of logistics, Trading Manager has done on our behalf could cause a conflict of interest or who sits on the operational board of on that Accord.
damage to the groups reputation: and J D Williams & Company Limited and who foster an inclusive team-working reports to the Chief Executive Officer and, This will be my last year with N Brown.
environment in which praise and through her, to the board of directors.
I intend to step down at the forthcoming recognition play key roles.
annual general meeting after five years Since 2007, the group has been actively service on the board and its committees.
Directors of all group companies are working alongside its environmental I am proud to be leaving the company required to disclose details of related party partners, Envantage Limited and having achieved many improvements in transactions for review and authorisation Viridor Limited, to boost environmental CSR and particularly the fine work on the by the audit committee and by the board.
There is much more to do and I wide environmental awareness and am sure my successor as chairman, Fiona A gifts and hospitality register is accountability.
Ongoing investment Laird, will continue to make great progress maintained which requires all employees into energy, carbon, waste and water in embedding the core values of CSR in to record any gift or hospitality offered minimisation initiatives has led to a everything we do.
by suppliers and other parties.
Monthly considerable reduction in our carbon returns are required from all directors and emissions and water footprint profiles.
Anna Ford employees declaring any such offers with a Chairman of the CSR Committee value of 25 or more, and stating whether Emissions profile any offers were accepted or declined.
Our Green House Gas GHG emissions Ethical standards inventory is calculated for the global group The board regards the maintenance of the As reported in the audit committee report, under the operational control approach, highest ethical standards in business as an a whistleblowing policy and confidential in accordance with the GHG Protocol essential characteristic of the way in which hotline exists, which provides employees and GHG emissions factors published the group conducts all of its business.
with a secure and private means of by DECC 2013 V1.1.
The inventory is A code of ethical conduct covering reporting any ethical concerns that they independently calculated by our partner commercial standards, bribery and may have regarding the way the group or carbon consultants Envantage Ltd. corruption, conflicts of interest, gifts and any employee is behaving in day-to-day hospitality has been adopted by the group.
One whistleblowing event was Under GHG reporting guidelines, All senior managers and employees of the reported in the year by an employee who scope 1 and 2 emissions are the key group are required to comply with both the was concerned about a minor pricing mandatory areas to report, illustrating the letter and the spirit of the code in all their error on one of the groups websites.
This environmental impact of the group for dealings for and on behalf of the group.
was thoroughly investigated and reported activities where we have direct controli.
e. to the chairman who concluded that the operation of our sites and vehicles.
As a In dealings with each other, shareholders, complaint had no foundation.
responsible retailer we have also taken customers, suppliers, competitors, steps to quantify as many extra optional regulatory authorities and the wider Environment scope 3 emission sources related to our community, all employees are required to: operation to boost our environmental Overview impact assessment and emissions ensure that customers are treated fairly: Our sustainability strategy and reduction plan.
conduct dealings with honesty, integrity, environmental performance has become respect and fairness: an integral element of our core business The table below illustrates our GHG comply with all relevant laws, regulations strategy.
As a responsible multi-channel emissions across all our reporting areas, and internal company policy: retailer, we have formally committed to for the global Group from 1 March 2013 encourage and support a business reduction targets and continually strive to to 28 February 2014. culture which promotes sound exceed expectations of our customers, Scope Source 2013-2014, tonnes CO2e % Natural Gas 2,287.4 12.4% Gas oil 101.3 0.6% Scope 1 Diesel 477.3 2.6% HFC 259.8 1.4% Company and pool car travel 150.3 0.8% Scope 2 Electricity 8,861.4 48.2% 30 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Statement Water 38.2 0.2% Employee commuting 2,574.0 14.0% Scope 3 Business travel Air, road and rail 1,100.0 6.0% Well to tank All 1,973.6 10.7% Waste 565.4 3.1% Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 18,388.7 100.0% Emissions reductions period we have reduced our overall The table below focuses on key scope 1 absolute scope 1 and 2 emissions by 1%, and 2 emissions from the Group by source despite experiencing growth and increased for both the current reporting period and output during this period.
Since our last reporting Category Scope 1 and 2 Source 2013-2014 2012-2013 % change tonnes CO2e tonnes CO2e Natural gas 2,287.4 2,564.5 11% reduction Stationary combustion Gas oil 101.3 68.6 48% increase Combustion of fuels Diesel lorries vans 477.3 460.4 4% increase Mobile combustion Company cars 150.3 106.5 41% increase Fugitive emissions HFC cooling 259.8 266.5 3% reduction Operation of facility Process emissions None applicable Purchase of electricity, heat or steam Electricity 8,861.4 9,147.8 3% reduction Total GHG emissions tonnes CO2e 12,137.5 12,614.3 4% reduction As a growing organisation, evaluation of inventory periods.
The table below Since the previous reporting period we emissions performance using intensity illustrates emissions performance against have significantly reduced our emissions ratios allows us to perform more group turnover million and items sold by 6.3% and 5.5%, when compared with meaningful comparisons between million items.
turnover and items shipped respectively.
Intensity ratios Current year Comparison year % Change 2013-2014 2012-2013 GHG emissions tonnes CO2e 14.5 16.0 9.4% reduction group turnover million GHG emissions tonnes CO2e 392.9 428.7 8.4% reduction million items shipped Mandatory GHG reporting notes Data records invoices.
Generator fuel usage has been The GHG data disclosed in this report Natural Gas and electricity: Data is estimated using generator fuel demand complies with the Companies Act 2006 primarily calculated based on actual per hour and activation information.
Strategic Report and Directors Report metered consumption from invoices or Diesel: Data is calculated based on Regulations 2013.
Where actual metered actual fuel consumption from invoices.
disclosed under the required reporting data is not available because energy Company car: Data is primarily categories fall within the groups is billed as part of a landlord service calculated for the group using data consolidated financial statement.
charge, energy consumption has logged in our global expense system Scope 1 and 2 emissions have been been estimated using floor areas and which records distance travelled, and calculated on a global scale where the published benchmarks.
vehicle information for each business group has operational control using the Gas oil: Fuel is used in stand by travel expense claimed.
The quantified emissions generators and onsite transport forklifts cars not logged on this system have are for the reporting year 1 March 2013 etc.. Data for onsite transport is been estimated based on milometer to 28 February 2014. calculated using actual fuel usage from readings.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 31 Corporate Governance Statement HFC: Refrigeration emissions have been The company has developed close offering additional training, adapting the calculated from the F-Gas register for relationships with local universities to retain job if appropriate or by offering a transfer applicable plant.
Emissions for plant talent within the northwest.
We now offer to another position.
It is the policy of the not affected by this regulation smaller graduate schemes in Buying, Quality & IT.
group that the training, career development systems have been calculated using In addition we offer placements within the and promotion of disabled persons should, data provided by full service records Buying and Merchandising function with as far as possible, be identical to that of or leaking estimator tables have been many graduates returning post degree.
Where service records were not available for a very small number of An employee profit share scheme has Health and safety The health, safety shops refrigeration losses have been been introduced to enable employees to and welfare at work of its employees, estimated.
participate in the companys success.
contractors, visitors and customers is The scheme provides an enhanced bonus paramount as is ensuring compliance with Employees for junior grades, providing greater benefit all relevant legislation.
The group is also The Chief Executive has board level differentials for employees promoted to committed to best practice initiatives.
As the number of our retail outlets Employee involvement Our success Over 500 group employees either hold increases, we ensure that we maintain our is due, in the main, to an engaged, shares in the company or have options high health and safety standards by having enthusiastic, motivated and well-trained awards to acquire them through the robust procedures, training, supervision workforce.
Considerable resources are groups various share option and long-term and guidance.
Our audit programme for devoted to employee training, with a incentive schemes.
the group ensures that all sites are meeting large dedicated training team based in the same exacting standards that we the contact centre with around 40 people Consultation Constructive relationships demand throughout.
providing customer service and systems exist with the trade unions that represent training to ensure our customers receive the groups employees principally Cumulative group accident statistics show the highest possible levels of service.
Elements of the group that for the year in review, reportable are covered by a collective bargaining accidents under Reporting of Injuries, A management development team based arrangement with USDAW.
Union Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences at head office provides learning and membership is encouraged and regular Regulations 2013 RIDDOR have fallen development support for head office teams communication with the union is facilitated as a percentage of our employees from and all subsidiary and support divisions.
through partnership forums established 0.03% in the previous year to 0.02%.
The entire management team undergoes on the principle of shared commitment to In the year in review, the group ratio of a bespoke 360 degree appraisal process business success, employment security accidents per employee remained static every two years with the intention of and development with a particular at 0.6%.
This reflects the work completed ensuring that everyone understands the emphasis on quality of life, openness to ensure that our new retail sites maintain impact they have on the teams around and adding value.
the high safety standards expected within them.
In 2013 we launched simplybefrank, the group.
an employee survey used to validate Equal opportunities The group supports engagement levels across the groups the principle of equal opportunities in The groups Health & Safety and Human divisions and subsidiaries.
The Customer employment and is opposed to all forms Resources departments are complimented Service team also run a separate of discrimination, including those on by an Occupational Health department, engagement survey which provides the grounds of colour, race, nationality, whose focus is to look after the wellresults on a team level within the division.
ethnic or national origin, religion, gender, being of the groups employees.
The A Consultative Forum operates within the age, sexual orientation, marital status or Department provides advice, guidance logistics division where employees from disability.
and support on peoples fitness to work, all levels contribute and share ideas that on-site physiotherapy, chiropody and a help shape the culture of the business.
Our selection processes for recruitment, counselling service.
This year the Logistics division achieved promotion, training and development are Investors in People accreditation at non-discriminatory.
We believe it is in We endeavour to ensure that all products Gold standard, joining the Customer the best interests of employees and the and services sold by the group or used in Service division which achieved this group to provide these opportunities to the the workplace are safe and without risk standard in 2013. most suitable candidates, and to achieve to employees and customers when used a balanced working population spread properly.
A large proportion of the groups training across a diverse range of ethnic origins, and development work is delivered by gender and age groups.
Customers the HR learning and development team, A key factor of the groups success is which is supplemented by external Applications for employment by the strength of relationships with our training in specialist technical and IT disabled persons are thoroughly and customers and their levels of satisfaction training areas where necessary as well sympathetically considered, with with our group products and services.
There is the aptitude of the applicant being also a suite of self-training and e-learning regarded foremost.
In the event of any We aim to attract and retain customers tools available via an online database, employee becoming disabled during through a highly competitive product and simply development, which enables their employment, every effort is made service offering, regularly monitoring retail employees to access a wide range of to ensure that their employment with and home-shopping sector developments self-development activities, tools and the group continues and the group will to stay in touch with our marketplace.
endeavour to assist the employee by Insights into our customers needs and 32 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Statement expectations are regularly updated through Suppliers Exporters Association to enable set up on customer satisfaction surveys conducted We continue to monitor our suppliers the ground in Dhaka.
We are also working both directly and through third parties.
under our Code of Conduct.
"This is based with the World Bank and the ILO to ensure on the ETI Ethical Trade Initiative Base that appropriate funding is available to Our overall strategy is to adopt a ""multiCode, www."
"This is a enable the required remediation work to be channel"" approach to managing customer global Code of Conduct that is used as carried out."
We continue to invest time in contacts, with the key aim of a joineda standard by retailers across the world.
this as we see it as a concrete example of up and consistent customer experience We currently deal with 1,564 suppliers working together to improve worker safety across channels.
Our multi-channel service operating from around 3,400 factories.
in the garment industry in Bangladesh.
platforms cover web, telephone, mobile Our main sourcing countries are China, All factories, inspections and corrective tablet and post, and will extend to our new India, United Kingdom, Pakistan and actions are openly listed on the Accord store operations.
The scheme has a budget of 10 million USD per year for the 5 years of We continually develop our web-sites for We continue to regularly audit and risk the programme.
We have represented the richer product content, ease of use, and assess our suppliers by using a mix of Accord at a number of high profile events improved performance.
Optimisation for external and our own internal audits.
and have been featured in a number of mobile tablet devices is a priority due We have recently joined SEDEX Supplier press articles throughout the year.
to the rapid growth of demand in this Ethical Data Exchange in an effort to channel.
"Web self-service capabilities reduce duplication of audits and to We have also been working on a number are delivered through a ""my account"" encourage sharing of audit information of similar projects."
For example, we are facility for customer order and account and best practice amongst retailers and working through the ETI on addressing management information.
Currently 135 of our suppliers labour rights concerns for women in the contact centre capabilities are being are members of SEDEX and we are textile and garment industry in southern deployed to support our web-trading encouraging as many as possible to sign India.
customers, including multimedia, web up to the scheme.
We use the results of chat, click-to-call and social media.
the audits to try and influence change.
We have also been working with other retailers and Oxfam in the Vietnam The group operates both in-house and During the year we strengthened our Wooden Furniture supply chain.
outsourced contact centres, predominantly ethical trading team to 3 full-time located in the UK.
We were also part of a project which has businesses are supported through local revised the detail in the working hours contact centres in the USA, Germany As with many other retailers, a major focus clause of the ETI Base Code.
Enquiries and complaints have of our work has been on Bangladesh designed to give greater clarity, specifically been pro-actively reduced over recent following the tragic building collapse in looking at the number of hours worked and years as a proportion of customer order April 2013 of the Rana Plaza complex.
that any overtime worked should be at a transactions, reflecting the introduction The group had no direct working premium rate of at least 125% of the basic of more customer-oriented policies, relationships with any of the factories salary.
We have worked with this group to processes and product service standards.
in Rana Plaza but was however the develop an interactive learning tool to help Telephone, email and letter contacts first company of its size to sign up companies understand the implications of received from customers are analysed to the Accord on Fire and Building this change for their suppliers.
and remedial actions taken to improve our Safety in Bangladesh, http: www.
org in May 2013 as We are members of a cross retail group one of the founding 39 worldwide brands.
looking at the issue of a living wage and Our speed of answering calls and The Accord is a legally binding 5 year how to put this into practice within all responding to emails has been improved commitment to make all garment factories supply chains.
Automated in Bangladesh safe workplaces, and has speech services handle a significant now been signed by over 160 worldwide We have signed up to the United Nations proportion of customer telephone brands.
Our ethical trading manager was Global Compact.
This scheme has over payments and parcel collection requests.
seconded to work with the Accord staff 10,000 corporate participants and other We continue to invest in improved speed full time for the first 6 months, which stakeholders from over 145 countries of product deliveries to our customers and included spending 45 days in the Geneva worldwide.
We publically commit to to offer more delivery service options such office of the global trade union, Uniglobal.
implementing the 10 principles in the areas as next-day or nominated day of delivery.
We were also elected as one of the brand of human rights, labour rights, forced and E-mails inform customers about their order representatives on the board of the child labour, the environment and antiand account status.
corruption within our supply chain and reporting on progress on an annual basis.
Service developments are planned Full structural, fire and electrical to further enhance our multi-channel inspections have begun with all 1,600 We have also signed up to a government customer experience with new capabilities factories covered by the Accord to be funded scheme, SCAP Sustainable to offer personalisation and choice.
inspected by end of August 2014.
We have Clothing Action Plan, to play our part in Individual customer needs and preferences participated in 2 separate delegations reducing the carbon, waste and water will drive their relationship with us across to Bangladesh and worked with the footprints of the clothing we sell by 15% brands, products, services, channels, ILO International Labour Organisation, by the year 2020.
This scheme, involving offers, trading terms, and communications.
Bangladesh government and the BGMEA 56 other retailers, represents more than Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and 40% of all UK retail sales.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 33 Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report We continue to be members of the these and other worthwhile causes.
consider, the views of major shareholders.
All Party Parliamentary Corporate The group matches the money raised Other non-executive directors are available Responsibility Group and have retrained by employees to double the size of the to meet major shareholders as appropriate.
all our buying and merchandising staff in donation.
The logistics division provide all aspects of ethical trading and corporate Christmas presents and Easter Eggs for The company aims to ensure that all responsibility.
childrens wards at local hospitals, sponsor shareholders have full and timely access the local bonfire and firework display and to the information it discloses in the Paying our suppliers Christmas lights, make donations to local annual report, the yearly and half yearly The groups policy for the payment schools and work closely with charities announcements and interim management of suppliers is to ensure that terms of close to home to help raise much needed statements and that shareholders payment are negotiated with suppliers funds for good causes.
have the opportunity to meet with the when agreeing the terms of each executive management team and certain transaction and to ensure that all suppliers The groups family, health and wellmembers of the operating division are made aware of and accept agreed being programme, now in its ninth year, at the announcement of the groups payment terms.
The group continually continues to provide support and real results and also at the annual general reviews payment procedures and liaises assistance for all of our employees.
Non-executive and executive with suppliers to eliminate difficulties and directors also attend meetings with major to maintain good working relationships.
Relations with investors shareholders on request.
As well as Agreed payment terms are then abided by The company places considerable being provided with a copy of the annual and payment is made in accordance with importance on good communication with report and results announcements, the those terms.
Trade creditors of the group all shareholders, be they institutional or group recently overhauled its website to at 1 March 2014 represented 36 days individual investors.
Institutional investors, provide shareholders with up to date and 2013, 38 days of purchases.
fund managers and analysts are kept comprehensive material about the group informed of the companys overall strategy and its activities and also real-time market Community relations through regular meetings and investor information and prices.
Shareholders The group takes great pride in its links with road-shows and site visits.
All nonalso have the opportunity to ask questions, local communities and actively supports executive directors are kept informed make observations and represent their the communities in which it operates.
of shareholders views through detailed views to the board of directors by It maintains close links with the Christie feedback on surveys and polls and analyst constructive use of the annual general Hospital in Manchester and the Retail Trust and broker reports are tabled at each meeting.
and also regularly encourages employees board meeting.
The senior non-executive to participate in fundraising activities for director is available to meet with, and 34 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
