36 Corporate Governance Statement Continued Leadership The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are The Board separate.
The division of responsibility between the Chairman The Group is ultimately controlled by the Board of Directors of of the Board, Anthony Bloom, and the Chief Executive Officer, the Company.
The Board is responsible for the overall Mooky Greidinger, is clearly defined in writing.
leadership of the Group and for determining its long-term objectives and commercial strategy to create and deliver The Chairman, together with the Chief Executive Officer, leads strong and sustainable financial performance to enhance the Board in determination of its strategy having regard to the shareholder value.
In fulfilling its role, the Board ensures that Groups responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, necessary financial and other resources are available to enable employees and other stakeholders.
He is responsible for the Groups objectives to be met.
The basis on which the Board organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness seeks to preserve value over the longer term and the strategy and setting its agenda.
The Chairman also facilitates the for delivering the objectives is set out in the Strategic Report effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and oversees on pages 1 to 31. the performance evaluation of the Board and he regularly discusses matters with the Non-Executive Directors without The Board meets regularly at least six times a year and also the Executive Directors being present.
The meetings follow a formal agenda, which includes matters specifically reserved for decision by the The Chairman performs a limited number of external roles, but Board.
The Board also meets, as and when necessary, to the Board is satisfied that these are not such as to interfere discuss and approve, if appropriate, specific issues.
All with the performance of the Chairmans duties to the Group.
Directors receive notice of such meetings and are given the opportunity to comment on the issues being discussed if they The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the Group on a are unable to attend the meeting.
day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial and operational performance of the Group.
He holds A schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the regular meetings with his executive team consisting of senior Board has been agreed and adopted.
These matters include: executives who assist him in this task.
setting Group strategy: approving an annual budget and medium-term forecasts: reviewing operational and financial performance: approving major acquisitions, divestments Board Committees and capital expenditure: succession planning: approving In accordance with best practice, the Board has appointed appointments to the Board and of the Company Secretary, three Committees, an Audit Committee, a Nomination and approving policies relating to Directors remuneration Committee and a Remuneration Committee, to which certain and contracts.
Board functions have been delegated.
Each of these Committees has formal written terms of reference which The Board is supplied on a monthly basis with detailed clearly define their responsibilities.
The terms of reference of management accounts and an overview of Group financial and each of the Boards three Committees are available on the operational information.
Changes to Membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees As the start of the period, membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees was: Chairman Member Member Member Audit Committee David Maloney Martina King Rick Senat Peter Williams Nomination Committee Rick Senat Martina King David Maloney Peter Williams Remuneration Committee Peter Williams Martina King David Maloney Rick Senat On completion of the Combination on 28 February 2014, the membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees was changed and became as set out below.
It remained the same through to the end of the period: Chairman Member Member Audit Committee David Maloney Martina King Peter Williams Nomination Committee Rick Senat Scott Rosenblum Arni Samuelsson Remuneration Committee Peter Williams Martina King David Maloney All the Committees remained compliant with the Governance Code as regards their membership following these changes.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
