40 Corporate Governance Statement Continued Financial performance being monitored and action taken Internal Controls through regular reporting to the Executive Directors and The Board is responsible for maintaining an effective system of monthly reporting to the Board against annual budgets internal control that provides reasonable assurance that the approved by the Board.
Groups assets are safeguarded and that material financial A set of minimum financial control standards being errors and irregularities are prevented or detected with a introduced by the year end across all Group Finance minimum of delay.
The senior management team meeting to review current and The Group has in place internal control and risk management future risks in their particular areas of responsibility and arrangements in relation to the Groups financial reporting expertise and to confirm the current measures in place to processes and the preparation of its consolidated accounts.
The arrangements include procedures to ensure the An established organisational structure with clear lines of maintenance of records which accurately and fairly reflect responsibility and reporting requirements.
Capital transactions to enable the preparation of financial statements investment and all revenue expenditure being regulated by in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards a budgetary process and authorisation levels manual and or UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, as systems, with appraisals and post-investment and period appropriate, with reasonable assurance and that require end reviews.
reported data to be reviewed and reconciled, with appropriate An established in-house internal audit function which had monitoring internally and by the Audit Committee.
access to all areas of the cinema operations in the UK & Ireland and is currently being expanded to the rest of the More generally the Directors are committed to implementing Group preparing reports which were available to the Board measures to ensure that there is an ongoing review of the and reported regularly to senior management and the Audit effectiveness of the internal control system with procedures to Committee.
capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in the case Reports on health and safety throughout the Group being of those categorised by the Board as significant, that submitted to senior managers, Executive Directors, the Audit procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to Committee and the Board on a regular basis.
The External Auditor providing a supplementary, independent and autonomous perspective on those areas of The Board is satisfied that for the financial period in question the internal control system, which they assess in the course such measures were in place throughout the Group and it did of their work.
Their findings being reported to both the Audit comply with the requirements of the Governance Code in this Committee and the Board.
Following the Combination, PwC were asked to assist The Audit Committee reviewing the risk register, receiving in a review of the internal controls of the acquired entities.
reports on risk management and internal controls and Further details of which are set out in the Audit Committee monitoring the overall position and reviewing actions taken Report below.
to address areas of weakness.
Business Continuity Plans for Head Office being in place with The system of internal control manages rather than eliminates components of the plan being reviewed and tested on a the risks to business objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, regular basis.
internal controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute A whistleblowing policy being in place to protect members assurance against material loss or misstatement of the of staff who raised concerns about impropriety, financial financial statements.
Following the decision by the Audit Committee in 2013 to have an internal audit function that is supported by external Audit Committee Report specialist resources, a tender process was undertaken in the Chairmans Introduction year which resulted in the appointment of PwC as the Internal Dear Fellow Shareholders Auditor with a Group wide remit in September 2014.
I am pleased to introduce the report on the activities of the Audit Committee the Committee during the 2014 financial The objective of the appointment is to assist management in year, and to be able to confirm, on behalf of the Board, the development of the existing approach to internal audit with that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced a view to gain enhanced assurance on the effectiveness of the and understandable.
system of internal control across the Group.
Full operation of this new approach will be in place during 2015.
In this report I have detailed how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities in relation to the three areas Under the Audit Committees terms of reference, it is tasked highlighted in the Governance Code, being: with reviewing the Companys financial reporting and internal control procedures and to make recommendations to the addressing significant financial statement reporting issues: Board in this area.
Key elements of the Groups risk assessing external audit effectiveness: and management and internal control framework during 2014 were: appointing the External Auditor and safeguards on non-audit services.
The day-to-day involvement of executive members of the Board in all aspects of the business and their attendance at regular meetings with senior management, at which operational and financial performance and operational matters were reviewed.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 41 Following the Combination which completed in February 2014, The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief the Committee has taken an active role in understanding Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, other senior executives, the wider Group and the risks and challenges it now faces.
the Internal Auditor and the External Auditor may be invited I reported in the 2013 Annual Report that an exercise had been to attend meetings, but are not members.
undertaken to review how best to use internal and external resources to ensure that our internal audit standards are What the Committee Did in 2014 suitable for a Group of our size and complexity.
During the We met five times during the year, during which time we: second half of 2014, we appointed PwC to lead our internal audit function.
PwCs initial focus was to review our existing monitored the financial reporting process and reviewed policies, processes, controls and effectiveness of the internal the interim and annual financial statements including the audit function.
The output of this preliminary work was: preliminary announcement with particular reference to accounting policies, principal risks and uncertainties, a detailed internal audit plan for 2015: together with significant estimates and financial reporting an enhanced risk management framework including an judgements and the disclosures made therein: updated risk register: considered the interim results and the Annual Report and a suitable risk-based assurance plan for our financial control Accounts in the context of the requirement that they are environment: and fair, balanced and understandable, by reviewing periodic a Group wide cinema compliance programme.
papers prepared by management with regard to this principle.
This included reviewing the documents to ensure As part of PwCs initial assessment, a number of areas were that the description of the business agrees with our own identified where controls were not applied consistently across understanding, the risks reflect the issues that concern us, the Groups Finance functions.
By spending time in a number the discussion of performance properly reflects the of territories, a control self-assessment process has been relevant period and that there is a clear link between developed which sets out the minimum controls to be all the areas of disclosures: applied consistently in all territories.
The finance teams have received and discussed in the absence of management, assured that these controls were operating as at the 2014 where appropriate reports from the External Auditor in reporting date.
respect of their review of the interim results, the audit plan for the year and the results of the annual audit.
These We have made good progress in aligning processes and controls reports included the scope for the interim review and across the Group and I believe that the implementation of the annual audit, the approach to be adopted by the Auditor new internal audit structure will continue to deliver an to evaluate and conclude on key areas of the audit, their efficient and effective way of identifying best practices and assessment of materiality, the terms of engagement and driving continual improvement across the Group.
raising awareness to the Committee of the likely impact of future changes to regulation and accounting standards: David Maloney as part of the initial process carried out by PwC, following Chairman of the Audit Committee their appointment as the Internal Auditor, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls Composition together with its broader internal control and risk At the start of the year, the Committee comprised four management framework identifying the need for independent Non-Executive Directors namely David consistent and appropriate financial controls across Maloney, Martina King, Rick Senat and Peter Williams.
Rick the enlarged Group: Senat left the Committee in February 2014.
Both David established the outputs of PwCs work to include a Maloney and Peter Williams are considered by the Board to detailed internal audit plan for 2015, implementation have recent and relevant financial experience.
of a new risk management framework, introduction of a suitable risk-based assurance plan for our financial Roles and Responsibilities control environment and a Group wide cinema The Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibility compliance programme: with regard to financial reporting, the control environment reviewed the results of non-financial audits including and the work of the External and Internal Auditors, including: food hygiene and fire safety and where applicable agreed enhancements to procedures and reviewed monitoring the financial reporting process: remedial actions: reviewing the Groups Annual and Interim Reports: made recommendations to the Board with regard to reviewing the Groups risk assessment process, the continuing the appointment and remuneration of the output of that assessment and the associated risk External Auditor, oversight of the Groups relations with management systems: the External Auditor and their independence and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls: monitored the effectiveness of the audit process: and considering the scope of both the Internal and External reviewed the Committees terms of reference and Auditors activities, their reports and their effectiveness: recommended changes to the Board.
reviewing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit work undertaken by the External Auditor: and Significant Issues Considered in Relation to the advising on the appointment of the External Auditor.
Financial Statements During the year the Committee, management and the The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the External Auditor considered and concluded on what the Annual and Interim Reports remains with the Board.
significant risks and issues were in relation to the financial statements and how these would be addressed.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 42 Corporate Governance Statement Continued i The Acquisition of Cinema City Holdings B. V. CCH the adequacy of the provision historically and concluded that On 28 February 2014, Cineworld Group plc the Group there have been no material unprovided costs or unrequired completed the combination with the Cinema business provision identified.
Cinema City of Global City Holdings N. V. GCH, formerly known as Cinema City International N. V. CCI, by iii Virtual Print Fee VPF Recognition means of an acquisition of 100% of the shares, including all As detailed in Note 1 to the financial statements, a VPF is voting rights, in CCH, a subsidiary of GCH.
An exercise to recognised on the date of the showing of the film to which it identify and establish the fair value of the total net identifiable relates.
Its recognition in the Statements of Profit or Loss and assets of the acquired business was undertaken with the Other Comprehensive Income does therefore not necessarily preliminary results presented in the 2014 Interim Report.
align with when the cash is received.
There is therefore an element of judgement applied to the accounting process.
Given the complex nature of the valuation exercise, and the The approach for recognising VPFs has remained consistent judgemental nature of assumptions which were sensitive to with the prior period for the UK & Ireland.
Cinema City also change, the fair values were presented on a provisional basis has VPF contracts, however these are direct with distributors in the Interim Report.
This was particularly the case in respect as opposed to via an agent.
A review has been undertaken of identifiable intangible assets, property, plant and to ensure that accounting policies have been applied equipment PPE and the acquired leases.
appropriately to the different contracts across the Group.
The Committee satisfied themselves that the existing approach This exercise was refined and finalised during the second half was appropriate and resulted in accurate recognition by of the year including detailed country by country balance enquiring of management and the External Auditor.
sheet reviews by executive management.
The process resulted in a final goodwill recognised of 337.6m.
This is As there can be a timing difference between recognition in further discussed in Note 11 to the financial statements.
the Statement of Comprehensive Income and cash receipt of the VPF income, the Committee enquired of management as Based on the Committees enquiries of management and the to whether or not the recovery of cash was a risk.
review of work performed by external valuation experts, the Management presented regular updates to the Committee Committee satisfied themselves that: which showed the recovery of the VPF income by comparing the revenues recognised during the year to the cash received.
the fair value of the acquired total net identifiable assets Management reported that there were no significant amounts with particular reference to intangible assets, PPE and which had not been recovered in line with the standard acquired leases was consistent with the advice received payment terms agreed with the VPF agent or distributor, from external experts: accordingly the Committee was satisfied that the risks around the fair value exercise was thorough and included all non-recovery of cash were minimal.
categories of assets and liabilities including all iv Valuation of Property, Plant and Equipment PPE lease contracts : As detailed in Note 10 to the financial statements, there is a management have performed detailed country-by-country significant inherent risk that the Groups considerable PPE balance sheet reviews and are satisfied that classification of balances may prove to be irrecoverable, due to fluctuations in balances is correct and that recognition is appropriate: and the underlying performance of cinemas or one-off events.
the subjectivity of the valuation process, including the Given the difficulties involved in predicting the performance extent of fair value adjustments, was appropriately of sites operated by the Group, now in multiple territories with disclosed in the annual financial statements.
differing factors to consider, there is an element of judgement ii Onerous Lease Provisions applied to the potential level of impairments to be recognised As detailed in Note 1 to the financial statements, the approach on a cinema-by-cinema basis.
At each balance sheet date, to estimating the onerous lease provision has remained management prepare their valuation model which assesses consistent with the prior period.
The existing approach was net present value of the cinema-by-cinema cash flows, based also applied to Cinema City leases which were assessed as on the Board approved budget over an assumed 20 year life.
It is noted that changes in The main assumptions over growth rates, the impact of performance of individual sites and the sensitivity of inputs one-off events, expected cost increases and discount rates mean that the provision is inherently subjective.
Management are updated to reflect managements best estimate.
evaluate the appropriateness of the provision on at least an annual basis.
The exercise involves reviewing forecast future At the period end management prepared their valuation earnings on a site-by-site basis and ensuring that the model for the Committees consideration, together with their provision in place remains at an appropriate level.
As well as proposed site impairments.
Management confirmed to the considering site performance, management also consider the Committee that they have applied a consistent Group wide appropriateness of the discount rates applied, the country methodology in the preparation of the valuation model specific discount rate, and ensure that they are updated for and the Committee satisfied itself that the approach was current market information and the Groups current leverage.
appropriate, the assumptions reasonable and that the impairments proposed were complete and accurate.
Management confirmed to the Audit Committee that the The Committee also satisfied itself through enquiry of methodology had been applied consistently during the management and review of the Board papers that all current year and none of the Committees other enquiries, significant events which may have impacted on the valuation nor the Auditors work, identified any errors or inconsistencies of PPE had been appropriately captured in managements that were material in the context of the financial statements assumptions and reflected in the valuation model.
Management confirmed that they have monitored Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 43 Auditor Independence, Appointment, and Tendering Further, at the conclusion of each years audit, the Committee The Committee reviews the appointment of the External discusses the performance of the External Auditor with the Auditor each year before the cycle of audits commence and Executive Directors and relevant senior finance managers in deciding whether to renew the appointment takes note, considering areas such as the quality of audit team, business amongst other matters, of the quality of the service received, understanding, audit approach and management.
Where the proposed fees and the Auditors independence.
appropriate, actions are agreed against the points raised and Management and all members of the Committee are subsequently monitored for progress.
There were no consulted during the process.
Further details of these significant findings from the evaluation this year.
processes are set out below.
The Committee also reviewed the fees of the External Auditor The Committee considers the independence of the External which were benchmarked against groups of comparable size Auditor on an ongoing basis and has established policies to and complexity to check that they are below or consistent consider the appropriateness or otherwise of appointing the with market levels.
External Auditor to perform non-audit services.
In particular, under its terms of reference, all non-audit fee work needs to After taking into account all of the above factors, the be approved by the Committee if the value of such work is Committee concluded that the External Auditor was likely to be greater than 30,000.
KPMG have provided certain effective.
In addition, the Committee is satisfied that it has non-audit services to the Group, principally in respect of advice sufficient oversight of the External Auditor and its on tax compliance and advisory services, pensions and internal independence and objectivity is not comprised due to the audit matters with fees in respect of this work totalling 263k, safeguards in place.
Further details are set out in Note 4 to the financial statements.
The Committee is satisfied that As explained last year, the combination with the cinema such work was best undertaken by KPMG and their objectivity business of GCH was a transformational event that led to a has not been impaired by reason of this further work.
significant change to both the executive leadership, with two new Executive Directors, and the operations of the Group, During the year, the Committee also evaluated the which have expanded outside of the UK for the first time.
performance and objectivity of KPMG and reviewed their With 40% of operations being in Eastern Europe and Israel effectiveness as External Auditor.
The effectiveness of the and the execution risk that existed around the integration of 2014 audit was assessed by reference to the following: the financial reporting systems and establishing the associated processes and controls, this was and is a time of The lead audit engagement partner, including the support substantial change and enhanced risk for the Group.
As part provided to the Audit Committee.
of ensuring the integration of the two businesses was and is The skills and experience of the wider audit team and their well controlled, the Committee considered and continues to execution of the audit.
do so robust, independent challenge and insight from its The planning and scope of the audit including identification Auditor to be key to safeguarding the quality of our financial of areas of audit risk and communication of any changes to reporting and the audit opinion.
the plan, including changes in perceived audit risks.
Professional standards normally require the audit partner to The quality of communication with the Audit Committee, be rotated every five years.
The current audit engagement including the regular reports on accounting matters, partner was appointed for the 2009 audit and so a new audit governance and control.
partner would normally have been appointed for 2014.
The competence with which the External Auditor handled However, after careful consideration the Audit Committee the key accounting and audit judgements and communication believed and continues to do so that, given the specific of the same with management and the Committee.
circumstances faced by Cineworld as described in the Their reputation and standing, including their independence previous paragraph, it was necessary to extend the tenure and objectivity and their internal quality procedures.
of the audit engagement partner in order to safeguard the The quality of the formal report to shareholders.
quality of the external financial statement audit.
The Audit The Committee also considered the FRCs Audit Quality Committee therefore requested that the current audit Inspections Annual Report 2013 14 and Public Report on the engagement partner continue in the role for up to two years 2013 inspection of KPMG.
In addition, during 2014 certain and so far he has remained in place for one additional year.
aspects of KPMGs 2013 audit of Cineworld were subject to an The Committee has recently considered whether the external review by the Financial Reporting Council FRC, as extension for the second year remains necessary.
It has part of the FRCs annual review of a sample of audits carried concluded that this is the case and has therefore requested out by each of the main audit firms.
The FRC has provided a that the current audit engagement partner continue until copy of the report arising from this review to the Committee, completion of the 2015 audit.
KPMG has agreed to this request.
which it has discussed with KPMG.
The Committee noted that the report only had one matter formally to report, around The External Auditor is also required to periodically assess KPMGs audit of the Groups approach to its annual impairment whether, in their professional opinion, they are independent testing and onerous lease assessments.
The Committee takes and confirm this to the Committee.
KPMG has provided all such feedback seriously: in this case the matter had this confirmation.
already been raised with the Committee by KPMG.
The Committee has satisfied itself that there was no significant impact on the 2013 financial statements and that the necessary actions have been taken to ensure that it would not recur.
The Committee are confident that this response was proportionate and are satisfied with the way the matter was addressed.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
