Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 35 B.
5 Information and Support Compliance with the UK Corporate The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, Governance Code ensures that all Board members receive accurate and The principal governance rules applying to UK companies timely information.
listed on the London Stock Exchange for the period covered by this statement are contained in the 2012 UK Corporate B.
6 Board and Committee Performance Evaluation Governance Code the Governance Code published by the During 2014, the Board and its Committees undertook an UK Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 and a copy evaluation of their respective performances during 2014. is available on its website www.
Details of the evaluation can be found on page 38.
For the period ended 1 January 2015, the Board considers that B.
7 Re-election of Directors the Company was compliant with the provisions of the All Directors were subject to shareholder election or Governance Code.
The table below explains how the Company re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, as will all has complied with the main principles of the Governance Code.
the continuing Directors at the 2015 AGM.
The information required to be disclosed by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.1 and 7.2 is set out in this C. Accountability statement except that information required by DTR 7.2.
6 which C. 1 Financial and Business Reporting is set out in the Directors Report on pages 63 to 68 and is The Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 to 31 and provides incorporated in this statement by reference.
information about the performance of the Group, the business model, strategy and the risks and uncertainties relating to the A.
1 The Role of the Board The Board met formally six times during the year.
There is a C. 2 Risk Management and Internal Control clear schedule of matters reserved for the Board, together with The Board decides the Groups risk appetite and annually delegated authorities throughout the Group.
reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems.
The activities of the Audit Committee, A.
2 Division of Responsibilities which assists the Board with its responsibilities in relation to the The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly management of risk, are summarised on pages 40 to 44. defined.
Tony Bloom, the Chairman, is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board and for setting the C. 3 Role of the Audit Committee strategy.
Mooky Greidinger, the Chief Executive Officer is The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the responsible for leading the day-to-day management of Group Audit Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the and the implementation of the strategy.
Groups financial reporting processes, internal control and risk management framework and the work undertaken by the A.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee The Chairman sets the agendas for the meetings, manages the provides regular updates to the Board.
meeting timetable in conjunction with the Company Secretary and facilitates open and constructive dialogue D. Remuneration during the meetings.
D. 1 Levels and Components of Remuneration The Remuneration Committee sets levels of remuneration A.
4 The Role of the Non-Executive Directors appropriately so as to attract, retain and motivate the The Chairman promotes an open and constructive Executive Directors with a view to ensuring the long-term environment in Board meetings and actively invites the success of the Company, but also structures remuneration Non-Executive Directors views.
The Non-Executive Directors so as to link it to both corporate and individual performance, provide objective, rigorous and constructive challenge to thereby aligning the executive managements interests with management and meet regularly in the absence of the those of the shareholders.
D. 2 Development of Remuneration Policy and Setting B.
1 The Composition of the Board Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee and the The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly approach to setting the remuneration policy can be found in reviewing the composition of the Board.
In making the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 62. appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee considers the wide range of skills, knowledge and experience E. Relations with Shareholders required in order to maintain an effective Board.
E. 1 Shareholder Engagement and Dialogue The Board takes an active role in engaging with shareholders.
2 Appointments to the Board The Board particularly values opportunities to meet with The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the shareholders and the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept Nomination Committee.
Further details of the activities of the informed of shareholder views.
Nomination Committee can be found on pages 38 and 39.
E. 2 Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting B.
3 Time Commitments The AGM provides the Board with an important opportunity On appointment, Directors are notified of the time to meet with shareholders, who are invited to meet the Board commitment expected from them and details are set out in following the formal business of the meeting.
External directorships of Executive Directors, which may impact existing time commitments, are discussed and cleared by the Chairman.
4 Training and Development All Directors receive an induction on joining the Board and, as part of the annual effectiveness evaluation, the training and development needs of each Director are checked.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
