16 Resources and Relationships Our business model and strategy are underpinned by key resources and relationships.
Additionally, recognising the important when specialist skill sets are required.
Customers The result is that a good percentage of role that supervisors play, we offered Fundamental to our success is the regular contracted hours to this our managers have worked at lower levels customer.
By delivering our vision: to be within the organisation and our people management sector.
the best place to watch a movie, we are more motivated as they can see ensure that our customers have a positive possible career progression without Learning and development continues to experience and increase the likelihood be a core part of our employee offering leaving the business.
2015 will see an of repeat visits.
We aim to ensure that exciting year with many new cinema as we know that supporting people to we deliver a broad range of films, a achieve their potential enables them to openings across the countries in which high-quality venue and retail offerings we operate this will offer many new play a full part in the teams in which they to suit our customers tastes, all of which work.
In 2014, the Cineworld Academy opportunities for our people to contribute to achieving our vision.
progress and also for new people development programme offered high potential managers the chance to study to join the business.
We also have initiatives which aim to for diplomas at levels 5 and 7 accredited extend the relationship with the customer by the Institute of Leadership and Employees throughout the Group beyond a single visit.
In the UK we have participate in the success of Cineworld Management ILM.
On the back of the Unlimited subscription service which this, we have implemented a Talent in different ways.
Some through bonus is a fixed monthly or annual subscription schemes Cineworld is proud that for Development Review Framework which enabling customers to watch as many supports both our future expansion plans the 20th consecutive year bonuses 2D films as they wish.
We also have a were again paid to all qualifying people and our people by ensuring we have a number of membership schemes across strong pipeline of talent coming through working in its UK business.
Many of the the UK and other territories which offer bonus schemes are underpinned by a the business.
Cineworld developed and discounts and allow us to interact with launched the industrys first apprenticeship performance management framework, our customer base more frequently.
which reflects not only personal programme and 35 apprentices joined the Company in order to study on the performance but also Group performance, Our People and helps ensure that people are Cineworld Advanced Apprenticeship.
Cineworlds people are key to ensuring This provided an opportunity for young recognised and rewarded for their the ongoing success of the business.
All individual contribution to the business people to learn straight from school and our human resource initiatives are aimed offers an exciting career path into the and on the overall Group results.
at ensuring that Cineworld is a great place Depending on their location, staff can cinema industry.
Providing training at all to work and, in turn a great place to levels demonstrates to our people that also benefit from the success of the watch movies.
Our approach in the UK Company by participating in its SAYE they can develop their skills and see a is well developed after many years of career path to becoming a General Share Option Scheme.
successful operations and our experience Manager with recognised qualifications is being applied, as appropriate, across whatever their starting point.
Key Commercial Relationships those territories which joined the Group We work hard at developing good during the year.
Training programmes are also operated relationships with a range of film studios, across the rest of the Group outside the both major and independent.
Our focus Employee engagement remains central UK focusing on specific areas at lower on driving cinema admissions and on to the HR strategy as the Group levels, while more comprehensive training providing our customers with a wide recognises that engaged employees is provided at more senior levels of range of films has resulted in many go the extra mile for customers.
The plan is to expand these opportunities for us to work with film UK we conducted our third employee training courses gradually, building on the studios on simplifying the film buying engagement survey which showed UK experience, to provide a more effective process and on promoting smaller films that our results had improved by 10% learning and development programme to a wider audience.
We also work closely compared to 2013 results, which to help team members develop and in association industry bodies, including demonstrated that the work being done perform to the best of their ability.
The Federation Against Copyright Theft, by our teams is making a real difference to combat film piracy.
Based on Our practice in the Group is to promote this years survey, we have made a from within across all our territories.
considerable further investment in people When a position becomes available, we related initiatives in the UK, such as look to fill it from within the Group as our improving pay for our front of house people are generally the best qualified teams above the minimum wage and candidates, and we seek external people introducing quarterly bonus schemes.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 17 We build relationships with developers, Property Technology landlords and local planners to ensure We aim to promote customer admissions We believe that offering the latest that we maintain a pipeline of new sites by offering well-sited, accessible and technology will enhance the cinema-going for the future.
We also work closely with well-designed venues which make experience for our customers and we are suppliers of technological enhancements, cinema-going an exciting and pleasurable constantly developing our in-screen for instance IMAX and 4DX, which enables experience.
In the UK, our multiplex systems and trialling new technologies.
us to ensure that we are delivering the cinemas are often located in out-of-town Our whole estate has digital projection best possible experience to our or edge-of-town leisure and retail and we offer both 2D and 3D format customers, as well as looking to developments with parking facilities.
We have 23 IMAX screens, with maximise box office revenues.
In CEE & Israel our cinemas are more plans to expand this offering further.
often located in shopping malls, both We have also developed our own Strong relationships with our principal in city centres and suburban areas.
retail suppliers, such as Coca-Cola and We now have five 4DX screens, including Starbucks, enable us to work together Our arthouse cinemas typically have the first in the UK.
4DX is cinema system on promotions that help drive retail four screens or less.
These cinemas tend technology allowing the audience to sales.
We seek to manage relationships to be located in urban areas and each view feature-length films in 4D with the with our suppliers fairly, and to work in have their own individual styles tailored choreographed mix of air, water, scent, accordance with our aspirations as set to their locality and provide unique motion and vibration.
out in our ethical policy.
ambience in contrast to that of a multiplex cinema.
Brands The Group has four main brands: Cineworld Cinemas UK & Ireland, Picturehouse UK, Cinema City Poland, Hungary, Romania, Czech Republic, Slovakia and Bulgaria and Yes Planet Israel.
Cineworld Cinemas, Cinema City and Yes Planet are all multiplex brands.
Our multiplex cinemas have five or more screens and focus on screening mainstream and popular films which appeal to a wide range of audiences including families, young adults and children.
Each of the three multiplex brands is unique: however they are applied consistently in each territory to ensure that the local chains have a consistent and identifiable look and feel which distinguishes them from the competition.
Picturehouse is an arthouse cinema chain with the majority of cinemas having four screens or less.
Picturehouse also shows blockbuster films, but non-mainstream and specialised films are central to its programming.
Event cinema is also part of its core offering.
Each of the Picturehouse cinemas has its own individual style tailored to their locality and provides a unique ambience in contrast to that of our multiplex cinemas.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
