38 Corporate Governance Statement Continued The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Re-election Directors are set out in letters of appointment and are made Under the Companys Articles of Association, at each AGM available for inspection by any person at the Companys each year one third of the Directors must retire by rotation and registered office during normal business hours and will be being eligible may stand for re-election.
A Director excluding available at the AGM.
Further details of the letters of as Chairman of the Board must retire and will be counted in appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and the service the one third to retire if he was last appointed or reappointed contracts of the Executive Directors can be found in the three years or more prior to the AGM or has served more than Directors Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 62. eight years as a Non-Executive Director.
In addition any Director appointed during the year must stand for election For a FTSE 250 company, which the Company became in May as well.
2014, the Governance Code recommends that a majority of non-executive members of the Board of Directors should be All the Directors will be retiring and, except for David Maloney independent in character and judgement, and free from and Peter Williams, will be offering themselves for re-election relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or at this years AGM, reflecting current best practice for larger could appear to affect, their judgement.
The Board considers companies under the Governance Code.
In addition, as that Martina King, David Maloney, Arni Samuelsson, Rick Senat announced on 11 March 2015, Julie Southern will be standing for and Peter Williams were for the period independent Nonelection as a new member of the Board.
Biographical details of Executive Directors.
all the current Directors are set on pages 32 and 33.
In view of the performance evaluation, the Board is satisfied that each David Maloney has been appointed as the Senior Independent Director standing for re-election continues to show the Non-Executive Director and he is available to shareholders if necessary commitment and to be an effective member of the they have concerns which contact through the normal Board due to his or her skills, expertise and business acumen.
channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which contact is inappropriate.
Nomination Committee Report The independent Non-Executive Directors bring an objective Chairmans Introduction viewpoint and range of experience to the Company and ensure Dear Fellow Shareholders that no individual or group of individuals is able to dominate For the first time, I am pleased to present a short report on the Boards decision making.
They play a key role in reviewing the Nomination Committee and its activities during the year.
proposals and providing constructive challenge generally and in particular in respect of strategy.
They also ensure It has been a busy period for the Committee with the that appropriate standards are being maintained.
All the Combination completing at the start of the year which Non-Executive Directors have access to independent legal involved the appointment of four new Directors and then later advice subject to consulting with the Board and following in the year beginning the process to recruit further Directors the agreed procedure.
to replace two that will cease to be considered independent in the near future.
Further details of how we recruit and what The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and else the Committee does are set out below.
supporting the Chairman and the Board on Corporate Governance matters, ensuring Board procedures are followed One issue which continues to occupy our thoughts is that of and facilitating the good information flow within the Board and diversity.
While our Board is diverse in some ways such as the Board appointed Committees.
countries of origin and skill sets, in other areas such as gender diversity we have not made as much progress as I would have liked.
This is not for want of trying, but principally reflects Performance Evaluation Towards the end of the year, a performance evaluation was our continuing belief that the best person for a role should be appointed.
carried out in respect of the Board, the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees and each individual Director The members of the Committee apart from me have including the Chairman.
As an external facilitator had been used for the 2013 performance evaluation, the Board decided changed totally during the year and I am grateful to all my fellow members who have served with me on the Committee to carry out the exercise without external assistance in 2014.
The process adopted involved the completion of assessment for their efforts and support.
questionnaires by each of the Directors and Committee members.
The results were then collated by the Company Rick Senat Chairman of the Nomination Committee Secretary and a summary presented to the relevant Committee and the Board.
Composition The evaluation confirmed that overall the Board and Committee At the start of the year, the Committee comprised four independent Non-Executive Directors namely David processes were working well and, in particular, the Nomination Committee was operating in a more effective manner than Maloney, Martina King, Rick Senat and Peter Williams.
David Maloney, Martina King and Peter Williams left the Committee previously and the Directors including the Chairman were performing satisfactorily: however, there were a few matters in February 2014 and Scott Rosenblum and Arni Samuelsson joined it.
While Arni Samuelsson is considered independent, identified where Directors felt that processes could be improved in certain areas.
As a consequence additional time Scott Rosenblum is not.
The majority of the Committee are independent as required by the Governance Code.
has already been spent on, and more time in the future will be allocated to, strategic issues and succession planning.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
