Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 39 The Role, Responsibilities and Activities of the Looking forward, in May 2015, David Maloney and Peter Nomination Committee Williams, two independent Non-Executive Directors, will have The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging completed nine years service each and accordingly will no its responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board.
It longer be classified as independent.
Together, they have is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge provided the Audit Committee over this period with relevant and experience on the Board, the size, structure and financial experience as defined by the Governance Code.
composition of the Board, retirements and appointments of As part of planning for the succession process, the additional and replacement Directors, the independence of Nomination Committee commenced a search for Directors and makes appropriate recommendations to the appropriately qualified replacements.
It is also responsible for ensuring that Directors have sufficient time to discharge their duties on In late summer 2014, three external search consultancies were appointment, and thereafter, with such matters being approached and, following a review, one, Odgers Berndtson specifically addressed in the letters of appointment of the was appointed to carry out a search for two replacement Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors who would be considered independent.
Briefs were drawn up for both roles which The Committee met for two scheduled meetings during the included for one that the appointed person must have financial year and, in addition, a number of ad hoc times to relevant financial experience as set out in the Governance deal with specific issues.
Due to the importance that the Code.
Searches were undertaken following the Companys Directors play in the success of the Group, the Chairman is approach to diversity which led to two shortlists being invited to attend meetings, and does so, except when his own prepared with both genders represented on each.
Following position or his successor is being discussed.
interviews carried out by members of the Committee, the Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive and the Chief During the year, the Committee recommended the appointment Financial Officer, the Committee recommended to the Board of new Directors, reviewed its own performance, reviewed the that Julie Southern should be appointed as a NonExecutive structure of the Board and the three Committees and discussed Director and that she should be appointed to the Audit succession issues.
It also considered diversity within the Board.
Committee and become its Chairman.
The Board agreed with this recommendation and as a consequence she will Board Diversity be standing for election at the AGM.
While the Committee considers gender, nationality and cultural diversity all to be important when reviewing the Odgers Berndtson, the external search consultancy used for composition of the Board and possible new appointees, it this search, has no connections with the Group or any of its believes that the single most important factor is to identify, Directors and was chosen on the basis of discussions and a recruit and retain the people it considers, on merit, to be the review process being undertaken involving all members of best candidates for each particular role.
It is not currently in the Committee meeting with all the prospective external favour of setting specific targets for Board representation to search consultancies.
be achieved by particular dates.
As part of the process of recruiting new Directors, it has agreed that candidates from The Nomination Committee also recommended that Martina a wide variety of backgrounds should be considered and, King, a current Non-Executive Director and member of the where reasonably possible, shortlists should comprise of Remuneration Committee should become Chair of the candidates of both sexes.
Remuneration Committee with effect from the AGM and the Board also approved this recommendation.
An Recruitment Process for Board Directors announcement confirming Julie Southerns appointment, In February 2014, the Combination brought about considerable subject to shareholder approval, and Martina appointment changes to the Board which were part of the negotiation was subsequently made on 11 March 2015.
In addition the process and resulted in both sides agreeing to proceed with announcement noted that a further Board appointment was the merger.
Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger were the anticipated and other revisions to the composition of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of CCI.
Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees of the Both being experienced international operators of cinemas Board would be made in due course.
with successful track records of expanding businesses in various countries, the Nomination Committee was satisfied that they Accountability were appropriate to join the Company as its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer respectively and play a Accountability, Audit and Financial major role in its future success.
As a part of the arrangements, The Board is responsible for the preparation of the Annual it was also agreed Scott Rosenblum, a US lawyer and the Report and ensuring that the financial statements present a Chairman of CCI, should become a Non-Executive Director of fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups the Company.
Although, accepting that he would not be financial position and prospects.
Responsibility is administered considered independent, his experience and understanding primarily by the Audit Committee, of which the terms of of CCI and his experience in corporate governance matters reference are referred to below.
would be highly beneficial to the Group going forward.
Finally, it was agreed that an additional independent NonA comprehensive budgeting system allows managers to Executive Director should be appointed who was an industry submit detailed budgets which are reviewed and amended expert to strengthen the Board.
Possible candidates, who by the Executive Directors prior to submission to the Board were independent, were put forward and Arni Samuelsson, an for approval.
owner manager of cinemas in Iceland was selected for his expertise in, and knowledge of, the cinema industry.
He also added diversity to the Board in terms of background.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
