Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Audit Committee report I am pleased to introduce the report of the Audit Committee for the year ended 31December 2014.
The Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibility for oversight and monitoring of financial reporting, risk management and internal control.
As chairman of the Committee, it is my responsibility to ensure that the Committee fulls its responsibilities in a rigorous and effective manner.
The Committees agenda is designed, in conjunction with the Boards, to ensure that all significant areas of risk are covered and to enable it to provide timely input to Board deliberations.
In line with the Code this report seeks to provide an insight into the matters considered by the Committee during the year and therefore to provide assurance to shareholders that the control environment of the Company is being properly supervised and monitored.
I am satisfied that the Committee is properly constituted with written terms of reference, which include all matters referred to in the Code and is provided with appropriate information to allow sufficient time for discussion and to ensure that all matters are considered fully.
Of particular importance is the requirement to ensure that the Companys financial reporting is fair, balanced and understandable.
We therefore review all of the Companys financial reports before publication with this responsibility in mind and we are satisfied that they provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
Malcolm Paul Chairman of the Audit Committee Membership of the Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Malcolm Paul and consists exclusively of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is satisfied that Malcolm Paul, a Chartered Accountant, who was formerly Finance Director of a FTSE 250 company, has significant recent and relevant financial experience.
The other members were Michael Everard, David Moorhouse, Michael Salter and Aedamar Comiskey.
Committee attendance is shown on page 28.
Michael Everard retired from the Committee on 30April 2014 and Aedamar Comiskey was appointed to the Committee on 1November 2014.
The Committee met three times during the year in February, August and November on dates scheduled to coincide with the financial reporting cycle.
On each occasion the Group Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, the Company Secretary and senior members of the finance function attended by invitation together with representatives of the external auditor, including the reporting partner, and the senior internal auditor.
At each meeting the Committee members have the opportunity to discuss matters privately with the external auditor and the internal auditor.
In addition, the chairman of the Committee maintains regular contact with the external audit reporting partner to discuss matters related to the Company.
Details of the Committees specic responsibilities and how it exercises those responsibilities is set out in the remainder of this report.
The Committee also formally reviews its own performance each year.
Main responsibilities The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and monitoring of financial reporting, risk management and internal controls.
In addition, the Committee reviews the effectiveness and objectivity of the external audit process, assesses the independence of the auditor, reviews and assesses the risk prole of the business and the adequacy of the Groups systems of risk management and internal controls.
The Committees work in each of these areas is summarised below together with a report on the significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31December 2014.
The Committees primary responsibility in relation to the Groups financial reporting is to review and challenge where necessary, both with management and the external auditor the appropriateness of the Groups half-year and annual financial statements with particular focus on: whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and properly applied: the clarity of disclosures, compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements: whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements in material areas or where there has been discussion with or issues raised by the external auditor: whether the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29 James Fisher and Sons plc Audit Committee report continued significant issues considered by the Committee The significant areas of focus considered by the Committee in relation to year ended 31December 2014 and how these were addressed are outlined below: Revenue recognition and long-term contracts Many of the Group projects often span a period end and as a result judgements have to be made on the stage of completion of these contracts to fairly present revenue and profit recognition.
The Company uses an established and consistent accounting policy in respect of accounting for long-term contracts.
The Committee received reports on a number of longterm contracts and were able to challenge the methodology by which revenue and profits had been recognised.
Where appropriate matters arising were discussed with the Group Finance Director and the Committee concluded that the financial statements recognised revenue in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
Goodwill valuation The Committee considered the carrying value of goodwill and the assumptions related to the impairment review which relate to the underlying assumptions in calculating the value of a cash generating unit.
The key assumptions are the achievability of long-term forecasts and the discount rates applied to the forecast cash ows.
As an area of audit focus, the Group Finance Director provided detailed reporting to the Committee including an assessment of the sensitivity analysis carried out.
Overseas operations The Group has seen an increase in overseas activity particularly in emerging markets sometimes in association with local shareholders.
This potentially increases the financial and governance risk exposure of the Group.
The Committee receives regular updates on the operational and financial performance of these businesses together with the assessment of areas where specic judgements have been necessary.
Where appropriate the Group seeks local professional advice on matters of legislation and tax and responds accordingly.
The Group has outsourced the internal audit function in several overseas territories to Deloitte.
On review the Committee was satisfied that the reports and explanations received supported the treatment of the performance of these overseas businesses in the financial statements.
Acquisition accounting The level of judgement involved in determining acquisition fair values and the valuation of acquired intangible assets is a potential risk to the Group.
The Committee considered the fair value and accounting policy adjustments made to each acquisition and assessments in respect of contingent consideration provisions.
These were discussed with the Group Finance Director and the external auditor separately and the Committee concluded that acquisitions had been accounted for in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
The Committee was satisfied that each of the matters set out above was adequately addressed by the Executive Directors, appropriately tested and reviewed by the external auditor and that disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts were appropriate.
External audit The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of the external auditor, approves the auditors fees and reviews the auditors performance.
For the audit the Committee receives and discusses with the external auditor a plan identifying the proposed strategy, approach, objectives, significant risk areas and other areas of focus drawing on input from the Groups senior management.
Following the conclusion of the audit, the Committee conducts an assessment of the audit of the financial statements based on its own experience and that of the Groups senior management using questionnaires which focus on the quality and experience of the audit teams, the robustness of the audit process and the quality of communication and governance, including the independence of the audit rm.
The results of the review are considered by the Committee and discussed with the auditor and senior management.
For the 2014 audit, the Committee considered that the performance of the auditor and the interaction with the Company, senior management and the Committee was good.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG should be re-appointed as auditor and a resolution to this effect will be put forward at the forthcoming AGM.
30 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Audit tendering The Audit Committee has noted the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 and the Statutory Audit Services Order 2014 published by the Competition and Markets Authority in 2014 Order which came into effect on 1January 2015.
The Order requires the Company to put its external audit services contract out to competitive tender at least every ten years.
KPMG has been the Companys auditor since 2008 and therefore the latest date the Committee would need to put the audit out to tender is 2018.
However, the Committee will continue to give consideration to the need to tender the audit annually, dependent on the auditors performance, and plans to complete a competitive tender for the audit services contract in 2017 at the latest.
Non-audit services To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, the Company has an established policy in respect of non-audit fee work that may be undertaken by the auditor.
Whilst the Committee accepts that certain work of a non-audit nature is best undertaken by the auditor, it is a requirement that where fees exceed an agreed threshold, approval to use the auditor for such work must be given in advance by the Committee.
In 2014, KPMG carried out due diligence work on acquisitions, gave corporate tax advice and advice on VAT and research and development.
Due diligence work in connection with the Groups acquisition of Testconsult was placed with another rm.
Non-audit fees paid to KPMG represented 22% of the audit fee in 2014.
Internal audit Internal audit programmes and risk management and internal control questionnaires are used to monitor the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems and processes.
The internal audit is managed by an experienced professional and primarily consists of a peer group review process, whereby a senior manager from within the Group conducts an audit of a non-related area of the Group in accordance with an annual programme approved by the Committee.
The scope of each internal audit is agreed in advance to try to ensure that key areas for each business are addressed.
Internal audit identify, report and address key commercial and financial risk and control issues and their reports are presented to the Committee for review.
The internal audit reports are shared with local and Group managers for review and action as appropriate, and provided to the external auditor.
In 2014, internal audits of Scantech Offshore Brazil, JF Nuclear and Strainstall Malaysia were outsourced to Deloitte which also assists with the Groups internal audit planning process.
The effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function is reviewed annually by the Board and the Committee.
Following the 2014 review, the Committee recommended and the Board concluded that the internal audit process was appropriate and effective.
Risk management and internal controls The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and the system of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Certain of these responsibilities have been delegated to the Audit Committee, in particular the monitoring and review of internal control procedures.
The Committee received reports throughout the year and has reviewed the systems of risk management and internal controls and is satisfied that the systems are sound and effective.
Key features of internal control systems The Company has an organisation structure which has clear lines of communication and accountability and delegation of authority rules.
Business strategies are reviewed and approved by the business board and reported to each Board meeting by the Chief Executive officer.
All major items of capital expenditure, significant treasury transactions and significant contracts are subject to approval.
The Group has established policies for ethics, employment, health and safety, environmental, whistle-blowing and anti-bribery and corruption which are reviewed annually.
A schedule of matters reserved for the Board is in place for approving major transactions and strategic or organisational changes.
Key features of risk management systems Key risks, both financial and non-financial, are reviewed by the Board as well as by central and divisional management on an on-going basis.
The Executive Directors meet at least quarterly with the trading company managing directors to review their business performance, strategy and risk management.
Business unit managers submit reports to the Executive Directors including details of the significant risks facing their business and how they are being controlled.
All companies are required to have processes to identify and measure risks and, so far as possible, take action to reduce those risks.
This includes maintaining and regularly updating risk registers and formally submitting an annual risk management review for analysis and review by the Executive Directors, who report any material issues to the Board and are responsible for ensuring that necessary actions are identied and undertaken.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31 James Fisher and Sons plc Audit Committee report continued The Board also undertakes a risk assessment before any decision on major projects is made and commercial, legal and financial due diligence is carried out on any potential acquisition.
The Groups Risk Committee which is chaired by the Chief Executive officer and includes the Group Finance Director, the Company Secretary and Group functional heads meets quarterly.
The Risk Committees terms of reference include the identication and monitoring of risks company-wide and ensuring that cross functional risks are identied and actively managed.
The Risk Committees findings are reported to the Board.
Malcolm Paul Chairman of the Audit Committee 2March 2015 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
