James Fisher and Sons plc Corporate governance report Chairmans introduction I am pleased to present this report on behalf of the Board.
James Fisher and Sons plc is committed to good corporate governance and considers it essential in assisting the business to deliver its strategy and overall objectives including safeguarding shareholders long-term interests.
This report, the Audit Committee and  reports are intended to give a clear and meaningful explanation of how the Board and its Committees discharge their corporate governance duties and apply the principles of good governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2012 Code.
Michael Everard retired from the Board on 30April 2014 and Aedamar Comiskey was appointed to the Board on 1November 2014.
Aedamar Comiskeys appointment took into account the need for a diversity of skills, knowledge, background, experience and gender.
I am pleased to report that at the date of this report, the Company is able to comply fully with all of the principles of the Code.
I would encourage all shareholders to attend our AGM on 30April 2015 as it provides an excellent opportunity to meet the Executive Directors and the independent Non-Executive Directors.
Charles Rice Chairman 2March 2015 Statement of compliance The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and to ensuring that values and behaviours are consistent across the Group.
The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 31December 2014 through to the date of this report, the Company complied with all relevant provisions of the Code without exception.
We are also cognisant of the 2014 update to the Code, which is effective for year ends commencing after 1October 2014.
Leadership Chairman and Chief Executive roles The Directors are collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive officer are separate and clearly distinct and are set out in writing and approved by the Board.
Charles Rice, the Chairman, is responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring the Board is effective in all aspects of its role.
Nick Henry, the Chief Executive officer, has direct responsibility for the Group on a day to day basis which includes leadership of senior management in executing the Companys strategy and managing the operational requirements of the Groups businesses.
The Board has considered and was satisfied that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive officer operated effectively.
During the year, pursuant to the Code, Charles Rice met with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present on more than one occasion and Malcolm Paul, the Senior Independent Director, met with the other Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present on more than one occasion.
Role of the Board The Board is the principal decision making forum for the Company.
The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Company and for its leadership, strategy, control and management.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters detailing key aspects of the Companys affairs reserved for it to approve, including: strategy and management: long-term objectives: corporate governance: oversight of the Groups operations to ensure competent management, sound planning, adequate accounting and records and compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations: annual operating and capital expenditure: review of performance in light of strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets: financial reporting and controls: 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements major investments, including acquisitions and disposals: material contracts: the Groups systems of internal control and risk management: key policies: and reporting to shareholders.
The schedule is reviewed annually by the Board.
All Directors participate in discussing strategy, performance and financial and risk management of the Company.
Strategy, acquisition and disposal of businesses and major capital investments are agreed between the Chairman, the Chief Executive officer and Group Finance Director prior to review and approval by the Board.
Meetings of the Board are structured to allow open discussion and as scheduled, the Board met six times in 2014.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, the Chairman ensures that all Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information on all relevant matters in advance of the Board meetings, including comprehensive financial and business reports covering the Groups principal activities.
The NonExecutive Directors regularly visit major business centres of the Group in order to enhance their knowledge of the services and products offered, which in turn acts to strengthen their contribution to Board debate.
The Board is responsible for determining whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary to enable shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
In coming to its view, the Board took into account its own knowledge of the Group, its strategy and performance in the year, a detailed review of the overall content of the Report and the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Other matters specically considered during the year included Group strategy and long-term objectives, acquisitions and disposals, nancing, taxation, risk management, key Group risks, the approval of new long-term incentive arrangements, succession planning, Board composition and a detailed review of risks associated with the Groups overseas subsidiary and joint venture operations.
The Board has adopted established procedures to address the management of potential and actual conicts of interest.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters and to ensure that Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary also advises the Directors on any important changes in legislation, regulation and best practice.
In addition, all Directors have access to independent professional advice if necessary.
Effectiveness Size and composition of the Board There are currently 7 Directors on the Board comprising the Non-Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive officer, the Group Finance Director and 4 other Non-Executive Directors.
The Board functions effectively and efficiently and is considered to be of an appropriate size in view of the scale of the Company and the diversity of its businesses.
The Board considers that each Director demonstrates a range of experience and is of the calibre necessary to support and develop the Companys longterm strategy and success, that each Director is able to devote sufficient time to the Companys business and that no individual or small group of individuals dominates the Boards decision making.
Aedamar Comiskey joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1November 2014.
Michael Everard retired from the Board on 30April 2014 after 7 years service.
Role of the Non-Executive Directors The Board considers the Non-Executive Directors combine broad business and commercial experience to bring independent and objective judgement to bear and to challenge constructively the Executive on issues of strategy, performance, resource and standards of conduct.
The balance between Non-Executive and Executive Directors enables the Board to provide clear and effective leadership and maintain the highest standards of integrity across the Groups business activities.
In compliance with the Code more than half the Board, excluding the Chairman, are Non-Executive Directors, and the Board is satisfied that all of these were independent throughout the year.
The Board considers that Charles Rice, up to the date of his appointment as Chairman, was independent for the purposes of the Code.
Each Non-Executive Director is expected to commit sufficient time to allow for attendance at Board and Committee meetings and for keeping in touch with the senior management team, shareholders and other stakeholders.
Malcolm Paul, the Senior Independent Director, also acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for Non-Executives where necessary.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 James Fisher and Sons plc Corporate governance report continued Board Committees The Board has Remuneration, Nominations and Audit Committees.
Each Committee has formal written terms of reference which are reviewed annually.
In addition to the formal Committees, the Board has appointed an Executive Committee consisting of the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
This has written terms of reference and reports to the Board.
Subject to the Companys Articles, it is empowered to take such actions as considered necessary relating to the affairs of the Company in the normal course of business and of a routine nature, subject to such limits as the Board in its discretion determines.
The Executive Committee reports into the Board via the Chairman.
The Board also appoints from time to time sub-committees consisting of at least two Directors in order to nalise and approve those matters that have been approved in principle by the Board.
The Executive Directors meet with the Chairman at least once a month.
The Executive Directors also meet at least monthly with the Groups central senior management team and also meet with the Managing Directors of the principal businesses on at least a quarterly basis to deal with operational issues, review risks and to develop and implement strategy.
Effective development Training and induction On appointment, new Directors are given a detailed induction to the Groups business, together with an on-going programme of visits to the Groups major sites and meetings with senior management.
On-going training and development for Directors is available as appropriate and is reviewed annually.
Performance evaluation The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its own performance and that of the Remuneration, Nominations and Audit Committees and of each individual Director.
This year the Board determined, after due consideration, that an external facilitation of the annual review of performance was not necessary.
The evaluation requires each Director to complete in confidence a detailed questionnaire relating to all aspects of Board performance and performance of the Boards principal Committees.
The results of the evaluation are collated in January by the Company Secretary and reported to the Board via the Chairman with recommendations for further consideration and action as appropriate.
The review includes an analysis of the Boards and Committees performance in key areas including corporate governance, structure and procedures, strategy and its effectiveness, risk control and communications with stakeholders.
The performance of each Director is also reviewed following the end of each year.
The Chairmans performance is reviewed by the other Non-Executive Directors led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
The performance of the Executive Directors is also reviewed by the Non-Executive Directors with the Chairman in attendance.
The Chairman and the Executive Directors review the performance of each of the other Non-Executive Directors.
The performance evaluations are designed to assist the Board in identifying strengths and weaknesses and areas for further improving performance.
Re-election of Directors All Directors are subject to election by the shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment to the Board and in accordance with the Code, all of the other Directors will also stand for re-election at the 2015 AGM.
Risk management and internal controls The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its objectives and for ensuring that the Company maintains sound risk management and internal control procedures.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control process.
This is part of an established process in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control, for the identication, evaluation and management of the significant risks facing the Group, which operates and is reviewed continually throughout the year.
The Groups internal control systems are designed to provide the Board with reasonable assurance as to the effective and efficient operation of the Group and to ensure the quality of internal and external reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
However, there are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly even the most effective system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance.
In 2014, the Board reviewed the effectiveness and consistency of the Groups risk management process at all levels of the organisation and confirms that the Groups processes accord with the Turnbull guidance.
Further information on the Groups risk management and internal control processes are set out in the Audit Committee report.
26 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Details of the principal risks and the Groups approach to mitigating them are set out in the Strategic report on page 18.
Whistle-blowing policy As part of its internal control, the Group has a whistle-blowing policy which encourages employees to report in good faith any genuine suspicions of fraud, bribery or malpractice in order to identify any problems within the Group at an early stage.
The policy is designed to ensure that any employee who raises a genuine concern is protected.
Any concerns may be raised in the first instance with the Company Secretary in confidence.
Anti-bribery and corruption In accordance with the UK Bribery Act 2010, the Board is committed to ensuring the highest standards in all of the Groups business dealings and condemns corruption in all its forms.
The Group has a formal anti-bribery and corruption statement and policy and does not tolerate or condone corruption or bribery in any of the Groups business dealings.
This policy has been implemented throughout the Group and is supported by a Group-wide training and awareness programme and regular Group-wide compliance reviews.
Relations with shareholders The Company communicates with shareholders through the annual report, interim report, preliminary announcements, interim management statements, investor days and the Company web site.
The Board takes the opportunity at the AGM to meet and communicate with private and institutional shareholders and welcomes their involvement.
In addition, the Company invites regular direct communication with its shareholders as part of the Companys investor relations programme.
Non-attributable feedback on the investor presentations given by the Company to shareholders is circulated to the Board.
The Chairman periodically consults with major shareholders in order to develop a balanced understanding of any issues and concerns.
In addition if at any meetings of the Executive Directors with investors a governance or strategy matter is raised, it is relayed back to the Board.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee reports to the Board and its members are appointed by the Board.
The Committee members are Malcolm Paul, David Moorhouse, Michael Salter and Aedamar Comiskey.
The Committee is chaired by Malcolm Paul.
The Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference.
In summary, the Committees terms of reference include: To determine and agree with the Board the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and other senior executives: To review the appropriateness and relevance of the Groups remuneration policy: and To ensure that the provisions of the Code are fullled.
The Chairman attends the Committees meetings by invitation and is not present when his own terms and conditions are discussed.
During the year the Committee had 2 scheduled meetings.
The work of the Committee including the Chairmans overview is described in the Directors remuneration report on pages 33 to 46.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee reports to the Board and its members are appointed by the Board.
The Committee members are Charles Rice, Malcolm Paul, David Moorhouse and Michael Salter.
The Committee is chaired by Charles Rice.
The Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference which include: To regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board including skills, knowledge, diversity and experience and recommend changes: Succession planning for Directors and senior executives: and Identifying and nominating for approval to the Board, candidates to ll vacancies when they arise.
The Board recognises the importance of diversity in general and has increased the Boards gender diversity during 2014.
However, the Board does not consider that targets or quotas are appropriate.
The Committee adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27 James Fisher and Sons plc Corporate governance report continued The Committee had one meeting in 2014 and its work included making a recommendation to the Board on the appointment of a new independent Non-Executive Director.
In accordance with the Boards practice the Committee on behalf of the Company engaged Odgers Bernstein, external search consultants, to assist with the identication, screening and appointment of a Non-Executive Director.
Odgers Bernstein has no other connection to the Company.
Odgers Bernstein was provided with a detailed brief against objective criteria and they undertook a search to identify suitable candidates.
Those shortlisted were interviewed by the Committee and other Board members and having determined her suitability, Aedamar Comiskey was invited to join the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and monitoring of financial reporting, risk management and internal controls.
The Committee is chaired by Malcolm Paul and met three times during the year.
The Audit Committee report on pages 29 to 32 describes in detail the Committees role and activities.
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings Directors attendance at the Board and Committee meetings convened in the year was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Number of Meetings 63 21 Charles Rice 6 6 1 1 Nick Henry 6 6 Stuart Kilpatrick 6 6 Malcolm Paul 6 6 3 3 2 2 1 1 Aedamar Comiskey 1 1 0 1 Michael Everard 3 3 1 1 2 2 David Moorhouse 6 6 3 3 2 2 1 1 Michael Salter 6 6 3 3 2 2 1 1 Aedamar Comiskey joined the Board on 1November 2014.
Michael Everard retired and ceased to be a member of the Board and of the Remuneration, Nominations and Audit Committees on 30April 2014.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by Michael Hoggan Company Secretary 2March 2015 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
