84 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance report This report should be read in conjunction with the Directors Peter Grauer was appointed as the Senior Independent Report and the remainder of the Governance section.
Non-Executive Director in May 2014 and is available to meet with shareholders and acts as an intermediary between the Chairman and other independent directors when required.
2014 highlights: This division of responsibilities, coupled with the schedule Appointment of Tony Hayward as permanent Chairman of reserved matters for the Board, ensures that no individual Appointment of Peter Grauer as Senior Independent has unfettered powers of decision.
Non-Executive Director Chairman Appointment of Patrice Merrin as an Independent Leader of the Board Non-Executive Director Responsible for effective communication flow between Directors Continuing emphasis on sustainability issues Facilitates effective contribution of all Directors No changes to modest executive remuneration policy Responsible for effective Board governance Ensures effective communication with shareholders Publication of an abbreviated remuneration report Chief Executive Officer Completion of analysis by the Audit Committee of the Leads and motivates management team Xstrata acquisition Implements strategy and objectives as directed by the Board Develops Group policies and proposals for approval by the Board governance and structure Board and ensures effective implementation Overview Senior Independent Director This governance report sets out how Glencore has applied Is a confidant of the Chairman and when appropriate also the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code acts as an intermediary for other independent directors the Code in a manner which enables shareholders to Will stand in for Chairman if he is unable to attend evaluate how these principles have been applied.
Chairs the Nominations Committee Responsible for appraising the Chairmans performance From June 2014 Glencores Board has comprised seven alongwith other independent directors Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman and Available to shareholders to answers questions.
A list of the current Directors, with their brief biographical details and other significant Other Non-Executive Directors commitments, is provided in the previous pages.
Supply challenge and support to management Bring independent mind set and differing backgrounds Division of responsibilities andexperience to Board debates As a Jersey incorporated company, Glencore has a unitary Provide leadership and challenge as chair of, or a member of, board, meaning all Directors share equal responsibility for the board committees which except HSEC comprise only Non-Executive Directors decisions taken.
Glencore has established a clear division Scrutinise leadership of chairman between the respective responsibilities of the Non-Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer which are Company Secretary set out in a schedule of responsibilities which has been Secretary to Board Committees approved by the Board.
While the Non-Executive Chairman Informs the Board on all matters reserved to it and ensures is responsible for leading the Boards discussions and papers are provided in sufficient detail and on time decision-making, the CEO is responsible for implementing Available to Directors in respect of Board procedures and executing strategy and for leading Glencores operating andprovides support and advice performance and day-to-day management.
The CEO and Ensures the Board is kept informed on governance matters Chief Financial Officer have line of sight across the Group.
Coordinates and assists with the Board evaluation process along with the Chairman.
The CEO is further supported by his senior management team principally comprising the heads of the businesses and the Head of Strategy.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that there is clear and effective information flow to the Non-Executive Directors.
Further details of these responsibilities are set out opposite.
DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES 85 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Non-Executive Directors Management of conflicts of interest The Companys Non-Executive Directors provide a broad All Directors endeavour to avoid any situation of conflict of range of skills and experience to the Board which assists in interest with the Company.
Potential conflicts can arise and their roles in formulating the Companys strategy and in therefore processes and procedures are in place requiring providing constructive challenge to executive management.
Directors to identify and declare any actual or potential conflict of interest.
Any such notifications are required to be Glencore regularly assesses its Non-Executive Directors made by the Directors prior to, or at, a Board meeting and independence.
Except for Peter Coates, due to his temporary all Directors have a duty to update the whole Board of any executive responsibilities held in 2013, they all are regarded changes in circumstances.
Glencores Articles of Association by the Company as Independent Non-Executive Directors and Jersey law allow for the Board to authorise potential within the meaning of independent as defined in the conflicts and the potentially conflicted Director must abstain Code and free from any business or other relationship from any vote accordingly.
During 2014, no abstention which could materially interfere with the exercise of their procedures for conflicts had to be activated.
This view has been taken having regard to all facts including the following: Board composition in 2014 William Macaulay is Chairman and CEO of First Reserve The changes to the composition of the Board in 2014 have Corporation FR.
At 31 December 2014 affiliates of been described above.
FR held 123,802,799 shares approximately 0.92% of Further details on these changes are set out in the the Companys total voting rights although as at the Nomination Committee Report below.
date of this document this holding is 70,046,228 shares 0.54%.
Independence issues arise where a director has Board Committees been appointed, directly or, indirectly, to represent a The following four Committees are in place to assist the shareholder.
As previously explained, Mr Macaulay has Board in exercising its functions: Audit, Nomination, not been appointed to represent FRs interest on the Board Remuneration and Health, Safety, Environmental and and has never sought to do so.
Communities HSEC, as set out in the diagram on the next John Mack was until 2011 chairman of Morgan Stanley, page.
Committee meetings are held prior to Board meetings which provides advisory and financial services to the and at each scheduled Board meeting the chairman of each Group.
However, Mr Mack ceased to be CEO of Morgan Committee leads a discussion concerning the Committees Stanley in 2009, Morgan Stanleys relationship with the activities since the previous Board meeting.
Company is led from the UK office and Mr Mack was not The Committees carry out a considerable amount of work.
involved in the delivery of these services.
In particular: Accordingly, we believe that applying a common sense the Audit Committee provides challenge and enquiry construction to the provisions of the Code, it is reasonable on the very significant areas of financial and accounting to conclude that each of Mr Macaulay and Mr Mack is oversight and risk management: and independent in accordance with its terms.
the HSEC Committee, whose membership includes both Chairman and CEO, continues to have the heaviest workload of all the committees due to its strong leadership of sustainability issues and the range of matters which it considers.
Its work on driving improvements in safety performance is a particular focus.
A report for 2014 from each Committee chairman is set out later in this Corporate Governance Report.
86 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance report SHAREHOLDERS Appoint the external auditors Ongoing Elect the engagement directors Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee Health, Safety, Nominations Environment and Communities Committee Committee CEO and CFO Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of reference The Board and its Committees have standing agenda approved by, the Board and the minutes of the Committee items to cover their proposed business at their scheduled meetings are circulated to the Board.
The Chairman seeks to ensure that the very reviewed its terms of reference during the year and as significant work of the Committees feeds into, and a result revisions were made to the HSEC Committees benefits as to feedback from, the full Board.
The Board terms of reference to ensure they continue to conform to and Committee meetings also benefit from presentations best practice.
by senior executives and some technical and investor relations updates.
Presentations from the business and All Committees terms of reference are available at senior management allow Directors to enhance their www.
com who-we-are corporate-governance understanding of the business and the implementation of board-committees strategy, in turn contributing to a more effective Board.
A summary of the Boards main activities during 2014 is set Board meetings out on the next page.
The Board has approved a formal schedule which sets out The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-Executive those matters which are reserved for its decision-making Directors without the Executive Director present, and at alone such as strategy, the annual budget and material least once a year the Non-Executive Directors meet without acquisitions and disposals.
The Board held five scheduled meetings in person during the year, all of which were held at the Companys headquarters in Baar, Switzerland.
In addition, the Board conducted two scheduled telephone meetings and further ad hoc telephone Board meetings to address important items of business which had arisen.
87 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Work at Board Meetings The main debates and actions carried out at the meetings of the Board during 2014 are summarised below.
At each main meeting the following standing matters are considered: Consideration of any new conflicts of interest: Review of minutes of previous meetings, including actions from previous meetings: and Reports updates from the CEO, CFO, Head of Strategy and Investor Relations and Head of Communications.
These reports include consideration of strategic matters including possible asset expansions, acquisitions, disposals, joint ventures and debt programmes.
In addition, regular updates are provided by the Company Secretary on governance, Board processes and other company secretarial matters.
Board activities completed during 2014 First scheduled telephone meeting Second short notice meeting Considered and approved share held by conference call buy-back programme Review and approval of 2013 Production Report Approved the appointment of Dr Hayward Considered an update on as permanent Chairman Board composition Results business update Received a strategic review of the coal Second scheduled meeting First scheduled meeting market from the Head of Coal Briefing on the business to be conducted Annual Results, including review and Report from the HSEC at the AGM and after, of the other approval, where appropriate, of: Committee Chairman issues raised report from the Audit Considered outcomes from multiple Considered and approved the Q1 Committee Chairman shareholder meetings on governance Interim Management Statement and andsustainability issues considered principal risks and Production Report mitigation to be disclosed Strategic discussions regarding the Fourth short notice meeting report on going concern Lonmin stake held by conference call final distribution recommendation Indicative consideration of early stage Business update full year results announcement for the strategic opportunity Review of Board correspondence year ended 31 December 2013 Engagement with NGOs 2013 Annual Report draft Fourth scheduled meeting Catastrophic event AGM resolutions management preparedness Considered and approved the Q3 Interim Management Statement and management representation letter Appointment of Peter Grauer as Senior Production Report Independent Director Report from the Nomination Committee Report from the Audit Chairman and discussion on selection Third short notice meeting Committee Chairman processes for chairman and a new director held by conference call Report from the HSEC Report from the Remuneration Business update Committee Chairman Committee Chairman Approved the appointment of Received a review of the compliance Report from the HSEC Committee PatriceMerrin as an independent function from senior members of Chairman, in particular discussion on Non-Executive Director compliance team and external advisers health and safety improvements Received a strategic review of the copper Review of procedure for Board and Second scheduled telephone meeting market from the Head of Copper committees evaluation Results business update review and agreement on outcomes of Fifth scheduled meeting Review and approval of H1 2014 2013 Board evaluation Production Report Considered and approved the 2015 Reviewed updated Board governance budget including input from some documents and key policies Third scheduled meeting commodity heads Half year results, including review and Report from the HSEC First short notice meeting approval, where appropriate, of: Committee Chairman held by conference call report from the Audit Report from the Audit Results business update Committee Chairman Committee Chairman Approved the sale of Las Bambas considered principal risks and Report from the Remuneration included briefing from the Head mitigation to be disclosed Committee Chairman of Copper report on going concern Approved the acquisition of Caracal interim distribution included briefing from the Head of Oil Approved the final form of AGM Notice half year results announcement management representation letter 88 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance report Attendance during the year for all scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings is set out in the table below: Board of 5 Audit of 4 Remuneration of 2 Nomination of 2 HSEC of 5 Ivan Glasenberg 5 5 1 Anthony Hayward 515 William Macaulay 5 4 2 Leonhard Fischer 5422 Peter Coates 5 5 John Mack 5 2 2 Peter Grauer 5 4 2 2 Patrice Merrin 33 1 Stepped down from Nomination Committee after 1st scheduled meeting.
2 Attended all meetings since appointment on 26 June 2014.
In addition, the Board held two scheduled and four Normally meetings with heads of commodities and other unscheduled meetings by telephone as itemised in the senior Group functions take place alongside scheduled Board activities table.
All Directors attended the scheduled Board meetings.
In addition, in order to better familiarise calls and attendance on the unscheduled calls all of which themselves with the industrial activities, regular site visits were called on short notice was almost complete.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Appointment and re-election of Directors Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for All Directors will be offering themselves for re-election at ensuring the Board procedures are complied with, and the 2015 AGM.
have access to independent and professional advice at the Companys expense, where they judge this to be necessary All of the Directors have service agreements or letters of to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
appointment and the details of their terms are set out in theDirectors Remuneration Report.
No other contract Director induction process with the Company or any subsidiary undertaking of the Company in which any Director was materially interested New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction existed during or at the end of the financial year.
on joining the Board, including meetings with senior management.
The induction programme aims to build: Information, management meetings, site visits and an in-depth understanding of Glencore, its business and professional development the markets in which it operates: It is considered of great importance that the Non-Executive a link with Glencore employees, particularly the senior Directors 1 attain a good knowledge of the Company management: and and its business and 2 allocate sufficient time to Glencore to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The Board a clear appreciation of the Companys risks.
calendar is planned to ensure that Directors are briefed on a wide range of topics.
Directors are also given the opportunity to visit Group operations and discuss aspects of the business with employees, and regularly meet the heads of the Groups main departments and other senior executives.
As well as internal briefings, Directors attend appropriate external seminars and briefings.
89 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information The induction process for Patrice Merrin in 2014 involved: Remuneration Remuneration is covered in the Directors Remuneration prior circulation of key corporate documents including report which follows this section.
It includes a description of latest copies of financial information, Articles of the work of the Remuneration Committee.
Association, prospectuses and recent Board materials: a presentation of the role and responsibilities of a UK Accountability and audit listed company director including the responsibilities Financial reporting arising from Glencores secondary listings.
Information regarding the Companys Code of Conduct The Group has in place a comprehensive financial review and Share Dealing Code was also presented: cycle, which includes a detailed annual planning budgeting process where business units prepare budgets for overall presentations from business heads introducing their consolidation and approval by the Board.
The Group uses commodities, detailing financials, the markets in which a large number of performance indicators to measure they operate in and the risks present: both operational and financial activity in the business.
presentations from material corporate functions including Depending on the measure, these are reported and reviewed compliance, sustainability, finance, internal audit and on a daily, weekly or monthly basis.
In addition, management discussion on current business planning and strategy led in the business receive weekly and monthly reports of by the CEO: indicators which are the basis of regular operational meetings, where corrective action is taken if necessary.
an introduction to the HSEC Committee including At a Group level, a well-developed management accounts being provided with terms of reference, information on pack, including income statement, balance sheet, cash flow composition and minutes and other related papers from statement as well as key ratios is prepared and reviewed recent meetings: and monthly by management.
As part of the monthly reporting site and office visits.
process, a reforecast of the current year projections is performed.
To ensure consistency of reporting, the Group has a global consolidation system as well as a common accounting Board performance evaluation policies and procedures manual.
Management monitors the We have reviewed the interests declared by the Directors publication of new reporting standards and work closely with which could conflict with those of the Company and we our external auditors in evaluating their impact, if any.
are satisfied that the Boards powers to authorise potential conflicts is operating effectively.
Risk Management and Internal Control Since the composition of the Board has changed significantly The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Code by since the Companys IPO in May 2011, an external evaluation establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating within the Codes three year timeframe was considered to be and managing the risks that are considered significant premature.
An external evaluation will however, be carried by the Group in accordance with the revised Turnbull out in 2015.
Guidance on Internal Control published by the Financial Reporting Council.
This process has been in place for the Additionally an internal evaluation was carried out period under review and up to the date of approval of the during 2014, the results of which raised no material issues.
Annual Report and financial statements.
The process is This has been augmented by regular discussions which designed to manage and mitigate rather than eliminate risk, take place as to the efficiency and effectiveness of the Board.
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance Issues which have been considered and acted upon include: against material misstatement or loss.
The Directors frequency and content of business presentations they confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the now take place at most Board meetings : visits to assets by risk management and internal control systems.
This review Non-Executive Directors more are now taking place : size excludes associates of the Group as Glencore does not have of the Board current size and composition is considered to the ability to dictate or modify the internal controls of these work effectively : attendance at committees of non-member entities.
This report describes how the effectiveness of the directors this is now occurring more regularly : and more Groups structure of internal controls including financial, discussion of very early stage potential opportunities this is operational and compliance controls and risk management now occurring.
G r S o u u p p F u p n o c t i r o t n s e t i c d u n A a l r a u n r s e t s B n u I A s i n C e s s o R n 90 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance report The management teams at each industrial operation are Approach to risk management responsible for implementing a risk management process Effective risk management is crucial in helping the Group that identifies, assesses and manages risk.
achieve its objectives of preserving its overall financial The risks that may impact on business objectives and plans strength for the benefit of all shareholders and other are maintained in a business risk register.
They include stakeholders and safeguarding its ability to continue as strategic, compliance, operational and reporting risks.
a going concern while generating sustainable long-term profitability.
Spanning the organisational structure, Any significant risks are reported to Management and Glencores disciplined approach to risk management the Audit Committee.
A Corporate Risk Management and control originates with strategic responsibility in Framework is implemented on a Group-wide basis to ensure the hands of the Board, which also retains operational consistency in the assessment and reporting of risks.
authority on matters exceeding agreed thresholds of materiality.
The Board retains final authority for assessing Management engagement and approving the Groups overall risk appetite and The Companys senior management reviews the major risks sets overall limits which are subject to review annually.
facing the Group and decides if the level of risk is acceptable Through delegation to the Audit Committee for oversight or whether further steps need to be taken to mitigate and to senior management for day-to-day operational these risks.
Together, central and business management issues, an effective risk management governance apparatus set the level of risk appetite by ensuring that there is an has been established for the Group.
The Boards risk appropriate balance between the level of risk assumed and management processes for 2015 have been amended to the expected return.
reflect the new provisions introduced by the revised Code which was published in October 2014.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee retains responsibility for reviewing The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the risk the overall effectiveness of Glencores risk management management system and internal controls.
Mandated by the Board, the Audit Committee or HSEC Committee in some instances is responsible for ensuring Industrial asset risk management that the significant risks identified are properly managed.
Business risk owners Group functions We believe that every employee should be accountable for Group Functions Risk Management, Compliance, Legal the risks related to their role.
As a result, we encourage our and Sustainable Development, through their respective employees to escalate risks not limited to hazards to their expertise, support the Business Risk Owners and senior immediate supervisors.
This enables risks to be tackled and management in regard to mitigating risk across the Group.
mitigated at an early stage by the team with the relevant level of expertise.
Internal Audit Internal Audit, as an independent assurance provider, Risk Management framework reviews the risk management process and internal controls established by the management team.
A risk-based audit approach is applied in order to focus on high risk areas during the audit process.
It involves discussions with management on the risks identified in the business risk registers, emerging risks, operational changes, new investments and capital projects.
The key results from this process are reported to the AuditCommittee for their review.
Risks i s t k r t o O n l e w m n p e e g i r a s h g s n r E e t n d e a m e e g L a A n O u a d M v i t e C r o s m i m g i t h t e t e 91 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information as over time senior employee shareholders leave or reduce Marketing risk management theirequity participation.
Glencores marketing activities are exposed to commodity Another important consideration of the MR team price, basis, volatility, foreign exchange, interest rate, is the challenge of dealing with the impact of large credit and performance, liquidity and regulatory risks.
transactional flows across many locations.
The function Glencore devotes significant resources to developing and seeks to ensure effective supervision by its timely and implementing policies and procedures to identify, monitor comprehensive transaction recording, ongoing monitoring and manage these risks.
of the transactions and resultant exposures, providing Glencore has a disciplined and conservative approach to all-encompassing positional reporting, and continually Marketing Risk MR management supported by its flat assessing universal counterparty credit exposure.
Glencore continues to adopt and implement policies which are intended to mitigate and Key focus points manage commodity price, credit and other related risks.
Market Risk limits and reporting Glencores MR is managed at desk, business level and The MR team provides a wide array of daily weekly centrally.
Initial responsibility for risk management reporting.
A daily risk report showing Group Value at Risk is provided by the businesses in accordance with and VaR as shown on the next page and various other stress complementing their commercial decision making.
tests and analyses are distributed to the CEO, CFO and CRO.
A support, challenge and verification role is provided by the Business risk summaries showing positional exposure and central MR function headed by the Chief Risk Officer CRO other relevant metrics, together with potential margin call via its additional daily risk reporting and analysis which is requirements, are also circulated daily.
The MR function split by market and credit risk.
works to enhance its stress and scenario testing as well as The CEO, as the central figure of commercial leadership enhancing measures to capture risk exposure within the and control, drives functional risk management policy, specific areas of the business, e. g. within metals, concentrate supported by the CFO and CRO, with data and reporting treatment and refining charges are analysed.
from the central risk team and the other key functional A recent example of upgrading of reporting is the units.
In turn the CEO reports to, and seeks authority Agricultural business for which the MR team has limits from the Board, with the main oversight role being considerably improved the granularity of reporting since performed by the Audit Committee which receives regular the integration of Viterra, through the adoption of new reports from the CRO at its meetings.
It also approves systems solutions.
The existing VaR sub-limits system has subject to Board confirmation the Group-wide risk profile, been extended to reflect the greater geographic spread of and any exceptions to agreed positional thresholds.
commercial responsibility within the organisation and now At the heart of the risk management regime is the process covers nine constituent units.
of challenge that takes place between the CEO, the CRO and the business heads which sets risk appetite in accordance Credit Risk Management with Group requirements and market conditions for each The Group continues to make extensive use of credit commodity.
The objective is to ensure that an appropriate enhancement tools, seeking letters of credit, insurance cover, balance is maintained between the levels of risk assumed discounting and other means of reducing credit risk from and expected return, which relies on the .
In addition, mark-to-market exposures in specific expert knowledge provided by business heads.
relation to hedging contracts are regularly and substantially This is then subject to challenge from the CEO based on his collateralised primarily with cash pursuant to margining overall Group knowledge and experience.
This process is agreements in place with such hedge counterparts.
designed to manage risk effectively while facilitating the fast, commercial decision making which is required in a The Group-wide Credit Risk Policy governs higher levels dynamic commodity marketing company.
of credit risk exposure, with an established threshold for referral of credit decisions by business heads to CFO CEO Historically, the pre-2011 IPO quasi-partnership structure relating to unsecured amounts in excess of $75 million provided a strong alignment of personal financial interest of with BBB or lower rated counterparts.
At lower levels of key staff with the performance of the Group.
Although these materiality, decisions may be taken by the business heads ownership interests are now diluted somewhat or, in the where key strategic transactions or established relationships case of senior marketing figures who have been promoted suggest that an open account exposure may be warranted.
since the IPO, far less applicable, there remains a strong culture and tradition of managerial senior marketers and shareholder alignment.
Maintaining these cultural benefits, and supplementing them with more prescriptive limits where necessary, remains a key aim going forward 92 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance report Value at Risk As the below chart shows, in 2014 there were no breaches of the $100 million Group VaR limit: The Group monitors its commodity price risk exposure by using a VaR computation assessing open commodity VaR development $m positions which are subject to price risks.
VaR is one 70 of the risk measurement techniques the Group uses to 60 monitor and limit its primary market exposure related to 50 40 its physical marketing exposures and related derivative 30 positions.
VaR estimates the potential loss in value of open 20 positions that could occur as a result of adverse market 10 movements over a defined time horizon, given a specific Jan 2014 Mar 2014 May 2014 Jul 2014 Sep 2014 Nov 2014 level of confidence.
The methodology is a statistically defined, probability based approach that takes into account Metals & minerals Energy products Agriculture market volatilities, as well as risk diversification benefits by recognising offsetting positions and correlations The Group remains aware of the extent of coverage of between commodities and markets.
In this way, risks can risk exposures and their limitations.
In addition, VaR be compared across all markets and commodities and risk does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in fair exposures can be aggregated to derive a single risk value.
value on earnings to be incurred by the Group, nor are these VaR results considered indicative of future market Last year, the Board approved the Audit Committees movements or representative of any actual impact on its recommendation of a one day, 95% VaR limit of future results.
VaR remains viewed in the context of its $100 million for 2014, consistent with the previous year.
limitations: notably, the use of historical data as a proxy for This limit is subject to review and approval on an annual estimating future events, market illiquidity risks and risks basis.
The purpose of this Group limit is to assist senior associated with longer time horizons as well as tail risks.
management in controlling the Groups overall risk profile, Recognising these limitations the Group complements within this tolerance threshold.
During 2014 Glencores and refines this risk analysis through the use of stress and average daily VaR was approximately $36 million, with an scenario analysis.
The Group regularly back-tests its VaR observed high of $65 million and a low of $16 million.
toestablish adequacy of accuracy and to facilitate analysis of significant differences, if any.
The Board has again approved the Audit Committees recommendation of a one day, 95% VaR limit of $100 million for 2015.
Systems and reporting Upcoming new regulatory compliance proposals or obligations include: Whilst no single trading system that the Group can identify appears able to manage the broad range of requirements further obligations under EMIR stretching to 2018: that the different business profiles of the Group would a new Swiss regulatory framework for derivatives place on it, interfacing with multiple source systems and and MIFID II, the overarching European Derivatives transferring data from one to another create enhanced risk Regulation complementing EMIR: to data integrity, granularity, consistency and timeliness.
the Market Abuse Regulation MAR : and Dealing with obligations arising from regulatory Regulation on Energy Market Integrity and Transparency changes REMIT.
In 2014 Glencore adapted, as applicable, to regulatory creep including the Dodd-Frank Act and European Market The impacts of these and other new regulations to Infrastructure Regulation EMIR such as Risk Mitigation commodity market participants is potentially considerable.
trade confirmation timeframes, portfolio reconciliation, For Glencore, this is ostensibly by imposing an additional portfolio compression and dispute resolution and compliance burden with the associated costs, rather than an Trade Reporting.
expectation of practical commercial hindrances.
Glencores compliance, finance, IT and risk teams continue to work together in monitoring, and advising management on these developments.
93 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information and Head of Sustainability.
In addition, Peter Grauer, Sustainable development risk management the Senior Independent Director, is available to meet These risk management processes are operated at asset shareholders if they wish to raise issues separately from level subject to co-ordination and guidance from the central these arrangements.
sustainability team and subject to the leadership and In particular in 2014 the following were undertaken: oversight of the HSEC Committee.
1. the Senior Independent Director met with a number of A new assurance process for these risks has been introduced institutional shareholders, principally concerning the in 2014. process of the appointment of the Chairman: Further information is provided in the report from the 2. a presentation and investor road show was held in HSEC Committee below and will be published in the June to provide a detailed account of the Companys Groups Sustainability Report for 2014. sustainability policies and plans.
Led by the chairman of the HSEC committee, presentations were also given by Internal Audit the Chairman and the CEO: Glencore has a dedicated Internal Audit function reporting directly to the Audit Committee.
The role of Internal 3. the Chairman and Company Secretary met with a large Audit is to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk number of institutional shareholders in July, following management, control, and business governance processes.
Dr Haywards appointment as permanent Chairman: and Internal Audit reviews areas of potential risk within the business and suggests control solutions to mitigate 4. an investor day, via a live webcast, was held in December exposures identified.
The Audit Committee considers and to provide a briefing on the Companys strategy.
approves the risk-based audit plan, areas of audit focus and resources and is regularly updated on audits performed and The Board receives regular updates from the Companys relevant findings, as well as the progress on implementing Head of Investor Relations on the views of shareholders the actions arising.
In particular, the Committee considered through a briefing, which is a standing agenda item for Internal Audits high priority issues with a particular focus all Board meetings, which is supplemented by input from on procurement and systems, its KPIs and the effectiveness the Chairman, CEO, CFO and, if applicable, the Senior and timeliness of managements responses to its findings.
The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of Compliance with the Code the Internal Audit function.
As part of this work, it As a London premium listed entity we seek to ensure considered the functions management framework and its full compliance with the Code.
The Board believes that improvement programme.
the Company has, throughout the year, complied with all relevant provisions contained in the Code except with Relationships with shareholders regard to the following: The Board aims to present a balanced and clear view of the Group in communications with shareholders and believes 1. the Company has not implemented an external board that being transparent in describing how we see the market evaluation, but as previously explained, this will take and the prospects for the business as extremely important.
place during 2015: and We communicate with shareholders in a number of different 2. the Company did not have a Senior Independent ways.
The formal reporting of our full and half year results Director from 1 January 2014 until 20 May 2014 when and interim management statements is achieved through a Peter Grauer was appointed.
The appointment was not combination of releases, presentations, group calls and one made earlier since it was not considered appropriate to one meetings.
The full and half year reporting is followed to replace Dr Hayward in this position until the by investor meetings in a variety of locations where we appointment of the Chairman was completed.
We also regularly meet with existing and prospective shareholders to update or to AGM introduce them to the Company and periodically arrange The Companys next AGM is due to be held in Zug on 7 May visits to parts of the business to give analysts and major 2015.
Full details of the meeting will be set out in the Notice shareholders a better understanding of how we manage of Meeting which will be sent to shareholders in April.
These visits and meetings are principally Shareholders unable to attend are encouraged to vote by undertaken by the CEO, CFO and Head of Investor Relations proxy as detailed in the Notice of Meeting.
All documents and increasingly, an array of business heads.
In addition, relating to the AGM will be available on the Companys many major shareholders have meetings with the Chairman website at: www.
and appropriate senior personnel of the Group including other Non-Executive Directors, the Company Secretary 94 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance report monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of Glencores Audit Committee report internal audit function: and Chairman overseeing the Groups procedures for detecting fraud Leonhard Fischer andhandling allegations from whistleblowers.
Other members Governance processes Peter Grauer The Audit Committee usually invites the CEO, CFO, Group William Macaulay Financial Controller, CRO and Head of Internal Audit and Mr Fischer, Mr Macaulay and Mr Grauer served throughout the lead partner from the external auditors to attend each the year.
All are considered to be Independent Nonmeeting.
Other members of management may attend as Executive Directors and deemed to be financially literate and when required.
The Committee also holds private by virtue of their business experience.
Additionally all sessions with the external auditors and the Head of Internal Committee members are considered by the Board to Audit without members of management being present.
have recent and relevant financial experience and have The Committee has adopted guidelines allowing non-audit competence in accounting.
The Committee held four services to be contracted with the external auditors on the scheduled meetings during the year which all the basis as set out below.
John Burton is Secretary tothe Committee.
Main activities During the year, the Committees principal work included Role and responsibilities the following: The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist reviewing and agreeing the preparation and scope of the the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities with regard year-end reporting process: to financial reporting, external and internal audit, risk management and controls.
This includes: reviewing and agreeing the global audit plan, scope and fees of the audit work to be undertaken by the monitoring and reviewing the Groups financial and external auditors: accounting policies and practices: reviewing and evaluating the Groups procedures for monitoring the integrity of the annual and half yearly ensuring that the Annual Report and accounts, taken as financial statements and any formal announcements awhole, are fair, balanced and understandable: relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements reviewing and discussing the full year audited, relating to them: and half-year unaudited, financial statements with management and the external auditors: monitoring matters that influence or could distort the presentation of accounts and key figures: discussing various material accounting issues with management and the external auditors, particularly overseeing the Groups procedures for ensuring that the thoseinvolving key judgements and estimates primarily Annual Report and financial statements, taken asawhole, as outlined in further detail below: are fair, balanced and understandable: considering applicable regulatory changes to considering the scope of the annual external audit reporting obligations: andthework undertaken by external auditors: evaluating the effectiveness of the external auditors: considering the reappointment of the external auditors: reviewing the operation of the Companys policy for the making recommendations to the Board for a resolution provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: to be put to the shareholders for their approval on the appointment of the external auditors and to authorise considering and approving two significant assignments theBoard to fix the remuneration and terms of with the external auditors in respect of non-audit services: engagement of the external auditors: considering the output from the Group-wide processes reviewing and monitoring the independence of the used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks, including external auditor and the provision of additional services credit and performance risks across the industrial and by it: marketing activities: reviewing Glencores internal financial, operational reviewing the Internal Audit Departments annual audit and compliance controls and internal controls and plan and reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal riskmanagement systems: Audit function: 95 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of Glencores auditors their work in respect of impairment review, which internal controls: and was a key area of audit focus for them particularly given decreases in certain commodity prices.
reviewing the Groups legal compliance programme, including material notifications under the Groups Raising 3 Marketing exposures Concerns whistleblowing programme.
The Committee monitors the risk management policies and processes in place in respect of the Groups marketing Risk analysis operations, as explained in more detail under Risk The Committee receives reports and presentations at management and internal control above.
As part of this its meetings on our management of marketing and assessment, we reviewed managements VaR reports and industrial risks.
held regular discussions with the CRO to understand the nature of open positions, with a focus on those that Significant issues related to the financial statements are deemed to be higher risk.
Our external auditors have reported to us on the work they have performed in The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting respect of accounting for financial instruments, marketing policies have been adopted and whether management have inventories and the associated complexities, including made appropriate estimates and judgements.
They also determination of fair value measurements and classification review external auditors reports outlining audit work of contracts relating to marketing activities.
performed and conclusions reached in respect of key judgements, as well as identifying any issues in respect 4 Comprehensive review of financial reporting disclosures of these.
A considerable review of the disclosures to the financial During the year, the Committee has placed considerable statements took place.
No material new accounting or focus on these key matters: reporting issues arose from this process.
1 Acquisitions and disposals 5 Credit and performance risk Accounting for acquisitions involves significant The Groups global operations expose it to credit and management judgements and estimates.
The acquisition performance risk, which result in the requirement to make of Xstrata on 2 May 2013 was a large scale and complex judgements around recoverability of receivables, loans, transaction, materially impacting the financial statements.
trade advances and contractual non-performance.
As part Management had a period of 12 months from the completion of an ongoing review, the Committee has satisfied itself that of the acquisition to finalise the fair value allocation of the for material continuing exposures, processes followed to acquired assets and liabilities to reflect new information evaluate recoverability of such exposures are sufficiently obtained about the facts and circumstances that existed robust and that amounts recorded in the financial at the acquisition date.
Therefore in 2014 the Committee statements are reasonable.
completed its review and analysis of the process undertaken by management to determine these finalised 6 Taxation fair values, with particular attention being focused on the Due to its global reach, including operating in higher valuation of Xstratas material development projects and risk, less developed jurisdictions, the Group is subject to operating assets.
enhanced complexity and uncertainty in accounting for The accounting treatment of the Las Bambas disposal income taxes, particularly the evaluation of tax exposures and Caracal Energy and Clermont acquisitions were and recoverability of deferred tax.
Assets and exposures also analysed.
arising from acquisitions have been a particular area of focus, especially those relating to the acquisition of 2 Impairment Xstrata.
The Committee has had regular discussions with The Committee considered whether the carrying value management to understand the potential tax exposures of goodwill, industrial assets, physical trade positions globally and the key judgements taken in determining the and material loans and advances may be impaired as a positions recorded, including status of communications with result of the volatile market environment.
We reviewed local tax authorities.
Considerable progress has been made managements report outlining the basis for the key in reducing the number of major outstanding issues.
assumptions used in calculating the recoverable value for The Committee is satisfied that the judgments made by the Groups assets.
Future performance assumptions used management are reasonable and that financial statement are derived from the Board approved business plan.
As part disclosures included in the accounts are appropriate.
of the process for approval of this plan, the Committee considered the feasibility of strategic plans underpinning future performance expectations, and whether they are achievable.
The Committee discussed with the external 96 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance report those specific services.
For 2014, fees paid to the external Internal Audit auditors were $37 million, the total non-audit fees of which The Committee monitored the internal audit function were $8 million: further details are contained in note 29 to asdescribed under Internal Audit on page 93. the financial statements.
External audit Reappointment of the external auditor The Committee has evaluated the effectiveness of Deloitte has been the auditor of the listed entity since the external auditor and as part of this assessment, its incorporation and IPO in 2011.
The most recent lead has considered: audit engagement partner rotation occurred prior to the the steps taken by the auditors to ensure their objectivity financial year ended 31 December 2013 when Mr Matthew and independence: Sheerin replaced Mr David Quinlin as the lead audit engagement partner.
the deep knowledge of the Company which enhances Deloittes ability to perform as external auditor: The Board and the Audit Committee acknowledge the importance of, and greater investor scrutiny in respect of, competence when handling key accounting and audit atendering policy for the appointment of external auditors.
judgements and ability to communicate these to the The Board and the Audit Committee, in particular, also Committee and management: note the current requirements of the Code, the recently the extent of the auditors resources and technical issued final Order on mandatory audit tendering from the capability to deliver a robust and timely audit including UKs Competition and Markets Authority, the European consideration of the qualifications and expertise of Union regulations regarding reform of the audit market the team: and the requirement for mandatory audit rotation and the transitional arrangements provided by these auditors performance and progress against the agreed legislative changes.
audit plan, including communication of changes to the plan and identified risks: and Taking into account the recent major changes to the Group since its IPO and acquisition of Xstrata, the recent partner the proven stability that is gained from the continued rotation and the transitional arrangements, the Audit engagement of Deloitte as external auditor.
Committee concluded that it was appropriate not to tender at the current time.
The Committee assesses the quality and effectiveness of theexternal audit process on an annual basis in conjunction The Committee has determined that it is satisfied that the with the senior management team.
Key areas of focus work of Deloitte LLP is effective, the scope is appropriate include consideration of the quality and robustness of and significant judgements have been challenged robustly theaudit, identification of and response to areas of risk by the lead partner and team.
Additionally there are no andthe experience and expertise of the audit team, contractual restrictions on the Companys choice of external including the lead audit partner.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board that a proposal be put to shareholders at Provision of non-audit services by the external auditor the 2015 AGM for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as The Groups policy on non-audit services provided by the external auditor.
external auditor is designed to ensure the external auditor independence and objectivity is safeguarded.
A specified Leonhard Fischer wide range of services may not be provided as they have Chairman of the Audit Committee the potential to impair the external auditors independence Excluded Services.
The Audit Committees approval 17 March 2015 is required for 1 any Excluded Service 2 any other engagement where either i the fee is contingent, ii the fee may exceed $500,000, or iii where the fees for all non-audit work may exceed $15 million.
Subject to these restrictions and other safeguards in the policy, the external auditors may be permitted to provide certain non-audit services when it is concluded that they are the most appropriate supplier due to efficiency and status as a leading firm for 97 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Thirdly, prior to the notice of 2014 AGM being compiled, Nomination Committee theCommittee considered the performance of each Director.
Chairman It concluded that each Director is effective in their role Peter Grauer and continues to demonstrate the commitment required to remain on the Board.
Accordingly, it recommended to the Other members Board that re-election resolutions be put for each director John Mack atthe 2014 AGM.
Leonhard Fischer Fourthly, the Committee considered the composition of the On 13 February 2014 Anthony Hayward resigned from the Board following the above appointments.
It was agreed that Nomination Committee and Peter Grauer was appointed the Board benefited from the above two appointments and as Chairman of the Committee and Leonhard Fischer that the resulting Board of eight was currently satisfactory, was appointed to the Committee.
John Mack served on subject to ongoing review.
the Committee throughout the year.
The Committee is It is part of the Committees policy when making new Board fully comprised of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
appointments to consider the importance of diversity on the The Committee met four times during the year and its Board, including gender.
This is considered in conjunction members on the relevant date attended all of the meetings.
with experience specific to the business of the Company, the necessary qualifications required, whilst ensuring no Roles and responsibilities disqualifying conflict of interest is present.
The main responsibilities of the Nomination Committee The decision to appoint Peter Grauer as Senior Independent are to assist the Board with succession planning and with Director was taken by the Board as a whole.
the selection process for the appointment of new Directors, both Executive and Non-Executive, including the Chairman.
External consultancy Egon Zehnder was retained for both This involves: ofthe above search mandates.
evaluating the balance and skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and identifying the capabilities Peter Grauer required for a particular appointment: Chairman of the Nomination Committee overseeing the search process: and 17 March 2015 evaluating the need for Board refreshment and successionplanning generally.
Main activities The Committee focused on four main tasks during this year.
The first was the search for a Non-Executive Chairman.
Following an extensive search process, on 8 May 2014 Dr Hayward was appointed as permanent Chairman.
Dr Hayward was initially appointed to the Board in April 2011.
He served as Senior Independent Director until May 2013 when he was appointed interim Chairman.
In recommending his appointment to the Board, on an ongoing basis, the Committee considered the comparative qualities of other strong potential candidates.
In finally recommending Dr Hayward, the Committee had regard to his effective leadership of the Board whilst acting as interim Chairman, his deep knowledge of the resources industry, and experience of the UK corporate governance requirements of a UK listed group.
Secondly, a search process for an additional Non-Executive Director was conducted and Patrice Merrin was appointed on 26 June 2014.
In recommending her appointment to the Board, Ms Merrins in-depth experience of operating across the resources sector and her strong record of Non-Executive Director appointments, including activist investor involvement and industry advisory board service, were considered.
98 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance report Health, Safety, Environment & Communities Main activities HSEC Committee During the year, the Committee: Chairman oversaw a wholesale revamping of the Groups internal Peter Coates assurance programme for sustainability matters: reviewed the current corporate practice framework for Other members the Group, approved ongoing changes and reviewed their Ivan Glasenberg implementation and practice: Anthony Hayward reviewed and oversaw the Groups Sustainability Report Patrice Merrin for 2013: Mr Coates, Dr Hayward and Mr Glasenberg served undertook site visits: throughout the year.
Ms Merrin joined the Committee at its third meeting of the year in August.
The Committee met continued its most important objective of reducing five times during the year and each Committee member fatalities.
For this purpose it received a report on, attended all of the meetings which were held while being a reviewed and made recommendations in respect of, member.
Every meeting had a substantial agenda, reflecting each fatality: the Committees objective of providing leadership for the continued the implementation of the SafeWork Group in seeking to achieve improved HSEC performance.
programme focussing on identification of fatal hazards and an appropriate safety culture.
Employees at the Role and responsibilities Companys assets must understand the Glencore fatal The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: hazard protocols and identify the fatal hazards from evaluate the effectiveness of policies and systems for which they are most at risk: identifying and managing environmental, health, safety developed a new Crisis and Emergency Management and community risks: Policy which includes the Companys new Crisis assess the policies and systems for ensuring Management Plan: compliance with environmental, health and safety oversaw the introduction of new corporate HSEC policies: regulatory requirements: oversaw a project on catastrophic hazards: assess performance with regard to the impact of HSEC related decisions and actions upon employees, finalised the membership application process so the communities and other third parties: Company could become a member of the International Council on Mining and Metals ICMM and received receive reports concerning all fatalities and serious a presentation from the ICMM on the benefits accidents and actions taken as a result of such incidents: of membership: evaluate and oversee the quality and integrity of any commissioned and considered a survey of safety and reporting to external stakeholders concerning HSEC effectiveness of tailings dams across the Group: matters: and considered how the Group might engage more positively review the results of any independent reviews of with NGOs on sustainability matters: performance in regard to HSEC matters and strategies and action plans developed by management in response invited and led an investor roadshow to inform to issues raised.
and receive feedback on the Companys sustainable development strategy and approach to HSEC management: and considered a variety of other material HSEC issues such as resettlement programmes, incident reporting and emergency response preparedness.
Peter Coates Chairman of the Health, Safety, Environment & Communities Committee 17 March 2015
