Nomination Committee Report CONTINUED FOCUS ON THE KNOWLEDGE, EXPERTISE AND DIVERSITY IN OUR BOARD ROOM Appointed two new Non-executive Directors to further strengthen the experience on our Board, and to support the Group to achieve its Strategic Plan.
Dear Shareholder Priorities for 2015 A key focus for the year has been the appointment of two Non-executive Continue to review succession plans for the Board members and key roles Directors.
Both of these appointments were managed in conjunction with across the business: and Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann, recruitment consultants who have signed up Continue to review Board composition to ensure competencies remain to the voluntary Code of Conduct for executive search firms.
Korn Ferry aligned to the Strategic Plan and that the Board continues to be provided a short list of candidates for these roles.
The shortlisted candidates appropriately balanced.
were interviewed by myself and separately by other Board members, including the Executive Directors.
It was pleasing to note that we had a number of The Committees terms of reference, which were reviewed during the year, are female candidates for our NED roles and that we were able to secure another available on Cobhams website or on application to the Company Secretary.
female NED who had all the right attributes to add to and complement our Membership and attendance Board expertise.
Three Nomination Committee meetings were held during the year, attended as follows: Role and focus John Devaney Chair The Nomination Committees main duties are to: Jonathan Flint Review the structure, size and composition of the Board: and Consider succession planning for Directors and other senior executives.
Mike Hagee 1 Highlights of 2014 Birgit Nrgaard Continued to refresh and renew non-executive tenure and skill set to ensure 2 John Patterson an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board: Conducted a thorough and comprehensive search for two new Mark Ronald Non-executive Directors: Mike Wareing Completed the appointment of two Non-executive Directors.
Birgit has extensive experience of the Danish market in which Thrane & Thrane 3 Alison Wood operates, a company we acquired in 2012, and Alan has extensive financial experience: Unable to Attend Attended Considered external appointments to the boards of our subsidiaries: and 1 Birgit joined the Nomination Committee on joining the Board on 24 April 2014.
Oversight of the new organisation design exercise.
2 John retired from the Board and hence the Nomination Committee on 24 April 2014.
3 Alison missed one meeting due to a personal commitment.
Other attendees CEO, by invitation.
com 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Skills and experience The table below identifies the skills and experience of the Board members.
Years with Independence Cobham Skills Experience UK Strategy Corporate Leadership and Risk Governance Corporate Engineering Defence Finance US Market UK Listings HR John Devaney 4 Bob Murphy 2 Simon Nicholls 1 Jonathan Flint 1 Mike Hagee 6 Birgit Nrgaard 0 Mark Ronald 8 Alan Semple 0 Mike Wareing 4 Alison Wood 3 Diversity and inclusion Succession planning The Committee is cognisant of the need for diversity when considering the Succession planning takes place on a regular basis to ensure that the Group is composition of the Board.
In recruiting for Board roles, targets have been set managed by executives with the necessary skills, experience and knowledge.
around ensuring a proportion of female applicants are included in the candidate The Board has a role to play in overseeing the development of management pool for Non-executive Director positions.
The representation of women on the resources in the Group.
Specifically, the Board wants to see depth and quality Board increased from 11% in 2013, to 22% in 2014.
For recent recruitment, the in management, and robust processes are in place to help them in this task.
profile has also included the requirement for a diverse geographical background and commercial market experience.
Succession planning for Non-executive Directors is based on maintaining a depth of knowledge and experience on the Board.
The Nomination Committee Directors professional development actively manages Non-executive Director succession having regard to anticipated On appointment, Directors undertake a structured induction programme in the retirement dates for existing Directors and initiates focused searches for course of which they receive information about: Non-executive Directors as positions are required.
The operations and activities of the Group: The role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision: John Devaney The Groups corporate governance practices and procedures: Their duties, responsibilities and obligations as Directors of a listed Mark Ronald public limited company: and Specific duties as a member of one of the Board committees.
Mike Hagee This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with, and Mike Wareing presentations by, members of the senior management team.
Alison Wood Development for Directors is available as required and is provided mainly by means of internal briefing from senior management or advisers and external Jonathan Flint courses.
In addition, Directors knowledge of the legal and regulatory environment is updated through the provision of information by the Groups Birgit Nrgaard advisers and by means of regular updates from the Company Secretary and the legal team.
Alan Semple Site visits are considered critical to ensure that the Directors remain close to 2006 2011 2014 2016 2021 2026 the business of the Group.
These visits are arranged informally for each Board 1st term 2nd term 3rd term member, as necessary, and supplemented by one formal site visit per year which is attended by all members of the Board.
The current Board composition in relation to the Non-executive Directors in terms of length of service and current term is shown diagrammatically above.
John Devaney Nomination Committee Chair 4 March 2015 www.
com Cobham plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
