Audit Committee Report CONTINUOUS MONITORING OF FINANCIAL REPORTING AND DISCLOSURE PROCESSES The key focus for 2014 has been expanding oversight of the Groups governance, risk and assurance system, developing audit tender plans, and ensuring the controls in relation to the Aeroflex acquisition were fit for purpose.
Dear Shareholder At the 2015 AGM, both Alan and I will be available to respond to any questions I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for 2014.
At the shareholders may raise on this report or the Committees activities.
conclusion of the 2015 AGM, I will be stepping down as Chair of the Committee, and handing over the responsibilities of my role as Chair to Alan Semple.
I will, Highlights of 2014 however, remain a member of the Audit Committee.
Alan has been CFO, Oversight of controls in relation to the Aeroflex acquisition: and a Director, of John Wood Group plc since 2000.
Alans wealth of financial Developed the audit tender plans for 2015: experience complements the substantial knowledge already provided by existing Strengthened review of the policy on the provision of non-audit services Committee members and further strengthens the level of financial expertise of for the external auditors: the Committee.
Greater scrutiny given to programme management: Enhanced review of Safety, Health and Compliance SHE compliance 2014 has been a busy year for the Audit Committee: we have developed our and controls: future plans for the external audit tender, and continued to carefully assess the Increased analysis of the Groups governance framework, including Life Companys relationship with the current external auditor: we have provided vital Cycle Management LCM, Continuous Improvement, and IT controls oversight of the controls in relation to Cobhams acquisition of Aeroflex: and including cyber security : and we have extensively reviewed programme management, and assisted in the Supported the development and initial implementation of the new evolution of the Groups governance, risk and assurance system.
governance, risk and assurance initiative.
Priorities for 2015 Alan Semple Monitoring of the integration of the Aeroflex business into the Group: I am delighted to be taking on Implementation of the audit tender plans: the Audit Committee Chair role Continued oversight of the CFO led governance, risk and assurance initiative: in 2015, and look forward to Ensuring the Group is compliant with the revised UK Corporate Governance working with Mike, other Code and the updated FRC guidance on risk management: and members of the Committee, Continued focus on the Groups governance framework including LCM and management.
Alan joined the Board in February 2015, and will assume the role of Audit Committee Chair in April 2015.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland, and has been the Chief Financial Officer of John Wood Group plc since 2000.
Alan brings with him a wealth of financial and commercial experience in an engineering environment, which will be an invaluable asset to the work of the Committee.
com 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Responsibilities Key issues and activities The Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure Set out in the table below is a summary of matters considered by the Committee and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
The terms of reference, which were during 2014. reviewed in December, are available on Cobhams website or on application to Feb Apr Jul Nov Dec the Company Secretary.
Financial statements and reports The Audit Committees main responsibilities are to: Full year results Monitor the integrity of the Groups Financial Statements and any formal Half year results announcements relating to its financial performance, reviewing accounting policies used and judgements applied: Fair, balanced and understandable assessment Oversee the Groups risk management procedures, and internal control systems: External audit Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: Independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Make recommendations as to the appointment, remuneration and terms of external auditor engagement of the external auditors: Appointment recommendation to the Board Review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: Policy on the provision of non-audit services Develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the external auditor Approval of non-audit fees to supply non-audit services: and External audit scope and fees Monitor and review the Groups policies and practices concerning business External auditors full year report conduct and ethics, including whistleblowing arrangements.
External auditors half year report Membership and attendance Audit tender plans Five Audit Committee meetings were held during the year, attended as follows: Internal audit Mike Wareing Chair Effectiveness review of internal audit Jonathan Flint Internal audit report Mike Hagee Annual internal audit plan Governance, risk and assurance Unable to Attend Attended Global Helpline Investigations report Other attendees Governance, risk and assurance report Meetings of the Committee were attended by the Chairman of the Board, CEO, CFO, Group Director of Financial Control, Head of Internal Audit, and the Governance, risk and assurance framework Company Secretary or her representative, none of whom do so as of right.
Other Internal controls senior executives attend as required to provide information on matters being IT controls discussed which fall into their area of responsibility.
The external auditors, SHE compliance and controls  LLP PwC, also attend each meeting.
Use of intermediaries Other Allocation of time % Updates on accounting and corporate governance developments Internal audit 10% Terms of reference Financial statements and reports Governance, risk and assurance 26% Effectiveness of the Committee 28% LCM Governance The Audit Committee was in place throughout the financial year, with External audit Other 14% 22% Mike Wareing as the Chair.
All three members are independent Non-executive Directors.
Mike Wareing was the International Chief Executive of KPMG until September 2009.
During 2014, Mike was also Audit Committee Chair of Wolseley plc and Intertek Group plc.
This provides the Board with assurance that the Audit Committee meets the Code requirements that at least one member of the Committee has significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee periodically meets separately with the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors without the presence of executive management, and also separately with the CFO.
com Cobham plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Audit Committee Report continued Financial reporting and significant financial judgements In July and November 2014, the Committee reviewed and approved the terms, The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have been areas of responsibility and scope of the December 2014 year-end audit as set out adopted, whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements in the external auditors engagement letter.
During the year, PwC provided audit and also seeks support from the external auditors to assess them.
related services such as regulatory and statutory reporting.
PwC is expected to report to the Committee any material departures from Group accounting policies The Committee reviewed the following significant issues in 2014: and procedures that they identify during the course of their audit work.
None were found or reported in 2014.
The Independent Auditors report to the members of the Company can be found on pages 70 and 118.
Issue Committee action Conclusion with reasoning Revenue and profit Debated accounting Satisfied that accounting External auditor independence and objectivity recognition on policies, judgements on and judgements were The Committee and the external auditors have safeguards to avoid the possible contracts.
material contracts and reasonable and compromise of the auditors objectivity and independence.
These include a external audit reviews.
policy regarding the supply of audit and non-audit services and a policy on the employment of external audit staff.
Non-audit services, as defined from time to time in the policy, can be provided subject to pre-approval by the Committee Goodwill and Challenged internal Satisfied that these were intangible assets papers covering the reasonable and where the cost of any individual engagement exceeds a pre-defined limit and the impairment basis and quantum appropriate, and that cost does not exceed the overall limit set out in the policy.
the disclosures made include: actuarial services: legal services provided in the resolution of a dispute: were appropriate.
and appraisal or valuation services.
All PwCs fees for non-audit work were approved in accordance with the Groups policy covering non-audit services.
Accounting for the Discussed accounting Considered that Aeroflex acquisition.
policies, management accounting and provisions In conjunction with the CFO, the Committee Chair, in accordance with the policy reports, detailed were appropriate.
regarding the supply of audit and non-audit services, approved the services of contract appraisals, PwC to undertake and support managements due diligence work for the legal advice, and internal external acquisition of Aeroflex.
As a result the level of non-audit fees awarded was audit reviews.
greater than the level of audit fees awarded to PwC in 2014.
The decision to appoint PwC to undertake this work was considered by the Committee to be in Inventory provisions.
Challenged internal Considered that the best interests of shareholders.
PwC has a deep understanding of Cobham, papers covering the accounting and provisions placing them at a distinct advantage to support the Board in this regard.
The basis and quantum were appropriate.
Committee does not believe that PwCs independence has been compromised of provisions.
because of this additional work on behalf of the Company.
Accounting for Discussed internal Satisfied that these The total fees paid to PwC in the year ended 31 December 2014 equal 5.4m, uncertain tax papers covering the were reasonable and with non-audit fees of 3.2m representing 59% of the total.
basis and quantum appropriate, and that details the fees paid in 2014, together with a comparison to fees paid in the year of provisions.
the disclosures made were appropriate.
Further disclosure of the type of work undertaken, and the amount of the non-audit fees paid during the year can be found in note Business change Debated accounting Satisfied that accounting 4 to the Group Financial Statements.
policies, and reviewed was reasonable and management reports appropriate.
Total fees paid to the external auditors 2014 and other internal Audit fees Non-audit fees papers.
2.2m 41% 3.2m 59% Fair, balanced and understandable report and accounts At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts was fair, balanced and understandable, to enable shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
It was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
This assessment was underpinned by the following: Total fees paid to the external auditors 2013 The Committees own knowledge of the Group, its strategy and performance in the year: Audit fees Non-audit fees 2.1m 55% 1.7m 45% Comprehensive guidance issued to contributors at operational level: Thorough internal verification of the factual content: Comprehensive reviews undertaken at different levels of the Group to ensure consistency and overall balance: Comprehensive review by the senior management team: and Comprehensive review by the independent external auditors.
External audit processes PwC also provides specific assurance to the Committee on the arrangements and During the year, PwC undertook external audit and certain non-audit work.
The safeguards it has in place to maintain its independence and objectivity, including lead audit partner, Pauline Campbell, attended each Audit Committee meeting, an internal process to pre-approve provision of non-audit services and the use of and the 2014 AGM.
PwC provided the Committee with information and advice separate teams where non-audit services are being provided to the Group.
as well as relevant reports on the financial statements and controls.
com 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The external auditors follow regulatory requirements to maintain the objectivity Risk management is an integral part of the system of internal control.
Sector of the audit process, which stipulate in relation to the senior engagement auditor, Presidents are required to ensure that appropriate processes, including the a five year rotation policy.
Pauline Campbell replaced Stuart Watson as lead audit maintenance of business unit and sector risk registers, exist to identify and partner in 2014. manage risks and to regularly carry out formal risk assessments.
The Risk Committee undertakes a top level review of significant risks and the CEO The Committee is satisfied that the external auditors remain independent.
reports regularly to the Board on their mitigation.
External auditor effectiveness and reappointment In 2014, a significant project was commenced to further enhance the Groups The Committee conducts an annual review of the performance of the external governance, risk and assurance framework.
The Committee provided oversight auditors, including feedback from the finance teams at each of the operating throughout the projects development, and has been greatly encouraged by companies.
The 2014 review was conducted in February 2015 and overall, the progress to date.
The Committee will continue to monitor the initiative feedback was positive.
Having undertaken its review, in the opinion of the throughout 2015.
Committee, the relationship with the external auditors works well, and the Committee remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
The Principal Risks and the enhanced risk management process are highlighted on pages 34 to 39.
The Committee has recommended that a resolution be proposed at the AGM to re-appoint the external auditors and to allow the Audit Committee to set their The Group operates under a system of internal controls which have been remuneration.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys developed and refined over time to meet its needs and the risks and choice of external auditor.
opportunities to which it is exposed.
This includes a strategic planning process involving: External auditor tendering The preparation of the Strategic Plan: PwC have been the auditors of Cobham plc for many years.
Following regulatory A comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget which is clarity, during 2014 the Committee discussed and developed its plans for the approved by the Board: tender of the Groups external audit.
The Committee has decided to conduct a The regular revision of financial forecasts for the year: tender exercise in 2015, for the 2016 year end.
Following a rigorous tender The monitoring of financial performance: and process, the Committee shall provide the Board with their recommendation, The appropriate delegation of authorities to operational management.
before putting the appointment of the external auditors to a shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM.
Delegations and other operational controls are contained in the Corporate Framework and the Group Finance Manual.
Specifically with regard to the Internal audit financial reporting process and the preparation of the Group Financial The Head of Internal Audit formally reports to the Committee Chair, and was Statements, the system includes a semi-annual representation letter from all present in each of the five scheduled Committee meetings.
The findings of each business units.
Included in those letters are written acknowledgements that internal audit review are summarised and the Committee focuses its discussions financial reporting is based upon reliable data and that the results are properly on unsatisfactory findings and on the action plans in place to address them.
stated in accordance with Group policies.
Particular areas of focus during 2014 included IT security and the amalgamation of the acquired Aeroflex sites.
The Committee believes that the current arrangements consisting of the half yearly risk assessment process, a rotational programme of internal financial The Committee approved the Internal Audit Work Plan for 2015, including the and other control reviews by the internal audit function, other experienced proposed audit approach, coverage and allocation of resources.
The Committee internal teams, external experts and business reviews carried out by the CEO also received updates against the 2014 internal audit programme throughout and CFO and a process of self-assessment of internal financial controls by all the year.
business units, provides appropriate coverage of the Groups activities.
Where weaknesses have been identified, plans for remedying them are developed and In February 2015, the Committee conducted an annual review of the progress monitored.
effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, taking into account the views of Directors and senior management on matters such as independence, Cobham Code of Business Conduct violations and fraud proficiency, resourcing, and audit strategy, planning and methodology.
The Details of the Cobham Code of Business Conduct and the mechanisms, review confirmed that the internal audit function was independent and including those maintained by independent third parties, by which suspected objective and remained an effective element of the Groups corporate violations of the Code are raised and independently investigated, are provided governance framework.
in the CR&S section of this report, on pages 40 to 43.
The Committee regularly received reports providing details of these cases, their outcome, and the Risk management and internal controls corrective actions taken.
In addition, the Committee received reports providing The Board is responsible for the oversight and application of the Groups risk details of any fraud losses.
management and internal control systems, the aim of which is to manage risks that are significant to the fulfilment of the Groups business objectives and to contribute to the safeguarding of shareholders investment and the Groups assets.
The Board receives reports on a regular basis from the Audit Committee in relation to the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
The Committees review covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems and is designed to give assurance that the day to day risk management and internal control policies Mike Wareing and procedures, which are embedded in the business, have operated effectively Audit Committee Chair in the review period.
The principal elements, the three lines of assurance, are 4 March 2015 outlined in the diagram shown on page 35.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
com Cobham plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
