CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code A.
Provision of information and support A1.
The Boards role The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that all In 2014, the Board met nine times, in order to review the Companys Board members receive accurate and timely information.
All the Directors have performance and strategy against set objectives.
The Boards role is to lead the access to independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, where Group with a view to the creation of strong, sustainable financial performance the Directors judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
and long-term shareholder value, to approve the Groups Strategic Plan and to monitor management performance against plan.
The Board also sets the Groups B6.
Board and Committee performance evaluation risk appetite, and monitors the Companys risk management processes.
The The Board and the Board Committees undertook an internal evaluation in 2014.
Board has adopted a clear schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval, Details of the process undertaken, and a table of actions instigated by this including a framework for those decisions which can be delegated to committees evaluation are included on page 48.
The Senior Independent Director also held a or otherwise.
Further details can be found in the Corporate Governance Report meeting with the Non-executives in the absence of the Chairman to appraise the on page 48.
Directors re-election The Boards policy is that the roles of Chairman and CEO should be performed All directors were subject to shareholder election or re-election, as appropriate, by different people.
The division of responsibilities is documented and clearly at the AGM.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board, and the CEO is responsible for leading the day-to-day management C. Accountability of the Company within the strategy set by the Board.
Financial and business reporting The statement of the Directors responsibilities is set out on page 68, and the A3.
Role of the Chairman independent auditors report is on page 70.
The Companys business model is The Chairman sets the agendas for meetings, manages the meeting timetable explained on pages 4 and 5. and facilitates open and constructive dialogue during the meetings.
Risk management and internal control systems A4.
Role of the Non-executive Directors The Board sets the Companys risk appetite and conducts a robust assessment The Board has appointed a Senior Independent Director to provide a sounding of the principal risks, along with an annual review of the effectiveness of the board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors Companys risk management, and internal control systems.
The activities of both where necessary.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders, the Audit and Risk Committee, which assist the Board with its responsibilities in should they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of relation to risk management, reporting and assurance, are set out on pages 34 communication has failed to resolve.
The Chairman has held regular meetings with the Non-executives in the C3.
Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee absence of Executive Directors, providing an opportunity for any concerns Details of the composition of the Audit Committee and how the Committee has to be discussed.
discharged its responsibilities during the year is provided in the Audit Committee Report on pages 52 to 55.
The Terms of Reference for the Audit Committee are B.
Effectiveness reviewed annually and are available on the Company website.
The Boards composition The Board currently consists of ten individuals, the Chairman, two Executive D. Remuneration Directors, and seven independent Non-executive Directors.
Levels and components of remuneration of the Board is reviewed regularly by the Nomination Committee to ensure The Board believes that the Groups remuneration policy is appropriately that there is an appropriate mix of skills, and a range of diverse experience.
designed to promote the long-term success of the Company, while enabling Board members biographies are provided on pages 44 and 45 and identify the Group to attract, retain and motivate the executive talent required for the experience each Director brings to the Board.
A table identifying the the delivery of its business strategy.
For further information, see the Directors skills and experience of the Board members may also be found on page 51.
Remuneration Report, and summarised Remuneration Policy, on pages 56 to 64.
The Board determines, through the Nomination Committee, the independence of its members.
Conflicts of interest are also monitored and updated at least D2.
Development of remuneration policy and packages annually and more frequently as and when required.
The membership of the Remuneration Committee is made up of Non-executive Directors only.
The Terms of Reference for the Remuneration Committee are B2.
Board appointments reviewed annually and are available on the Company website.
The Remuneration The appointment of new directors to the Board is led by the Nomination Committee has delegated authority for setting the remuneration of Executive Committee.
The Nomination Committees Terms of Reference, as published Directors and the Chairman.
The fees payable to the Non-executive Directors on the Company website, document their responsibility regarding Board are determined by the Board, on recommendation from the Executive Directors appointments.
The Committee consists of all the Non-executive Directors Committee.
Further details of the appointments undertaken during the year and succession planning, including the Boards policy on diversity, E. Relations with shareholders including gender, can be found on page 51.
Shareholder engagement and dialogue Effective communication and engagement with investors is of paramount B3.
Time commitments importance to the continued success of the Company.
The Company maintains The time commitments of Non-executive Directors are defined on appointment a relationship with shareholders through a series of road shows completed and regularly evaluated.
The Chairman gives consideration to new directorships through the year, which are usually attended by the Chief Executive Officer and which may impact existing time commitments.
In 2014, the Chairman also invited the largest of the Companys shareholders to meet with him independently.
Training and development found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 49.
On appointment, Directors undertake a structured induction programme, which is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with senior executives.
E2 Constructive use of general meetings Further training for Directors is offered when taking a new role on a Committee The Board values all general meetings as an important opportunity to engage and is otherwise available as required and may be provided through tailored with investors.
Attendees at general meetings have the opportunity to ask programmes.
Further details can be found in the Directors professional questions to the Board and to speak to individual Directors following the formal development section on page 51. business of the meeting.
com Cobham plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
