Corporate Governance Report CREATING A MORE SIMPLIFIED, STREAMLINED ORGANISATION REBALANCED TOWARDS COMMERCIAL MARKETS We made real progress on our strategic objectives, in particular, the key objective to position the Company to return to sustainable organic growth in 2015.
Dear Shareholder Corporate Governance Index During the past 12 months we have made real progress on our strategic 1.
Board of Directors 44 objectives, in particular, the key objective to position the Company to return to sustainable organic growth in 2015.
Nomination Committee Report 50 The Group has been restructured, creating a more simplified and 4.
Audit Committee Report 52 streamlined organisation.
We have completed our largest ever acquisition: 5.
Directors Remuneration Report 56 we welcome the employees of Aeroflex into the Cobham family.
We have made great progress integrating the two companies together and it is 6.
Directors Report 65 already having a positive impact.
The combination broadens our footprint 7.
Statement of Directors Responsibility 68 in the exciting and growing connectivity space, and is helping us to make 8.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 69 considerable headway in rebalancing the portfolio away from defence and towards the commercial markets.
This part of the Annual Report describes how the Company has applied, We launched the Great Place to Work process, so that all of our employees and complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code published in 2012 can work together to achieve Cobhams full potential and truly become, a Code.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and great place to work.
is available from its website www.
The Board has overseen the appointment of two new Non-executive Directors: Birgit Nrgaard, who brings with her experience of the Continental European Responsibility statements markets, along with extensive commercial and business expertise: and Statements relating to the responsibilities of the Directors are on page 68 and Alan Semple, whose appointment, with his financial and engineering experience, those relating to the auditors are on pages 70 and 118. strengthens the depth of knowledge on the Audit Committee.
Share capital Our markets in 2015 will continue to challenge and we will continue to work Details of the share capital of the Company and the powers of the Directors in hard to respond to those challenges.
I trust we can rely on your continued relation to allotment, issue and market purchases of shares are given in the support for the foreseeable future.
Statement of compliance with the provisions of the Code Financial reporting The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
In accordance In the Directors view, the Annual Report and Accounts for 2014, together with with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company confirms the interim management statements, the interim report and other reports made that throughout the year ended 31 December 2014 and at the date of this during the year, present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Annual Report, it was compliant with the provisions of the Code.
The Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts as stated in the Financial Review on page 33.
com 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Role and focus The Board composition The Boards main duties are to: The Board comprises a Non-executive Chairman John Devaney, a CEO Bob Lead the Group with a view to the creation of strong, sustainable financial Murphy, a CFO Simon Nicholls and seven other Non-executive Directors of performance and long term shareholder value: whom Mike Wareing is the Senior Independent Director.
All Non-executive Review and agree Group strategy: Directors are considered to be independent and the Chairman was considered to Ensure that the necessary resources are in place: be independent on appointment.
They all held office throughout the year except Monitor management performance: and Birgit Nrgaard and Alan Semple, who joined the Board on 24 April 2014 and Supervise the conduct of the Groups activities within a framework of 25 February 2015 respectively.
John Patterson stood down from the Board, prudent and effective internal controls.
having completed nine years as a Non-executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee, at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
Highlights of 2014 The Board, in conjunction with senior management, devoted additional time Biographies of the Directors, giving details of their experience and other to the further development of the Groups strategy and specifically agreed a significant commitments, are set out on pages 44 and 45.
The wide ranging new connectivity strategy: experience and backgrounds of the Non-executive Directors enable them to The acquisition of Aeroflex, a significant transaction for both groups, support, debate and constructively challenge management in relation to both including the completion of a placing and bank financing.
This acquisition the development of strategy and the performance of the Group.
The attendance was borne out of the new connectivity strategy: of Directors at Board meetings is set out across the page and attendance at Structural redesign for the business, creating a more simplified and principal Board Committee meetings as members of such committees during streamlined organisation: the year is set out in the reports from each committee on pages 50, 53 and 57.
The reconstitution of the senior management team has been completed and new team members are now in post and already contributing to the The rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out in the achievement of our Strategic Plan: Companys Articles of Association the Articles, copies of which can be obtained Oversight of the restructuring of the portfolio with planned disposals of from Companies House in the UK or by contacting the Company Secretary.
businesses which no longer fit our strategy: Changes to the Articles must be approved by shareholders passing a special Oversight of the search and appointment of two new Non-executive resolution.
The Directors and the Company in the latter case by ordinary Directors, Birgit Nrgaard and Alan Semple: and resolution may appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, either to Evaluated and approved two large bid submissions above authority fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
limits delegated to the Executive Directors outside of the regular Board meeting agenda.
All the Non-executive Directors have confirmed that they have sufficient time to meet their time commitments to the Group.
Copies of their appointment letters Priorities for 2015 are available on request to the Company Secretary and will be available for Oversight of the return to growth agenda: inspection at the AGM.
Continue to review performance against agreed strategic enablers: Oversight of the Aeroflex integration, including delivery of targeted synergies: In accordance with the Code, which recommends that all Directors of FTSE350 Continue to focus on market evaluation and strategic development: and companies seek re-election by shareholders on an annual basis, all Directors Continue to rebalance the portfolio in line with strategy and towards currently in office will retire and seek re-election at the AGM.
In addition, Birgit our commercial markets.
Nrgaard, and Alan Semple, are seeking election by shareholders at the 2015 AGM for the first time.
The Board has set out in the circular, a resolution to elect Birgit Nrgaard and Alan Semple as Non-executive Directors and explains why it Board meeting attendance for 2014 believes they should be elected.
The Chairman confirms to shareholders when Nine Board meetings were held during the year, attended as follows: proposing re-appointment that the individuals performance continues to be John Devaney effective and that the individual continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Non-executive Directors are subject to Companies Act provisions relating Bob Murphy to the removal of a Director.
Simon Nicholls The Chairman is, among other things, responsible for chairing Board meetings Jonathan Flint and leading the Board.
The CEOs responsibilities include operational performance, corporate social responsibility and the development and Mike Hagee implementation of the Groups strategy.
He also focuses on long-term growth 1 Birgit Nrgaard and development of the Group, its people and customer relationships.
The Boards policy is that the roles of Chairman and CEO should be performed 2 John Patterson by different people.
3 Mark Ronald The Senior Independent Directors responsibilities include the provision of 4 Mike Wareing an additional channel of communication between the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors.
He also provides another point of contact for Alison Wood shareholders if they have concerns which communication through the Unable to Attend Attended normal channels of Chairman, CEO or CFO has failed to resolve, or where 1 these contacts are inappropriate.
Birgit Nrgaard joined the Board on 24 April 2014.
2 John Patterson retired from the Board on 24 April 2014.
3 Mark Ronald was recused from attending all meetings between May and September 2014 due to the acquisition of Aeroflex, for whom he was also a Non-executive Director.
4 Mike Wareing missed one Board meeting due to ill-health.
com Cobham plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Report continued Board proceedings Board committees Board meetings, scheduled in accordance with the annual timetable, took The Board is supported in its work by a number of committees.
The Company place seven times during the year on a face to face basis and twice by telephone.
Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees.
Committee chairs provide There is contact between meetings to progress the Groups business as required.
oral reports on the work undertaken by their committees at the following Board Meetings are held in London and at an international operational location.
Information relating to the activities of each committee may be found the site visited was Lyngby, in Denmark.
In addition, the Senior Independent on the pages that follow.
All Board committees are provided with sufficient Director held a meeting with the Non-executives in the absence of the Chairman resources to undertake their duties.
to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Chairman has also held meetings with the Non-executives in the absence of the Executive Directors.
The other principal Board committee is the Executive Directors Committee.
The Executive Directors are members of this Committee under the chairmanship The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval.
The purpose is to assist the CEO in the performance of his duties The schedule provides the framework for those decisions which can be made by and its terms of reference include: establishing and implementing internal the Board and those which can be delegated either to committees or otherwise.
policies, systems and controls, to ensure that potential inside information is Among the key matters on which the Board alone may make decisions are the communicated to it, considered, verified and released to the market where Groups business strategy, its five year plan, its consolidated budget, Group required: the discharge of obligations arising under the Companys share plans: policies, dividends, acquisitions and disposals, and all appointments to and the determination of the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors: the removals from the Board.
Authority is delegated to management on a structured approval of banking facilities: and the approval of bids and contracts.
This basis in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Framework ensuring Committee met on 17 occasions during the year and, in addition, as required that proper management oversight exists at the appropriate level.
Matters to respond to business needs and market conditions.
delegated in this way include, within defined parameters: the approval of bids and contracts, capital expenditures and financing arrangements.
Board of Directors Audit Nomination Remuneration Executive Directors The Board has adopted procedures relating to the conduct of its business, Committee Committee Committee Committee including the timely provision of information, and the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that these are observed and for advising the Board Management committees on corporate governance matters.
The Company Secretary is appointed, and The Group Executive Committee and the other principal management Board of Directors Group Executive incorporating the Risk Committee can only be removed, by the Board.
committees are shown in the table below.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Executive Directors Vertical Corporate Committee Committee Committee Committee Merger & If a Director were to have a concern which cannot be resolved this would be All of the below is in addition to quarterly business reviews, business development Leadership teams Responsibility Acquisitions recorded in the Board minutes.
On resignation, Non-executive Directors are reviews and function reviews, supporting the new organisational design.
and Horizontal & Sustainability Committee invited to provide a written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Council Meetings Committee Board if they have concerns.
No such statements were made during 2014.
Group Executive incorporating the Risk Committee Business Ethics & Compliance All potential situational and transactional conflicts of interest are disclosed, noted Vertical Corporate Merger & Committee Leadership teams Internal Audit and authorised.
Procedures are in place and operating effectively to keep such Responsibility Acquisitions Talent Board Sub-committee and Horizontal & Sustainability disclosures up to date.
Committee Safety, Health Council Meetings Committee & Environment Committee Performance evaluation Business Ethics The Board conducts an evaluation of its activities on an annual basis.
During & Compliance 2014, the Board and its committees undertook an internal evaluation.
The Committee Internal Audit Talent Board evaluation included the circulation of a questionnaire, with a focus on Sub-committee Safety, Health governance around the Aeroflex transaction and the Board site visit.
The & Environment Board considered the output at their December meeting and has approved Committee an action plan to address issues arising.
A table of actions instigated by this and the previous performance evaluation is included below.
In 2015, the Board is planning to undertake an external evaluation.
Board and committees performance evaluation Evaluation year Observations Actions taken 2013 Members of the Group Executive should be Presentations from the Group Executive were built in to the Board Work Plan for 2014 and provided with opportunities to present to the going forward.
Various opportunities have also been taken for the Board to meet members Board on their areas of the business to provide of the senior management team both professionally and socially.
more exposure to the Board members.
Continued development of the strategic The connectivity strategy was agreed during the first part of the year during a scheduled planning process.
Board meeting, following which the Aeroflex transaction was identified.
A Board meeting dedicated to strategic discussion was held during late 2014.
Although this was delayed by the acquisition of the Aeroflex Group, the Board felt there had been a big improvement in strategic materials and subsequent Board discussions.
Ongoing strategic updates form part of the rolling Board agenda.
The continued investment in the products of the business to ensure currency of technology is recognised as key and more emphasis should be placed on pursuing and monitoring strategic opportunities through such investment.
Continued development of the strategic The Board identified a number of additional pieces of work they would like to see as part of the planning process.
These have now been scheduled into the work cycle for the Strategic team and the business, where appropriate, for delivery during 2015 Board strategy discussions.
com 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Summary of 2014 investor relations activity JanFeb MarApr May Jun Jul AugSep OctNov Dec Preliminary Interim Interim 2014 Interim 2013 results Management results Management Statement Statement Webcast & Webcast & conference conference call call Industry Investor Investor Industry Capital Markets Investor conferences exhibition conference conference exhibition Day Site visits Site visit Site visit Investor meetings Investor meetings The Interim Management Statement is a short quarterly update on the Groups trading, significant events and financial position.
Shareholder relations There is also a section of the main Cobham website that is maintained The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective two-way specifically for investors.
This is updated regularly and contains a variety communication programme with shareholders and potential shareholders.
of information including company summaries and overviews, background This assists investors understanding of the Groups strategy, business model information and company history, news and events, reports and presentations, and remuneration structure and allows the Board to understand shareholder financial tools and charts and corporate governance information.
During the views when formulating its strategy and policies, ensuring the interests of the year, a major project was undertaken to further develop the look and feel Company and investors are aligned.
Cobhams programme of shareholder of the investor website and increase the amount of information available interaction is intended to meet these aims.
During the year presentations were given to investors on the morning of the The Board receives a report from the CFO at each of its meetings on investor announcement of the interim and preliminary results.
The presentations were relations, including significant changes to shareholdings, meetings with and accompanied by a live webcast and conference call for investors unable to feedback from shareholders and research recently published on the Group.
Copies of the associated presentation materials, together with webcasts, can be accessed on Cobhams website.
The Group also hosted I write to major shareholders annually, informing them that I am available to a presentation, which was also webcast, for shareholders on the day of the meet them if they have concerns.
announcement of the Aeroflex acquisition in May 2014.
Cobhams AGM is attended by all Board Directors and shareholders have the opportunity to question the Board on its stewardship of the Group and to meet the Directors informally.
In addition, a full programme of engagement with investors and analysts, both in the UK and overseas, was undertaken through the year, which is led by the CEO and CFO.
In total there were some 194 meetings in the year with 185 investors.
John Devaney Chairman A summary of the timing of this activity is set out in the table above.
4 March 2015 This engagement included one-to-one and group meetings with shareholders, participation in investor conferences, investor participation in industry exhibitions and shareholder visits to Cobham operating locations.
Site visits and industry exhibitions are hosted by senior members of management within the business units and are intended to give investors detailed insight and access to the business products and operations.
com Cobham plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
