Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Corporate Governance Report In the case of JUST EAT, although a relatively young company, Bringing a company to the public we already had good governance practices in place before our markets provides its Board with an IPO.
There were regular and structured Board meetings with ideal opportunity to look afresh at its active participation by Executive and Non-Executive Directors alike.
We had active Audit and Remuneration Committees governance arrangements.
Transparency comprised solely of Non-Executive Directors.
We had a is both welcomed and expected.
commitment to good practice in corporate governance as an Independent Board representation is essential part of creating shareholder value over the long-term.
Directors remuneration These were not adjuncts to the success of the business they were right at the core of that success being achieved.
Building on these firm foundations, we took the opportunity of the Companys IPO to refresh our Board and Committee governance arrangements and bring them into line with recognised good practice for fully-listed companies based on the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code.
Appointing three new independent Directors, Gwyn Burr and Andrew Griffith, in advance of our IPO, and Henri Moissinac following the IPO.
They provide diverse, valuable and fully independent representation to our Board.
Reconstituting the Audit and Remuneration Committees with our new independent Directors and with updated terms of reference, and appointing a new Nominations Committee on a similar basis.
Each of these Committees is now fully compliant with the recommendations of the UK Code.
Appointment of Andrew Griffith as our Senior Independent Director in addition to his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Formalising other governance arrangements such as the division of responsibilities between David Buttress as CEO and me as Chairman and expanding the matters specifically reserved for the decision of the Board reported on more fully in the report of our Board commencing on page 46.
Moving the remuneration of our Executive Directors towards more typical practice for listed companies reported on more fully in the report of our Remuneration Committee commencing on page 58.
We view these developments as part of an ongoing process.
Our view is that achieving best practice in corporate governance is a journey rather than a destination.
In the same way as JUST EAT in the past year completed its IPO so it will continue to evolve in 42 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements other ways that will require ongoing development of its I look forward to reporting to you next year on how our governance arrangements.
Our commitments to high standards governance arrangements continue to develop.
This will include a of corporate governance and business integrity will allow us report on the evaluation to be undertaken of the effectiveness of to continue to set the tone as well as the direction of the our Board in the first year since the Companys IPO and on any management of the Group.
This will remain an important actions we undertake in response to this.
We view measurement contributor to the continued creation of value for shareholders of performance, targeting improvement and reporting results to on a sustained basis over the long-term.
be important for us as a Board as it is for our business.
UK Code compliance On behalf of the Board This Corporate Governance Report, including the sections that follow, sets out how the Company has applied the main principles of good governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code for the period from the date of the Companys IPO to December 2014.
The Board considers that the Company has been compliant with the Code provisions that applied during this period, and will comply with those that apply after, with the following exceptions: John Hughes, CBE Chairman 1.
1.2 recommends that at least half the 16 March 2015 members of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
For the purposes of assessing compliance with the Code, the Board considers that Gwyn Burr, Andrew Griffith, and Henri Moissinac are independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
The Board also considers that I, as Chairman of the Company, was independent at the time of appointment.
As well as our two Executive Directors, we have three other Non-Executive Directors who were nominated by major shareholders and are therefore not considered to be independent for the purposes of the Code.
Whilst the Board is therefore not fully compliant with this part of the Code, we believe its current membership works well, and intend to move to full compliance as the Board changes under the terms of the Board Representation Agreement, details of which are given in the Directors Report on page 146.
Although the memberships of our Audit and Remuneration Later in this corporate Committees were not fully compliant with Code Provisions governance report: C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 respectively immediately following IPO, the Remuneration Committee became fully compliant as soon 1.
An introduction to our Board is given in the biographies of as Henri Moissinac was appointed as its third independent our Directors on the next pages.
member: and the Audit Committee became fully compliant when Fredric Coorevits stepped down from this following 2.
More detail on the role and activities of the Board and our Nomination Committee starts on page 46. the transition period to its new Chairman.
Andrew Griffith, the Chairman of our Audit Committee, reports on its work commencing on page 52.
Gwyn Burr reports on the remuneration of our Directors in her capacity as Chairman of our Remuneration Committee, commencing on page 58. www.
