Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Report of the Audit Committee Membership As the Audit Committee, we assist the Our committee comprises three independent Directors, Gwyn Board in its oversight of financial Burr, Henri Moissinac and myself, Andrew Griffith.
During the reporting, internal control and risk period from the Companys IPO until October last year, Frederic Coorevits also served as a member of the Committee to assist management.
This report summarises with the transition to the new membership, having been its our membership and activities during Chairman before the IPO.
We are grateful to Fred for his valuable 2014 since the IPO.
Role and activities We met five times as a Committee after the IPO during the year, and three times subsequently since the year-end.
We considered this frequency of meetings appropriate during JUST EATs first year as a public company although anticipate less frequent meetings in the coming year.
Mike Wroe, our Chief Financial Officer, and senior representatives of the financial management team also attend our meetings as do representatives of the external auditors as appropriate.
At our meetings in the past year, we received presentations on, and reviewed and considered the following matters: the remuneration and proposed reappointment of our external auditors: the framework for the engagement of the external auditors in non-audit services: the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors: the plans for and outcome of the preparation and review of the Groups half year results and audit of the full year accounts including presentations from both management and the external auditors on these: the Groups accounting policies, procedures and its financial control environment: the Groups system of internal controls, including financial, operational and risk management, supplementing at a more granular level the Boards consideration of strategic risks: key internal policies including anti-bribery and related policies and whistleblowing arrangements which include an externally managed hotline: the establishment of and reports from the internal audit function in the Group reporting directly to the Committee and drawing on and developing control and risk management procedures already being undertaken: and 52 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements whether the Annual Report taken as a whole provides a fair, The Committee also meets privately with the external auditors at balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups least once per year and did so prior to its recommendation to the position and prospects and whether it provides the necessary Board on approval of the Annual Report.
information to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, the ultimate decision on which is taken by the Board, as set out in the Directors responsibility statement in the Directors report on page 149.
Significant Issues Prior to each meeting of the Audit Committee at which they are to be considered, management produces a paper providing details of any significant accounting, tax, HR and legal issues.
Management are also invited to attend these meetings where further guidance is required.
The significant issues considered by the Audit Committee in respect of the 2014 Annual Report are as follows.
Significant issues the Committee has considered How the issue was addressed Business combinations The valuations and accounting papers prepared by There were a number of changes to the Group structure during management were reviewed and considered by the Audit the year, including a number of acquisitions and the merger of Committee, to confirm that the valuations and accounting our Brazilian subsidiary with iFood.
The total cash consideration treatments adopted are appropriate.
This included: paid during the year was 14.4 million, which resulted in an 1. considering the cash flows and discount rates used in the increase in the Groups goodwill and acquired intangible assets business valuations and the calculations minority buy-out balances.
In the Income Statement a gain has been recognised provision calculations: in respect of the step acquisition of FBA Invest SaS.
In addition, a gain was recognised on the disposal of JUST EAT Brazil 2. considering the key inputs used on the intangible assets Services Online Ltda following the merger with iFood.
These valuations: two gains were based on business valuations performed by 3. reviewing and considering the other fair value adjustments management.
Provisions have been established in respect of made by management to arrive at the fair values of the the buy-out of the minority shareholders of FBA Invest SaS assets and liabilities acquired: and and Orogo Limited.
4. reviewing the approach taken to identifying acquired intangible assets and challenging the balance of goodwill as compared with intangible assets.
The Committee was satisfied that management used a consistently applied model for identifying and valuing assets that are core to the existing business model.
Independent valuation experts were consulted when required such as for the Meal2Go acquisition where additional insight was required.
Please refer to notes 33 and 34 to the financial statements for information on the business combinations.
com 53 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Report of the Audit Committee continued Significant Issues continued Significant issues the Committee has considered How the issue was addressed Long-term employee incentive costs The valuations of the Group prepared by management, Several share-based incentive schemes are in place for the that supported the fair values of the latest grants made Directors and employees of the Group.
The total charge for in February 2014 were presented to the Audit Committee.
long-term employee incentive costs in the year was 4.9 million.
The accounting for each of the various schemes was considered by the Audit Committee.
Further details The charge relates to grants made prior to the Groups listing on regarding the schemes are disclosed within note 37 the London Stock Exchange.
As a result the fair value of the to the financial statements.
options granted could not be based on the Companys listed share price, but had to be based on other valuations available or The main judgement area concerning share based payments determined by management.
In addition, the plans are bespoke was with regards to the valuation of the business.
As this was and are accounted for accordingly.
concluded upon IPO, this is now less of a judgement area.
Potential impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Impairment reviews have been performed by management At 31 December 2014, the Group had goodwill balances on the Groups cash generating units CGUs to which totalling of 51.2 million and other intangible assets totalling goodwill and other intangible assets have been allocated.
The cash flow forecasts used were based on the budgets approved by the Board together with assumed growth rates, thereafter.
The key assumptions around future growth rates and discount rates used were reviewed and considered by the Audit Committee.
In addition, the Committee reviewed managements sensitivity analyses regarding these assumptions.
The Committee has been satisfied that there was no impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets as at 31 December 2014.
Please refer to notes 16 to the financial statements for further information.
Meeting the new reporting requirements of being a Management have employed experienced individuals to listed entity ensure all reporting requirements are met.
In April 2014 JUST EAT listed on the London Stock exchange, bringing with it additional regulatory and reporting requirements.
The Audit Committee reviewed the disclosures in the Annual Being a listed entity brings with it additional reporting Report, including those included for the first time, and requirements and the Groups 2014 Annual Report is the first discussed them with management and the Groups auditors.
54 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Internal controls and risk management environment established policies and procedures setting out expected The Board is ultimately responsible for the operation of an standards of integrity and ethical standards which reinforce effective system of internal control and risk management the need for all employees to adhere to all legal and appropriate to the business.
regulatory requirements: an experienced and qualified finance function which regularly The Company has complied with the FRCs revised Internal assesses the possible financial impact of the risks facing the Control Guidance for Directors on the Code published in 2005 Group: and the Turnbull guidance throughout the period and up to the date on which these financial statements were approved.
an ongoing risk management programme, including a comprehensive disaster recovery and business Day-to-day operating and financial responsibility rests with interruption plan.
senior management and performance is closely monitored on a monthly basis.
An Internal Audit function was established during the year to carry out regular reviews of the Groups systems of internal Set out below is further comment on the areas of internal control control and risk management.
The aim of the Internal Audit and risk management.
function is provide assurance that the system of internal controls is operated correctly in the Group.
Internal control environment The following key elements comprise the internal control How we manage risk environment which has been designed to identify, evaluate and As shown on the following page, the Company has a robust manage, rather than eliminate, the risks faced by the Group in risk management process that follows a sequence of risk seeking to achieve its business objectives and ensure accurate identification, assessment of probability and impact, and assigns and timely reporting of financial data for the Company and an owner to manage mitigation activities.
A register is kept of all the Group: corporate risks and is monitored by senior management and reported to the Audit Committee.
an appropriate organisational structure with clear lines of responsibility: Throughout the period of review, the risk register and the methodology applied is the subject of continuous review by a comprehensive annual strategic and business planning process: senior management and updated to reflect new and developing areas which might impact business strategy.
systems of control procedures and delegated authorities which operate within defined guidelines, and approval limits The Audit Committee actively review the risk register and assess for capital and operating expenditure and other key business the actions being taken by senior management to monitor and transactions and decisions: mitigate the risks.
Those risks which are considered to be the principal risks of the Group are presented on pages 36 to 39. a robust financial control, budgeting and rolling forecast system, which includes regular monitoring, variance analysis, key performance indicator reviews and risk and opportunity assessments at Board level: procedures by which the Groups consolidated financial statements are prepared, which are monitored and maintained through the use of internal control frameworks addressing key financial reporting risks arising from changes in the business or accounting standards: an experienced and commercially focused legal function that supports the Groups operational and technical functions: www.
com 55 I n t y e f r P i d n t l r a n a a l n e o A d B I u d i t s i s e y t a l c a i n n u Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Report of the Audit Committee continued Risk management framework Strategic Objectives This approach to risk management helps to facilitate top-down and bottom-up perspectives across key business risks within the organisation.
The corporate risk register is presented to, and reviewed by, the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
56 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 m A m o k C s i e R e t t i n M m e a A m m n s o e a s l C g e p e t s i m m s d e I u n A t Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Review of effectiveness The external Auditors are not permitted to provide internal The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has reviewed auditor services to the Group.
PwC have been selected as the the effectiveness of the internal control systems and risk co-sponsor for our Internal Audit work.
Before any former management processes in place during the period, taking employee of the external or internal audit team may be account of any material developments since the financial period employed by the Group, careful consideration must be given as end.
The Committee has not identified, nor been advised, of any to whether the independence of the Auditors will be adversely failings or weaknesses that it has determined to be significant.
affected, and approval of the Audit Committee is required.
This particular circumstance has not arisen since the IPO.
Independence and performance of the auditors The Audit Committee has set a policy which is intended to Deloitte were appointed as the Groups Auditors in 2009 and the maintain the independence and integrity of the Companys most recent partner rotation took place in 2013.
Whilst we do Auditors when acting as auditor of the Groups accounts.
The not consider it necessary to have a policy for the rotation of the policy governs the provision of audit, audit-related assurance and external audit firm immediately following the Companys IPO, we non-audit services provided by the auditor and, in summary, plan to keep this possibility under review in the coming years and requires approval by the Committee for all projects with an will continue to comply with the audit tender rules applying to expected cost in excess of 50,000. the Company.
The Auditors are required regularly to report on and confirm their independence in their role.
During the year, the audit-related assurance services provided by the Auditors to the Group mainly comprised the review of the The Audit Committee has assessed the performance and half-year results.
Other services performed by the Auditors in effectiveness of the 2014 external audit process in the past year 2014 related mainly to their work as Reporting Accountants in primarily through dialogue with the senior members of the connection with the Companys IPO, and subsequent step-up finance and company secretarial teams.
A detailed follow-up will to the Main Market from the High Growth Segment.
They also be scheduled upon completion of the audit process including the included, tax compliance and tax advisory work.
Primarily due to individual subsidiary statutory accounts audit process where their role as Reporting Accountants for the IPO and Main Market additional feedback will be sought from senior managers around step-up the non-audit fees have exceeded the audit fees in the the business not limited to the finance team through the use of 2014 financial year.
The initial results of the assessment were discussed with the Group finance team, before being The fees paid for these other services during the year presented to the Committee, to inform our recommendation to represented 239% of the fees paid for the statutory audit and the Board for the annual re-appointment of the external auditors.
However, excluding We believe that the Groups procedures as summarised above the fees in relation to their role as Reporting Accountants, this safeguard the objectivity and independence of the Auditors.
Further details of these amounts are included in note 10 of the accounts.
The Company intends to On behalf of the Audit Committee comply with the new EU rules in relation to non-audit fees to the Auditors which are to come into force in 2016 which excludes work carried out as Reporting Accountants.
