Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Corporate Governance report Good corporate governance involves ensuring that an effective internal framework of systems and controls isput in place which clearly defines authority and accountability and promotes success whilst permitting the management of risk to appropriate levels.
Chairmans introduction The Board also sets the tone for the Company.
Donald Brydon, CBE The following statement is intended to explain The way in which it conducts itself, its attitude Chairman our governance arrangements in the light to ethical matters, its definitions of success of the principles and provisions of the UK and the assessment of appropriate risk, all Corporate Governance Code the Code, as define the atmosphere within which the Index Page published by the Financial Reporting Council Executive team works.
Chairmans introduction 47 in September 2012, the Listing Rules and Good corporate governance is not about Disclosure and Transparency Rules and to Audit & Risk Committee report 51 adhering to codes of practice although provide insight into how the Royal Mail plc adherence may constitute a part of the evidence Nomination Committee report 55 Board the Board and its management run of good governance but rather about the the business for the benefit of shareholders.
Pensions Committee report 56 exercise of a mindset to do what is right.
The Board of the Company is committed to Directors remuneration report 58 One of the challenges facing any Board is the ensuring that it provides effective leadership way in which the Non-Executive and the and promotes uncompromising ethical Executive Directors interact.
It is clear that standards.
One of the ways in which the they each have the same legal responsibility Board achieves this is by requiring that good but it is generally unrealistic to expect governance principles and practices are Executive Directors to speak individually with adhered to throughout the Company.
The the same freedom as the Non-Executive Board determined that the following is a Directors.
Equally, Executive Directors who helpful summary of its role: just toe the executive line in contradiction Good corporate governance is about helping of their own views may not be effectively to run the Company well.
A wellfunctioning Board needs to find the right It involves ensuring that an effective internal balance between hearing the collective framework of systems and controls is put in Executive view and being aware of the natural place which clearly defines authority and internal tensions in an Executive team.
accountability and promotes success whilst permitting the management of risk to Notwithstanding the tensions created by many appropriate levels.
It involves the exercise external expectations, which may be wholly or of judgement as to the definitions of success, in part unrealistic, a successful Board should, the appropriateness of risk and the levels of ideally, be composed of a group of respected, delegation to the Executive.
The exercise of experienced, like-minded but diverse people this judgement is the responsibility of the who coalesce around a common purpose of Board and involves consideration of processes promoting the long-term success of the and assumptions as well as outcomes.
Company, provide a unified vision of the definitions of success and appropriate risk, It also involves the creation of a sensitive endeavour to support management i. e. those interface for the views of shareholders and who honestly criticise at times but encourage other stakeholders to be given appropriate all the time and who create confidence in all consideration when reaching these judgements.
stakeholders in the integrity of the business.
The Executive team is required to provide A Board meeting should feel like a meeting such information to the Board as the Board at which everyone is participating to solve needs to enable it to exercise its judgement problems together.
Above all, all participants over these matters.
should be able to say after a Board meeting There is a very fine distinction between the that value has been added as a result of the approval of processes and their definition.
This added value will Wherever possible, it is the role of the Board come in many forms: challenge, advice, clarity, to approve process rather than initiate or imagination, support, sharing of problems, define it.
Only exceptionally would the Board or creating strategic intent.
The list is intervene to initiate or define.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 47 Corporate Governance continued Board membership is for 365 days of the year.
Change in the structure of the Group The privatisation and initial public offering Board responsibilities do not start and end and preparation for plc status IPO : with formal meetings.
Board members, on the Royal Mail plc is the holding company of the Industrial relations: Companys and their own initiative, should Royal Mail Group.
This follows the internal group reorganisation to facilitate the Initial endeavour to engage outside meetings to Safety: Public Offering the IPO which took place in bring their experience to the assistance of Pensions Reform: September 2013.
By this reorganisation a the Executive team wherever possible.
new company, Royal Mail Limited, was Parcels strategy: Above all there should be a sense of value incorporated on 6 September 2013 with added from the engagement of the Board Operations and modernisation: Royal Mail Holdings plc as its immediate and members in all their interaction with the ultimate parent Company.
Royal Mail Holdings General Logistics Systems GLS cost Company, formal or otherwise.
plc changed its name to Postal Services restructuring and future markets: and Holding Company plc on 11 September 2013.
To enhance its performance and effectiveness, Progress and future plans for improving The Special Share in Royal Mail Group Limited the Board sets itself explicit objectives, which ITsecurity.
held by HM Government was redeemed on are separate from objectives set for the 12September 2013.
Subsequently on Company and for the Chief Executive Officer, Expected Board focus for the next year: 12September 2013, the entire issued share following the outcome of the Board appraisal The Board has developed objectives as a capital of Royal Mail Group Limited was process for the prior year.
In relation to the framework for its work in addition to business transferred from Postal Services Holding objectives for the year ended 30March 2014, as usual activities for the next 18 months and Company plc to Royal Mail Limited.
The effect the Board has regularly monitored its expects that it will focus on increasing its of this reorganisation was to insert Royal Mail performance against these and has found this understanding of: Limited as the new immediate parent process adds value.
Revenue growth: Company between Postal Services Holding Prior to privatisation, the Royal Mail Group Company plc and Royal Mail Group Limited.
Continued productivity and efficiency Limited Board complied with the Code in so Royal Mail Limited was subsequently drivers: far as it was appropriate to Royal Mail Group re-registered as Royal Mail plc on as a company with a single shareholder, and 19September 2013.
The resulting structure Use of new technologies in the Companys many of the corporate governance practices is shown in the chart below.
business: and principles expected of a listed company Views of key stakeholders including were already well-established within the shareholders, the regulator and major Royal Mail plc Group.
On privatisation, the Board conducted channel partners: and a full and comprehensive review of its corporate governance arrangements to The senior management talent pool.
ensure they were fit for purpose.
Our Royal Mail Governance framework Group Limited Company will no doubt face many challenges The Board considers that the Company as we begin a new chapter in its long history complied with the full provisions of the Code but the above governance framework will during the year.
The Code is publicly available Royal Mail 1 be an essential foundation for future Royal Mail Romec Investments at the website of the Financial Reporting Estates Limited Limited business success.
This report explains the key features of the governance framework and how the Board applies the principles of General Logistics Systems B. V. the Code.
The location within the Annual Report and Financial Statements of each of Donald Brydon, CBE the disclosures required in the Directors In preparation for the IPO, it was recognised Chairman report is either disclosed separately or that although the Companys internal indexed in the Directors report and is governance processes were sound, additional therefore incorporated by reference.
work was required to prepare the Company The role of the Board for plc status.
As a result, several work The Board is responsible for setting the programmes were put in place to ensure objectives and strategy for the Group and that Royal Mail should be able to operate formonitoring its performance and risk effectively and compliantly as a listed company management.
The Board has adopted terms of immediately following the public offering and reference setting out its duties and obligations.
Work included putting in place the necessary policies, procedures The Board has defined those matters that are and structures to meet the various reserved exclusively for its consideration.
These include the approval of strategic plans, financial statements, acquisitions and Board focus disposals, major contracts, projects, and The Boards of Royal Mail Group Limited and capital expenditure.
As noted above, it also Royal Mail plc together the Board have has developed objectives as a framework for focused on the following matters during its work for the next 18 months and progress theyear: 1 51 per cent owned subsidiary.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 48 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information in achieving these objectives is reviewed at Code requiring the timely provision of evaluated at least once a year and to act each Board meeting.
onthe results of such evaluations.
Board Committees The Composition of the Board The Chairman is Donald Brydon, who was Certain responsibilities are delegated by the At the end of the year, the Board of Royal Mail originally appointed as the Chairman of Royal Board to the Committees shown in the plc comprised a Chairman, three Executive Mail Holdings plc on 26 March 2009.
The details of these Board Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors.
then appointed as the Chairman of Royal Mail Committees are outlined later in this report.
Prior to their appointment as Directors of the Group Limited on 1 April 2012 and as the The Chairman of each of the Board Company, each of the Directors had been a Chairman of Royal Mail plc in September 2013.
Committees reports to the Board on matters Director of Royal Mail Group Limited.
The While the Chairman was appointed by the discussed at Committee meetings and biographies of each of the Directors, setting Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and highlights any significant issues requiring the out their current roles, commitments and Skills, the Directors consider that he was Boards attention.
Reports on the work of the previous experience, are on pages 38 to 40. independent at the time of his appointment.
The Audit & Risk Committee, Nomination The composition of the Board was Chairman retired from his role as the Chairman Committee and Pensions Committee during strengthened inanticipation of the IPO and no of Smiths Group in November 2013.
Details of the year are given on pages 51 to 57.
The further appointments were made in the past the Chairmans other commitments are shown work of the Remuneration Committee can be year orexternal search agencies used.
on page 39. found in the Directors remuneration report on The Board is confident that all its members Non-Executive Directors pages 58 to 69.
Full terms of reference for have the knowledge, talent and experience to The Board considers that each of the these Board Committees can be found on the perform the functions required of a Director Non-Executive Directors is independent.
Executive Directors have Thismeans that in the view of the Board, they rolling 12-month contracts and Nonhave no links to the Executive Directors and Executive Directors are generally appointed other managers and no business or other Board for three-year terms.
There is also a clear relationship with the Company that could division of responsibilities between the interfere with their judgement.
The Board Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
reviewed and authorised the schedule of Directors interests, including any potential Audit & RemunerThe Chairman Nomination Pensions Risk ation conflicts, in February 2014 and does so at Committee Committee The Chairmans responsibilities include: Committee Committee least annually.
Each Non-Executive Director Chairing meetings of the Board and general plays an instrumental role in the decisions that meetings of the Company: are made by the Board and its Committees.
They challenge management regarding the Chief Setting the Boards agenda and ensuring Executives performance of the Company with regard to Committee that adequate time is available for the Companys goals and objectives.
They also discussion of all agenda items, in particular monitor financial controls and the systems strategic issues: Board meetings ofrisk management.
The Royal Mail Group Limited Board met Setting clear expectations concerning the The terms of appointment for the Nonon four occasions during the period from Companys culture, values and behaviours: Executive Directors require the Non-Executive 1April 2013 to 19 September 2013.
During Ensuring the Board determines the nature Directors to devote a minimum of two days a the period from 20 September 2013 to and extent of significant risks that the month to working for the Company.
However, 30 March 2014, the Royal Mail plc Board met Company is willing to embrace in during the year ending 30 March 2014, the on six occasions.
For each scheduled meeting, implementing its strategy: time commitments were much greater as the Company Secretary, on behalf of the the Non-Executive Directors contributed to Chairman, collates and circulates the papers Ensuring the Board has effective decisionthe decision making process regarding during the week prior to the meeting, to allow making processes and applies sufficient the privatisation.
sufficient time for the Directors to review the challenge to major proposals: information provided.
The Non-Executive Directors and the Encouraging all Board members to engage Chairman met on a number of occasions In addition to these meetings, the Board in Board and Committee meetings by during this period without the Executive Transaction Committee, formed to facilitate drawing on their skills, experience, Directors being present.
These meetings are preparations for the IPO, met on seven occasions.
knowledge and, where appropriate, an important way to develop the working independence: Board information relationships between the Non-Executive The Board receives business and financial Developing productive working relationships Directors and to assess the performance performance reports at each Board meeting with the Chief Executive Officer and of management.
as well as standing reports on Safety and Executive Directors and constructive In accordance with the requirements of the from the Company Secretary.
In addition, relations between Executive Directors and Code, the terms of appointment for the Directors have access to a Board information Non-Executive Directors: Non-Executive Directors are available for archive containing background and supporting Ensuring effective communication with inspection at the Companys registered office documents for reference in performance of shareholders and other stakeholders and during normal office hours and they will be their duties.
The Directors receive regular that Directors are made aware of their made available at the Annual General Meeting updates on developments in matters such as views: and for a period of 15 minutes prior to the corporate governance.
This is how the commencement of the meeting and also Company complies with the provisions of the Ensuring the performance of the Board, during the meeting.
itsCommittees and individual Directors is Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 49 Corporate Governance continued The Non-Executive Directors were required to the Group.
The Boards approach is normally to Audit & Risk Committee Report on pages declare their other significant commitments limit Executive Directors to one non-executive 51to54.
prior to their appointment and the Board is directorship, for which the Director may retain Environmental social and informed of any subsequent changes.
The the fees see the Directors remuneration governancerisks Company has announced to the London Stock report on pages 58 to 69 for details.
The Board annually reviews the Companys Exchange any changes to their directorships Performance evaluation of the Board Corporate Responsibility report, which is on the boards of other publicly quoted Performance evaluation of the Board, its published in order to demonstrate sustainability companies since the Companys privatisation.
Committees and individual Directors takes to socially responsible investors.
The report is The Senior Independent Director place on an annual basis with the support of prepared in alignment with the reporting The Code recommends that the Board should the Company Secretary.
This years evaluation framework of the Global Reporting Initiative and appoint one of its independent Non-Executive was conducted by the Chairman via the Companys performance is assessed against Directors to be the senior independent questionnaires, with an opportunity to discuss international sustainability indices.
The director the Senior Independent Director.
Among the matters Company reports progress against corporate The Senior Independent Director is available considered were adequacy of reporting, focus responsibility objectives under five areas: to meet with shareholders if they have on the right issues, performance of the Customer, People, Community, Suppliers and concerns that the normal channels of Committees and communication with the then Environment.
Further details can be found in Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or other sole shareholder, the Secretary of State for the Corporate responsibility report on pages 32 Executive Directors have failed to resolve or Business, Innovation and Skills.
The Board identifies and assesses for which such channels of communication completed during May 2013 and objectives significant risks, including those relating to are inappropriate.
The Senior Independent were set for the Board based on the outcomes environmental, social and governance ESG Director is Orna Ni-Chionna.
She has met with of the evaluation.
The agenda of each Board matters, through the maintenance and review the Non-Executive Directors and Executive meeting is reviewed against the objectives and of the Group Risk Profile which contains Directors during the year to assess the this has driven the focus of the Boards significant current risks, including ESG risks, performance of the Chairman.
As a result of the previous Board which are identified at an early stage of review, two new Directors were recruited to becoming known as part of the long-term Director induction and training bring extra dimensions to the Board.
Emerging risk On appointment, all the Directors take part detailed evaluation of the Board, involving the identification is conducted by experts in the inan induction programme, in which they use of an external board evaluator, will take business and risk management is owned and receive information about the Group, the role place next year.
Aperformance evaluation of managed at the operational level supported of the Board and matters reserved for its the Audit & Risk Committee and of the centrally.
An independent effectiveness review decision, the role of the principal Board Remuneration Committee was conducted in by an independent external auditor confirmed Committees, the Groups Corporate each case by the Chair of the Committee.
good links between the strategy of the Company Governance arrangements and the latest Terms of reference for each of the Board, and currently identified risks and that financial information about the Group.
This Audit & Risk Committee, Remuneration appropriate importance is placed on risk is supplemented by visits to key business Committee, Nomination Committee and management by executives within the Group.
locations and, following privatisation, a newly Pension Committee were amended and The Company maintains a range of policies and appointed Director will be given the adopted by the Board in September 2013. procedures for managing business risks which opportunity to meet major shareholders.
Relations with shareholders Directors also receive training.
In preparation Prior to privatisation, the Group engaged in Chief Executives Committee and for privatisation, training sessions were held two-way communication with the sole BoardCommittees for the Board to ensure that each Director shareholder to discuss the Groups strategy, The following Committees deal with specific was aware of the requirements and additional performance and policies.
The Board received aspects of the Groups governance.
The details obligations for a director of a company with a feedback from the Directors who attended the of Committee membership shown are as at premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Directors support and the role of the Chairman and Senior Independent Director Chief Executives Committee CEC Company Secretary had ongoing contact with the shareholder Directors may take independent professional regarding preparation for privatisation Chair Moya Greene advice in the furtherance of their duties, at the and remuneration.
Membership See pages 41 to 43 Groups expense.
All Directors have access to In preparation for privatisation, the Chief the advice and services of the Company Role The Committee is responsible Executive Officer and Chief Finance Officer Secretary, the appointment and removal of for all the key areas of held extensive meetings with potential whom is a matter for the Board as a whole.
commercial activity within the investors.
Since privatisation, the Chairman The Company Secretary ensures Board Group.
The CEC meets twice and Senior Independent Director have met procedures are followed and regularly amonth.
The role of the CEC with major investors to gain their views on reviewed and is a source of advice to the isto manage the overall Company policies, including the Remuneration Chairman and the Board on implementation framework of financial risk Policy outlined in the Directors remuneration of the Code.
andbusiness controls to report on pages 58 to 69. meetregulatory and legal Outside appointments Internal control requirements.
The Committee The Board believes that there are significant The Board is responsible for maintaining a risk also assigns key accountabilities benefits to both the Group and the individual management and internal control system and for business performance.
from Executive Directors accepting nonfor managing significant risks faced by the executive directorships of companies outside Group.
This is described in more detail in the Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 50 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information was appointed to lead the audit in 2011.
The reports from the Group Financial Controller Committee nominated a Tender Working and the Director of Internal Audit & Risk Team comprising the Chairman of the Audit & Management being standing items on 2 Risk Committee, John Allan, Jan Babiak and allagendas.
relevant experts from within the business.
Reliance on external and The successful bidder will be informed during in-houseexperts 2014 and be proposed for appointment at the The Groups actuary, Towers Watson Limited, 2015 AGM.
provides expert opinion and long-term Paul Murray assumption advice with respect to pension Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee accounting and the assessment of other long-term liabilities.
The Committee has concluded that Towers Watson Limited has Committee membership the necessary expertise and resources.
Audit & Risk Committee report Introduction from the Chairman Chairman Paul Murray The Committee also relies on: Membership Non-Executive Directors 1.
A dvice and information provided by the Dear Shareholder Orna Ni-Chionna, John Allan, General Counsel with respect to specific The Committee has two main areas of Nick Horler, Cath Keers and provisions and other contingent liabilities: and responsibility.
The first is to review and LesOwen recommend to the Board all financial 2.
An independent survey of households to statements and disclosures.
The second is to statistically calculate a distribution using a Meetings of the Committee were also attended, satisfy itself that internal controls and risk 95 per cent confidence limit which is used to where relevant, by the Chairman of the Board, management processes are working estimate the number value of stamps that Jan Babiak the only Non-Executive Director effectively.
The Committee gets independent have been bought but not used.
who was not a member of the Committee, the assurance from the Groups Internal Audit & Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Finance Officer, The external auditor had full access to these Risk Management function as well as the other members of senior management and experts and, using their own actuarial and external auditor EY across a wide range of representatives from the external auditor, EY.
statistical experts, was able to provide further issues in support of its oversight The Board considers that a number of the assurance to the Committee on these matters.
Alongside myself, the members of the Committee have recent and The Committee is satisfied that the General members of the Committee are all relevant financial experience.
Counsel has, or has access to, the relevant independent Non-Executive Directors Orna necessary expertise and resources and that Ni-Chionna, John Allan, Nick Horler, Audit Committee Terms of Reference the company conducting the statistical CathKeers and LesOwen.
The full terms of reference for the Committee surveys also has the relevant necessary can be found on our website This year, the Committee has continued to expertise and resources.
com about-us work on improving its oversight of internal   and risk management processes and committee systems.
The Group invests significant resource in Internal Audit capability, and Meeting cycle and agenda items management acts quickly on relevant findings.
The Committee uses a meeting tracker, We reviewed 2013-14 interim and full year approved once a year, which provides a results, as well as all financial and risk aspects framework for each meeting agenda.
of documentation associated with the During 2013-14 the Committee met nine privatisation of Royal Mail.
times: The Committee provided a challenging review Two meetings specifically related to and approval process to the audit of the first theprivatisation: quarter results for 2013-14 which were disclosed in the IPO Prospectus alongside the One meeting related to the audit full year results for 2012-13, 2011-12 and re-tender:and 2010-11.
As part of this process, we also One meeting related to a specific internal assessed the results of the working capital audit report.
review and other private reports produced by the Reporting Accountant, EY.
Of the five regular meetings: In January 2014, the Committee announced Two meetings mainly focused on the that it would initiate a competitive audit tender interim financial statements and year-end process in light of emerging best practice, new financial results: and requirements with respect to audit tenure and Three meetings mainly focused on internal the fact that the existing auditor, EY, had been audit and risk management.
the incumbent since 1986 and we have not undertaken a competitive tender process since However, all regular meetings do contain that date.
The current external audit elements of both financial reporting and engagement partner is Richard Wilson, who internal audit and risk management, with 2 Replaced by Les Owen with effect from 29April 2014.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 51 Corporate Governance continued Key activity and sources of estimation, uncertainty and critical accounting judgements The main areas of focus for the Committee during the year were: Matter considered What the Committee did Advance customer payments The Committee reviews and challenges the methodology and outcomes 322 million, see note 26 on page116 from the statistical survey at the interim and year end and the The Group estimates the amounts of stamp and meter credits that judgement made by management, and compares these to the deferred have been sold but not used prior to the year end.
income recognised by management at each reporting period to ensure a consistent application.
Although the relevant survey and extrapolation is conducted by an independent company, the level at which a stamp holding is considered Separately, the auditor uses its own experts to review the statistical to be abnormal, and therefore excluded from the estimate, is a processes and challenge the judgemental assumption.
This judgement impacts revenue, profit and net assets.
Royal Mail Defined Benefit Pension Surplus The Committee relies on the benchmarking of the key long-term 1,723 million, see balance sheet and note 8 on page 88 assumptions and the calculations provided by the Groups actuary, The valuation of the pension liabilities relies on the estimation of Towers Watson Limited.
All of these assumptions are disclosed in long-term assumptions such as RPI CPI future salary growth and note8 to the financial statements.
The Committee also relies on the mortality.
Small movements in these assumptions can lead to material work and recommendations of the Board Pensions Committee see impacts on the balance sheet.
The auditor uses its own independent actuarial experts to confirm that these assumptions are reasonable and appropriate.
Royal Mail Pension Plan Amendment Credit The Committee reviewed the pension benefit reform proposed by the 1,350 million, see income statement and note 4 on page 81 Trustee and its subsequent disclosure in both the Prospectus and the This credit to the income statement in 2013-14 arose when the Interim Financial Report.
Trustee agreed to cap future salary growth to RPI, meaning that the The Committee also received confirmation from both Towers Watson long-term salary growth assumption reduced from RPI 1% to RPI.
Limited and the auditor that the new assumption was appropriate based on the Pensions Reform agreed with the Trustee.
Industrial diseases claims provision The Committee receives estimates of the gross provision total 62 million, see note 20 on page 111 expected cash outflow, undiscounted calculated by the Groups The Group is liable for claims brought by employees past and current actuary, Towers Watson Limited, and compares this to the provision and by individuals who were employed in the General Post Office recorded at previous reporting dates and to recent cash settlements Telecommunications division and whose employment ceased prior to confirmed by the General Counsel.
The provision covers the estimate of claims that could The discount factor used by management is validated against be received over the next 25-40 years.
Changes to the provision will applicable bond rates.
also impact the income statement.
Contingent liabilities not recognised in the balance sheet The Committee receives a paper at the November and May meetings The Group has a number of contingent liabilities which it considers on each unprovided contingent liability, with an assessment from remote or possible and which are therefore not provided for.
The management of the probability of it crystallising in the future.
likelihood of these liabilities materialising is a matter of judgement and, The Committee reviews each of these papers by comparing their status if it was considered more likely than not that they would crystallise in to prior reporting periods and by receiving an overview from the future, then a provision would be raised which would impact the management at the Committee.
income statement and balance sheet.
The auditor is also asked to provide comments on the assessment of probability and the appropriateness of the accounting.
The Committee concluded that all of these contingent liabilities should remain unprovided based on the risk assessment provided by management.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 52 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Matter considered What the Committee did Specific items disclosure The Chairman of the Committee discussed this disclosure with the see note 4 on page 81 external auditor and management in advance of the interim close, The income statement follows a columnar approach and in 2013-14 and this matter was fully covered at the November meeting, with the Company has introduced a classification for certain items of income management providing an explanation as to why each item has been and expenditure termed specific items, which replaces the previous disclosed as specific.
The Committee concurred with managements exceptional items classification, as further highlighted on page 77. view that the column excluding specific items better presents the trading results of the Group and recognised the need to disclose this, given Royal Mail is now listed.
Privatisation The first quarter results for 2013-14 were reviewed and approved by The privatisation of Royal Mail required the Company to produce a the Committee following presentations from management and the full set of financial statements for the quarter ending 30 June 2013. auditor.
The same degree of challenge and scrutiny was applied as for These financial statements required a full audit and were included the year end audited results.
in the Prospectus along with historical financial information from The Committee also received and reviewed a number of private 2010-11 onwards.
reports from EY, the Reporting Accountant, including a working capitalreport, a financial position and prospects report and a long formreport.
The Prospectus risk factors were also presented by the General Counsel to the Committee for review and approval and the Committee ensured these factors were complete by receiving a specific report from the Director of Internal Audit & Risk Management.
Audit Committee effectiveness After taking all of the above into consideration, Risk management and internal control The Committee has a framework to assess the Committee concluded that the audit team, overview both Audit Committee and external auditor and EY as a firm, had demonstrated that they The Board believes that effective risk effectiveness, using a combination of surveys had the appropriate qualifications, resources management and a sound control of members, private meetings with the and expertise and that the audit process environment are fundamental to the Group.
auditor, specific reports from the auditor waseffective.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires and executive management, and relevant the Board to maintain sound risk Non-audit work provided by the auditor external benchmarking, to conclude that the management and internal control systems and independence Committee and the external audit process and to review their effectiveness at least The Committee agrees fees in respect of remains effective.
annually and to report on this review to non-audit services provided by the external shareholders.
A sound system of internal External auditor effectiveness auditor to ensure that the provision of control depends on a thorough and regular During the year, the Committee has reviewed non-audit services does not impair the evaluation of the nature and extent to which the planning methodology and proposed audit external auditors independence and the Group is exposed to risk.
approach presented by the external auditor, objectivity.
Generally, non-audit work is only and the Chairman of the Committee attended granted to the auditor if there is a genuine The Groups risk management and internal an audit planning event.
Furthermore, the efficiency in doing so, and for 2013-14, the control system is designed to manage rather Committee reviewed and approved the total fees for non-audit services excluding the than eliminate the risk of failure as taking on respective engagement letters for the Reporting Accountant work with respect to risk is inherent in undertaking the commercial statutory and regulatory audits.
At the end of the first quarter, first half and A further 4.0 million fees were paid relating There is an ongoing process for identifying, year end statutory audits, the Committee to EYs role as Reporting Accountant with evaluating and managing the significant risks receives a report from EY which covers respect to the privatisation.
The Committee faced by the Group in accordance with the significant issues identified and discussed received a special report and presentation guidance detailed by the UK Corporate during the audit visits.
This report is compared from EY which provided specific assurance Governance Code, including financial, to the matters that management have that the audit remained independent with operational and compliance risks, and risks to identified, to ensure consistency.
respect to the reporting accountant role.
The process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of The Committee has carried out an approval of these financial statements.
assessment of the auditor using surveys and direct feedback from Committee members and management and private meetings with the auditor.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 53 Corporate Governance continued Risk management and internal control Assessing the effectiveness of the system 3.
Effectiveness of Internal Audit framework of risk management and internal control The Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors The Group-wide risk management framework In addition to the specific constitution, International Standards and general good includes risk governance, risk identification, meetings, reliance on experts, and focus areas practice requires an external assessment measurement and management, and risk highlighted above, the Committee uses a of Internal Audit activity to be conducted reporting and sets out the top-down and number of mechanisms to help it to arrive at least once every five years by a qualified, bottom-up approach to risk identification for at its conclusion on the effectiveness of the independent reviewer from outside the the Group.
During the year the business has: system of risk management and internal organisation.
During the year the Committee control in the business.
These include: engaged Deloitte to provide an assessment of Reviewed and refreshed its Risk the effectiveness of IA & RM in line with these Management Framework, Risk 1.
Deloitte were also engaged to Management Policy and Risk Management The Board has delegated responsibility for provide an assessment of Risk Management Guide: cascaded the Risk Management specific review of risk and control processes against current accepted practice.
The review Mandatory Standards to business units to the Committee and the Committee in turn concluded that the internal audit activity and and functions: received self-assessment is supported by the Risk Management risk management framework were fit for validations from the prioritised units and Committee RMC, to help discharge its duties.
purpose and of high quality.
functions on compliance with the standards: The RMC meets to promote and support the and provided independent assurance on establishment, communication and embedding 4.
External audit activity these submissions: of risk management throughout the Group External audits and reviews take place during and to ensure that risks that are significant the year to provide management, the Board Conducted sensitivity analysis and financial at Group level are being effectively managed.
and the regulator with assurance on specific stress-testing on Group Risks using a matters.
Activity includes: model developed by independent economic 2.
Assurance from Internal Audit consultants: IA & RM provides independent assurance to The external auditor performs a statutory executive management and the Board on the year end audit: Further enhanced our emerging risk effectiveness of the internal control system identification process through regular The external auditor performs an audit of and elements of the Risk Management structured dialogue with subject matter the regulatory accounts as part of Universal Process, including compliance with the Risk experts across the business: and Service Provider USP accounting Management Mandatory Standards, and requirements: For a sample of risks on the Group Risk validation of mitigation plans for Group Risks.
Profile, arranged for Executives to attend IA & RM establishes and agrees with the The externally measured end-to-end the Committee to explain their respective Committee an annual plan of assignments and Quality of Service is audited by an risk and how it is being managed.
activities based on discussions with the Board independent accounting firm appointed by and management, and also taking into Ofcom as part of Royal Mails Designated The Groups approach to control is based on account known issues in the business: areas Universal Service Provider condition the underlying principle of line management of known importance to the delivery of the requirements: and accountability for internal control and for business plan: areas subject to strong or risk management.
The Universal Service Obligation USO daily emerging regulation or legislation: and known collections and deliveries performance The Group recognises and uses the principle issues in the industry.
reporting and methodology is assured by an of the Three Lines of Defence: The Internal Audit work programme, focused independent accounting firm appointed by First Line comprises primary controls towards the key business priorities for Royal Mail as part of Royal Mails over the risks to the business, located 2013-14, included: designated Universal Service.
in the day-to-day operation, and includes A review of the Transaction Programme: Whistleblowing established management organisation, including PLC Readiness: Arrangements are in place to enable policies and documentation, budgets, employees to raise concerns in confidence and and performance management.
Business Transformation reviews including to ensure independent investigation of such Parcels Strategy and Delivery Second Line comprises internal monitoring matters.
During the year IA & RM reported to Modernisation: and oversight including regular reviews, the Committee on the number of notifications self-assessments, and annual sign-offs Major business process reviews including and the usual time taken to process them by Finance Directors.
Fuel Management, Order to Cash and through the Employee Disclosure Committee Christmas Planning: EDC.
IA & RM provides the EDC with Third Line comprises independent learnings and clarifications as a result assessments by the Internal Audit & Risk Continued rolling programme of review of of processing such cases.
Management IA & RM function and others the basic business controls and validation including external audit.
reviews related to the management of individual risks on the Group Risk Profile: and Conformance of key units functions to defined Risk Management Mandatory Standards.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 54 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information To identify, and nominate for the approval of Approving changes to the roles of certain the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies members of senior management including as and when they arise: recommending for approval the change of Company Secretary and the appointment To evaluate, before any appointment is made ofa new member of the CEC: by the Board, the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on theBoard and in Considering future experience, skills and the light of this evaluation consider, where capabilities required on the Board: and appropriate, preparing a description of the Reviewing the Boards policy on diversity role and capabilities required for a particular asoutlined below.
In identifying suitable candidates, the Committee may use open Board diversity policy advertising or the services of external advisers Diversity, including professional, international to facilitate thesearch: and ethnic diversity, is a key factor when Nomination Committee report assessing the Boards composition to ensure that Introduction from the Chairman For the appointment of a Chairman, to there is the correct balance of skills, experience prepare a job description including the time and expertise amongst Non-Executive Directors, Dear Shareholder commitment expected.
A proposed Chairmans in order to lead decision-making and assess the Although the 2013-14 financial year saw a other significant commitments should be performance and strategy of the Company.
significant change in the ownership of the disclosed to the Board before appointment Company, it has been a stable year for Board and any changes to the Chairmans The Board has adopted a Board Diversity Policy membership with no changes to the Executive commitments should be reported to the to ensure transparency and diversity in making Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
Following Board as they arise: appointments to the Board on the the Annual General Meeting on 24July 2014, recommendation of the Committee.
This policy To review annually the time required from Mark Higson will resign from the Board.
Jan expresses the commitment to principles of Non-Executive Directors to fulfil their duties: Babiak resigned from the Board in April 2014. non-discrimination on grounds of race, colour To make recommendations to the Board on: orethnic origin, disability, sex, age, religion or The Committee has continued to evaluate the belief and to promotion of fair participation and balance of skills, knowledge and experience of formulating succession plans for both equality of opportunity for all.
The Board the Board and its diversity, and is committed to Executive Directors and Non-Executive assesses whether it is compliant with that the progressive renewal of Board membership Directors and in particular for the key roles policythrough its Board effectiveness review.
Succession plans for of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: TheBoard has also adopted within such policy the Non-Executive Directors and Executive suitable candidates for the role of Senior aprocess for Board appointments including Directors were kept under review during the Independent Director: procedures for appointing a new Chairman year.
The Committee also approved the changes to the membership of the CEC.
where an appointment becomes necessary membership of the Board Committees in following a resignation or additional The following report outlines the membership of consultation with the Chairs of those characteristics are identified as necessary the Committee, its role, the key areas of focus Committees: duringthe Board effectiveness review.
during the year and the Committees policy on the reappointment of any Non-Executive Board diversity.
The gender balance of the Board is also taken Director at the conclusion of their specified into consideration when recruiting a new Donald Brydon term of office having given due regard to Non-Executive Director.
This is reflected by Chairman of the Nomination Committee their performance and ability to continue the current composition of the Board.
We are tocontribute to the Board: and Committee membership one of the few companies in the FTSE 100 that has a female Chief Executive Officer and, at the re-election of Directors by shareholders Chair Donald Brydon under the re-election provisions of the Code 30March 2014, three of the eight Non-Executive Directors 37.5per cent, including the Senior or the retirement by rotation provisions in Membership Non-Executive Directors 1 the Companys Articles of Association, having Independent Director and also Jan Babiak, were Jan Babiak, Nick Horler, Cath also female.
The Committee does not feel that it due regard to their performance and ability to Keers and OrnaNi-Chionna.
continue to contribute to the Board and the is appropriate to set a quota regarding the number of women on the Board but will look to need for progressive refreshing of theBoard.
Meetings of the Committee were also attended maintain a strong representation of women on where relevant, by the Company Secretary and To review the succession management the Board.
process within the Company for the top 120senior management positions.
Directors re-election Role of the Committee The Committee considers the performance of A summary of the responsibilities of the The full Terms of Reference for the each individual Director and whether he or she Committee in connection with appointments to Committeecan be found on our website continues to be effective and can demonstrate the Royal Mail plc Board and senior management www.
com commitment to the role and whether they should positions is shown below: be proposed for election at the Annual General Key areas of focus during the year To regularly review the structure, size and Meeting.
Biographical details of each of the Matters the Committee considered during the composition of the Board and to evaluate the Directors, together with details of their skills and year include: balance of skills, knowledge, experience and experience, may be found on pages39 to 40.
Accepting the resignation of Mark Higson from diversity on the Board to inform the capabilities Following a performance evaluation of each the Board, which will be effective from the required for a particular appointment: Director and the Board as a whole, all Directors closing of the Annual General Meeting: are considered by the Board to be fully effective.
To give full consideration to succession planning Assessing the composition of the Board for Directors and senior management: following the resignation of Mark Higson: 1 Resigned 29 April 2014.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 55 Corporate Governance continued Dear Shareholder Committee membership This is the first report of the reconstituted Chair Les Owen Pensions Committee following the change in membership in September 2013 from a blend Membership Non-Executive Directors 1 of Board Directors and senior management Jan Babiak and Paul Murray: to a membership solely made up of Board Executive Director Directors, the majority of whom are NonMatthew Lester Executive Directors.
This reconstitution was inpreparation for privatisation and to fully The meetings of the Committee have also comply with the Code.
been attended on invitation by the Chairman of the Board, the Company Secretary, the The responsibilities delegated to the Deputy Group Chief Finance Officer, the Head Committee by the Board include the review of Pensions Strategy and representatives and approval of objectives in relation to the Pensions Committee report from the Companys pensions advisers, Royal Mail pension schemes, monitoring Introduction from the Chairman Towers Watson Limited and the auditor, EY.
performance of these schemes, considering recommendations and reports from Role of the Committee management in relation to policy and strategy Further to the responsibilities outlined in the concerning pensions and investment matters Committee Chairmans statement, the role of that are significant to the Group, and, where the Committee also includes: appropriate, making recommendations to the Reviewing annual reports from Audit & Risk Committee and the Group Board.
management on the Royal Mail pension It reports and makes recommendations to the schemes goals and objectives, financial Board and to Royal Mail Group Limited as position, investment performance, and principal employer of the Groups pensions economic conditions: schemes on: Reviewing recommendations from the Matters which it reasonably considers are Pensions Policy Committee and approving of strategic importance to the Group: assumptions relating to valuations and the Matters involving a financial impact of over Statement of Investment Principles: 100 million: Approving, in accordance with the pension Strategic changes to benefits that require schemes Rules, the appointment, rule changes or changes to the pension reappointment, removal, period of scheme Trust Deeds other than those appointment and remuneration of the Chair required for changes in legislation: and of Trustees.
This approval will be given on behalf of the Board following consultation Material matters in relation to the accounting with the Chair and on the recommendation for the Groups pensions obligations.
of management: and Further details of the Committees role, its Reviewing major policy, regulatory, membership and the key areas of focus during legislative, accounting reporting, industrial the year are set out below.
relations and Governmental issues The Committee is supported by the Pensions impacting the pension schemes as from Policy Committee, whose members are the time to time is necessary, at the request ChiefFinance Officer, the Company Secretary, of the Board, management or any member the Group HR Director and representatives of the Pensions Committee, and making fromthe Communications Workers Union and decisions, recommendations or reporting Unite CMA.
Les Owen The full Terms of Reference for the Chairman of the Pensions Committee Committeecan be found on our website www.
com Key areas of focus during the year Matters the Committee considered during the year include: Scheme funding: Investment strategy and risk management: Recommendations for Scheme reform: and Pensions Accounting and treatment of reform.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 56 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Remuneration Committee Board and Committee Attendances Committee membership During the year, the Directors attended the following number of meetings of the Board and its main Committees.
Chair Orna Ni-Chionna 3 2 Board Audit & Risk Nomination Pensions Remuneration Membership Chairman Donald Brydon Total number of meetings 10 9 2 2 6 Non-Executive Directors 1 Chairman Jan Babiak, Paul Murray Donald Brydon 10 10 - 2 2 - 6 6 and Les Owen Executive Directors Meetings of the Committee were also Moya Greene 10 10 - - - - attended, where relevant, by the Chief Mark Higson 10 10 - - - - Executive Officer, Group HR Director, Matthew Lester 10 10 - - 2 2 - Company Secretary, other members of senior Non-Executive Directors management and representatives from the 4 executive remuneration consultants, New John Allan 9 10 7 9 - - - Bridge Street.
Jan Babiak 10 10 - 2 2 2 2 6 6 Nick Horler 10 10 9 9 2 2 - - No individual was present when matters 5 Cath Keers 9 10 8 9 2 2 - - regarding their own remuneration Paul Murray 10 10 9 9 - 2 2 6 6 were discussed.
2 Includes Board meetings of Royal Mail Group Limited and Royal Mail plc.
Role of the Committee 3 From 10 September 2013.
To determine and recommend for the 4 John Allan was unable to attend the Board meeting on 18 April 2013 and the Audit & Risk Committee meetings on Boards approval the framework for the 17May and 23 July 2013 due to prior engagements.
remuneration of the senior executives 5 Cath Keers was unable to attend the Board meeting on 18 April 2013 and the Audit & Risk Committee meeting on of the Group: 14August 2014 due to prior engagements.
To determine the individual remuneration 6 Les Owen was unable to attend the Audit & Risk Committee meetings on 14 August, 6 September, arrangements for the Chair, the Executive 12November2013and 17 January 2014 and the Remuneration Committee meeting on 17 January 2014 dueto Directors and the Company Secretary: and prior engagements.
To agree the targets for any performancerelated incentive schemes applicable to senior executives.
The full Terms of Reference for the Committee can be found on our website www.
com Key areas of focus during the year Details of the work carried out by the Remuneration Committee and the decisions made are outlined in the Directors remuneration report on pages 58 to 69.
Orna Ni-Chionna Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Other Committees Risk Management Committee The Risk Management Committee supports the Audit & Risk Committee and meets to promote and support the establishment, communication and embedding of risk management throughout the business.
Disclosure Committee The role of the Disclosure Committee is to assist the Executive Directors in fulfilling their responsibility for oversight of the accuracy and timeliness of the disclosures made by the Company in relation to its financial and other reporting.
The Committee meets on a regular basis during the reporting process and is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 57
