CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Board is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance and takes its role very seriously in adopting and maintaining good governance.
Principles of good governance The Board The adoption and maintenance of good governance is the During the year ended 31 March 2014, the Board consisted of an responsibility of the Board as a whole.
This report, together with Executive Chairman, a Chief Executive, two other full time Executive the Audit Committee Report, on pages 38 to 42, the Nomination Directors, one part time Executive Director and three four in July 2013 Committee Report, on pages 44 to 45 and the Remuneration Non-Executive Directors.
All the Non-Executive Directors are deemed Committee Report, on pages 46 to 57, describes how the Board applies to be independent.
the principles of good governance and best practice as set out in the Code which can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website The Board provides leadership of the Company and Group and www.
during the year met to direct and control the overall strategy and operating performance of the Group.
It is collectively responsible Statement of Compliance and accountable to shareholders for the long-term success of the The Directors consider that the Company has, during the year ended Company.
To enable them to carry out these responsibilities all 31 March 2014, complied with the requirements of the Code other Directors have full and timely access to all relevant information and than with Code provision: the Board has held meetings at various operating sites so that the Directors can review the operations of those particular sites.
1.2, apart from the month of July 2013, when Kate Allum joined Directors have allocated sufficient time to the Company to discharge at the beginning of the month and prior to Patrick Farnsworth their responsibilities effectively.
retiring at the end of the month, as the number of Independent Non-Executive Directors was less than half the Board, excluding Board agendas are set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief the Chairman.
The Board had been aware that Bernard Hoggarth Executive and with the assistance from the Company Secretary.
The intended to retire soon after standing down as Chief Executive.
Company Secretary maintains a twelve month rolling programme of Bernard retires from the Board in July 2014 after which the agenda items to ensure that all matters reserved for the Board and balance of the Board will be equal numbers of Independent other key issues are considered at the appropriate time.
Non-Executive Directors and Executives Directors, excluding the Chairman.
It is the Boards belief that the composition of the Board includes the appropriate skills balance, experience, independence and knowledge that the business requires.
The Board will continue to keep this under review, also with diversity in mind, and assess the needs and requirements of the business as it develops.
The Directors have also reviewed the financial statements and taken as a whole consider them to be fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee provide guidance to the Board to assist it in reaching this conclusion.
Standing agenda items included: reports from the Chief Executive, Finance Director and the Sales and Marketing Director: annual strategy review: reports from the Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees: risk and risk management: health and safety reports: approval of the quarterly trading updates, half year and year end reports: approval of major capital expenditure proposals: and review of the Groups finance requirements.
34 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements Key agenda items this year included: acquisition of Wayland Farms Limited: acquisition of pig rearing units for Wold Farms Limited: review of other prospective business proposals: approval of the Group budget: review of the Groups refinancing proposal: approval of the interim dividend: appointments of Kate Allum and Mark Reckitt as Independent Non-Executive Directors: consideration of the Board performance evaluation: and review of the directors conflict of interest register.
The UK Corporate Governance Code stipulates there should be a clear division of responsibility at the head of the company between the running of the Board and the executive responsible for running the company business.
The Chairman was responsible for: setting the Board agenda: the leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role: ensuring all Directors were able to maximise their contributions to the Board: providing strategic insight from his long business experience in the industry and with the Company: providing a sounding board for the Chief Executive on key business decisions and challenging proposals where appropriate: and meeting with major Shareholders on governance matters and being an alternate point of contact for Shareholders on other matters.
The Chief Executive was responsible for: the day-to-day management of the Groups business: leading the business and the rest of the management team in accordance with the strategy agreed by the Board: leading the development of the Groups strategy with input from the rest of the Board: leading the management team in the implementation of the Groups strategy including new build decisions: and bringing matters of particular significance or risk to the Chairman for discussion and consideration by the Board if appropriate.
Upon appointment, all Directors undertake a formal introduction to all Non-Executive Directors the Groups activities and are also provided with the opportunity for The Non-Executive Directors bring experience and complementary ongoing training.
This ensures that they are kept up to date on changes skills to the Board, aid constructive debate and challenge during Board in relevant legislation and the general business environment, including discussions and help develop strategy with an independent outlook.
the review of relevant literature and attending external courses.
The Board considers the Non-Executive Directors to be independent in Procedures are in place for Directors to seek both independent advice, accordance with the definition highlighted in the Code.
at the expense of the Company, and the advice and services of the Company Secretary in order to fulfil their duties.
The UK Governance Code requires listed companies to undertake a rigorous annual evaluation of the performance of their Board, An Executive Committee, consisting of the Executive Directors and committees and of individual directors.
senior executives of the business, meets around six times a year to discuss issues affecting the trading side of the business including the development of various projects and approving non-strategic capital Board performance evaluation expenditure.
The Executive Committee reports back to the Board.
David Mensley of EquityCommunications Limited, an independent business that has no other relationship with the Company, carried The Board has completed its annual review of the register relating to out an external evaluation of the Board and its Committees, which potential conflicts of interest with its Directors and confirms that no was completed in July 2013, through means of a questionnaire and such conflicts exist.
The resulting report was circulated to all directors and was then discussed by the Board.
Based on the The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that evaluation exercise the Board concluded that it, and its Committees, Board procedures are complied with and for advising the Board, were working well and a number of actions were agreed to make them through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
and removal of the Company Secretary is determined by the Board as a whole.
Report & Accounts 2014 Cranswick plc 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The Chairman has evaluated the performance of individual Directors.
Directors biographies and membership of the various Committees In addition, the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent are shown on page 33.
The formal terms of reference for the Board Non-Executive Director, meet, without the Chairman present, in order Committees together with the terms and conditions of appointment of to appraise his performance.
Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys Registered Office and at the Annual General Meeting.
Total number of Board meetings 11 Attendance Martin Davey Chairman and Chair of the Nomination Committee 11 Adam Couch Chief Executive 11 Mark Bottomley Finance Director 11 Jim Brisby Sales and Marketing Director 11 Bernard Hoggarth Commercial Director 11 John Worby Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee 11 Steven Esom Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee 11 Patrick Farnsworth Independent NonExecutive Director and Chair of the Nomination Committee until retirement 3 maximum 3 Kate Allum Independent Non-Executive Director 9 maximum 9 All the Directors attended the Annual General Meeting.
the issue of options in accordance with the terms of those schemes.
Board Committees The Remuneration Committee also, in consultation with the Chief Audit Committee Executive, monitors the total individual remuneration package of senior The Audit Committee comprises the independent Non-Executive executives including bonuses, incentive payments and share option Directors and is chaired by John Worby, the Groups Senior and other share awards.
The Remuneration Committee has access to Independent Director.
He is a chartered accountant who has advice from the Company Secretary and from external advisers who considerable recent relevant financial experience and has spent many provide detailed analysis of executive remuneration in comparable years in the food industry.
Details of the Committees current remuneration policies are given in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 46 to 57.
The Audit Committee has overall responsibility for monitoring the integrity of financial statements and related announcements and all The Chair of the Remuneration Committee will attend the Annual aspects of internal control.
The Audit Committee meets at least three General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might times a year: two of these meetings involve a review of the Groups be raised on the Committees activities.
interim and full year financial statements.
Nomination Committee The work, responsibilities and governance of the Audit Committee are The Nomination Committee is now chaired by Martin Davey and set out on pages 38 to 42. includes John Worby, Steven Esom, Kate Allum and from 1 May 2014 Mark Reckitt.
The Chair of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might The Committee meets at least once a year and reviews the structure, be raised on the Committees activities.
size and composition of the Board and is responsible for considering and making recommendations to the Board on new appointments of Remuneration Committee Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
It also gives full consideration The Remuneration Committee comprises the independent to succession planning in the course of its work, taking into account Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Steven Esom.
the challenges and opportunities facing the Group relating to skills and Martin Davey, Adam Couch and Mark Bottomley attend the meetings expertise needed on the Board and from senior management in of the Remuneration Committee by invitation and in an advisory the future.
No Director attends any part of a meeting at which his own remuneration is discussed.
The Executive Directors determine the Details of the Committees activities are given in the Nomination remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
Committee Report on pages 44 and 45.
The Committee recommends to the Board the policy for executive The Chair of the Nomination Committee will attend the Annual General remuneration and determines, on behalf of the Board, the other Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised terms and conditions of service for each Executive Director.
It on the Committees activities.
determines appropriate performance conditions for the annual cash bonus and long-term incentive schemes and approves awards and 36 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements The views of Shareholders expressed during meetings are Risk management and internal control communicated by the Chairman or the Chief Executive, as appropriate, The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Groups system to the Board as a whole.
Through this process the Boards Executive of internal control, which safeguards the Shareholders investment and and Non-Executive Directors are able to gain a sound understanding the Groups assets, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system of the views and concerns of the major Shareholders.
The Chairman, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Chief Executive or the Finance Director discusses governance and material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than strategy with major Shareholders from time to time.
Other Directors eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
are available to meet the Companys major Shareholders if requested.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to listen The Group operates within a clearly defined organisational structure to the views of Shareholders, particularly if they have concerns which with established responsibilities, authorities and reporting lines to the contact with the Chairman has failed to resolve, or for which such Board.
The organisational structure has been designed in order to contact is inappropriate.
Principles of corporate governance and voting plan, execute, monitor and control the Groups objectives effectively guidelines issued by the Companys institutional Shareholders and and to ensure that internal control becomes embedded in the their representative bodies are circulated to and considered by the operations.
The Board also welcomes the attendance and questions from Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting which is also attended by As noted in the Audit Committee Report on pages 38 to 42, the Audit the Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems and reported to the Board that it was By order of the Board not aware of any significant deficiency, or material weakness, in the system of internal control and that the business maintains a sound risk management control system.
The Board confirms that the key ongoing processes and features of the Groups internal risk based control system have been fully operative Malcolm Windeatt throughout the year and up to the date of the Annual Report being Company Secretary approved.
19 May 2014 Financial reporting The Group prepares annual budgets that are agreed by the Board.
Operational management is required to report to the Board on a monthly basis on financial performance including trading results, balance sheet, cash flows and related key performance indicators.
Forecasts are updated on a half yearly basis together with information on key risk areas.
The use of a standard reporting pack by all Group entities ensures that information is gathered and presented in a consistent way which facilitates the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
Shareholders The Board attaches great importance to maintaining good relationships with all Shareholders who are kept informed of significant Company developments.
Presentations are made by the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Sales and Marketing Director, to analysts and institutional Shareholders on the half year and full year results and to discuss Company direction.
A similar presentation is made to shareholders attending the Annual General Meeting.
Significant matters relating to the trading or development of the business are disseminated to the market by way of stock exchange announcements.
