NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and is responsible for considering the skills, knowledge, experience and gender for the Board to operate effectively and to give consideration to succession planning.
The Nomination Committee since the retirement of Patrick Farnsworth on 31 July 2013 is chaired by Martin Davey and includes the Non-Executive Directors John Worby, Steven Esom, Kate Allum, and from 1 May 2014 Mark Reckitt.
Total number of Committee meetings 3 Attendance Martin Davey Chair 3 Kate Allum 3 Steven Esom 3 John Worby 3 Role of the Committee recommendations to the Board on the appointment of a The Committee meets at least once a year, it reviews the structure, Non-Executive Director: and size and composition of the Board and considers the optimal level the Committees Terms of Reference to ensure they reflect the of independence and diversity of skills, knowledge, experience and Committees remit.
gender required for the Board to operate effectively.
It is responsible for considering and making recommendations to the Board on new The Committee has reviewed the diversity policy which provides for appointments of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
It also gives equality and fairness, recognising and respecting individual strengths due consideration to succession planning in the course of its work, and differences.
The policy enables all employees and prospective taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group employees to be treated in the same way.
Whilst the Board and and the skills and expertise needed within the Board and senior Nomination Committee respects the benefits of diversity and supports management in the future.
it in its approach to external recruitment and internal appointments, it is not considered appropriate or necessary to set any specific or Activities of the Committee measurable targets.
All appointments are made on individual merit The Committee met on three occasions in the year ended regardless of gender, ethnicity or religious beliefs.
The Groups 31 March 2014 to consider the following matters: principal concern is to ensure that all candidates have the appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to fulfil the role.
the structure, size, composition and diversity of both the Board and its Committees: succession planning for the Group and senior executives: the diversity policy for the Group: 44 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements Appointment to the Board Re-election During the year the Committee acknowledged that John Worby will All Directors who served throughout the year will be standing for complete nine years as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 1 August 2014.
As he will no longer be considered independent after re-election at the Annual General Meeting apart from John Worby, this point under Corporate Governance rules and best practice, the who will have completed nine years as an Independent NonCompany will be required to have another Independent Executive Director on 1 August 2014, and Bernard Hoggarth who Non-Executive Director.
The Board carried out a formal, rigorous has announced his retirement from the Board after the Annual and transparent process by arranging for an independent adviser, General Meeting.
Mark Reckitt, who joined since the last Annual Norman Broadbent Executive Search Limited, to short list a number General Meeting.
will be standing for election.
No open advertising was carried out: the Committee preferred to use the services of an independent adviser.
After carrying out the exercise and the preferred candidate meeting The Board has set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting with the Committee and a number of Executive Directors, the Board its reasons for supporting the re-election of the Directors at the appointed Mark Reckitt as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
He forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Their biographical details on is a chartered accountant, has considerable recent relevant financial page 33 demonstrate the range of experience and skills which each experience and is well placed to succeed John Worby as Chair of brings to the benefit of the Company.
He joined the Board on 1 May 2014.
Norman Broadbent Executive Search Limited does not have any connections The Chair of the Nomination Committee will attend the Annual General with the Company or Group.
Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
Retirement from the Board Bernard Hoggarth has announced his intentions to retire from the On behalf of the Board Board after the Annual General Meeting following an association of 36 years with the Company.
There are no plans to replace him on the Board as Jim Brisbys appointment as Sales and Marketing Director in 2010 and Adam Couchs promotion to Chief Executive in 2012 were Martin Davey considered by the Board as part of the succession Chair of the Nomination Committee planning needed for when Bernard retired.
19 May 2014 Report & Accounts 2014 Cranswick plc 45
