AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Letter from the Chair of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder, Introduction On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Audit Committees annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014.
The purpose of the report is to highlight areas that the Committee has reviewed during the year including areas of financial reporting issues, the risk management of the Group, internal controls and the role of the auditors.
Role of the Committee The Committees primary role is to assist the Board in the provision of effective governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting, risk management and internal control.
It is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and considering whether accounting policies adopted are appropriate.
It also reviews the Companys internal controls and risk management systems and considers the activities, plans and effectiveness of both the Groups internal audit function and its external auditor.
A summary of the Audit Committees principal responsibilities is set out in the Audit Committee report on the following pages.
Activities of the Committee The Audit Committee met three times during the year to consider issues relating to: financial reporting: risk management and internal control: internal audit: external audit effectiveness: and auditor independence.
The work of the Committee in each of these areas is explained in detail in the Audit Committee report on the following pages.
Given the changes in reporting requirements arising from the UK Corporate Governance Code, which apply to these financial statements, the Committee focused on financial reporting during the year.
In particular, the Audit Committee report has been enhanced to cover key issues and judgements and how they were dealt with by the Committee and to cover the work done on the effectiveness of the external audit.
In addition, at the request of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed and reported to the Board that it is satisfied that the financial statements taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information for Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
In order to give this report the Audit Committee carried out a number of additional procedures including: reviewing and giving feedback on an early draft of the Annual Report at a special additional Audit Committee meeting: obtaining confirmation from the relevant preparers of the various parts of the Annual Report that they had reviewed the fairness and completeness of their sections: ensuring a thorough verification process had been completed: and reviewing and discussing a paper from the Finance Director outlining issues to consider and why he believed the Annual Report was fair balanced and understandable.
The Board and the Committee understand that fair should mean reasonable and impartial, balanced should mean even-handed in terms of being positive and negative and understandable should mean simple, clear and free from jargon or unnecessary clutter.
On behalf of the Board John Worby Chair of the Audit Committee 19 May 2014 38 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2014
