Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements The Audit Committee has overall responsibility for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, and related announcements, the effectiveness of the risk control procedures and internal control systems which are important to both management and to the Shareholders.
The Audit Committee Members of the Audit Committee consist of the independent Non-Executive Directors: John Worby, Steven Esom, Kate Allum and, until 31 July 2013, Patrick Farnsworth.
Mark Reckitt joined the Committee on 1 May 2014.
The Committee is chaired by John Worby, a qualified chartered accountant, and who has considerable recent relevant financial experience.
Total number of Committee meetings 3 Attendance John Worby Chair 3 Kate Allum 2 maximum 2 Steven Esom 3 Patrick Farnsworth 1 maximum 1 Activities of the Committee The Committee is required to meet at least three times a year and has an agenda linked to the Group financial calendar.
It invites the Company Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the external auditors to attend its meetings together with the Group Financial Controller and Internal Audit.
The Company Secretary also attends the meetings as secretary to the Committee.
Both the external auditors and Internal Audit have the opportunity to access the Committee, without the Executive Directors being present, at any time, and the Committee formally meets with both the external auditors and internal audit independently at least once a year.
Summary of the Audit Committees principal responsibilities: reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the Groups, quarterly trading statements, half yearly and full year financial statements: reviewing the Groups accounting policies: keeping under review the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, internal controls and risk management systems: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function in the context of the Companys overall risk management system: reviewing the annual internal audit plan and Internal Audit reports on accounting, internal financial and other control matters: overseeing the relationship with the external auditors including the effectiveness, scope, cost and objectivity of the external audit: recommending the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditors: reviewing the independence of the external auditors, including considering the level of non-audit work carried out by them: and reviewing and monitoring the Companys procedures in relation to the Companys Whistle Blowing and Anti-Bribery policies.
The Committee annually reviews its terms of reference and makes recommendations to the Board for any appropriate changes.
The current Terms of Reference include all the relevant aspects set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and will be available for inspection at the Companys Registered Office and at the Annual General Meeting.
