Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements BOARD OF DIRECTORS Executive Directors Martin Davey, Chairman Martin, who is a chartered accountant, has been with Cranswick for the past 29 years, joining the Company as Finance Director in 1985.
He led Cranswicks entry onto the Stock Exchange in 1985 and was appointed Chief Executive in 1988.
He became Chairman in 2004 and has continued in this role on a part-time basis from 1 September 2013.
He is also Chair of the Nominations Committee.
Adam Couch, Chief Executive Adam has over 23 years experience in the food industry joining the operational side of the fresh pork business of Cranswick in 1991.
He was appointed to the Board as Managing Director of the fresh pork business in 2003 and then became Chief Operating Officer in 2011.
He was appointed to the role of Chief Executive in August 2012.
Adam was also a committee member of the British Pig Executive between 2005 and 2013.
Mark Bottomley, Finance Director Mark joined Cranswick as Group Financial Controller in 2008 and was appointed Finance Director in 2009.
He is a chartered accountant and has several years experience in the food production sector where he has held a variety of senior finance roles.
Jim Brisby, Sales and Marketing Director Jim joined Cranswick some 18 years ago as a sales and marketing executive.
In 2004 he was appointed Sales and Marketing Director of Cranswick Country Foods plc, a major subsidiary of Cranswick, and he has been an integral member of the team that has grown the business over the years.
He was appointed Sales and Marketing Director in 2010.
Bernard Hoggarth, Commercial Director Bernard joined Cranswick in 1978, focusing on the agribusiness activity before becoming involved in the development of the food manufacturing business during the 1990s.
He was appointed a Director in 1988 and was Chief Executive between 2004 and 2012.
Subsequently Bernard remained on the Board as Commercial Director, on a part-time basis: however he will now retire after the Annual General Meeting following a 36 year association with the Company.
He will, however be available to the business, if required, for any ad hoc projects that may arise.
Non-Executive Directors John Worby John joined Cranswick as a Non-Executive Director in 2005 and is Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee.
He is a chartered accountant with many years experience in the food industry.
John retired as Group Finance Director of Genus plc in 2013 having previously worked for Uniq plc formerly Unigate PLC from 1978 until 2002, in various roles including Group Finance Director and Deputy Chairman.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Connect Group plc and Fidessa Group plc and is a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
This year John will have completed nine years as an Independent Non-Executive Director and therefore will stand down after the Annual General Meeting.
Steven Esom Steven joined Cranswick as a Non-Executive Director in 2009 and is currently Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
He has held a number of senior positions within the food sector including Executive Director of Food at Marks & Spencer plc which followed twelve years at Waitrose, the last five years of which he was Managing Director.
For the last four years he was an Operating Partner of Langholm Capital.
He is currently the Non-Executive Chairman for the British Retail Consortium trading, the Ice Organisation and Advantage Travel Centres.
He was until 2013 a Non-Executive Director of Tyrrells Investments Limited.
Kate Allum Kate joined Cranswick as a Non-Executive Director in July 2013.
She is currently Chief Executive of First Milk Limited and a former head of the European supply chain for McDonalds.
Mark Reckitt Mark joined Cranswick as a Non-Executive Director on 1 May 2014.
Mark was Group Strategy Director of Smiths Group plc from February 2011 to April 2014 and was additionally Divisional President, Smiths Interconnect from October 2012 to April 2014.
Prior to joining Smiths, Mark was interim Managing Director of Green & Blacks Chocolate and before that was Chief Strategy Officer at Cadbury plc between 2004 and 2010.
Mark held a range of Strategy and Finance roles at Cadbury since joining in 1989, including Finance Director of Cadbury UK.
Prior to joining Cadbury, Mark spent six years in Investment Banking and Retailing, following his qualification as a chartered accountant in 1983.
Mark is also a Non-Executive Director of JD Wetherspoon plc, where he is Chair of the Audit Committee and member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Member of Remuneration Committee Member of Audit Committee Member of Nomination Committee Report & Accounts 2014 Cranswick plc 33
