Directors Report Corporate Governance continued Nomination Committee Report of the Nomination Committee for the year Dear fellow shareholder, ended 31 December 2014 The Nomination Committee consists of the Chairman of the Board, the Non-Executive Directors and the Group Chief Executive.
It meets on an ad-hoc basis and is responsible for nominating candidates for appointment to the Board for approval by the Board, and for succession planning.
Main Activities In 2014, the Committees main task was searching for a new Group Finance Director to replace Sean Christie.
We identified the key skills and experience required of the new post-holder and agreed a role specification.
The Committee retained an external search firm, Russell Reynolds, which has no other connection with the Group, to assist in identifying potential candidates for nomination to the Board.
Following the successful search, in September 2014 the Committee recommended the appointment of Jez Maiden.
The Board approved his appointment with effect from 1 January 2015.
My term as Chairman of the Board comes to an end inSeptember 2015.
The Committee, chaired by Nigel Turner, SeniorIndependent Director, has commenced the process to find asuccessor.
A role specification has been agreed and Zygos has beenretained as the external search firm to assist in the process.
Zygos has no other connection with the Group.
The Nomination Committee evaluates the balance In accordance with the Code, all Non-Executive Directors with a term ofskills, knowledge, experience and diversity on beyond six years have been subject to a rigorous review.
In January theBoard and identifies and nominates suitable 2015, the Committee recommended the extension of Nigel Turners term for a further three years to June 2018, which would bring his candidates for appointment.
Given my departure this year, the Nomination Committee felt the extension of Nigels term beyond six years wasinCrodas best interests as, particularly in his role as senior Independent Director, Nigel will help facilitate a smooth handover tothe new Chairman.
The Committee also recommended that the Board extend Alan Fergusons term of office for a further three years until 30 June 2017.
The Committee carried out its customary corporate governance Members and attendance eligibility at meetings review and was satisfied that the size, structure and composition of heldduringthe year ended 31 December 2014 the Board, and the required time commitment from Non-Executive Directors, remain appropriate.
It was also satisfied that all the Martin Flower Chairman 5 5 Non-Executive Directors continue to fulfil the criteria of independence Alan Ferguson 5 5 and are able to commit the required time for the proper performance Steve Foots 5 5 of their duties.
1 Helena Ganczakowski 3 4 2 Stanley Musesengwa 1 1 Nigel Turner 5 5 Steve Williams 5 5 1 H elena Ganczakowski was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 February 2014.
Helena was unable to attend the May Committee meeting due to another commitment.
This was discussed with the Chairman prior to her appointment to theBoard and the conflict will not arise in future years 2 Stanley Musesengwa retired from the Board on 24 April 2014 58 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Boardroom Diversity Regarding all appointments to the Board, whether for Non-Executive or Executive positions, we consider carefully the benefits of greater diversity, including gender diversity, whilst ensuring that we fulfil ourobligations to our shareholders to recruit the best person to therole, on merit.
The executive search firms used for our recent appointments of Jez Maiden and Helena Ganczakowski, are both signatories to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
The Committee ensures that the specification for any new Director role is equally suited to both female and male applicants.
TheBoards diversity policy can be found at www.
Key Responsibilities of the Committee To review regularly the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and make recommendations of any changes to the Board To give full consideration to succession planning for Directors andother senior Executives in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and, consequently, what skills and expertise the Board will need in future Where a Board vacancy is identified, to evaluate the balance ofskills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board andprepare a description of the role and capabilities required fortherespective appointment To identify and nominate candidates to fill Board vacancies, fortheapproval of the Board, as and when openings arise To keep the organisations leadership needs, both Executive and Non-Executive, under review to ensure that Croda continues to compete effectively in the marketplace To review annually the time required from a Non-Executive Director and the Chairman To make recommendations on succession planning for the Board Priorities for 2015 To complete the search for my replacement as Chairman of the Board To continue to review the balance, experience and skills of the Board To progress succession planning for the Group Chief Executive I will be available at the AGMtorespond to any questions shareholders may raise on theCommittees activities.
Martin Flower Chairman of the Nomination Committee Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59
