Directors Report Corporate Governance continued The Board discharged its responsibility for reviewing the operational Accountability effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems The Audit Committee throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the The Audit Committee report, which describes the membership Annual Report.
It used a process which involved: oftheAudit Committee, its responsibilities, and main activities Written confirmations from relevant senior executives and divisional in, andpriorities for, 2014, is set out on pages 53 to 57. directors concerning the operation of those elements of the system Risk Management and Internal Control for which they are responsible The Board acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring the Internal audit work carried out by KPMG LLP which report through maintenance of a sound system of internal controls and risk the Vice President Risk and Control to the Audit Committee management.
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance 2005 andinorder to discharge this responsibility, the Directors have Reports from the external auditors established an organisational structure with clear operating Presentations of key risks and controls by the Executive owner and procedures, lines of responsibility, and delegated authority.
other assurance providers, seecase study on page 51 In particular, there are clear procedures and defined authorities This system is designed to mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of forthefollowing: failure to achieve business objectives and provides reasonable but Financial reporting, with clear policies and procedures governing not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
As the financial reporting process and preparation of the financial appropriate, the Board also ensures that necessary actions have statements.
There is a clear and documented framework of been, or are being, taken to remedy significant failings or weaknesses required controls.
Each reporting location prepares an annual identified from the review of internal controls effectiveness.
self-assessment ofcompliance with these controls, which is Fair, Balanced and Understandable assured via planned internal audit visits that are approved by The process of compiling the Annual Report was improved and theAudit Committee brought forward to give the Board more time to assess whether it Comprehensive monitoring and quantification of business risks, wasfair, balanced and understandable, as now required by the Code.
under the direction of the Risk Management Committee.
The The Board considered whether the Annual Report contained the Groups approach to risk management is discussed in more necessary information forshareholders to assess the Companys detailin the Strategic Report on pages 28 to 32 and in the performance, business model and strategy.
We have revisited how Groupsseparate Sustainability Report the business model is presented and the linkage to our strategy, providing more clarity to assist shareholders.
The tone was reviewed Capital investment with detailed appraisal, risk analysis, to ensure a balanced approach and, with the support of the Audit authorisation and post-investment review procedures Committee, the Board made sure the narrative at the front end of the report was consistent with the financial statements.
50 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014
