Directors Report Corporate Governance Our governance framework underpins and supports our Business and the decisions we make every day.
Chairmans Letter Dear fellow shareholder, An effective governance framework that is embedded into our organisation is vital to ensuring that Croda remains successful and sustainable.
Your Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and to complying with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Code.
I am pleased to report that, except inthe area of Non-Executive Director meetings with investors, the Company has complied with the Code for the period under review.
The Board is accountable to Crodas shareholders for good governance and this report, together with the Directors Remuneration Report, set out on pages 61 to 79, describes how theCodes main principles of governance have been applied by theCompany.
This report also includes several case studies that givea practical insight into how our governance framework underpins and supports our Business and the decisions we make every day.
Board and Senior Management Appointments Sean Christie stood down from the Board and his role as Group Finance Director with effect from 22 January 2015.
The Board and theNomination Committee spent a great deal of time seeking a suitable replacement for Sean, and I was pleased to announce in October 2014 the appointment of Jez Maiden as our new Group Finance Director.
Jez joined from National Express Group PLC wherehe hadbeen group finance director since 2008.
Jez has an exceptional track record as a group finance director and has had extensive experience working across the speciality chemical sector.
He is a valuable addition to our senior team.
I would like to thank Sean for the outstanding contribution hehas made to Croda over the past nine years.
We wish him all the very best for the future.
Following the retirement of Stanley Musesengwa, Helena Ganczakowski joined the Board in February 2014 as a Non-Executive Director.
Helena has a wealth of experience in consumer marketing and innovative product development and has brought a fresh perspective to the Board.
Much thought and effort was given to ensuring Helena received a comprehensive induction to Croda so that she developed an understanding of our businesses and people.
Details of Helenas induction can be found on page 48.
42 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014
