Directors Report Corporate Governance continued Leadership Membership of the Board as at 31 December 2014 and attendance eligibility at Board meetings held during the year Role and Operation of the Board The Board has ultimate responsibility for the overall leadership Martin Flower Chairman 10 10 oftheGroup.
In this role it oversees the development of a clear Sean Christie 10 10 Groupstrategy, monitors operational and financial performance Alan Ferguson 10 10 against agreed goals and objectives, and ensures that appropriate Steve Foots 10 10 controls and systems exist to manage risk.
1 Helena Ganczakowski 8 9 Specific Board matters Keith Layden 10 10 2 The matters reserved for the Board fall into four broad areas: Stanley Musesengwa 3 3 Nigel Turner 10 10 1.
Matters required by law to be reserved for the Boards decision, Steve Williams 10 10 such as approving the Annual Report and Accounts, appointing new Directors, and declaring dividends 1 H elena Ganczakowski was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 February 2014.
Helena was unable to attend the May Board meeting due to another commitment.
The requirements of the UK Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure discussed with the Chairman prior to her appointment to the Board and the conflict will not arise in future and Transparency Rules, such as approving circulars to 2 S tanley Musesengwa retired from the Board on 24 April 2014 shareholders and other significant communications Governance Structure 3.
UK Corporate Governance Code recommendations, such Group asensuring the Company has a sound system of internal Nomination Executive controland risk management, and approving the Boards Committee Committee andCommittees terms of reference Group 4.
Other matters such as approval of the Groups strategy and Finance budget, material corporate transactions and capital expenditure Audit Committee The full schedule of matters reserved for the Board can be found Committee atwww.
Group Board SHEQ With support from the Company Secretary, the Chairman sets Committee theannual Board agenda programme and Board meeting agendas, Remuneration anddetermines the number of meetings to be held during the year.
Risk Committee Heensures enough time is devoted, during meetings and throughout Management the year, to discussing all material matters, including strategic, Committee financial, operational, business, risk, HR and governance issues.
Routine Theagenda programme spans two years rather than a traditional Group Chief Business oneyear cycle.
This allows more time to be spent on agenda items Executive Committee and for consideration of unscheduled or unanticipated matters.
At the date of this report, the Board comprises eight Directors: the The Board has three main Committees: the Audit Committee: Chairman: the Group Chief Executive: the Group Finance Director: theRemuneration Committee: and the Nomination Committee.
theChief Technology Officer: and four independent Non-Executive Theterms of reference for each Board Committee can be found Directors.
The small size of our Board allows time for full discussion atwww.
and debate of items and enables all Directors views to be heard.
TheNon-Executive Directors have a broad range of business, financial and international skills and experience, which provides appropriate balance and diversity within the Board.
Biographical notes appear on pages 40 and 41.
44 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Audit Committee: chaired by Alan Ferguson The Chairman and Group Chief Executive liaise closely and have Monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements frequent meetings, face-to-face or by telephone, in which the announcements, the accounting processes, and the effectiveness Chairman is kept appraised of significant developments between ofinternal controls and risk management.
Formore information see Board meetings.
This ensures any areas of potential conflict pages 53 to 57. betweenthe Executive and Non-Executive Directors are minimised.
Remuneration Committee: chaired by Steve Williams The Senior Independent Director provides a sounding board for Approves the Companys remuneration policy and framework theChairman and acts as an intermediary for the Non-Executive anddetermines the remuneration packages for members of senior Directors, where necessary.
He is available to shareholders where management.
For more information see pages 61 to 79. communication through the Chairman or Executive Directors has not been successful or where it may not seem appropriate.
The Senior Nomination Committee: chaired by Martin Flower Independent Director is responsible for leading the Non-Executive Reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and Directors in appraising the performance of the Chairman and in their itsCommittees, identifies and nominates suitable candidates discussions of his term of appointment and fees.
forappointment to the Board, and has responsibility for succession planning.
For more information see pages 58 to 59.
The independent Non-Executive Directors role is to constructively challenge the Executive Directors and monitor the delivery of the The day-to-day operational management of the Business is strategy within the risk and control framework set by the Board.
delegatedby the Board to the Group Chief Executive, who uses several Committees to assist him in this task: the Group Executive Outside the Boardroom Committee: the Group Finance Committee: the Risk Management In addition to formal Board meetings, in 2014, the Directors attended Committee: the Group SHEQ Steering Committee: and the meetings to review the Groups strategy and were present at the RoutineBusiness Committee.
For further information on each AGM.
They also met with the Companys financial and public relations ofthese Committees see page 60. advisers to discuss the feedback from investors and analysts on the Groups annual results.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Board Roles met together without the Executive Directors present and the The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman met in order and clearly defined, with the division of responsibilities set out toappraise the Chairmans performance.
inwriting and agreed by the Board.
During the year, each Non-Executive Director considered in detail The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for promoting akey strategic objective of the business.
In September 2014, Nigel openand effective communication between the Executive and Turner and Steve Williams had an in-depth review of how sustainability Non-Executive Directors and for creating an environment at operates in the business, led by the sustainability team.
In November Boardmeetings in which all Directors contribute to discussions 2014, Alan Ferguson and Helena Ganczakowski met with the andfeel comfortable in engaging in healthy debate and Performance Technologies management board, gaining a greater .
understanding of the innovation pipeline in this market sector.
TheNon-Executive Directors reported back to the Board following The Chairman leads the annual Board effectiveness review their site visits, including recommendations and suggestions processand ensures all new Directors have an appropriately tailored forimprovements.
He is responsible for effective communication withshareholders and for ensuring the Board understands the views All Directors are involved in the Groups Leadership Development of major shareholders.
The Chairman also ensures that the Group Programme.
This involves attending various sessions, including complies with good practice in corporate governance, ethical, roundtable discussions on topical business issues chaired environmental and human resources matters and upholds high byaDirector, for example, on emerging markets, ethics or risk standards of integrity and probity.
management, and interacting with employee course members inteam-building sessions or at dinners.
The Group Chief Executive has day-to-day responsibility for the effective management of the Groups Business and for ensuring As in previous years, members of the Executive Committee and Board decisions are implemented.
He plays a key role in devising othersenior managers from across Croda attended suppers where andreviewing sustainable Group development strategies for the Board discussed topics relevant to the business and its strategy.
discussion and approval by the Board.
The Group Chief Executive In addition, during the Boards visit to our US operations, the Directors istasked with providing regular reports to the Board on all matters of met informally with some of the Groups less senior, high-potential significance relating to the Groups Business, or reputation, to ensure employees.
These interactions enhance the Boards understanding the Board has accurate, timely and clear information on all matters on of the business andallow Directors to spend time with the Groups which a Board decision is required.
He also promotes the Companys senior managersand potential future leaders.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 Directors Report Link to Strategic Objectives Corporate Governance continued 1 2 3 p20 The Boards 2014 Activities and Priorities People The Board has an agenda programme that ensures strategic, Talent review and succession planning operational, business, financial, HR and corporate governance items are discussed at the appropriate time at Board meetings.
The Board Appointment of a new Group Finance Director agenda has strong links to the strategic objectives for the business.
Appointment of a new Non-Executive Director Keyhighlights of the Boards 2014 activities are set out below.
Pension investment risks and scheme strategy Strategy UK pension landscape in light of Budget changes 1 Delivering consistent top and bottom line growth Financial, risk and performance management Geo Technologies, Health Care and Personal Care Business Areareviews Capital expenditure approvals New global organisational structure Refinancing of the Groups banking facilities Globalisation of manufacturing The Groups budget, forecasts and key performance targets 2 I ncreasing the proportion ofNew andProtected Product sales Strategic milestone review Forward looking capex Dividends Technology led acquisitions Chemical regulatory risk review New and Protected Products pipeline Product liability risk review Innovation and R&D in Performance Technologies Governance and reporting 3 Investing in a sustainable future Annual Report and Accounts and other financial statements Safety, health, environment and quality Board evaluation and effectiveness Sustainability strategy and targets Developments in corporate governance and differing roles ofExecutive and Non-Executive Directors Investment in technology to make bio-based surfactants derivedfrom plants Case study: Embedding sustainability in our business progress in meeting existing targets and develops new targets We adopt an holistic approach to sustainability.
It is embedded andMaterial Areas for consideration by the Executive Committee.
intoour business model, built into our strategy and influences how The Executive Committee reviews performance in meeting our weengage with our customers, employees and other stakeholders.
It also considers the sustainability strategy This approach is supported at all levels of our Company and rooted formulated by the GSSC, including any proposed new material within our governance framework.
The Executive Committee ensures that the Our daily communication with customers, suppliers, employees, sustainability strategy is aligned with that of the business and localcommunities and regulatory bodies helps us understand thatconsideration is given to resources and investmentpriorities.
thesustainability issues that matter most to them.
This enables The Board has ultimate responsibility for our sustainability strategy.
ustofocus on the things that are most important for the future Itprovides challenge and direction to management and its ofourBusiness and long term growth.
members give valuable insights from their roles in other businesses All our locations have a sustainability champion tasked with and industries.
The Board has time built in to its agenda programme reporting progress against sustainability targets and KPIs.
Each to review progress against the agreed sustainability targets.
region has a representative who chairs a regional sustainability Once the sustainability targets are agreed and approved, committee and who sits on the Group Sustainability Steering implementation plans are discussed and developed and rolled out Committee GSSC.
The regional representatives gather and bring across our organisation.
forward issues, ideas and concerns from their respective regions fordiscussion and consideration to the GSSC.
Our governance structure facilitates the continual evolution of our sustainability strategy and ensures sustainability is at the heart of The GSSC is made up of specialists from different Croda functions ourbusiness.
Further details of our sustainability programme can and regions and provides thought leadership on our sustainability befound on page 34. strategy and the Material Areas we should focus on.
It reviews 46 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014
