Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information The review concluded that: Effectiveness The Board is open and collaborative, operating as a unified team, The Nomination Committee and benchmarks well with companies of a similar size in key The Nomination Committee report, which describes the membership aspects of its work of the Nomination Committee, its responsibilities, its main activities in2014 and its priorities for 2015, is set out on page 58.
Very good progress has been made in most aspects of the Boardswork with greater Non-Executive Director involvement Board Evaluation tounderstand the business and seeking ways to add value for The Board undertakes a formal review of its performance and that theGroup Chief Executive and his Executive management team ofits Committees each year.
During 2013, the Board review was conducted using an online survey, tailored to our activities There is a strong risk culture in Croda, with the Board and andconcerns.
Agreed areas for improvement, and the key actions management team taking it very seriously with appropriate and progress in meeting them, are summarised below: tonefrom the top Good progress has been made in non-financial monitoring, Focus on succession planning of senior Executive roles particularly in the areas of safety, quality and sustainability Receive more analysis on the competitive environment Looking to the future, the Board will think carefully about its and on customers optimum balance and composition to support the growth Revisit the agreed strategy during 2014, including anddevelopment of the business progress against milestones The Board has begun to implement many of the action points Move the Board agenda programme to a andobjectives that were agreed following the feedback.
two year cycle Key actions for 2015 include: Receive in-depth technology training from Review monitor effectiveness of the new global theChiefTechnology Officer to align with   Completed Ongoing Continued focus on succession planning of senior Executive roles Greater focus at Board level on key customers In 2014 we commissioned an externally facilitated review, conductedby Sheena Crane, an experienced consultant with no Board Re-Election other connection to the Group.
Although an externally facilitated The Board contains a broad range of skills and experience from review was not required by the Code until 2015, the Board considered different industries and advisory roles, and from international markets.
that regular external input would be valuable.
Mrs Crane conducted These skills support the strategic aims of the Company.
Following the 2012 Board review and this years review built upon her findings individual performance assessments, the Board is satisfied that each in2012, as well as the output from the internally facilitated 2013 review.
Director continues to perform effectively, allocates sufficient time for Mrs Crane conducted one to one meetings with each Director their duties, and remains fully committed to their role in the Company.
andthe Company Secretary to gather their overall views on how With the exception of Sean Christie, who leaves the Company on theBoard and its Committees are working and on specific key 22April 2015, all Directors will stand for re-election at the 2015 AGM, areas including strategy, financial monitoring, risk management, with Jez Maiden offering himself for election.
Full biographies for the Board dynamics, balance and composition, succession planning Directors can be found on pages 40 and 41. andHR.
The Board had a feedback session, facilitated by MrsCrane, whichincluded an open and detailed discussion of thefindings.
Separately, the Chairman fed back on a one-to-one basistoeach ofthe Non-Executive Directors and the Group ChiefExecutive.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 Directors Report Corporate Governance continued Directors Induction On joining Croda, Directors receive a tailored induction programme.
Helena Ganczakowski is currently undergoing her induction following her appointment to the Board on 1 February 2014.
Details of our approach to Board inductions and of Helenas induction canbe foundin the case study below.
Case study: Equipping new Directors New Directors need to quickly absorb a great deal about a business Review: The Company Secretary and Helena had regular ifthey are to fulfil their roles effectively from the start.
Our tailored reviews, with input from the Chairman, to agree what extra inductions offer a swift and thorough way to help new Directors insightsthe induction needed to deliver understand Crodas business, markets and relationships and to The induction programme has been thorough and enjoyable, establish a link with employees.
givingme an insight into Croda and enabling me to understand In planning an induction for Helena Ganczakowski, we took the thechallenges and opportunities we face as a business, said following steps: HelenaGanczakowski.
Bespoke programme: Our Company Secretary and Helena One of the most valuable aspects of the induction programme discussed how the programme could be tailored to her needs hasbeen meeting so many employees, be it the chemists in the laboratories, the engineers and operators on site or the sales Varied delivery: We used diverse formats to communicate andmarketing teams.
It is through these interactions that I have information.
These included iPad reading materials, meetings beenableto quickly grasp an understanding of Crodas culture, withemployees and fellow Directors, briefings and training whichprovides an important context to my role as a fromexternal advisers, and site visits .
Length: Conscious of Helenas other commitments and not wanting to overload her with too much information in too short atime, we are delivering the induction over the full Board cycle of12months Period Focus Topics March Executive Directors and Company overview, covering: business model, strategy, technology, finance, CompanySecretary investor relations, regulatory issues, Board procedures, governance Cowick laboratory tour and R&D teams, Personal Care market sector overview, multinational customers, Rawcliffe Bridge site visit, UK global operations overview, process safety, quality Corporate legal advisers and Auditor Directors duties, governance, audit, accounting overview April Gouda site visit, the Netherlands Performance Technologies and Industrial Chemicals market sector overview June Leek and Ditton site visits, UK Health Care and Sun Care business overviews July Brokers Investor relations, major shareholder views August September Meetings with senior managers Remuneration, leadership development, succession and talent: information HR, IT, Finance, Risk, technology: banking and treasury, budgeting, management accounts: and InternalAudit internal audit and internal control environment, risk management Remuneration advisers Regulatory and legal issues, market practice and trends Atlas Point and Mill Hall site visits, US US region overview, operations, Geo Technologies business area overview Edison laboratory tour, US Innovation November Chairman of Croda Pension Trust Scheme overview, investment risks, scheme strategy andPension advisers 48 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Board Support Conflicts of Interest Each Director has access to the Company Secretary for his The Board has an established process for declaring and monitoring adviceand services.
Where necessary, the Directors may take actual and potential conflicts.
The Articles of Association of the independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Company allow the non-conflicted members of the Board to authorise a conflict or potential conflict situation.
In addition to Training and briefings are available to all Directors on appointment thepotential conflicts of Steve Williams noted above, Nigel andsubsequently, as appropriate, taking into account their existing Turnerdeclared a potential conflict in relation to the possible sale experience, qualifications and skills.
In order to build and increase the offarm produce oilseed rape through agents to Croda.
Helena Non-Executive Directors familiarity with, and understanding of, the Ganczakowski also has a Non-Executive Director role on the Groups people, businesses and markets, senior managers regularly boardofPeople Against Dirty, a customer of Croda.
make presentations at Board meetings.
The Board also receives regular briefings from the Company Secretary on governance, legal Details of the professional commitments of the Chairman and and regulatory matters and additional briefings from the Companys theNon-Executive Directors are included in their biographies on professional advisers.
The Board is satisfied that these do not interfere withthe performance of their duties for the Company.
Before each meeting, the Company Secretary makes sure that the meeting papers and other information are delivered electronically via Sean Christie is a Non-Executive Director of two Aim-listed companies, asecure, iPad-accessible web portal.
This helps to ensure that each Accys Technologies Plc and Applied Graphene Materials plc.
He is Director has the time and resources to fulfil their duties.
A resource also a Non-Executive of Eminate.
JezMaiden is the Audit Committee centre within the web portal provides access to useful information Chairman and Senior Independent Director of Synthomer plc.
Details about the Group, including corporate governance materials for of the payments received inrespect of these appointments are set out example, minutes of previous meetings, meeting dates, terms of in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 79. reference, finance and strategy information, Group policies and During 2014, no Non-Executive Director had served on the Board procedures, and information on topics such as risk and insurance.
formore than nine years from the date of their first election, with the Independence of Non-Executive Directors range between one year and five and a half years.
The Chairman has Croda complies with the Code in having experienced Non-Executive been a Director for nine and a half years, having been appointed to the Directors who represent a source of strong advice, judgement and Board in May 2005. challenge to the Executive Directors.
At present there are five such The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors Directors, including the Chairman and the Senior Independent can be viewed at www.
They can be inspected during Director, each of whom has significant commercial experience.
Their normal business hours at the Companys registered office by understanding of the Groups operations is enhanced by regular contacting the Company Secretary and will also be available for business presentations and site visits.
The independence of the Non-Executive Directors is kept under Time Commitment review.
The Chairman was independent on his appointment in 2005 Each Director is aware of the need to allocate sufficient time to the but, as Chairman, is not classified as independent.
Steve Williams Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
In addition hasconsultancy roles with Eversheds LLP, which provides some totime spent at Board and Committee meetings, the Directors legalservices to the Group and Spencer Stuart, a search consultancy participate in several Company related events: details are set out firm that has previously been used by Croda.
The Board does onpage 45. notconsider that these roles would affect his judgement in relation toCroda and its Business and, therefore, considers that all NonExternal Consultants Executive Directors who served during the year are independent New Bridge Street, now part of Aon plc, acts as remuneration incharacter and judgement, with no relationships or circumstances consultant to the Remuneration Committee.
While the Aon group that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
provides insurance services to the Group, these are not provided byNew Bridge Street.
Zygos and Russell Reynolds act as search advisers to the Board and Nomination Committee.
Neither firm has any other connection with the Group.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49
