Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Audit Committee Report of the Audit Committee for the year Dear fellow shareholder, ended 31 December 2014 In my capacity as Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased topresent the Audit Committee Report for the year ended 31December 2014.
The Audit Committee has delivered on our business as usual work, asset out in our terms of reference, and from this perspective, there is nothing to highlight for your attention.
Last year, we noted four priorities for 2014: Key priorities Actions during the year Progress With Internal Audit, The Committee received a look more closely presentationon SAP that considered, athow we can among other things, the extension of continue to develop automated controlreliance within SAP our systems-based and theuse ofanalytics to assess the auditapproach.
effectiveness of the SAP system controls.
This work was shared with PwC to ensure maximum reliance could be placed upon thecontrols as part of the externalaudit work.
Review progress The Committee assessed made by PwC theeffectiveness of PwC, as described following the 2013 in more detail on page56.
The review The Committee delivered on its priorities changes in structure confirmed thatthe changes made for 2014 andhas a clear plan for 2015. and personnel, in2013 had resulted in improved toconfirm the service delivery, including valuable anticipated benefits contributions and insights at were delivered Committee meetings from andembedded bothPwCpartners.
To better understand Internal Audits riskassurance the comfort levels we activity, focused ontwo key risk have with the various areas chemical regulatory and types and levels product liability.
ofrisk assurance, The Committee reviewed the reliance with Internal Audit placed by management on mitigating spending more controls, and analysed the assurance timeand resource that applied to these controls.
Members and attendance eligibility at meetings 1 Commit further The Committee continued to monitor heldduringthe year ended 31 December 2014 timeto better the control environment within SAP, understanding supported by the work of internal audit.
Alan Ferguson Chairman 5 5 ourprocesses for The scope of the cyber security risk Helena Ganczakowski 4 4 mitigating cyber risk.
assurance review was agreed and 2 Stanley Musesengwa 2 2 willtake place in the first half of 2015.
Nigel Turner 5 5 Completed Ongoing Steve Williams 5 5 In summary, we have delivered what we set out to do and have 1 T he Audit Committee met twice between 31 December 2014 and the publication ofthisAnnual Report aclearplan for 2015.
2 Stanley Musesengwa retired from the Board on 24 April 2014 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53 Directors Report Corporate Governance continued Committee Membership Main Activities The Committee is made up of four Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee met five times in 2014 and twice between the year end Theexperience of each member of the Committee is summarised and the publication of this Annual Report.
The key issues covered at the onpages 40 and 41.
Ihave held a number of senior financial roles, Committee meetings were reported to the subsequent Board meeting.
most recently as ChiefFinancial Officer of Lonmin Plc, and am In addition to the focus areas outlined on page 53, theCommittees chairman of the AuditCommittee of two FTSE 100 companies.
main activities were as follows: Suchconsideration provides the Board with assurance that the Audit Committee has the appropriate skills and experience and meets the Financial reporting Code requirement that at least one member has significant, recent The Committee: and relevant financial experience.
The Board considers that each Monitored the Groups financial statements and results member of the Committee is independent within the definition of the announcements and reviewed significant financial reporting Code and has relevant financial experience as well as a broad spread andaccounting issues of commercial experience.
Received an update on material accounting standards and The Chairman of the Board, the Group Chief Executive, the Group governance changes that would impact the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the VP Risk andControl, who leads the internal audit function, and representatives Received a paper on Revenue Recognition and agreed to a minor from the external and internal auditors regularly attendmeetings by addition to the accounting policy to better reflect the terms of a invitation.
The Committee periodically, and I more regularly, meet revenue stream that is becoming more significant separately with the Vice President Risk and Control and the external Considered the effect of the new organisational structure on auditors without the Executives being present.
external segmental reporting and agreed the new reporting format While these meetings are invaluable, I also meet with the external Reviewed the process of compiling the Annual Report and Accounts auditors, the Group Finance Director and the Group Financial and reported back to the Board to assist its determination as to Controller at least twice each year to discuss the detail of the whether it is fair, balanced and understandable yearendand half year results before the relevant Committee meetings.
Thishelps me to better understand the key issues External audit andtomake sureenough time is devoted to them at the The Committee: subsequentmeeting.
Discussed and approved the external audit plan, including: Responsibilities of the Committee and Activities Since theassessment of significant audit risks: the scope of the audit thePublication of the 2013 Annual Report covering 83.6% of the Groups consolidated pre-tax profit : The Committee assists the Board in ensuring that the Groups themateriality level circa 5% of the Groups consolidated pre-tax financial systems provide accurate and up-to-date information on profit, or 11.5 million : and the fide minimus reporting threshold itsfinancial position and supports the Board in considering whether 0.5million.
The audit fees were approved by the Committee the Groups published financial statements are fair, balanced and Reviewed the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor understandable.
Its key responsibilities are to monitor the integrity and reapproved the Groups policy in this area ofthe financial statements and results announcements of the Group and to review significant financial reporting issues and judgements.
Considered the regulatory frameworks relating to the requirement The Committee also reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the to tender the external audit and agreed the Companys approach Groups internal controls and risk management systems, and the internal audit function.
It has several responsibilities related to the Groups external auditors, including their appointment and removal, their fee, assessing their independence and monitoring non-audit services.
Detailed responsibilities are set out in the Committees termsof reference.
These were reviewed and revised during the yearto reflect the updated UK Corporate Governance Code and theFinancial Reporting Council FRC Guidance on audit committees.
A copy of the terms of reference can be found at www.
54 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Internal Audit and risk management Significant Financial Statement reporting issues The Committee: In monitoring the Groups financial statements and results Received an update report from the VP Risk and Control at announcements, the Committee reviewed whether suitable eachmeeting and monitored compliance with the Group Risk accounting policies had been adopted and if management Management programme.
The Committee reviewed the reliance hadmadeappropriate estimates and judgements.
With support placed by management on the risk mitigating controls of the from theexternal auditors, the Committee considered a number Groups highest risks and analysed the types of assurance, ofsignificant issues related to the financial statements for the bothinternal and external, that applied to these controls yearended31 December 2014, as set out below: Assessed the 2014 risk-based assurance activity carried out Impairment of goodwill: The Committee reviewed the carrying byInternal Audit.
The risk assurance reporting is now aligned for valueof goodwill in light of the minor reduction in the Groups allassurance functions Group safety, health and environment, profits in thecurrent year.
The Committee focused on key Group quality and Internal Audit and an assessment was made judgements madeby management in choosing appropriate ofthe benefits of reports from external assurance providers assumptions in the impairment assessments to support the carrying value of the goodwill, such as the business unit the Reviewed and approved the 2015 Internal Audit plan and carrying value is assessed against, the discount rate, and future considered the results of the 2014 internal audits, the adequacy cash flow projections.
After challenge and debate, theCommittee ofmanagements response to matters raised, and the time considered the carrying values put forward by management takentoresolve such matters werereasonable and there had been no impairment ofgoodwill.
Considered the impact of the new organisational structure For more details see note 12 on page 112. ontherisk and internal control activity and agreed it would Inventory: The Committee reviewed the carrying value of bereviewed in2015 inventory, inparticular where purchased from another Croda Governance company, including a consideration of its ageing.
It concluded The Committee: thatthe value wasappropriate.
Undertook regular reviews of the Groups material litigation Pensions: The Committee continued to monitor the Groups andanannual review of its tax strategy, and was satisfied with pension arrangements, in particular the liability in respect of the theapproach to provisioning defined benefit plans in the UK, the US and the Netherlands, whichare sensitive to assumptions made in respect of discount Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing rates and inflation.
The Committee reviewed the actuarial procedure after the introduction of a third party hosted reporting assumptions used and compared them with those used by lineto support anonymous reporting othercompanies, and considered them tobe reasonable.
Met with Internal Audit and external audit without management being present Provisions: The Committee reviewed whether certain environmental, reorganisation, litigation and other legal provisions Received presentations from key members of the operational were sufficient to cover estimated costs of potential and actual finance team claims and decided thatthey were reasonable and appropriate.
Undertook an effectiveness review as part of the externally For larger areas ofexposure, the Committee were reassured by facilitated review of the Board and its Committees as detailed legal opinions andinsurance coverage.
The review concluded that the Committee was Taxation: The global footprint of the Group necessitates an operating effectively understanding of, and compliance with, complex tax regulations.
As a result of this work the Committee delivered fully against The Committee reviewed the basis of calculation of the effective therequirements detailed in its terms of reference.
tax rate, the status ofthe Groups tax compliance, details ofpotentially significant challenges from tax authorities andthelevelof accruals.
TheCommittee concurred with managements views.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55 Directors Report Corporate Governance continued Internal Audit and Risk Management During the year the Committee assessed the effectiveness of PwC as In 2014 I met with the Vice President Risk and Control several Group external auditor and reviewed progress following the changes timesoutside of the formal meetings to discuss the performance to confirm that the anticipated benefits were delivered and embedded andoutput of the internal audit function and aspects of risk for the future.
To assist in the assessment, the Committee examined management.
The Vice President Risk and Control attended the results of the internal survey completed by all senior financial eachCommittee meeting and presented an internal audit report management approximately 20 across the Group, covering their thatwas fully reviewed and discussed, highlighting any major views on the effectiveness of PwC in carrying out the 2014 audit.
deviations from the annual plan agreed with the Committee.
Theapproach was consistent with previous years and included 12questions covering four broad areas: At each meeting, the Committee considered the results of the audits undertaken by the internal auditor and considered the adequacy of quality of planning, delivery and execution of the audit: managements response to matters raised, including the time taken quality and knowledge of the audit team: to resolve such matters.
It also focused on where there was a major divergence between the outcome of the internal audit and the scoring effectiveness of communications between management of the self-assessment questionnaire, completed annually by each andtheaudit team: and business unit.
The Committee looked at recurring themes identified robustness of the audit, including the audit teams ability as issues across a number of locations: such issues influence our tochallenge management and demonstrate independence.
planning for future years audit work.
The Committee reviewed the ITwork being carried out by internal audit and continued to examine The questions were graded from one to five and averaged a score ways to increase our use of data interrogation techniques.
This was an overall improvement on 2013.
The Committee agreed the internal audit plan for 2015: this takes into account such also considered the quality of reports from PwC and the additional factors as the results of previous audits, both external and internal, insights provided by the audit team, particularly at partner level.
It theself-assessment questionnaire, recurring themes from 2014 tookaccount of the views of the Group Finance Director and Group andthe views of Executive management.
Financial Controller who had met some local audit partners when visiting the Groups key jurisdictions, to gauge the quality of the In February, the Committee conducted its annual review of the internal teamand their knowledge and understanding of the Business.
auditor, including the audit plans, general performance and TheCommittee considered how well the auditors assessed key itsrelationship with the external auditors.
This did not highlight any accounting and audit judgements and the way it applied constructive significant areas for development.
challenge and professional scepticism in dealing with management.
Details on how the Business implements its risk management To assess the overall quality of PwCs work we also tabled the FRCs andcontrols on a Group wide basis are set out on pages 28 to 32 Audit Quality Inspection report on the firm.
This showed that the andpage 50. principal findings of the reviews undertaken were positive.
A review of effectiveness also forms part of PwCs own system of quality control.
External Auditors Effectiveness In 2013 we changed the structure and personnel of the PwC external Following the review, the Committee concluded that the audit was audit team.
The Committee considered that we would be best served effective and that the changes to the structure and personnel had by a two partner model and the decision was made to appoint Ian ledto improved service delivery, including valuable contributions Morrison, the Yorkshire and North East Regional Leader based in andinsights at Committee meetings by the two PwC partners.
Leeds, as the lead audit partner, supported by Ian Chambers, a Audit Tendering London-based partner with considerable FTSE 100 experience.
In 2013, when the Committee decided to change the delivery structure of the audit team, the regulatory landscape and best practice around audit tendering were still evolving.
The Committee feltwe would be best served by refining the service provided by PwCbefore going out to tender.
56 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Since then, the EU has adopted legislation to reform the statutory The only significant fees for non-audit work undertaken by PwC audit market, which will apply from 17 June 2016.
The legislation relateto tax compliance and advisory in the US.
We believe the firms requires rotation of audit firms every 10 years unless there is a tender, detailed knowledge of our operations in the US is particularly in which case the audit firm can remain as auditor for up to 20 years.
important giventhe complexities of both Federal and State legislation, The transitional rules stagger the introduction of mandatory firm whichnecessitated the completion of 35 tax returns last year.
rotation depending on the length of audit tenure as at 17 June 2014.
A copy of our non-audit fees policy can be found at As PwC have been the Groups auditors for more than 20 years, we www.
have a six year transition period, meaning they cannot be reappointed as ourauditors after 17 June 2020.
The Committee undertook its annual review of the Groups policies relating to external audit, including that which governs how and when We fully support the principle of audit tendering.
As reported in last employees and former employees of the Groups auditors can be years report, the Committee will tender the audit to coincide with employed by Croda.
theexpiry of Ian Morrisons term as lead audit partner, when he would sign the 2017 Annual Report, or sooner if the Committee considers External Auditor Reappointment itnecessary.
We will not, however, run a tender in 2015 as this would The Committee recommended to the Board that PwC be offered beinappropriate given the recent appointment of Jez Maiden as the forre-election at the forthcoming AGM, based on the work carried newGroup Finance Director.
A tender will therefore occur in either outin assessing their effectiveness and independence.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict our Priorities for 2015 choice of external auditor, although, as noted, under the European In addition to our routine business, the Committee has five focus rules, we are obliged to rotate PwC from the audit by 2020. areas for 2015.
We will: External Auditors Independence Examine with management how we can further develop our The Committee and the Board place great emphasis on systems-based internal audit approach.
This will take some theobjectivity of the Groups external auditors in reporting to time but should bring real benefits shareholders.
Both PwC audit partners are present at Audit Committee meetings to ensure full communication of audit-related Study the revised UK Corporate Governance Code and the FRCs affairs and to ensure they remain fully appraised of all matters Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related considered by the Committee.
Financial and Business Reporting and decide, in conjunction withthe Board, how to respond to revisions to the Code PwC were the Groups joint auditors from 1970 to 1980 and have been sole auditors since 1981.
To ensure objectivity, the rotation of Consider and start to plan the external audit tender.
To benefit audit partners responsibilities within PwC is actively encouraged fromemerging practice, we will take advice from those who andhas taken place.
By planning this process well in advance wewillmaximise the chance of getting the best outcome, During the year, the Committee undertook a detailed review of the particularly in terms of quality from the tender provision of non-audit services by PwC and reviewed the Groups policy in this area.
Assignments awarded to PwC are subject to We will work with Jez Maiden, the newly appointed Group Finance controls by management that have been agreed by the Audit Director, and assist in his induction to ensure a seamless handover Committee to ensure that audit independence is not compromised.
from Sean Christie In previous years the Committee has been aware of shareholder We will re-examine the control framework in light of the recent concerns about the level of non-audit fees, and so it is pleasing to changes in organisation structure to ensure it remains robust report that non-audit fees have fallen for the third consecutive year.
andfitfor purpose In2014, they were 0.4 million, less than the total audit fees of I will be available at the AGM to respond to any questions 0.8million: the audit to non-audit fees ratio stands at 2:1. shareholders may raise on the Committees activities.
I am required to give prior approval for work carried out by PwC and itsassociates above predetermined thresholds.
These were lowered from 50,000 to 20,000 in 2012 by the Committee in recognition ofthe level of spend on non-audit services performed by PwC.
Myreview also includes determining that other potential providers ofnon-audit services have been properly considered.
Despite Alan Ferguson thefallin non-audit fees, the Committee decided to keep the Chairman of the Audit Committee threshold at20,000 for the foreseeable future and amended thepolicy accordingly.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57
