Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Relations with Shareholders Case study: Managing key risks As a global chemical producer we operate in a highly regulated Communication with Shareholders market, which is subject to change.
Violation, or incomplete We recognise the importance of communicating with our knowledge, of the appropriate regulations could limit the markets shareholders.
The Chairman, Executive Directors and other senior into which we can sell, or expose the Group to fines or penalties.
managers maintain regular contact with existing and potential shareholders to ensure our strategy and trading trends are clearly To manage this key risk, in 2014, we carried out a comprehensive understood.
During the year, numerous meetings were held with assurance mapping exercise.
This had various stages: investors in the UK, US, Europe and Asia, including face-to-face Our Risk Management Committee evaluated the likelihood meetings, telephone and video conferences, and hosted site visits in andimpact of chemical regulatory non-compliance and the all of these regions.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group mitigating controls.
This was led by Stuart Arnott President, Finance Director ensure that shareholders views are communicated Global Operations, the Executive Committee member with to the entire Board by giving feedback from shareholder meetings responsibility for this risk and brokers reports.
The Board invites the Companys brokers and financial public relations advisers to attend at least one meeting each The Board carried out an in-depth review of the risk and year at which the economic and investment environment, Crodas discussed the exposure of the Business and the controls in performance, generally and in comparison with its sector peers, place to manage it.
The Board determined the tolerance Croda andinvestor reactions are discussed.
The Chairman and the had for the risk, in regard to our strategic objectives, and agreed SeniorIndependent Director attended the Companys results improvement opportunities announcements.
These presentations are webcast live, so all The Audit Committee reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness shareholders have access to them, and are also available to ofthe controls that management relied on to mitigate the risk download.
We answer all investor questions sent to our website.
Our Internal Audit team supported the Audit Committee by carrying The Company has not complied with the part of Code provision out a risk-based review of our product regulatory teams activities.
E. 1.1that says that Non-Executive Directors should be offered the This assessed relevant policy documentation, the monitoring opportunity to attend scheduled meetings with major shareholders controls used to maintain compliance, and the processes and that the Senior Independent Director should attend sufficient usedto keep up to date with regulatory developments.
We also meetings with a range of major shareholders to listen to their views reviewed our processes for the governance and management inorder to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues and ofthe automated system for release of product codes and concerns of major shareholders.
The Board considers that there labelling, animportant control in mitigating this risk area issufficient dialogue with shareholders through the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the Chairman, who meet The findings from the risk-based review were discussed with withshareholders regularly.
These meetings provide an appropriate the regulatory team and the risk owner and fed back to the Audit means of capturing shareholders opinions and the Board is regularly Committee.
The Audit Committee discussed the key findings apprised of shareholders views and key issues.
The Board believes andagreed the resulting action plan itis unnecessary for the Senior Independent Director or other Chemical regulatory compliance is just one of the key risks Non-Executive Directors to attend further meetings with major weface.
Our robust risk management governance framework shareholders.
All Non-Executive Directors are, however, available ensures that we work systematically to identify and monitor all toattend meetings if requested by shareholders and the Senior keyrisks, to evaluate the control environment and, as necessary, Independent Director is available to discuss matters concerning to agree improvement action plans.
Further details of our risk theChairman if the need arises: no such meetings were requested management framework can be found on pages 28 to 32. byshareholders during the year.
The Board believes its practices are consistent with both the mainprinciple of the Code concerning dialogue with shareholders, and good governance.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51 Directors Report Corporate Governance continued Annual General Meeting Substantial Shareholders The AGM provides an opportunity for private shareholders to raise As at 31 December 2014 the Company had received notification questions with Board members.
The Directors are also available of the following material shareholdings pursuant to the Disclosure toanswer questions afterwards in a more informal setting.
The and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority: AnnualReport and Accounts, including notice of AGM, are sent to Number % of issued shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
There of shares capital isaseparate investor relations section on www.
com which Artisan Partners Limited Partnership 7,764,789 5.72% includes, among other items, presentations made to analysts.
MFS Investment Management 6,719,161 4.95% TheAGM will be held at the Royal York Hotel, Station Road, York, Mondrian Investment Partners 6,374,715 4.69% North Yorkshire YO24 1AA, on 22 April 2015 at 12 noon.
Mawer Investment Management Limited 4,315,556 3.18% Deadlines for Exercising Voting Rights Aberdeen Asset Management Limited 4,212,514 3.10% Votes are exercisable at a General Meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may Geographical breakdown of shareholder base beexercised in person, by proxy or, in relation to corporate members, by corporate representatives.
The Companys Articles of Association 52.31% provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 28.78% UK 48hours before the time appointed for the holding of a meeting North America oradjourned meeting.
16.36% Europe 0.21% Rest of world 2.34% Asia Investor concentration: size of holding Number % of issued Size of holding of holders Size of holding capital 15,000 4,777 15,000 1.95 5,001100,000 1,065 5,001100,000 6.77 100,001upwards 251 100,001upwards 91.28 Investor concentration: type of holder % of issued Type of holder capital Private holders 4.79 Institutional holders 91.69 Other holders 3.52 52 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014
