Corporate Governance Statement of compliance Chairmans introduction The Companys shares are listed on the premium segment of the CSR is committed to developing innovative and advanced Ofcial List maintained by the UK Listing Authority.
Therefore, under technologies and solutions within an environment which enables the the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, the Board must development and advancement of our people, builds and maintains report on compliance with the Main Principles set out in the UK strong and eective partnerships with our suppliers, supports our Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting customers in the delivery of world-class products and enhances Council the FRC.
Your Board believes that in setting and pursuing the successful delivery of the strategic objectives, it is also The September 2012 edition of the Code was effective for the important to do so within a culture which promotes fairness, ethical Companys reporting period commencing on or after 28 December behaviour, sound judgment and importantly, personal accountability.
The Board has considered the provisions of the September 2012 Code in determining the extent of compliance and is satisfied In the conduct of its business and that of its Committees during that it has complied with the Code throughout the 52 week period to 2014, your Board has played an active role in ensuring that in 26 December 2014, except for provision B.
6.2. of the Code, which pursuing the fullment of CSRs strategic objectives such endeavour requires the annual evaluation of the Boards performance to be is conducted within a framework that properly reects the interests externally facilitated every three years.
As described on page 58, the of all our stakeholders.
2014 evaluation was due to be externally facilitated in accordance with this provision.
However, in light of the Qualcomm Transaction Throughout the year, your Board and Committees have received described on page 148, which is expected to become effective by late reports on all aspects of the Groups business, including areas summer 2015, the Board agreed to conduct an informal performance directly related to good governance.
Examples of the type of evaluation instead.
subjects include continued enhancement of the Group policies and practices concerned with health, safety and environmental On 31 December 2014, as separately announced, Mr. Anthony Carlisle management including training to empower local management stood down as a non-executive director, an appointment which he and staff to take personal ownership of such matters, changes had held since 2005.
As separately explained on page 56 to working practices associated with compliance with the US of this report, the Board considers that in the performance of his Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the duties, Dr. Levy Gerzberg, a non-executive director, who joined the implementation of initiatives designed to further enhance existing Board in 2011 on completion of the acquisition of Zoran, acts in a processes concerned with the Groups Information Systems IS manner which is independent of management and the Company.
and, linked to that, cyber security measures, which have been The Board recognises that Dr. Gerzberg does not satisfy the ongoing throughout 2014. requirements under the Code as an independent non-executive director, based on his previous role within Zoran.
As at 1 January As a unitary Board, your directors also have a shared responsibility 2015, the Board comprises the Chairman, three independent nonfor the success of the Group.
This is performed through the executive directors, one non-executive director and three executive formulation and execution of the Groups strategy, making enquiries directors.
This Board composition does not comply with the Codes of management, assessing performance, demonstrating requirement in provision B.
1.1 for at least half of the Board, excluding independence, knowledge and experience and holding the Chairman, to be independent.
The balance of the Board has management to account.
We consider the Board is sufciently been considered and under the prevailing circumstances, and diverse, conforming to the provisions of the UK Corporate taking into account the Qualcomm Transaction described on page Governance Code the Code on diversity, with the appropriate 148, the balance has been determined to be appropriate.
Mr. Carlisle balance of skills, experience and background.
This balance and was also a member of the Remuneration Committee.
As at 1 January diversity is periodically evaluated and, when considering new 2015 therefore, the Remuneration Committee comprised two appointments to the Board, attention is given to sustaining the independent non-executive directors and the Chairman.
This appropriate balance, with due regard for the evolution of the Group.
composition does not meet the requirements of D. 2.1 of the Code, which requires the Committee to comprise of at least three The following report, which includes on pages 59 to 65 the report independent non-executive directors.
Given the prevailing of the Audit Committee, and the separate report of the circumstances and the Qualcomm Transaction, the composition Remuneration Committee on pages 68 to 77, explains how the of the Committee was considered appropriate.
Board operates, the roles of the Board members and how the Board and its Committees function to ensure compliance with the The Board has had regard for the amended provisions of the Code, principles of good corporate governance.
In this report and the which were published in September 2014 and which will be effective for Strategic Report on pages 38 to 42, we also explain how we companies with a financial year commencing on or after 1 October encourage our employees across the Group to accept their 2014.
The Board believes that in regard to the revised Code, actions individual accountability for ensuring that the Group as a whole are already being taken which position the Group for future compliance.
operates to high standards of governance.
For example, there is a process in place for the Board to assess and monitor the Companys risk management framework in identication and mitigation of risks, whilst the Remuneration Committee, in the conduct of its business, already takes into account the potential for Ron Mackintosh conicts of interests in regards to information it receives in connection Chairman with considerations around executive remuneration.
The September 2012 and September 2014 editions of the Code are issued by the Financial Reporting Council and are available for review on the Financial Reporting Councils website: www.
The Companys American depositary receipts are listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC NASDAQ and the Company is therefore also subject to the rules of the NASDAQ and US Securities laws and the rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission the SEC applicable to foreign private issuers.
54 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic review Financial statements Other information Governance Succession planning and organisational development Senior management below board level attend and present to the The Board recognises the importance that organisational Board on specic business items within their areas of responsibility, development plays in supporting not only the successful delivery including as part of discussions on strategy, when considering the of the Groups current strategy but also in being able to adapt to annual plan each year or where specic projects are being undertaken changes affecting its business model which are a feature of the which are significant to the Group.
For example, during the year, senior rapidly evolving markets in which the Group operates.
The Board management presented to the Board on the implementation of an considers that effective development combines initiatives at both initiative intended to further enhance the oversight of key development the wider strategic level as well as being focused on the personal projects and associated financial metrics.
The Board considers that development of its employees.
such engagement provides valuable insight on the business as well as supporting better understanding of the capabilities of senior personnel.
Since 2009, successive corporate transactions have been undertaken by the Group, including the acquisition of SiRF During 2014, a meeting of the Nomination Committee considered Technology Holdings, Inc. 2009 and Zoran Corporation 2011 succession planning for senior roles within the organisation during and the disposal of the handset connectivity business to Samsung which the strength of internal resources were reviewed.
The Committee Electronics Co. Ltd. 2012.
As a result, significant attention also considered how these resources might be further enhanced has been given by the Board to the effective management of through mentoring and development.
The review also assessed where organisational change as the Group has altered its strategy and it might be appropriate to consider appointments from outside the evolved its capabilities to being able to provide increasingly complex Group to senior roles within the business and how this might be multifunction connectivity platforms and associated leading planned, by introducing potential candidates into roles from which it technologies.
An important aspect of managing this evolution of might be possible for them to advance into more senior positions.
the Group has been the oversight of associated changes in the management and function of the business, and the resulting impact Ethics policy on our employees.
As part of its routine business, the Board All employees of the Group, including the directors and senior received reports on the planning and implementation of such ofcers, are expected to comply with the Groups Ethics Policy, changes and on employee-related matters and organisational which was first adopted in 2009 following registration of our changes more generally, with due consideration of the impact on ordinary shares with the SEC.
In addition, the Group has adopted attainment of the Groups strategic objectives as well as on the an Executive Ethics Policy that applies to Board members, senior appropriate support and effective development of our people in ofcers and other specified employees and is intended to meet the enabling them to adapt and drive such activities.
code of ethics requirements of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
A copy of the Executive Ethics Policy may be found at www.
As the Group has matured in the period since these transactions csr.
Information on the Companys website is not and been able to embed these changes, additional focus has been incorporated by reference into the Annual Report led with the SEC given to the personal development of our employees within an on the Form 20-F. established organisational structure.
The Group has appointed personnel and allocated resources specically intended for the The following statements describe how the Board operates and the provision of training and development covering areas such as respective roles of the Chairman, non-executive and executive directors.
technical, professional, managerial and personal development.
These efforts continued during 2014, when for example, training The Board was provided for current and potential future leaders below As at 26 December 2014, the Board comprised nine members, executive level consistent with the Groups policy of encouraging being the Chairman, Mr. Ron Mackintosh, three executive winning behaviours and as part of career development.
The training, directors and five non-executive directors.
Of those in post as which is expected to continue during 2015, included subjects such at 26 December 2014, all nine directors including Mr. Mackintosh as change management, delegation and employee empowerment.
had served throughout the year.
These sessions have been facilitated, where appropriate, by external specialists.
Role In post In post 28 Dec 2013 26 Dec 2014 Served during 2014 Non-Executive Directors R W Mackintosh Chairman Yes Yes 1 W G Boyd Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Yes Yes L Gerzberg Non-Executive Director Yes Yes C M R Stone Chairman of Remuneration Committee Yes Yes T M Vega Non-Executive Director Yes Yes Left after 2014 A E C G Carlisle Senior Independent Director Yes Yes 66 Served in 2014 Executive Directors J A J van Beurden Chief Executive officer Yes Yes D D W Gardiner Chief Financial officer Yes Yes C A Ladas Operations Director Yes Yes 33 Total 99 1 Appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 January 2014.
Appointed as Senior Independent Director on 1 January 2015.
2 Stood down as a non-executive director and as Senior Independent Director on 31 December 2014 following completion of nine years as director.
com 55 Corporate Governance continued Mr. Ron Mackintosh has served as Chairman of the Board since believes that the directors have in-depth understanding and skills May 2007 and as a non-executive director of the Company since in industries relevant to those in which the Group operates.
In the opinion of the Board, on each of his appointments experience encompasses the cycle of product research, as a non-executive director and as Chairman, Mr. Mackintosh development, sales and marketing, customer knowledge, and wider was independent of management.
The Board is satisfied that corporate development, including financial management and Mr. Mackintosh is able to devote the necessary time commitment experience in mergers and acquisitions.
The Board believes that it to the role of Chairman of the Board.
is important to consider board diversity within the context of ensuring those appointed to it are able to contribute effectively, Mr. Anthony Carlisle was throughout the year the Senior using their relevant skills and knowledge.
Independent Director, a post he had held since May 2009.
As previously announced, Mr. Carlisle stood down from the Board The Board acknowledges continuing wider engagement in with effect from 31 December 2014 on completion of a period of promoting broader diversity on the boards of companies that reect nine years as a non-executive director.
Mr. Walker Boyd assumed the gender, ethnicity and cultural backgrounds that make up our the role of Senior Independent Director on 1 January 2015. society.
The Board is supportive of such matters and is satisfied Mr. Walker Boyd, a Chartered Accountant, served throughout the that in its consideration of the composition of the Board and in year as Chairman of the Audit Committee, having held that post executive management, the Company reects this principle.
Mr. Boyd is considered independent of Within the Group as a whole, women comprise 17% of our total management and possesses recent and relevant financial employees or 366 out of a total of 2,108.
Mr. Will Gardiner is the director responsible for health management team that reports to the CEO, and which reects and safety.
Mr. Brett Gladden served as Company Secretary those with direct responsibility for planning, directing and controlling throughout the year.
the activities of the Group, women comprise 14% or 1 out of 7 personnel and at board level 13% or 1 of 8.
In the appointment of The Board each year considers the independence of the nonpersonnel to roles in the Company, including those at board level, executive directors.
The Board recognises that Dr. Levy Gerzberg the Company demonstrates a commitment to promulgate diversity does not satisfy the requirements under the Code as an where this is also consistent with ensuring those appointed possess independent non-executive director, based on his previous the necessary talent and experience to support the Company and executive role within Zoran, of which he was a co-founder and, at Board in its activities.
the time of its acquisition by CSR, was a director on the companys board and held the ofces of President and Chief Executive officer.
Reecting the global market within which the Group operates, the Since the acquisition of Zoran, the CSR Group has undergone Board comprises directors from four different nationalities with significant change.
This has included the disposal of the handset experience of managing businesses in each of the continents in business in 2012 and of certain Imaging intellectual property IP which the Group is present.
A detailed biography for each member and associated personnel in 2014.
The latter formed part of the of the Board in ofce at the date of this report is given on pages 52 business which had been acquired with Zoran and its disposal was and 53. due to the evolution of the Groups strategy.
The Board has taken due account of the fact that, in the performance of his duties, Dr.
The conduct of the business of the Board Gerzberg acts in a manner which is independent of management The Board and its Committees meet regularly during the year as and the Company.
The Board also considers that Dr. Gerzbergs well as on an ad hoc basis as required by time critical business experience and considerable knowledge of the semiconductor needs.
industry and those markets in which the Group operates has and will continue to contribute signicantly to the understanding of the The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups Board.
All other non-executive directors were independent of business and is accountable to shareholders for the effective and management and the Company at the time of their appointment.
proper management and control of the Company and Group and The Board remains satisfied that an appropriate balance of skills has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decisions.
These and experience has been in place to enable the Board to perform include the review and approval of the CSR Groups: its responsibilities effectively.
An overview of the balance of skills and experience on the Board is given below.
strategy and long-term plans: annual budget and plan: Information on the holdings of directors in the Companys ordinary acquisitions and disposals and requests for major capital shares and American Depositary Shares can be found on page 80 expenditure: of the Directors Report Other Statutory Information.
Information financial structure, including tax and treasury: and on the appointment of directors is on page 58, and on directors annual and quarterly financial results and other significant powers and procedures for amendments to the Companys articles financial matters.
can be found on page 156 of the Directors Report Corporate and Share Information.
The process of review and approval of the foregoing matters is undertaken following discussions, in conjunction with senior Board balance and diversity executive management, who in turn are responsible for the conduct Innovation and creativity are critical to the success of the Group of the Groups operations and for reporting to the Board on the and stem directly from the diverse range of skills and capabilities of progress being made in meeting the Groups objectives.
This is true at all levels of the Group, including at Board schedule of matters reserved for the Board was reviewed in level.
The Board supports diversity across the organisation as a December 2014, and no changes were made.
whole in meeting the Groups strategy.
CSR is present in ten countries across Europe, North America and Asia, reecting the The Chairmans role is to ensure that the Board functions effectively, Groups evolution through a combination of organic growth and overseeing the timely and effective provision of information to the acquisitions.
Board and that the business of the Board is properly conducted.
Brieng papers and a meeting agenda are provided to each director The Board believes that it has an appropriate balance of diverse in advance of each meeting.
Decisions are taken by the Board, skills and experience which enables it to perform effectively, helping taking into account, where appropriate, the recommendations of its the Group to meet its business objectives.
The Board includes Committees and advice from external consultants and executive executive and non-executive directors with extensive knowledge management.
of the background and development of the Group.
The Board also 56 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic review Financial statements Other information Governance The Board regularly reviews strategy as part of its normal business.
Non-executive directors are expected to constructively challenge and This includes holding at least one off-site meeting during each year, contribute to the development of the Groups strategy, scrutinise the the agenda for which covers a broad range of financial, commercial performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and technical aspects concerning the strategic objectives for the and monitor the reporting on performance by management.
In 2014, the off-site meeting was held in the summer, with members of the management team attending and participating in Non-executive directors from time to time attend meetings with presentations and discussions.
As part of the process for reviewing management outside the normal cycle of formal meetings, either strategy both within its normal business and the off-site review, the to receive updates in areas of specic interest or to discuss the Board considers the prevailing and potential challenges associated planning and execution of tasks connected with specic matters.
with the execution of the objectives.
The Board also considers the risks to the Group in delivering the strategy, assessing As part of their routine business the directors receive information in managements mitigation of identied risks and also to what extent the form of papers and presentations pertinent to supporting them risks should be accepted in the execution of the Groups objectives.
in the development of their existing skills and capabilities necessary More information on how the Board considers risk and monitors for the performance of their duties and reecting the business and proposed mitigation is set out on pages 64 to 65. obligations of the Group.
During 2014, the Board received information on the Groups response to a government backed The Board has overall responsibility for the preparation and approval programme to promote wider awareness on cyber related risks, of the annual report and financial statements.
During the process for which included details on initiatives being undertaken within the the preparation of the annual report and financial statements for 2014, Group.
The Board also received a report on the provisions of the each member of the Board was provided with working drafts of the Code and the extent to which the Company was in compliance, constituent parts of the report, for review and comment.
The Board which included identication of changes to the Code during the also received reports from the Audit Committee and the Company next financial year requiring attention within the next reporting cycle.
Secretary on the work performed in connection with the drafting, The Board also received a paper prepared in conjunction with the review and verication of the annual report and financial statements Companys US counsel reviewing the continuing disclosure and during the meeting at which the Board formally approved them.
In reporting obligations of foreign private issuers and recent the course of its review, the Board also gives specic consideration developments including those areas of focus of the SEC.
as to whether the annual report and financial statements, when taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable.
Independence of non-executive directors and segregation of duties In accordance with the provisions of the Code, consideration has The non-executive directors of the Board have diverse business, been given to the independence of all the non-executive directors.
financial and technical experience, details of which are summarised The Board considers all the non-executive directors to be on pages 52 to 53.
Each non-executive director plays a full role in independent of management and free from any business or other contributing to the determination of agenda items and the relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of consideration of matters brought before the Board.
As discussed above, the Board considers that Dr. Gerzberg, formerly Chief Executive officer and co-founder considering, approving, scrutinising and monitoring of Zoran Corporation, acts in a manner which is independent of performance against strategic objectives through detailed management and the Company.
reviews conducted at Board level: providing entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of The division of responsibilities between the non-executive Chairman prudent and effective controls, which were created to enable and Mr. van Beurden, Chief Executive officer CEO, is sufciently risks to be assessed and managed: and clear and established in the opinion of the Board that it is not required setting the Groups values and standards and ensuring that its that it be formally documented.
The Chairman is responsible for the obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders are running and leadership of the Board.
The CEO is responsible for understood and met.
leading and managing the business within the authorities delegated by the Board and to promote the interests of the Company and the Group as a whole.
Division of responsibilities Chairman CEO Run the Board and set its agenda, taking into account Devote substantially the whole of his time and his attention concerns of all Board members.
and skill to the duties of his ofce.
Ensure that the Board members receive accurate, timely and Develop strategy proposals for recommendation to the Board clear information to enable the Board to carry out its duties and ensure that agreed strategies and associated plans are effectively.
Enable constructive debate and effective decision making, Be responsible to the Board for the performance of the ensuring sufficient time is allowed for discussion of complex business consistent with the agreed strategy, plans and or contentious issues.
Ensure that Board decisions are effectively implemented.
At all times keep the Board and the Chairman promptly and fully informed of his conduct of the business and affairs of the Promote the highest standards of corporate governance and Company and of the Group as a whole and provide such business ethics throughout the Group.
explanations as the Board or the Chairman may require in connection therewith.
Ensure effective communication with shareholders.
Faithfully and diligently perform such duties and exercise such powers, consistent with the ofce to which he is appointed, as is from time to time assigned or vested in him by the Board.
com 57 Corporate Governance continued Policy on appointment and re-appointment The CEO has day-to-day responsibility for the Group.
The executive In accordance with the provisions of the Code, all directors management, who are responsible for the performance of discrete serving on the Board stand for re-election annually.
The terms commercial and operational activities of the Group, report to the of appointment of directors are available for inspection at the CEO.
The executive management have responsibility within their Companys registered ofce and are made available for the period area of expertise for the implementation of objectives and assessing up to fifteen minutes prior to holding the Annual General Meeting.
performance of particular functions against those objectives.
Representatives from their respective teams attend and report to an Further information on each of the directors standing for re-election executive leadership forum, which includes each of the executive is set forth in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which is a directors and members of the executive management.
The CEO separate document issued to all shareholders, and available on the also meets regularly with the managers and leaders in various Companys website.
established forums that t with the operational cycles of the Group.
On appointment, all directors are asked to confirm they have The CEO reports at each meeting of the Board on salient matters sufficient time to devote to their duties which are confirmed in arising from the execution of his responsibilities.
They are also advised that they have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, The Board receives reports within its normal business on the in addition, that they are entitled to seek independent professional activities across the Group, including strategic, financial, commercial, advice in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary, at the human resources and risk management.
Periodically, members of Companys expense.
As part of their induction, the directors are the executive management that report into the CEO attend provided with information explaining their role and responsibilities, meetings of the Board and report on areas of their responsibility.
At background information on the Company and Group, as well these meetings, the Board will receive status reports on progress as the recent deliberations of the Board and its Committees by against specic targets, for example in performance against project way of papers and reports, for example those from the auditors in milestones, or assessments of the launch of new products.
This will respect of the most recent full financial year.
Directors are also include considering any potential risks associated with these provided with information and assistance in the event of any activities and possible mitigation measures.
As a global business, the Board considers it important to receive Indemnities to directors information on the business of the ofces across the world.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, directors Accordingly, reports are provided by the executive management on are granted an indemnity from the Company to the extent permitted the results of their visits to the Groups ofces, as well as meetings by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of the performance with customers and suppliers.
of their duties in their capacity as directors of the Company.
In addition to eight scheduled Board meetings, there were, during the The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent that a course of 2014, a number of other meetings to deal with specic director is proven to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The attendance of each of the directors at the Board and Company has also arranged insurance coverage in respect of legal Committee meetings is shown on page 67. action against the directors and ofcers.
Meetings of duly appointed committees to the Board met a further Communications with shareholders 6 times, enacting elements of business specically delegated, and The Board makes considerable efforts to maintain good relationships which were attended by at least one non-executive director and with shareholders.
Principally via the executive directors, the two executive directors.
Company seeks to build on a mutual understanding of objectives with its major shareholders.
The Board believes engagement with all Evaluation of the performance of the Board shareholders, including smaller investors, is important and welcomes Since 2006, the Board has undertaken an annual evaluation of the the attendance of shareholders at the Companys Annual General performance of the Board and its Committees on which it has Meeting, which in 2015 will be held in London.
The most recent evaluation supported by an external agent, was conducted in the autumn of 2011.
The Senior Independent Director, Mr. Walker Boyd, is available to meet institutional shareholders should there be unresolved matters As part of the 2013 internal review process, the Board recognised they wish to bring to his attention.
The Board is also apprised of the importance of identifying and tracking key risks which had the discussions with major shareholders to ensure that executive and potential to impact the fullment of the Groups strategy, including non-executive directors consider any matters which might be raised the ability of the Group to compete effectively in emerging markets.
by those shareholders and to enable all directors to understand During 2014, these matters were considered by the executive shareholders views.
This includes feedback from the meetings management as part of the Quarterly Business Reviews and the attended by executive directors and the Chairman, in addition to findings reported to the Board by the CEO.
This incorporated reports from the Companys advisers on their engagement with enhancements which were made during the year to the way in shareholders on behalf of the Company.
which the business tracked metrics for monitoring progress in the execution of projects which were discussed at meetings of the Non-executive directors attend the Annual General Meetings and will Board.
also make themselves available to meet with shareholders on other occasions where requested.
Corporate information is available on the The Code requires that performance evaluations are externally Companys website, www.
Information on the website is not facilitated at least every three years.
The Board considered this incorporated by reference into the Annual Report led with the SEC requirement at its meeting in November and agreed that, under the on Form 20-F. prevailing circumstances and taking into account the Qualcomm Transaction which, subject to fullling certain closing conditions, is Committees of the Board expected to complete by late summer 2015, the 2014 evaluation The Board has three Committees, Remuneration, Audit and would not be externally facilitated and instead members of the Nomination.
Throughout the year, each of Mr. Boyd and Mr. Carlisle Board would speak directly with the Chairman on an informal basis, were members of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination and in the event of material matters arising, these would be Committees.
Mr. Boyd was appointed the Chairman of the Audit considered by the Board at a subsequent meeting.
Through this Committee on 1 January 2014.
Ms. Vega was a member of the direct engagement led by the Chairman, no material issues were identied that required formal consideration by the Board.
58 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic review Financial statements Other information Governance Audit Committee throughout the year.
Mr. Stone served The Nomination Committee retains external search consultants as throughout the year as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
appropriate to assist the Committee in identifying candidates for On 1 January 2015, Mr. Stone became a member of the Audit appointments to the Board.
Committee following Mr. Carlisle standing down as a non-executive director with effect from 31 December 2014.
During 2014, the Nomination Committee met on one occasion to consider wider succession planning within the organisation.
Mr. Mackintosh chairs the Nomination Committee, is a member of the Remuneration Committee and attends meetings of the Audit Audit Committee Committee by invitation.
Mr. Walker Boyd is the Chairman of the Audit Committee, a position he has held since 1 January 2014.
The Board is satisfied that Mr.
In accordance with the Code, the duties of the Committees are set Boyd, a Chartered Accountant, possesses recent and relevant out in formal terms of reference.
These are available from the financial experience for the purposes of the Code and is an audit Company Secretary and can be found on the Companys website, committee financial expert for the purposes of US securities laws.
Membership of the Committees is shown on pages 52 and 53.
Information on the Companys website is not The Board has further determined that for the purposes of US incorporated by reference into the Annual Report led with the SEC securities laws, Mr. Boyd is independent in accordance with the on Form 20-F.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each of denition of independence in Rule 5605 a 2 of the listing rules of the the Committees.
Each Committee undertakes an annual review of NASDAQ.
its terms of reference and makes recommendations to the Board for changes where appropriate.
The Board considers that the terms The other members of the Audit Committee through to 26 December of reference of these Committees are generally responsive to the 2014 were Mr. Carlisle and Ms. Vega.
Mr. Mackintosh, Chairman of relevant NASDAQ rules but may not address all aspects of these the Board, attends meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation.
rules, see US Listing Requirements on pages 66 to 67.
Mr. Carlisle stood down from the Committee coinciding with the timing of his standing down as a non-executive director on 31 Remuneration Committee December 2014.
Mr. Stone, a non-executive director, was appointed Mr. Chris Stone is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, to the Audit Committee in his place with effect from 1 January 2015. a position he has held since May 2013.
The other members of the The experience and expertise of the members of the Audit Committee at 26 December 2014 were Messrs. Boyd, Carlisle and Committee are summarised on pages 52 and 53.
Mr Carlisle ceased to be a member of the Committee on each of the Committee members at the meetings held during 2014 is his standing down as a non-executive director on 31 December 2014. shown in the table on page 67.
Each member of the Committee is nancially literate, having the necessary ability and experience to The principal function of the Remuneration Committee is to establish understand financial statements.
and review the terms and conditions for the executive directors, the form and balance of their remuneration, with due regard for an The Audit Committee encourages continuous improvement and appropriate balance of elements which include those over the long supports management in identifying targets and objectives that term, incorporating suitably stretching performance targets, and the contribute to this aim.
Areas in which the Committee worked with overall policy framework for the remuneration of the executive management in this regard are considered in more detail below.
directors, other senior executives and the Group as a whole.
The Remuneration Policy published within the annual report for the Introduction from the Chairman of the Audit Committee 52 week financial period ended 27 December 2013 was formally Your Audit Committee is integral to the scrutiny which is given by adopted by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on the Board to the performance of management and the standing 21 May 2014.
The Remuneration Committee met 3 times during the of the Group as a whole.
year and the attendance of its members is shown in the table on page 67.
The Committee regularly assesses the Groups financial integrity while also ensuring that management establishes and maintains The report to shareholders on the role of the Remuneration systems of controls, including those concerned with financial Committee and how directors are remunerated, together with reporting and risk management, that are balanced and appropriate, details of individual directors remuneration are set out on pages 68 and which evolve in a measured manner to reect changes in the to 77.
Group across its various operations.
Nomination Committee Through quarterly meetings which were held during 2014, the Mr. Ron Mackintosh is the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, Committee has applied these principles to a range of topics that a position he has held since May 2007.
The other members of the are part of an established schedule of business, as well as to Nomination Committee at 26 December 2014 were Messrs. Boyd specic matters as they might arise.
The qualications of the directors can be found in the biographies of board members on pages 52 and 53.
Mr. Carlisle At each of its meetings during 2014, the Committee considered ceased to be a member of the Committee on his standing down the financial standing of the business with due regard to both the as a non-executive director on 31 December 2014. annual plan approved by the Board at the end of 2013 and overall wider expectations of the financial results.
As part of this review, the The role of the Nomination Committee is to consider appointments Committee assessed achievement against key metrics for overall to the Board and succession planning at senior levels within the performance of the business such as underlying gross margin.
The Nomination Committee reviews the composition of On a quarterly basis, the Committee receives reports from the the Board, particularly in relation to the diversity of skills, experience Chief Financial officer which include a prole of costs incurred, and terms of ofce and seeks to ensure that both executive and performance against budgeted gures and areas identied for non-executive directors have the necessary skills and attributes for attention, for example, variation of costs from budget in areas the future success of the Group.
com 59 Corporate Governance continued In December 2013, CSR announced its decision to discontinue On 28 August 2014, the Company announced that it had received development of the Camera-on-a-chip COACH platform.
In the an approach from Microchip Technology Incorporated with a period leading up to and following this announcement, the proposal for a possible takeover, which had been rejected by the Committee received reports on the appropriate accounting Board.
On 15 October 2014, the boards of CSR plc and judgments and determinations associated with this decision, with Qualcomm Incorporated Qualcomm announced that an due regard for the Groups accounting policies and relevant agreement had been reached regarding the terms of a accounting practices.
In the summer of 2014, in considering and recommended cash offer for the Company, as described on page making the decision to sell certain Imaging IP assets associated 148.
On 12 November 2014, the Company published the with the Companys Cameras business, together with the team document setting out the terms of the scheme of arrangement to devoted to their development, the Committee also received reports be used to implement the Qualcomm Transaction the Scheme on the valuation of the business being sold and on the accounting Document which provided additional information on the proposed treatment and reporting of the disposal.
transaction and sought approval from shareholders for the transaction to proceed.
The Scheme Document included a report The Committee also reviews how the Group seeks to ensure from the Board conrming the validity, at the date of the Scheme continuing compliance with non-accounting regulations and Document, of certain statements made previously by the Company.
standards, for example the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Collectively, these statements constituted a profit forecast under Act in the context of internal control over financial reporting.
The Audit Committee provided oversight and Committee receives regular reports on how the Group manages considered work undertaken by management and Deloitte which both the development and implementation of controls.
This includes enabled the Board to afrm the statements, the findings from which the results of reviews conducted by the Internal Auditor, and the were discussed at a meeting of the Board held to consider and tracking of managements response to any recommendations for approve the Scheme Document for publication.
improvement made by the Internal Auditor.
In support of the work performed by management and the Board During 2014, the Committee considered proposed changes in the in considering the annual report and financial statements, the oversight of certain internal controls.
The changes were considered Committee has also reviewed the various sections that comprise appropriate with due regard for the evolution of the Group since the the report and the financial statements in order to assess and then initial implementation of relevant controls intended to meet the advise the Board on fullling the requirement that they be fair, requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
This included a detailed balanced and understandable.
review of the internal controls over financial reporting and the control consequences of adopting the Committee of Sponsoring As part of its terms of reference, the Committee receives reports Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO as a on the identication, mitigation and management of risk within the methodology for reviewing the Groups System of Internal Controls.
On pages 64 and 65 of this report, as well as in the sections The project was led by the Deputy Chief Financial officer with in the Strategic Report on pages 32 to 35 and the Risk section on oversight provided by the Internal Auditor and support from pages 43 to 51, we explain in more detail how risk management is external advisers.
The Committee received reports throughout the project.
These Deloitte have acted as auditors to the Group since July 2002. reports included feedback from the Internal Auditor and Deloitte The present Audit Partner is Mrs. Kate Houldsworth.
Mrs. at key milestones in the project.
The reports covered the scope, Houldsworth has held the post of audit partner for CSR since efcacy and implementation of proposed changes.
We discuss our approach to the review of the effectiveness of the external auditors on pages 62 and 63.
An important aspect of the Groups overall assurance framework is the work performed by the internal audit function.
On page 61, we explain how the Committee determines the key areas of focus and receives quarterly reports from the Internal Auditor, as part of monitoring the activities and standards applied in effective Walker Boyd management of the business.
Chairman, Audit Committee The Board and management are aware of the increased incidence of reported cyber-attacks such as phishing and hacking which have affected a large number of organisations and of the continued challenges faced in safeguarding data and systems against breach, misappropriation and corruption.
It is recognised that such incidences have the potential to cause significant disruption and damage to companies including CSR.
For a description of the potential risks as assessed by the Company, please see pages 43 to 51.
During 2014, the Committee continued to receive regular reports on how the Group has responded to such threats through the implementation of changes and enhancements to the Group IS infrastructure and cyber related security.
This has included support from external advisers in benchmarking the measures being taken by the Group against wider practices by companies and other institutions.
As well as changes to infrastructure, steps have been taken to provide training programmes to increase awareness amongst employees of the important part they have in supporting effective management of the Groups data and systems.
In addition, during 2014, the Group completed the search for a senior manager to provide specic experience in management of cyber threats and security which has enhanced the existing capabilities within the IS team.
60 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic review Financial statements Other information Governance Role of the Audit Committee In the preparation of financial statements, the Audit Committee The Audit Committee assists the Board in carrying out its considers the level of disclosure and the extent to which these responsibilities in relation to financial reporting requirements, risk comply with prevailing accounting standards, as well as good management and the assessment of internal controls.
with these activities, the Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy on external At the meeting which considers the annual report and financial audit and for overseeing the objectivity and effectiveness of the external statements, the Audit Committee receives a report from the auditors.
The Audit Committee monitors the conduct of the audits of Company Secretary as chairman of the Disclosure Committee on the consolidated reports and financial statements of the Group and its the work which the Disclosure Committee has undertaken to review subsidiaries.
This includes consideration of the areas of focus of the and comment on the constituent parts that comprise the annual audits in conjunction with the external auditors and assessment of their report and financial statements.
findings and recommendations, where relevant.
The Audit Committee also reviews and considers representation letters which are provided to From time to time, the Audit Committee has instigated reviews of the independent auditors, where they are required for the independent the approach taken by management on specic items with due auditors to release their final reports.
regard to prevailing interpretation and practice.
For example, during 2014, the Committee considered revenue recognition and the The Audit Committee recommends the appointment and Groups practice and those of peers within the industry, taking into re-appointment of the Groups external auditors, having considered account the Groups business model and the prevailing level of the effectiveness of the external audit process through meetings led orders placed through third party distributors as indirect suppliers by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also to customers of the Groups products.
During the year, the Audit considers the audit approach including the planning, scope and risk Committee also reviewed policies on the denition of underlying and identication, the audit execution, communication and formal reporting non-underlying items.
by the audit partner and her team, the independence and objectivity of the auditor and their fees.
Each quarter, as part of its routine business, the Audit Committee receives a detailed report from the Chief Financial officer on the The Audit Committee monitors the effectiveness of the Groups internal performance of the Group.
In addition to a summary of the balance control systems, accounting policies and practices, risk management sheet and income statement, the report incorporates detailed procedures and compliance controls, and also reviews the statement analysis on a range of key metrics which track the performance of on internal controls before it is agreed by the Board for each years the Group and its operating segments.
This information forms part annual report.
of the discussions of the Audit Committee to ensure that material matters are properly considered and discussed with management A detailed agenda of matters for discussion at the meeting, together and, where appropriate, with the external auditors.
The information with supporting papers, is provided in advance of each meeting of and the discussions support the understanding of the Audit the Audit Committee.
The agenda incorporates a range of standard Committee and the Board on the nature of disclosures which should business items considered at each meeting.
Routine business items be made in the Groups financial results.
Reecting both the evolution include reports from the Chief Financial officer and Internal Auditor as of the Group and wider developments in best practice, the Audit well as a draft form of the announcement on the Groups financial Committee has considered areas for possible enhancement in results for each quarter.
In addition, the Audit Committee addresses internal reporting, which serve to aid understanding in business a number of other items as part of its schedule of business through performance and in the management of significant risks, for example the course of a year, such as risk management, business continuity in relation to the introduction of new products and technologies.
planning, treasury policy and procedures, tax planning and the Groups policy manual as well as such ad hoc matters as are deemed The Audit Committee monitors the effectiveness of the internal audit appropriate.
The schedule of agenda items for the calendar year was function, considering and approving the scope of the annual internal last reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee in July 2014 audit plan, and thereafter reviewing reports on the results of internal and was considered to remain appropriate for the remainder of 2014 audit work which has been conducted during the year.
In setting and into 2015. the internal audit plan, the Committee considers the findings and status of implementing improvement measures arising from The Audit Committee invites the Chief Executive officer, the Chief previous audits, including those from external auditors, the Financial officer, the Deputy Chief Financial officer, the Internal Auditor development of the business of the Group, the geographic and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend meetings locations in which the Group has its operations and considerations as appropriate to the business being considered.
In addition, the Audit arising from the Risk Management processes, with due regard also Committee has the right to invite any other employees to attend to evolving laws and regulations which deal with compliance and meetings where this is considered to be appropriate.
The Internal Audit Plan and visit schedule is included representatives from the Groups IS function to report on the designed to include controls over the Groups main risks including implementation of changes within the department and progress in financial, operational and compliance risks, using a combination of addressing matters such as cyber security.
The Internal Auditor periodically considers the overall philosophy and approach to the planning and The conduct of the business of the Audit Committee conduct of audits, taking into account best practice.
This was most The Audit Committee met four times in 2014 in the execution of recently completed in the autumn of 2014 in setting the proposed its responsibilities.
The more material matters considered and any plan for 2015, which was considered by the Committee at its proposals for action were reported by the Chairman of the Audit meeting held in November 2014.
The Audit Committee receives Committee to the subsequent meeting of the full Board.
reports from the Internal Auditor on a quarterly basis setting out the findings from the reviews performed, in addition to the progress The Audit Committee reviews all proposed announcements to be made in addressing any outstanding recommendations arising from made by the Group to the extent they contain financial information.
earlier audits which have been conducted.
The plan provides for a During 2014, this included certain information concerning the trading rolling schedule of visits to all ofces within the Group, as well as performance of the Group which was provided in the Scheme the review of various functions and activities, both financial and Document in relation to the Qualcomm Transaction issued to non-financial.
com 61 Corporate Governance continued Since the Company became subject to the reporting requirements the Audit Committee also held separate meetings with the external of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Exchange Act, auditors at which no executive director or employee of the Company the Audit Committee has received reports from management was present.
regarding the Companys compliance with requirements under the Exchange Act including those rules and regulations that apply In relation to the appointment of external auditors and in order to under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act that relate to financial reporting and safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the Audit other disclosure matters.
These requirements relate, among other Committee has a policy of permitted services which details the things, to disclosure controls and procedures and internal control services that can be provided by the Groups auditors and those over financial reporting which applied from the end of the 2011 services which require specic advance approval by the Audit financial year.
The Internal Auditor reports on various aspects of Committee.
The policy also details services that the Groups auditors ensuring compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act each quarter are not permitted to provide.
The objective is that the auditors based on the approved internal audit plan.
should not be employed to provide services where either the nature of the work or extent of the services and fee payable might impair As part of the adoption of the internal audit plan, the Audit the auditors independence or objectivity.
Committee also considers and approves the utilisation of external resources to assist in timely execution and reporting, where required.
The external auditors are permitted to undertake some non-audit services, providing this has been awarded after due consideration At 26 December 2014, the Group had cash resources of $283.2 of their skills, competence and integrity to carry out the work in the million, a decrease from $306.2 million held at the end of the prior best interests of the Group, on for example, advisory services and year.
The net outow arises from the day-to-day operations of the due diligence activities associated with potential acquisitions.
Group and the return of capital to shareholders resulting from share For permitted services, the Audit Committee has delegated the buybacks and the payments of dividends during the year.
These are determination of fees to the Chief Financial officer, provided the fee discussed in the Strategic Report on pages 25 and 26.
The Audit does not exceed $100,000.
No services can be provided in excess Committee monitors the Groups Treasury function on a regular of $100,000 without the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
basis, including where appropriate periodic external audits of the The policy, which was reviewed in October 2013, was complied Treasury functions policies, procedures and working practices.
The with throughout the year.
The Audit Committee is aware of and Groups Treasury Policy was most recently reviewed in November has approved the audit and non-audit services which have been 2014 and the findings reported for consideration by the Audit provided during 2014 by the Companys external auditors, Deloitte Committee at its meeting held in November 2014.
Those non-audit services concerned advice on a included amendments to the segregation of duties reecting the range of matters which were considered to be appropriate, given recommendations of the internal audit review and supported by the their in-depth knowledge of the affairs and financial practices in the Director of Tax and Treasury.
The Treasury Policy was approved by Group and work associated with the review of the Groups response the Audit Committee and subsequently adopted by the Board.
to potential cyber related risks.
2014 2013 2012 As appropriate, the Audit Committee and Board are kept appraised $000 $000 $000 of litigation affecting the Group, any material developments and the assessment of the potential to affect the financial position of the Audit fees 892 851 883 Group.
This review is also supported as appropriate by a subAudit-related services 110 105 110 committee of the Board led by the Chairman of the Board, the Taxation services 167 261 672 purpose of which is to consider matters connected with material Other services 563 34 350 litigation.
Both the Audit Committee and the litigation subTotal 1,732 1,251 2,015 committee have access to the advice and support of the Groups executive management and outside counsel where considered The Audit Committee is satisfied that Deloitte has retained objectivity appropriate.
The results of these meetings are reported to the and independence during the year.
The table above shows the fees paid by the Company to the The Committee continues to receive reports each quarter on external auditors as approved by the Audit Committee.
progress in raising awareness within the organisation across functions and territories on appropriate processes and Approval for permitted non-audit services is sought as required engagements with third parties in response to the UK Bribery Act.
During 2014, total non-audit related During 2013, external advisers supported additional targeted facefees were $840,000 2013: $400,000.
The most significant element to-face training to augment the online training and to review stated above in Other Services for the work in 2014 related to the prevailing policies with regard to the changes in the Group and review associated with updating the profit forecast statements which developing practices and interpretation of how best to respond to formed part of the Scheme Document that was sent to shareholders the principles of the UK Bribery Act.
The findings from that review in November 2014 in connection with the Qualcomm Transaction continued to inform the Groups approach to addressing these where the appointment of Deloitte was approved by the Audit matters in 2014.
Committee for 2013, the most significant element related to IT security consulting.
The Audit Committee considered that Within its terms of reference, the Audit Committee periodically performance of the relevant non-audit services by Deloitte was the considers the scope of services provided by external advisers within most cost-effective way of conducting the requisite work and specic areas of the Groups activities.
During 2014, the Audit therefore in the best interest of the Group having due regard to the Committee received a report on the review of the Groups insurance competence and knowledge possessed by Deloitte.
The Committee programme and the assessment performed by management on was also satisfied that no conicts of interest existed or would arise alternative service providers, which culminated in the appointment in the conduct of the work on behalf of the Group.
During the year a of Marsh Ltd as broker.
The report also included recommendations total of $2.1 million 2013: $2.91 million was paid to other for changes to the insurance policies for the Groups global accounting rms for non-audit work, including $0.9 million for work insurance programme.
in relation to tax advice to the Group provided by  LLP and Ernst & Young.
Audit-related fees Interaction with the external Auditors were less than $0.1 million and consisted of the performance of During 2014, as part of its formal business, the Audit Committee overseas statutory audits.
met on four occasions with the external auditors.
On two occasions 62 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic review Financial statements Other information Governance Deloitte has been the Companys auditors since July 2002, which Following the offer culminating in the Qualcomm Transaction, for precedes the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange in 2014 management were able to estimate recoverable value based March 2004 and the cost, scope and the effectiveness of the upon our assessment of the fair value less costs of disposal for the external audit process are reviewed regularly.
The most recent full Group.
The Committee reviewed the estimate and supporting review, including release of tenders to other possible audit rms was judgments by considering reports prepared by management conducted in 2005 and Deloitte was re-appointed at that time.
The outlining the basis of assumptions used.
present Audit Partner is Mrs. Kate Houldsworth.
Mrs. Houldsworth has held the post of audit partner for CSR since October 2013.
In addition, with specic regard to the impairment reversal prior Based on the provisions of the Code, a formal tendering process to the sale of certain Imaging IP, the Committee reviewed papers would be required at the latest by the last year of Mrs. Houldsworths explaining how the reversal was calculated and the impact of this tenure, which will be during 2017. on the Group accounts.
This area has been an area of audit focus, and accordingly Deloitte has provided additional reporting to During 2014, led by the Chairman of the Audit Committee, a review the Committee.
of the independence and effectiveness of the external audit was undertaken.
The review incorporated completion of questionnaires Taxation by personnel engaged both directly and indirectly in the full year Provisioning for potential current tax liabilities and the level of audit for the 2013 financial period in addition to others with periodic deferred tax asset recognition are underpinned by a range of engagement with the external auditors at other times during the management judgments.
During 2014, the Committee received course of the preceding year and face to face interviews attended reports from management on the potential current and future tax by the Chairman of the Committee.
As part of the discussions, the liabilities for the Group, and considered the appropriateness of respondents and the Chairman reected on how, in the conduct of positions taken alongside external professional advice where the audit, the auditors had provided balanced and appropriate necessary and discussed these with Deloitte during the year.
scrutiny and challenge to management on matters which had been the subject of review, how such matters had been concluded and This was considered an area of higher audit risk and so the where appropriate reported for consideration by the Audit Committee also received additional reporting from Deloitte on these Committee.
The conclusion from the review which was discussed matters including detailed involvement in the scope of the tax audit.
by the full Board, was that the external audit had been conducted appropriately and that the auditors were effective in the performance Litigation Provisioning of their role, combining appropriate level of independence and Contingent assets or liabilities may arise from legal proceedings scrutiny with suitable guidance and engagement with management affecting the Group, the valuation of which is an area and the Committee in the conduct of their responsibilities.
Following requiring judgment from management.
It is recognised that this is the review, the findings of were discussed with Deloitte.
an area of considerable uncertainty with potential outcomes which are not always capable of being predicted.
The Committee receives The review for 2015 will be undertaken by the Audit Committee and detailed updates on litigation affecting the Group and briengs on the findings arising from that review shall be reported to the Board in the overall litigation environment from management, supported by summer 2015.
The review shall be led by the Chairman of the Audit external advice.
In addition, management provides the Committee Committee and include engagement with executive management with reports detailing the basis of valuation for any litigation and members of the Audit Committee.
provisions carried at the end of each financial period.
The Committee discusses the work which has been conducted The Chairman of the Audit Committee attends the Companys and conclusions arising from that work with management, and, Annual General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions if necessary, advisers and Deloitte, as part of preparing and that might be raised concerning the Audit Committees activities.
Items Considered by the Audit Committee Inventory Valuation In the preparation and approval of the 2014 financial statements, there The Group maintains inventory based on its forecast assessment of are certain areas of critical judgment that are reported to and reviewed future orders for its products.
The level of inventory provisioning is by the Audit Committee.
The areas described below are the primary sensitive to changes in this forecast demand which is based upon areas where judgment has been exercised in the preparation of the assumptions which include an assessment of the macro-economic 2014 financial statements as found on pages 87 to 142.
These reect environment, as well as managements interpretation of the specic matters which the Audit Committee and Board considered to be needs and circumstances of our customers.
significant risks to the business and the Group and may relate to disclosures on risk which appear on pages 32 to 35 of the report.
The Groups policy on provisioning for inventory has been reviewed and approved by the Committee.
The carrying value of inventory is Impairment Testing for Goodwill and Intangible Assets reported to the Audit Committee, and the level of provisioning At the year-end date the Group held $133.3 million of goodwill discussed at its meetings with management.
arising from historic acquisitions, and intangible assets of $65.0 million, that represented investments in technology, Development Expenditure systems and intellectual property to support the development CSR does not capitalise the majority of its development costs since of customer products.
the commercial and or technical viability of the products being designed is not typically confirmed until the very end of the The Group is required to test goodwill for potential impairment at development process.
least once a year, by calculating the recoverable value for the cash generating units under review.
During 2014, the Committee received reports from management explaining the fact pattern and assumptions behind this accounting treatment, and concluded that such treatment was appropriate.
In addition, the Committee reviewed expenditure against budget and received regular updates on new product development.
com 63 Corporate Governance continued Share-Based payments The detailed review included the identication, scoring, ranking The Group grants share options and share awards to employees, and measures for mitigating risk across all aspects of the Groups so as to both incentivise and retain employees.
Each time a new activities through engagement with management across multiple grant of share options or share awards is made, a charge is functions and locations within the business.
recognised in the Group IFRS income statement over the vesting period, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The executive leadership have reviewed the results of this assessment and the ranking of risks.
In their review, the executive The charge recognised is calculated based on managements leadership considered how the risks might impact upon the assumptions about the number of shares that will become achievement of the Groups strategic objectives and the overall exercisable, including its assessment of the macro-economic performance of the business.
Where a risk was considered to be environment, forecast share price, behavioural considerations and material, a member of the executive leadership has been made expected employee turnover.
As these factors may be volatile and responsible for developing a plan intended to mitigate against the risk are outside the direct control of CSR, the Group chooses to actually occurring or to respond in the event the risk were to occur.
exclude any share-based payment charge from underlying results, as further explained on pages 144 to 147.
During 2015, the mitigation plans will be considered by the executive at each Quarterly Business Review and the findings During 2014, the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee presented to and the subject of review by the Audit Committee.
have reviewed the purpose and impact of CSRs share-based reward and incentive schemes.
This approach is consistent with a process which has been used by the Company in previous years, including during 2014.
The Internal control Board is satisfied that this process accords with the internal control Philosophy and policy guidance for directors set out in the Turnbull Report Internal The objective of the directors and senior management is to Control: the Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined safeguard the value of the business and assets of the Group.
Part Code and that through its engagement with management, the of this objective requires the development of relevant policies and Board is aware of the major risks facing the Group and the steps appropriate internal controls to ensure proper management of the taken by the Group to mitigate such risks, so far as is possible.
Companys resources and the identication of risks that may serve to undermine them.
Managing risks The Board discusses with management the actions it considers The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of necessary to remedy any failings and weaknesses which have been internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The systems determined to be significant from its review of the system of internal and processes established by the Board are designed to manage, control.
This has involved considering the matters reported to it rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business and developing plans and programmes that it considers are objectives and provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance reasonable in the circumstances.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee oversight of certain practices and procedures A summary of the structures and processes in place to identify and associated with the identication and management of risks which manage risks across the Group are set out below.
have the potential to impact the Group.
The Companys senior management, in conjunction with external advisers, are responsible Risk proling for undertaking periodic reviews of the suitability of current systems, As referenced above, there is an ongoing process to identify and on which they report to the Audit Committee where appropriate.
evaluate risks faced by the Group, through the conduct of regular meetings by the Groups senior management, and engagement of The Audit Committee considers the findings from such reviews external consultants where, in the opinion of the Groups senior to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of the processes management, this is considered appropriate.
Whilst a detailed implemented by senior management.
This includes discussions review is undertaken each year, management have systems in place with senior management of the Group and consideration of reports providing for the ongoing assessment of existing and developing that have been submitted.
These findings are in turn regularly risks and how these might impact the fullment of strategic reviewed and discussed by the full Board.
In addition, as part of objectives as part of routine business.
The assessment of prioritised its regular business, the Board receives reports on actions being risks is therefore refreshed on a regular basis to reect changes to taken to address the principal risks as part of its routine business.
the business and any observations or proposals arising from events since the last full review.
An ongoing risk evaluation process has been in place throughout 2014 and was in place up to the date of approval of this Annual In the event of material changes or developments, the findings Report and the financial statements.
The risk evaluation process are reported to the Board or the Audit Committee as appropriate, has been the subject of review by the Audit Committee during together with recommended actions for managing such risks and a 2014.
This ongoing review included updates on the progress in timetable for implementation of appropriate mitigation.
Responsibility addressing the disclosure and management of key risks affecting is assigned within the Group for carrying out proposed actions the Group.
In October 2014, the Company decided to engage which are also reviewed and updated by management.
Marsh Risk Consulting in advance of the development and execution of the annual detailed risk review.
The engagement of Controlling risk Marsh Risk Consulting supported management in the planning and The Group has policies which address a range of key business conduct of a robust assessment, and provided insight into evolving risks, including financial, treasury, health and safety and the practices in risk management as well as assurance on the suitability protection of intellectual property.
The policies are made available of the approach being taken in the conduct of the review.
to relevant employees through an intranet site and also via employee briengs on specic topics.
64 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic review Financial statements Other information Governance Controls and procedures under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Periodically, reviews are performed in order to verify that ongoing The Group is subject to the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
practices within relevant parts of the Group comply with current In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires a policies.
In addition, policies are reviewed against best practice and report of management on the effectiveness of the Groups internal to take appropriate account of developments both within or external control over financial reporting.
As part of its internal audit process, to the Groups business operations.
As part of a process of the Group has a programme for the review of its internal control continuous improvement, steps are ongoing to embed internal over financial reporting to ensure compliance with the requirements control and risk management further into the operations of the of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Companys Group and to deal with areas of improvement which come to management is responsible for establishing and maintaining managements and to the Boards attention.
adequate internal control over financial reporting and the Companys Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer have As explained in the Strategic Report on page 31 Liquidity, the issued their report attesting to the Groups compliance with Section Group has a Treasury Policy for the placement of cash deposits with 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as at 26 December 2014. financial institutions.
As part of its schedule of matters, and reecting Managements certication and the independent auditors opinion management recommendations, the Audit Committee considered a on internal control over financial reporting are reported as required revised Treasury Policy in November 2014.
This was subsequently in the Companys Form 20-F led with the SEC.
submitted to and formally adopted by the Board.
During the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014, there have As one aspect of ensuring a culture of integrity and encouraging not been any changes in the Groups internal control over financial high standards throughout the organisation, the Group has a formal reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to whistle-blowing policy.
The policy provides information on the materially affect, the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
process to follow in the event that any employee feels it appropriate to make a disclosure where they believe there has been improper The executive management, with the participation of the Chief conduct or actions which could cause the Groups good standing Executive officer and Chief Financial officer, evaluated the to be called into question.
The policy was most recently updated in effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as 2014 and considered respectively by the Audit Committee and the dened in Rules 13a-15 e and 15d-15 e under the US Securities Board in March 2015 to refresh the policy to reect evolving best Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act as at 26 practice.
The policy is published on the Groups intranet site.
Based on such evaluation the Chief Executive time to time employees are reminded of the existence of the policy officer and Chief Financial officer concluded that, as at 26 and its purpose.
In addition, all new employees worldwide are December 2014, the Groups disclosure controls and procedures provided with information on the policy during the induction were effective in ensuring that the information which the Group is process.
The policy is translated into other languages where it was required to disclose in the reports that are led or submitted under felt the English language version may inhibit a detailed the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised and understanding of its terms.
reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated Monitoring and managing the status of residual risk to management, including the Chief Executive officer and Chief The actions arising from external and internal assessments of risks Financial officer, as the principal executive and financial ofcers, are consolidated and during 2014, the results were reported to the respectively, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee assesses the findings and proposed actions Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive officer and Chief for addressing residual risks and also advises on areas for further Financial officer concluded that the Groups disclosure controls and attention.
procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Internal financial controls The Group has a comprehensive system for regular monitoring and Managements report on internal control over financial reporting reporting of financial performance and assessing the adequacy of The management of CSR plc is responsible for establishing and the Groups systems of internal controls.
Risk assessment and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as evaluation is an integral part of the annual planning cycle.
This such term is dened in Rule 13a-15 f of the Securities Exchange includes assessment of the Groups strategic direction, objectives Act of 1934, for CSR plc.
Under the supervision and with the and financial returns and the potential risks that might affect participation of our management, including our Chief Executive achieving them.
officer and Chief Financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting As part of the planning cycle, a detailed budget is prepared by based principally on the framework and criteria established in management and thereafter is reviewed and formally adopted by Internal Control Integrated Framework 1992 issued by the the Board.
The budget and other targets are regularly updated via Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway a rolling forecasting process and regular business review meetings Commission basing the review of the 2014 control environment are also held involving senior management worldwide, at which on the COSO 2013 revision as at 26 December 2014.
Based on the Groups overall performance is assessed.
The results of these that evaluation, our management has concluded that our internal reviews are reported to and discussed by the Audit Committee control over financial reporting was effective as at 26 December and the Board at each meeting.
A summary of the key financial 2014.
Deloitte LLP, an independent registered public accounting and non-financial risks inherent in the Groups business is given rm, has audited the consolidated financial statements included on pages 43 to 51. in the Form 20-F and, as part of the audit, has issued a report, on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.
These processes are supported by discrete reviews conducted by the Internal Auditor and external advisers, as determined by the Audit Committee, in addition to the routine audits.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls which were in place throughout the financial year and up to the date of signing the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014. www.
com 65 Corporate Governance continued US listing requirements The Remuneration Committee is chaired by a non-executive The Companys American depositary shares are listed on NASDAQ director who is considered independent of management and and the Company is, therefore, subject to the rules of NASDAQ, US the Board, and additional members are two other non-executive securities laws and the rules of the SEC applicable to foreign private directors including the Chairman of the Board.
NASDAQ requires US companies listed on the exchange to rules, the Chairman of the Board is not considered independent: comply with NASDAQs corporate governance rules.
Foreign private therefore the Remuneration Committee does not meet the issuers, such as the Company, have certain accommodations in requirements of the NASDAQ rules.
light of their compliance with the rules and practices of their country of domicile and therefore are exempt from most of the requirements In addition, NASDAQ rules require the compensation committee promulgated by NASDAQ.
As a company listed in the UK, the to have the authority, in its sole discretion, to retain or obtain the Company is subject to the Code, accordingly, pursuant to NASDAQ advice of a compensation adviser, and be directly responsible for Listing Rule 5615, the Company is required to disclose a summary the appointment, compensation, and oversight of the work of a of any material ways in which the corporate governance practices compensation adviser retained by the committee.
The rules also of the Company differ from those required by NASDAQ for US require the issuer to provide appropriate funding, as determined companies.
The material differences are as follows: by the compensation committee, for the payment of reasonable compensation to a compensation adviser.
Moreover, the Independence compensation committee may select, or receive advice from, The NASDAQ rules require that a majority of the Board be comprised a compensation consultant, legal counsel or other adviser to of independent directors and the rules include detailed denitions that the compensation committee only after taking into consideration US companies must use for determining independence.
the factors set forth in the NASDAQ Rule.
The Code requires that at least half the Board excluding the CSRs Remuneration Committee conducts its business in Chairman should comprise independent non-executive directors.
accordance with terms of reference which reect the delegated authority of the Remuneration Committee.
These terms of reference The Companys Board currently comprises three executive include making recommendations on CSRs framework for directors, four non-executive directors and the Chairman.
In executive remuneration and determining the individual remuneration accordance with the Code, the Chairman of the Board of Directors packages for each executive director.
and Dr. Gerzberg are not considered independent.
In connection with its duties, CSRs Remuneration Committee is While the Board does not explicitly take into consideration NASDAQs authorised by the Board, at the Companys expense, to obtain detailed denitions of independence, it has carried out an assessment outside legal or other independent professional advice including the based on the requirements of the Code and NASDAQ rules and has advice of independent remuneration consultants and to secure the determined in its judgment that, with the exception of Dr. Gerzberg, attendance of external professional advisers at its meetings if it the non-executive directors are independent within those considers this necessary.
Page 76 of the report of the requirements.
Remuneration Committee explains the advisers presently retained by the Committee for such purposes.
Although CSRs Nomination of Directors Remuneration Committee can seek the advice and assistance of NASDAQ rules require that nominees to a companys board of any of CSRs executives, it needs to ensure that this role is clearly directors be selected, or recommended for the boards selection, separated from their role within the business.
The terms of either by a majority of the companys independent directors or by reference of CSRs Remuneration Committee are consistent with a nomination committee comprised solely of independent directors.
the requirements of the Code.
The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board The Audit Committee is composed entirely of non-executive appointments and makes recommendations to the Board in relation directors whom the Board has determined to be independent and to new appointments of executive and non-executive directors and who meet the requirements of Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act.
on succession planning, board composition and balance.
It is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, and its other members are We consider that the terms of reference of these committees, non-executive directors.
Under NASDAQ rules, the Chairman of the which are available on our website www.
com ir corporateBoard is not considered independent: therefore the Nomination  corporate-governance are generally Committee does not meet the requirements of the NASDAQ rules.
responsive to the relevant NASDAQ rules but may not address all aspects of these rules.
Committees NASDAQ rules require US companies to have a nominations Code of conduct committee, an audit committee and a compensation committee, Under NASDAQ rules US listed companies must adopt a code of each composed entirely of independent directors, with the conduct applicable to all directors, ofcers and employees.
The nominations committee and the audit committee required to have Group has adopted a Group Ethics policy, which applies to all its a written charter that addresses the committees purpose and employees, including directors and ofcers.
It sets out what responsibilities.
conduct is expected of employees as they adhere to our business principles and draws their attention to the Groups policies.
In Both CSRs Nomination and Remuneration Committees have terms addition, the Company has adopted an Executive Ethics Policy that of reference and compositions that comply with the Codes applies to executive directors, senior ofcers and other specified requirements.
employees and is intended to meet the code of ethics requirements of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and its other member is a non-executive director of the Company.
Quorum Under NASDAQ rules, US listed companies are required to have a 66 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic review Financial statements Other information Governance Attendance at meetings minimum quorum of 33.33% of the shareholders of ordinary shares The table below shows the attendance of each of the directors at for shareholder meetings.
However, the Companys Articles of the regular meetings of the Board and its Committees held during Association provide for a quorum for general meetings of the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014. shareholders of two shareholders regardless of the level of their aggregate share ownership.
of Meetings Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Related party transactions J A J van Beurden 8 The NASDAQ rules require US listed companies to conduct W G Boyd 8 4 3 1 appropriate reviews of related party transactions and potential A E C G Carlisle 8 431 conicts of interest via the companys audit committee or other D D W Gardiner 8 independent body of the board of directors.
L Gerzberg 8 We are subject to extensive provisions under the Listing Rules C A Ladas 7 3 issued by the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK the Listing R W Mackintosh 8 31 Rules governing transactions with related parties, as dened C M R Stone 8 3 therein, and the Companies Act 2006 also restricts the extent to T M Vega 8 4 which companies incorporated in England and Wales may enter 1 Appointed as Senior Independent Director on 1 January 2015. into related party transactions.
2 Stood down from the Board, Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees and as Senior Independent Director on 31 December 2014.
The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions regarding 3 Although Mr. Mackintosh is not a member of the Audit Committee, he attended disclosure of interests by directors and restrictions on their voting in all Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
circumstances involving conicts of interest.
During 2014, additional meetings were held outside the regular scheduled meetings on seven occasions, at which all members of The concept of a related party for the purposes of NASDAQs listing the Board were present.
rules differs in certain respects from the denition of a transaction with a related party under the Listing Rules.
Annual General Meeting resolutions The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to Shareholder approval be held on 20 May 2015, together with explanatory notes, appear Stock option plans in the separate Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which has NASDAQ rules require US listed companies to obtain shareholder been sent to all registered shareholders.
approval before a stock option or purchase plan is established or materially amended or other equity compensation arrangement is The Directors Report comprising the information on pages 2 to 7 made pursuant to which stock may be acquired by ofcers, and on pages 43 to 82 and pages 143 to 169 has been approved directors, employees or consultants of the company, subject to by the Board of Directors on 4 March 2015. certain exceptions.
The Companys directors or Remuneration Committee may amend the schemes and plans of the Company, By Order of the Board for and on behalf of the Board of Directors except that any amendment relating to the identity of option holders, the limitations on their benets, the basis for determining an option holders entitlement to shares other than provided for in accordance with the rules or the adjustment of rights for option holders in the Brett Gladden, event of a variation in share capital may not be made to the Company Secretary advantage of option holders without prior approval of the 4 March 2015 shareholders of the Company in general meeting, except for minor amendments relating to tax and administrative matters.
Amendments to the CSR plc SAYE Scheme, the CSR plc Share Option Plan and the CSR plc 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan are subject to the prior approval of HM Revenue and Customs in the UK in order to retain their UK tax approved status.
