Corporate governance statement Introduction from the Chairman The Board and the executive management The events in the second half of the year, which resulted in the Afrens day to day management of its business is the responsibility termination of the contracts of the Companys Chief Executive of the Chief Executive Officer supported by the executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer, highlighted the need to management.
There are seven different departments within strengthen our corporate governance.
In the first half of the year the business see illustrative diagram on page 73.
Each has its we began two important exercises to strengthen our approach.
own department head that reports to the Executive Directors, These were the establishment of a comprehensive new Code of applying a variety of daily and monthly reporting methods.
Business Conduct see page 68 and a related training exercise Internal audit for all staff and contractors.
We also conducted an internal audit of our current Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy and procedures Afren maintains an internal audit function.
After the departure and commissioned a comprehensive Anti-Bribery and Corruption of the Companys internal auditor during the year, this function Risk Review from KPMG.
The Code was published in December has been outsourced to PwC following a competitive tender.
and a compulsory test of its contents was undertaken by Internal audit activity is directed, monitored and reviewed directly all staff and Directors by the end of the year see page 68. by the Audit and Risk Committee and is not controlled by the We are determined to ensure that our business conduct and executive management.
corporate governance standards are in line with best practice.
Changes to the Board of Directors during 2014 About the Board of Directors Since the beginning of 2014, the following changes have taken The Board is responsible for providing leadership and setting place regarding the composition of the Board.
Afrens strategic objectives and key policies.
It monitors Company Mr Iain McLaren joined the Board as an Independent Nonperformance, supplies guidance, arranges succession planning Executive Director in April 2014 and was subsequently appointed and ensures that the Companys obligations to its shareholders as the Chair of the Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees and key stakeholders are met.
It is responsible for appointing replacing Mr Peter Bingham and Mr Toby Hayward respectively key advisors, professional service providers and assessing their and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in July 2014. performance.
It is tasked with ensuring that appropriate resources are in place to enable Afren to meet its objectives.
Mr Egbert Imomoh became Executive Chairman in July 2014 The Board also oversees Afrens internal control systems and previously Non-Executive Chairman.
is responsible to shareholders for the proper management Mr Toby Hayward was appointed Interim Chief Executive Officer of the Group.
in July 2014 previously Non-Executive Director.
At the end of the reporting period, the Board comprised Mr Osman Shahenshahs employment as Chief Executive Officer an Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and five and his Directorship were terminated in October 2014 following Non-Executive Directors.
The Afren Board has a broad range of commercial, financial Mr Shahid Ullahs employment as Chief Operating Officer and and other relevant expertise.
Biographies of the Directors are his Directorship were terminated in October 2014 following his on pages 74 to 75.
The Nomination Committee is responsible suspension in July 2014. for periodically reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board and considering succession planning for both Mr Ennio Sganzerla resigned from his position as Non-Executive Directors and members of the Groups senior management team.
It is also responsible for new Board appointments and makes Following the independent investigation and review by Willkie recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new Farr and Gallagher WFG and the subsequent termination Directors, ensuring that appointments are made on merit and of the employment and Directorships of the Chief Executive against objective criteria.
Officer, Chief Operating Officer and other senior members of In deciding the recommendations to be made to the Board on management, the Board is in the process of undertaking an the appointment of new Directors, the Nomination Committee executive search for replacement senior executives.
As part of considers the skills, experience and knowledge of the existing this search, the Board has appointed Alan Linn as new Chief Directors, diversity requirements and the advice received from Executive Officer.
It then assesses which of the potential Chairman and Chief Executive candidates would bring the most benefit to the Board by enhancing those qualities already present or filling any perceived In July 2014, the Chief Executive Officer, Mr Osman Shahenshah, gaps in knowledge, experience, diversity or skills.
It considers the and the Chief Operating Officer, Mr Shahid Ullah, were both potential candidates experience and knowledge of the territories suspended whilst an investigation into unauthorised payments in which Afren operates, the oil and gas industry, capital was completed further information is provided on page 11.
Their markets, the regulatory environment and, in the case of Nonemployment and Directorships were subsequently terminated Executive Director appointments, that they have sufficient time following a full investigation and review by WFG.
Following their to devote to the role.
The Chairman ensures that any new suspension, Mr Egbert Imomoh became Executive Chairman and Directors are provided with a full induction on joining.
Mr Toby Hayward became Interim Chief Executive Officer.
80 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance From this point until the end of the year Mr Imomoh continued Independence of Non-Executive Directors his responsibilities as Chairman and shared the responsibilities of The independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors Chief Executive Officer with Mr Hayward.
Mr Imomoh in particular is considered upon appointment, annually and at any other focused on our relationships with our business partners and field time a Directors circumstances change in a way that warrants operations supported by senior management.
Following a review of the Boards composition, focused on the Companys relationships with its shareholders the Company has reassessed the independence of all its Nonand financiers.
The Board regards all of its Non-Executive Directors as independent within the meaning of the term as The intention is to return the Companys executive management defined in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
structure to one which reflects the best practice requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code within the near future.
Annually, the Board of Directors reviews whether each This will mean that the Chairmans role will be Non-Executive, Non-Executive Director is independent of management and responsible for Board leadership, setting the agenda for the any business or other relationship that could materially interfere Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive will with their exercise of objective, unfettered and independent be responsible for leading the Executive Directors and senior judgement or their ability to act in the best interests of management, ensuring that the business is run effectively and the shareholders.
Both will be responsible for Where a Director is considered by the Board to be independent, ensuring that Afren maintains the highest business conduct but is affected by circumstances that may give rise to a standards at all times.
perception that they are not, the Board will explain the reasons Non-Executive Directors it has reached its conclusion.
In making a decision, the Board considers relationships with management, major shareholders, The Non-Executive Directors undertake a supervisory role.
associated companies and other parties with whom the Group They are required to contribute to and challenge the development transacts business against predetermined materiality thresholds, of the Companys strategy through the application of the skills, all of which are set out in the policy.
experience and knowledge each brings to the Board.
They are also required to review the performance of the Executive Tested against this policy, the Board considers that all Non-Executive Directors and the Companys senior management.
Directors have retained independence of character and judgement and have not formed associations with management or others that Each Non-Executive Director is required to ensure that they have might compromise their ability to exercise independent judgement sufficient information for the discharge of their duties.
This may or act in the best interests of the Company.
be obtained through dialogue with management, training where appropriate to update their knowledge and skills and consultation The Board gave particular consideration to the independence with senior independent professional advisors as required.
of Mr Peter Bingham and Mr John St. John.
Each Non-Executive Director is appointed for a three-year Mr Peter Bingham has served as a Director of the Company for fixed term, renewable by mutual agreement.
All Non-Executive more than nine years however, given he continues to display Director appointment letters are available for inspection at the appropriate independence from the Executive Directors by Companys registered office.
exercising objective, unfettered and independent judgements, he is determined to be independent.
In July 2014, Mr Bingham Senior Independent Director stepped down as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Mr Iain McLaren, chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, and was replaced by Mr Iain McLaren.
is the Senior Independent Director.
He was appointed in July 2014 after Mr Toby Hayward became Interim Chief Executive Mr John St. John is the only independent Non-Executive Director Officer.
Mr McLaren was selected for the role because of his who still has unexercised options.
The Share Option Scheme experience and expertise.
Rules were amended in November 2009 to prohibit the award of share options to Non-Executive Directors.
Since Afrens admission The Senior Independent Director acts as a sounding board to the Official List, no share options have been granted to any for the Chairman of the Board when required.
He also chairs Non-Executive Director.
The Board takes the view that this does meetings with the other Non-Executive Directors without the not affect the independence of the Non-Executive Directors.
Chairman being present encouraging open dialogue, particularly Further information can be found in the Directors remuneration regarding the Chairmans performance.
He is available to shareholders if they have concerns which cannot, or should not, be addressed to the Chairman or Executive Directors.
He is required to act on the results of any performance evaluation of the Chairman.
He is also required to maintain sufficient contact with major shareholders, when requested, to understand their issues and concerns thereby assisting the Board to develop a balanced understanding of their opinions.
He is also required to attend the Annual General Meeting and be available for discussion with shareholders.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 81 Corporate governance statement continued Board composition the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
A table detailing the Directors attendance at each of the Companys scheduled The Board decided, in view of recent circumstances and events, Board and committee meetings during 2014 is shown below.
that the current composition should be maintained as an interim measure to ensure continuity and stability.
This was to ensure Board meeting attendance in 2014 that the business was governed as effectively as possible and in During the year, the Board held five scheduled Board meetings.
the best interests of the Companys shareholders.
This approach In addition to these scheduled meetings, a number of other is also discussed below.
meetings took place to discuss specific matters that required During 2015, the Directors will also be looking to refresh and consideration at short notice.
strengthen the Board membership and continue to improve In addition to these meetings, at the June 2014 Board meeting Afrens internal risk management and controls.
Board committee the Board formally resolved to appoint a special purpose membership will also be reviewed and refreshed in the first Operating Committee, comprising only Non-Executive Directors, half of 2015.
During 2015, the Board intends to adopt enhanced to manage the WFG review into potential breaches of the Listing corporate governance principles which will be in line with Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules in respect of three best practice.
transactions between Afren and its Partners that took place in The Board considers that there is an appropriate balance 2012 and 2013.
The Committee met on four occasions during between Executive and Non-Executive Directors for governing the year to address specific matters and oversaw the conduct of the business effectively and promoting shareholder interests.
both the WFG review and an associated KPMG review, reporting back to the Board in relation to the progress and, ultimately, the A summary of the skills and experience of the Board are shown findings of the reviews, which identified receipt of unauthorised in the table on pages 74 and 75. payments by the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Board committees Officers and other senior management.
The Board has established and delegated responsibilities to Key activities of the Board in 2014 three principal Board committees.
These are the Audit and Risk, Performance Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Each committee has During 2014, the Boards key activities included consideration defined terms of reference that are summarised on the following of performance, operational and strategic matters in addition pages and available in full on the Companys website.
The Board to detailed briefings on specific aspects of compliance and is kept up to date on the activities of the committees through corporate governance including regular updates on the progress reports from the committee Chairmen at each Board meeting.
of the WFG review, which impacted the Company, the Group, The operations of these committees is set out the Board and their respective obligations.
Following the completion of the investigation by WFG the Board Meetings of the Board approved a revised version of the Afren Code of Business Conduct, The Directors have collective responsibility for the conduct of which includes guidance on anti-corruption and bribery, to ensure the Groups business.
It is expected that all Directors attend best practice and compliance with the UK Bribery Act and scheduled Board and relevant committee meetings and that its associated guidance.
Testing of the understanding of the all Directors will attend the AGM.
Where Directors are unable Code was subsequently rolled out throughout the Group.
The to attend meetings, they receive the papers scheduled for Companys Related Party Transaction Policy was also updated discussion at the relevant meetings so that they have the during the year to comply with Listing Principle 2 and to align opportunity to raise any issues and provide comments to Afren with FTSE 250 companies.
Board and committee meeting attendance 2014 Committee meetings Name Board meetings Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Egbert Imomoh, Chairman 5 5 1 1 Toby Hayward, Interim Chief Executive 5 5 2 2 1 1 4 4 # Osman Shahenshah, Chief Executive 4 4 # Shahid Ullah, Chief Operating Officer 4 4 Darra Comyn, Group Finance Director 5 5 Peter Bingham, Non-Executive Director 5 5 4 4 5 5 Ennio Sganzerla, Non-Executive Director 4 4 3 3 1 1 4 5 John St. John, Non-Executive Director 5 5 Patrick Obath, Non-Executive Director 4 5 4 4 5 5 Sheree Bryant, Non-Executive Director 4 5 1 1 Iain McLaren 3 3 3 3 1 1 # Suspended July 2014, Dismissed October 2014 Chairman of Committee until July 2014.
Joined on 2 April 2014 Chairman of Committee 82 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Tenure of Non-Executive Directors by gender Board composition Directors 610 years 01 years Female Executive Non-Executive Chairman Directors 1 1 1 2 2 2 7 5 Executive Directors 23 years Male The Board reviewed succession planning and is continuing to We hope to develop our representation of diversity at a senior look at options to refresh the current composition of the Board management and Board level in the coming years.
This will, and its committees.
It is expected that new appointments will however, be balanced against the need to ensure that all be made in the first half of the 2015 financial year.
Succession appointments to the Board are made on merit and with regard planning would usually fall within the remit of the Nomination to an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence Committee, however, due to the Companys exceptional and knowledge.
The Board is pleased, however, to note the circumstances during 2014, the full Board has taken on this increasing numbers of women in recent years amongst its senior responsibility.
The Board will be reviewing and refreshing the management team, some of whom regularly attend Board membership of all the Board committees during the first half meetings in an advisory capacity.
In considering succession planning, the Board has Conflicts of interest undertaken a detailed review of the skills which will be desirable for non-executive appointments and will review the steps being The Board has formal procedures for managing compliance with taken to identify further non-executive appointments.
the conflicts of interest provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board has also considered the issue of diversity, the We have procedures for disclosing and reviewing any actual or recommendations made by Lord Davies in his report entitled potential conflicts of interest the Directors may have, and the Women on Boards, and the FRCs consultation on proposed Companys Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise consequential changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
During 2014, considerable time was spent on strategic and Directors must give advance notice of any conflict issues to the operational matters and governance-related issues, in particular Company Secretary, which are then disclosed and considered the WFG review, their findings and follow up actions.
at the following Board meeting.
The Board conducts an annual review of all previously authorised situational conflicts, considering The table on page 82 sets out the number of Board and each one afresh, according to current circumstances.
Directors committee meetings held during the year to 31 December 2014 are excluded from the quorum and the vote on any matters they and the number of meetings attended by each Director.
The Board may review the authorisation of a conflict matter, and the terms of authorisation, at any time.
Board diversity The Board recognises that effective management of a LondonIn deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict, listed African focused business involves full consideration of the Directors must consider their general duties under the diversity matters in our appointment procedures for staff at Companies Act 2006.
The procedure operates to ensure the all levels of the business.
These include factors such as sociodisclosure of conflicts, and for non-conflicted Directors to economic background, culture and creed, nationality, age and consider and, if appropriate, authorise them.
The Nomination gender the number of persons of each sex employed by the Committee supports the Board in this process, by reviewing Group at 31 December 2014 is shown on page 69.
The current requests from Directors and by making recommendations to the Board consists of individuals from a variety of countries including Board.
The Committee may also review any situations of actual the United Kingdom, Nigeria and Kenya with a variety of or potential conflict the Board has previously authorised, and personal attributes.
We believe this representation provides a make recommendations as to whether they remain appropriate.
strong mix of views and experience to support our decisionInformation and professional development making processes and leadership activities.
The Chairman, with the support of the Company Secretary, is The Board currently has one female Director and seven male responsible for the induction of new Directors and the ongoing Directors and is keen to increase the ratio of female to male development of all Directors.
On joining the Board, all Directors Directors on the Board.
As part of its search for additional receive an induction designed to provide an understanding Non-Executive Directors, the Board has engaged consultancies of Afrens business, governance and key stakeholders.
The that fully consider diversity matters as part of their activities induction is tailored to each Directors experience, background and we have made it clear that we would not accept male-only and areas of focus and Non-Executive Directors also receive a candidate shortlists.
full briefing on all areas of the Companys business from the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and other senior Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 83 Corporate governance statement continued executives.
Directors may also request any further information Board composition, this has not yet been completed.
We will they feel is necessary.
All Directors receive regular briefings to look to commence an external evaluation in 2015 once the update their skills and knowledge, for example on legal and recruitment has been completed.
Shareholder communication Induction briefings typically cover the Groups strategy, The Board considers that it is important to maintain a dialogue organisational structure, business functions and activities, the with investors, aimed at ensuring a mutual understanding of statutory reporting cycle and financing principles, operational objectives.
Investors primary contact is through the Executive activities, information technology strategy, and legal and regulatory Directors, but the Chairman and the Chief Executive also contact issues.
Additional briefing or training sessions are also arranged major shareholders periodically and in advance of the Annual which deal with corporate governance issues and compliance General Meeting AGM each year, to understand their views on with the Companys obligations as a premium listed company.
the Company and to ensure their views are communicated to the All Directors were required to complete the Code of Business Board as a whole.
Similarly, the Senior Independent Director and Conduct training exercise along with all the Companys employees the other Non-Executive Directors make themselves available to and contractors by the end of the year.
It is intended that the Board meet with major shareholders during the year.
will receive training on the planned new Corporate Governance Investor relations is a standing agenda item and the Board Principles referred to above during 2015. receives regular reports on any changes to the holdings of the Companys main institutional shareholders.
In addition, the Evaluation of Board performance Group Head of Investor Relations presents a report to the Board The Board undertakes a review of its performance and on investor relations generally, identifying the key issues raised by that of its committees each year.
In March 2014, the Board institutional and other key shareholders.
Specific issues raised by engaged Armstrong Bonham Carter LLP ABC to conduct an key shareholders are also reported to the Board, as appropriate, internal Board review in respect of the financial year ending outside scheduled Board meetings.
31 December 2013 which took the form of a facilitated selfevaluation.
The review included completion of confidential, Communications with shareholders regarding business strategy unattributed questionnaires by each Board member, the Company and financial performance are co-ordinated by the Investor Secretary and Head of HR, which covered corporate governance, Relations department, which reports to the Group Head of Board effectiveness, strategy development, risk management, Investor Relations.
Communications regarding the general Board and Committee organisation, composition, operation administration of shareholdings are co-ordinated by and dynamics.
Each Director assessed themselves and the other the Company Secretary.
Directors against a number of criteria.
Directors also undertook an The Group conducts an investor relations programme with assessment of the Chairmans ability to create the conditions for institutional investors, analysts and the media.
This includes overall Board effectiveness and for setting the tone at the top.
presentations and roadshows, as well as a regular series of ABC collated and analysed the results from each section of one-to-one and group meetings and, twice a year, an Investor the evaluation and prepared separate reports, summarising event involving detailed presentations on the Companys key points and including unattributed comments given in strategy and performance.
The reports were initially discussed Following the suspension of the then Chief Executive Officer, with the Chairman before being presented to the Board.
Mr Osman Shahenshah, and Chief Operating Officer, Mr Shahid Directors also received a copy of the report on their own Ullah, the Company, together with the Chairman and Interim effectiveness and these were discussed by the Chairman with CEO, liaised with the top 20 shareholders to provide them with each Director, as appropriate.
The Chairman received feedback the background to the investigation and introduce them to the on his own performance from the then Senior Independent interim leadership team.
Shareholders were subsequently kept Director, Toby Hayward.
abreast of developments and the progress of the WFG review, which resulted in the dismissal of Mr Osman Shahenshah and Key conclusions of the 2014 evaluation Mr Shahid Ullah and two Associate Directors, Mr Iain Wright and Mr Galib Virani.
In addition, a Q&A session has been held The Board evaluation concluded that the Board continued to focusing on the impact of the reviews and transactions to the make progress both year on year and since the first review Companys assets, financials and asset integrity.
conducted by ABC in May 2011, and continued to be effective.
However, issues remained which could further improve the Investor presentations are published on the Companys website effectiveness of the Board.
These included further improvement and results presentations are available by webcast during the in determining and agreeing the strategy: Board composition, year.
Additionally, this Annual Report and the half-year results, particularly in relation to diversity: independent benchmarking which are sent to all registered shareholders, contain extensive of the EHSS function: understanding employee attitudes: and information about the Groups activities.
raising the visibility of the Board across the Company.
The Board welcomes enquiries from individual shareholders, The review also reported that the Groups committees have both on matters relating to their shareholdings and the business continued to improve their effectiveness.
It also recommended of the Group.
It also encourages shareholders to attend the that an external evaluation be undertaken in respect of the AGM to discuss the Groups progress, make their views known 2014 financial year.
However, given the subsequent events and to raise any matters of concern directly.
The Company in the second half of 2014, the review by WFG and KPMG, reports formally to shareholders twice a year with its half-year and the ongoing search for a new permanent Chief Executive and full-year results.
Officer and new Non-Executive Directors to strengthen the 84 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Annual General Meeting AGM presentations, the Annual Report and other relevant information on our website.
There are systems and controls for implementing and The Companys AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity monitoring the disclosure of inside information, and for ensuring to further develop their understanding of the Company.
At the that regulatory announcements, shareholder circulars, prospectuses AGM shareholders may ask questions of the full Board on the and other documents issued by the Company comply with relevant matters put to the meeting, including the Annual Report and legal or regulatory requirements.
the running of the Company generally.
The Company sends to shareholders the Notice of AGM and any related papers at least Compliance with the UK Corporate 20 working days before the meeting.
All Directors are invited and Governance Code encouraged to attend each AGM.
At the AGM, the Chairman presents a review of the Groups business.
As a company with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, Afren is required by the UK Listing Authority to Company Secretary disclose its compliance with the UK Corporate Governance The Company Secretary provides company secretarial services to Code the Code and explain any non-compliance.
the Board and is responsible for advising the Board on governance It is the Boards view that the Company has been fully compliant matters and ensuring that all Board procedures are complied throughout 2014 with the relevant provisions of the Code except with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for developing for the matter noted below.
and maintaining the information systems and processes that enable the Board to fulfil its role.
All Directors have access to Code provision A.
2.1 states that the roles of Chairman and the Company Secretary.
Chief Executive should not be exercised by the same individual.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Insurance cover Chief Executive should be clearly established, set out in writing The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance and agreed by the Board.
cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
As detailed above, following the suspension of the Companys Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer in July, the Election and re-election role of Chief Executive Officer is shared by the Chairman and the The Board is committed to openness in determining Board Interim Chief Executive Officer.
This decision was taken as the membership.
Under the Companys Articles of Association the Board considered that this arrangement was in the best interests Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders every year of the Companys shareholders and to ensure continuity and in accordance with the recommendations of UK Corporate stability.
The intention is to return the Companys management Governance Code.
structure to one which reflects the best practice requirements of this Codes provision within the near future.
Share Dealing Code Code provision B.
2.1 states that a majority of members of the The Company has a Share Dealing Code which covers dealings Nomination Committee should be independent Non-Executive by Directors, Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities Directors.
Following the changes to the Board in July referred PDMR, and relevant employees.
The Share Dealing Code complies to above, the majority of committee members held executive with the provisions set out in the Model Code contained in Annex directorships.
This decision was taken as an interim measure as it 1 to Listing Rule 9 of the UK Listing Authority Rules.
It restricts was also considered to be in the best interests of the Companys dealings in shares and other relevant securities by PDMRs and shareholders and to ensure continuity and stability.
The Company employees during designated prohibited periods and at any time intends to review and refresh its Board committees in the when they are in possession of unpublished, price-sensitive information.
first half of 2015 and to return the Nomination Committees Market disclosure membership structure to one which reflects the best practice requirements of this Code provision.
We aim to maintain the highest standards of disclosure.
This ensures that all investors and potential investors have the same timely access to relevant information, to assist them in making informed decisions.
We publish copies of announcements to the market, investor Requirements of the Listing Rules The following table provides references to where the applicable information required by the Listing Rule 9.8.
4R is disclosed within this Annual Report: Listing Rule requirement Where addressed A statement of the amount of interest capitalised by the Group during the period Note 3.6 Finance costs within Notes to under review with an indication of the amount and treatment of any related tax relief.
the Group financial statements page 128.
Details of any long-term incentive schemes as required by LR 9.4.
3 R. Note 5.8 Staff costs within Notes to the Group financial statements page 139 and the Directors remuneration report page 92.
Details of any arrangements under which a Director of the Company has waived or agreed Remuneration Committee Chairmans to waive any emoluments from the Company or any subsidiary undertaking.
Where a Director comments page 92. has agreed to waive future emoluments, details of such waiver together with those relating to emoluments which were waived during the period under review.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 85 Corporate governance statement continued The Committees activities during 2014 Nomination Committee Appointment The Committee recommended a new of a new Non-Executive Director, Mr Iain McLaren, Non-Executive to ensure the Board was strengthened.
Director Existing Board The Committee conducted a review and structure debated the skills and diversity of the existing Board membership to ensure the Board has the appropriate balance of skills and experience to support the development of the business.
Suitability of The Committee reviewed the Board and future Board Committee composition following the structure appointment of a new Non-Executive Director.
Egbert Imomoh Chairman of Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder In the first quarter of the year, following the decision by the Board to appoint a further Non-Executive Director, the Committee initiated an extensive selection process to identify a suitable candidate to strengthen the Board.
Effectiveness of the Nomination Committee With the assistance of specialist recruitment consultants, Harvey Who is on the Nomination Committee?
Nash, it undertook a recruitment exercise to agreed criteria for The Nomination Committee currently comprises Mr Egbert the role, shortlisting two candidates from an initial long list.
Imomoh Chairman, Mr Toby Hayward and Ms Sheree Bryant.
The Committee recommended Mr Iain McLarens appointment.
Mr Ennio Sganzerla was also a member of the Committee until Mr McLaren was also recommended to join the Audit and Risk his resignation from the Board in November 2014.
Committee and to become its Chairman in due course.
of meetings Following recent circumstances and events, the Board decided to maintain the current composition as an interim measure to Mr Egbert Imomoh Chairman 1 1 enable continuity and stability.
We believed that this was the best Mr Toby Hayward 1 1 way of ensuring that the business was governed as effectively as Mr Sheree Bryant 1 1 possible and in the best interests of the Companys shareholders.
Mr Ennio Sganzela until 6 November 2014 1 1 During 2015, the Committee will lead the search for candidates to strengthen and refresh Board membership supported by independent professional advisors.
Introduction The Nomination Committee meets at least once a year to review suitable candidates for appointment as Directors, and recommend them to the Board.
It reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the skills, knowledge and experience required.
It follows a formal, rigorous and open Mr Egbert Imomoh procedure for appointing new Board Directors, based on merit Chairman of the Nomination Committee and objective criteria.
30 April 2015 The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available from the Company Secretary and are summarised on the Companys website.
The Nomination Committee met once during the year to recruit an additional Non-Executive Director and to consider the composition of the Board.
It appointed independent recruitment consultants Harvey Nash to assist in the search for a new Non-Executive Director.
86 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Dear Shareholder Audit and Risk Committee During 2014, I succeeded Peter Bingham as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Peter remains on the Committee and we continue to benefit from his extensive knowledge and experience.
The Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors.
Toby Hayward, who had been a member of the Committee whilst he was the Senior Independent Director, stepped down in July 2014 when he became Interim Chief Executive Officer and Ennio Sganzerla resigned in November 2014.
I thank them both for their contribution to the Committee.
As outlined elsewhere in this report, the Company has faced a number of challenges which the Board has had to address over the past 12 months in relation to the unauthorised payments made by third parties to certain executives.
The Committee Iain McLaren reviewed the reports from WFG and KPMG into the transactions Chairman of Audit that were undertaken and assessed whether there was any impact and Risk Committee on the Companys stated financial position.
This was discussed and comprehensively considered with Deloitte, the Companys auditors, and additionally with an independent accounting advice team from PwC.
The outcome of these reviews has resulted in a restatement Effectiveness of the Audit and Risk Committee of the 2013 financial statements as set out in note 5.15 to the financial statements.
There has been no adverse impact on the Who is on the Audit and Risk Committee?
previously reported net assets or profit after tax of the Company.
The members of the Audit and Risk Committee are listed below.
Mr Iain McLaren, a chartered accountant and past President of In the second half of the year the Committee approved updated the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland, has financial policies in relation to Anti-Bribery legislation, whistle-blowing experience through his previous and current roles, and both and related party transactions to be rolled out to the Groups Mr Peter Bingham and Mr Patrick Obath have a range of employees in all jurisdictions.
A revised and enhanced Code of relevant financial and commercial experience.
Business Conduct was also approved which takes into account findings from the KPMG review.
A comprehensive review of Member No.
of meetings the Companys Business Risk Management System is also in the Mr Iain McLaren Chairman 3 3 process of being undertaken by the Head of Risk Management under the supervision of the Committee, and will be an area of Mr Peter Bingham 4 4 ongoing focus during 2015.
In addition, as set out on page 89 Mr Patrick Obath 4 4 of the Corporate governance report, we have engaged PwC Former member following a competitive tender as outsourced Internal Audit Mr Toby Hayward until 31 July 2014 2 2 provider and as part of their scope they are undertaking a review of our key financial operating controls which will be Mr Ennio Sganzerla until 6 November 2014 3 3 taken into consideration for the 2015 Internal Audit Plan.
joined the Audit and Risk Committee on 3 April 2014 and became Chairman in July 2014 The Committee also considered in the year the valuation of intangible exploration and evaluation and development Introduction assets and made judgements as to whether impairments were The role of the Audit and Risk Committee is to assist the Board in necessary.
Having discussed these with the external auditors, overseeing the accounting, financial reporting, internal control and we are satisfied that the balances are appropriately stated in risk management processes of the Company, as well as monitoring accordance with the Groups accounting policies and impairments the quality of the audit process of the Company and Group financial have been correctly recorded.
The Committee also ensures that the Board regularly assesses business risks, risk management and risk mitigation strategies.
Further details on the Committees main activities during 2014 are provided on the next page.
The Audit and Risk Committee met four times during 2014 and has kept the Board informed of the Committees activities and of any The Board is currently in the process of a search for new issues arising, through verbal reports given at every Board meeting independent Non-Executive Directors.
Once that exercise immediately following a Committee meeting, and through circulation has been completed in 2015 it is the intention that we will of the Committees minutes.
The Chairman of the Company, CEO, be refreshing the Audit and Risk Committee membership and Finance Director and other members of senior management attend I look forward to updating shareholders on this in due course.
meetings of the Committee by invitation.
The Companys external auditors, Deloitte LLP Deloitte, also attend meetings in part, as well as meeting privately with the Committee at least once a year to discuss any matters they may wish to raise without Executive Directors or members of the finance management being present.
Iain McLaren The terms of reference of the Audit and Risk Committee are available Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee from the Company Secretary and are summarised on the Companys 30 April 2015 website: www.
com Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 87 Corporate governance statement continued The Committees activities during 2014 Date of meeting Other attendees Matters discussed 18 March 2014 Chairman Report from Deloitte on audit and accounting judgements relating to the 2013 Annual Report.
Items of particular focus included: Group Finance Director assumptions made in assessing the carrying values of intangible exploration Company Secretary and evaluation assets and the recoverability of development assets: Senior Internal Audit Manager assumptions relating to tax charges and related liabilities: and Head of Risk Management related party transaction disclosures: and Assurance The level of audit and non-audit fees paid to the external auditor during 2013, Senior finance management the outlook for 2014 and the auditors independence.
Deloitte Lead Audit Partner A report from Risk Management and Assurance detailing key areas of focus, and Director including risk assessment procedures and risk reviews to be undertaken.
Review of a revised related party transactions policy for the Group and communication to staff.
An update report from Internal Audit focusing on upcoming activities, including a review of the Groups Anti-Bribery procedures and the training process for staff.
A finance and treasury update, including resourcing requirements.
28 July 2014 Group Finance Director Report from Deloitte on audit and accounting judgements underlying the half-year results to June 2014.
These included: Group General Counsel the audit approach in carrying out the review of the financial information, Company Secretary including materiality judgements: Senior Internal Audit Manager assumptions underlying the valuation of tangible oil and gas and intangible Head of Risk Management exploration and evaluation assets: and Assurance review of impairment testing upon transfer of development assets, Senior finance management recoverability of development assets: Deloitte Lead Audit Partner review of deferred tax assets: and and Director assumptions and judgements made relating to liquidity and going concern.
An update on whistle-blowing reports and Anti-Bribery Compliance reporting.
A report from internal audit on recent activities, including benchmarking of the Groups Anti-Bribery policy against best practice: review of information security: and review of payment controls.
An update on risk management procedures and controls.
21 August 2014 Group Finance Director An update on the WFG investigation and consideration of any potential impact on the half-year results.
Senior finance management A review of the going concern approach to the half-year results.
Deloitte Lead Audit Partner and Director An update from Deloitte on the final report to the Audit Committee on the 2014 half-year review.
The following matters were discussed: Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP Partner and Solicitor management judgements and impairment: and the investigation into Listing Rule compliance and suspension of Directors.
Consideration of the Companys 2014 half-year results.
3 December 2014 Interim CEO Report from Deloitte on their plan for the 2014 audit, including: Group Finance Director audit scope and materiality judgements: Group General Counsel areas of judgement and risk requiring particular audit focus the key items are summarised in the following section on financial management and reporting : Head of Risk Management and Assurance corporate governance updates: and Senior finance management review of accounting treatments in the 2013 financial statements.
Deloitte Lead Audit Partner An update from PwC on the internal audit plan for 2015 and the structure and Director of the Internal Audit function.
PWC Partner and Manager Update on risk management activities and the plan for 2015.
For internal audit A review of the Groups Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC and related party procedures.
A review of matters reported via the Groups whistle-blowing process.
88 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Internal control and risk management Internal audit procedures The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal The Group has an Internal Audit function, which operates control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
under an internal audit charter and with an agreed strategy.
Internal Audit derives its authority from the Audit and Risk It has established a continuous process for identifying, evaluating Committee which oversees its performance and ensures the and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
The Board independence of the function.
In December 2014, the Committee has delegated to the Audit and Risk Committee responsibility approved a three-year plan for the evaluation of Internal Audit for keeping under review the effectiveness of the Companys within the Group.
In addition, the proposed internal audit internal controls and risk management systems and for reporting programme for 2015 and a communication and resourcing to the Board on these areas.
The Committee conducts reviews programme were approved.
There is close liaison between of the effectiveness of Afrens overall system of risk management Internal Audit and the Risk Management functions to ensure and internal control through reports from management and the that there is a coherent approach to risk within the Group.
external auditors, and through the findings of internal audit During 2014, the principal areas for internal audit focus were: reviews, in accordance with the requirements of the revised Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, published by the FRC, review of the Anti-Bribery framework design and procedures and the Code.
The Board is acutely aware that the unauthorised and the associated training and communication processes: payments and other issues which have arisen in the past 12 review of internal control processes to assess the adequacy months represent an override of internal controls: improving and effectiveness of key process controls: the Groups systems and controls is a top priority for the Board supporting the development of the Business Risk Management in 2015.
System: and The Group also maintains a Risk Register, which contains development of the Groups internal control framework.
the key risks the Group faces, including their likelihood and In December 2014, the Group engaged PwC to undertake the impact, as well as the controls and procedures implemented Internal Audit function.
As part of their work in 2015 PwC will be to mitigate these risks.
Regular discussions with senior undertaking a review of the Groups current systems and procedures management determine the content of the Register, which and ensuring that the recommendations identified in the WFG the Audit and Risk Committee reviews.
During 2014, the Risk review are incorporated within the internal audit planning.
Register was updated to include asset risks relating to Ebok, Okoro and Barda Rash and during the year KPMG were engaged to undertake a full review of the Register.
The Groups key risks are summarised on pages 26 to 29 of the Strategic report section of this Annual Report.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control, and for the ongoing review of its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 89 Corporate governance statement continued Financial management and reporting Recurring areas of judgement Valuation of intangible exploration and evaluation assets During the year, the Audit and Risk Committee reviewed, During the year, the Group continued to conduct exploration before publication, the half-year and annual financial statements, and evaluation E&E work on its portfolio of exploration and other major statements affecting the Group that concerned licences.
The Company follows the successful efforts method price-sensitive information.
of accounting for E&E assets, which prescribes capitalising costs In monitoring the financial reporting practices, the Audit incurred on E&E activities until commerciality is determined, and Risk Committee reviewed the accounting policies, areas or, if deemed unsuccessful, costs are expensed.
of judgement, going concern assumption, and compliance The Committee examined the judgements management made with accounting standards, the Disclosure and Transparency in assessing whether there were any indicators of impairment rules, and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
These matters of E&E assets including in particular the impact of changes to were discussed with management and reviewed alongside the Groups business plan as discussed on page 13.
Where such reports presented by the Groups external auditors who have indicators existed, it considered the evidence to support whether considered each of the issues below as part of their audit or not an impairment existed.
The significant issues that the Committee considered management on the application of the Group accounting policy in relation to the financial statements and how these were in respect of individual assets, and, after due consideration, addressed are outlined below: concluded that E&E balances and impairment charges recorded Judgements specific to 2014 in the year were appropriately stated in accordance with the Going concern Group accounting policy.
As described in note 1 to the financial statements and the Review of oil and gas assets for impairment going concern section of the Directors report, following Management performs impairment tests on property, plant the significant decline in oil prices prior to year end and their and equipment balances where there are indicators of impairment.
continued low level, in the absence of satisfactory completion Assumptions and estimates are made in the calculation of the of the Groups current refinancing plans the Group has recoverable amount of these assets.
These include forecast insufficient funding to satisfy working capital requirements commodity prices based on a price deck as described in and forecast debt repayments as they fall due.
The Group has note 4.4 to the financial statements, risk adjusted discount reached an agreement with its lenders and providers of debt rates, commercial reserves and the related cost profiles.
regarding the injection of $200m of Interim Funding to provide immediate liquidity to the Group and provide time to implement The Committee reviewed and challenged the results of the the required steps towards the completion of the wider impairment tests and the assumptions used.
As a result the financial statements have been In respect of OML 26, where an impairment test is required each prepared on the basis the Company is a going concern, although year due to associated goodwill, the Committee received and the above conditions give rise to a material uncertainty in this considered a paper prepared by management summarising their respect, which is disclosed in the Directors report on page 76. impairment review and associated inputs and assumptions, and The Committee reviewed and challenged managements the conclusion that as a result of the fall in oil price the goodwill going concern paper which was presented to the Committee balance has been fully written off.
on 25 March 2015, and accompanying sensitivities for a range Taxation and royalty liabilities of reasonably possible scenarios.
The Committee also considered The application of tax legislation in jurisdictions in which the the disclosures in the Directors report to ensure these are Group operates can be uncertain and subject to interpretation.
The Committee reviews managements judgements at least 2013 Restatement twice a year.
As described in note 1 to the financial statements, the WFG As part of the review of the financial statements for the year report provided new information in relation to accounting ended 31 December 2014, the Committee considered a paper transactions in 2013.
The Company has reassessed certain prepared by management, which documented all significant accounting judgements and estimates made in the prior year judgements and interpretations relating to tax and royalty and has concluded that it is appropriate to restate the Group accounting and, in particular, the impact of the letters received statement of comprehensive income at 31 December 2013 in in 2014 from the Department of Petroleum Resources in Nigeria relation to one of the three transactions.
in respect of the royalty regime for Ebok and in January 2015 The Committee has been closely involved in this process.
As well from the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission in Nigeria as the report by WFG, the Company has received reports into the in respect of Eboks Pioneer status as described in note 5.16 to accounting by KPMG and has also received advice from PwC the financial statements.
in respect of the transaction with Oriental Energy in 2013 to In arriving at its conclusion that the judgements made are which the restatement related.
The Committee has challenged appropriate, the Committee noted that managements the judgements made by management in determining whether judgements had been formed having consulted internal it is appropriate to restate the prior period financial statements and external tax and legal advisors, and the Group auditors.
and, having concluded it was, the Committee concluded that the restated accounting adopted by the Group is appropriate.
In arriving at its conclusion, the Committee has taken into account the range of advice and interpretations received from each of the external advisors and the Group auditors.
90 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Interpretation of licence terms including residual The Committee has assessed the effectiveness of the external profit interests audit process.
They did this by: The Groups licence terms are complex and are subject to Reviewing the 2014 external audit plan: interpretation and negotiation.
Discussing the results of the audit including the auditors Where licences include residual profit interest in fields, we views on material accounting issues and key judgements discussed the calculation of these with management and with and estimates, and their audit report: the Groups external auditors.
The Committee is satisfied that Considering the robustness of the audit process: the amounts accrued in relation to these liabilities reflect a Reviewing the FRCs Audit Quality Inspection Report balanced assessment of the Groups potential exposure, and on Deloitte: notes the estimate uncertainty as described in note 1 of the Groups financial statements.
Reviewing the quality of the service and people provided to undertake the audit: and External audit Considering their independence and objectivity.
The Audit and Risk Committee maintains an objective and Following this assessment, the Audit and Risk Committee has professional relationship with the Groups auditor, Deloitte LLP recommended to the Board that the current auditors, Deloitte Deloitte, who were first appointed in 2005 following a full LLP, be reappointed as external auditors at the forthcoming tender process.
The Committee notes the requirements of the UK Corporate Control framework and activities Governance Code to put the external audit out to tender at least every 10 years.
The FRC has proposed non-binding The Board has put in place a management structure, which has transitional arrangements with respect to tendering, including defined lines of responsibility and clear delegation of authority.
a recommendation that tendering should ordinarily fit the Various committees are in place and these are part of the overall five-yearly cycle of audit partner rotation.
Given the last audit control structure.
These include the Executive Committee, which partner rotation occurred in 2009, a new audit partner will be is responsible for all strategic and operational activities day-to-day.
appointed following the conclusion of the 2014 audit.
Under The Group has a formal structured business planning process, the proposed guidelines, the Committee would recommend an which operates on an annual cycle.
The Board approves the external audit tender by 2019 or earlier if it has cause to do so.
consolidated annual budget, and performance against budget The Committee has a policy for assessing whether to engage is monitored and reported to the Board.
the external auditor to supply services other than audit services, The Groups risk management process is described on pages 24 and closely monitors the level of audit and non-audit services to 25.
The Audit and Risk Committee and senior executives of the external auditor provide to the Group in order to ensure that the Company regularly review significant risks, their potential auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
Non-audit impact on the Groups financial position, and actions taken to services are normally limited to assignments closely related to manage those risks during the year.
the annual audit, or where the work requires a detailed understanding of the Group.
The plan for 2015 is to review the Groups strategy, values, organisation and process & procedures, taking into consideration The external auditors are specifically excluded from providing the linkage between key business risks, controls and internal audit certain services including internal audit services, litigation as well as the results of the WFG investigation.
support, remuneration advice and legal advice services.
The Committee assesses every other piece of non-audit work separately, and awards it depending on which professional services firm it considers best suited.
In addition, the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee must approve any non-audit work with a total fee greater than 25% of the annual audit fee before the appointment is made.
Details of fees paid to external auditors are set out in note 5.2 to the financial statements.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 91
