Board of Directors Mr Egbert Imomoh Mr Toby Hayward Mr Darra Comyn Mr Peter Bingham Mr John St. John Mr Patrick Obath Ms Sheree Bryant Mr Iain McLaren Name and Title Executive Chairman Interim Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mr Imomoh, a founder of A qualified chartered Mr Comyn was previously Mr Bingham is a Non-Executive Mr St. John was appointed Mr Obath, an East African Ms Bryant is a social Mr McLaren is a chartered Biography accountant, Mr Hayward the Group Finance Director for Director of Afren appointed to the Board of Afren in national, was appointed to entrepreneur with extensive accountant with over 40 years Afren, was previously Managing Director and has held a number of senior ITE Group plc and Expomedia in 2005.
Mr Obath experience in government experience working in international equity capital market positions Group plc both international his career at Barclays Bank acted as an adviser on over currently also serves as and the NGO sectors in the financial markets, accounting and Executive Chairman of Afren Energy Resources Limited.
He was Head of groups focused on emerging group.
He subsequently held US$100 billion of equity and Chairman of PZ Cussons EA US and the UK.
In addition to auditing as well as the oil and gas Oil and Gas Equity Capital markets : and in the oil industry a succession of directorships, equity-linked issuance in all Limited and is a Non-Executive consulting and pro bono work industry.
He currently serves as He successfully led the growth of Afrens Nigerian asset base, Markets at Canaccord Adams, with Chevron Oil UK and first in London at branch level, major markets worldwide.
Director at Standard Chartered for several US and UK charities, a Non-Executive Director of Cairn before joining Jefferies Dragon Oil where he was then in Barclays merchant He was formerly Global Bank Kenya Limited and Kenya Ms Bryant is a Trustee of award Energy Plc, Chairman of Investors established a number of successful indigenous International Limited as Group Financial Controller banking division and BZW Head of Equity Capital Markets Power and Lighting Company winning Impetus Private Equity Capital Trust Plc, Non-Executive Managing Director and Head and Company Secretary.
now known as Barclays Capital.
He is Chairman of the Foundation portfolio partner Director of Baillie Gifford Shin partnerships and achieved the First Oil milestone at the of Corporate Broking, where Mr Comyn is a Chartered There he set up the credit risk Commerzbank and Lehman Kenya Private Sector Alliance COUI Teens and Toddlers.
Nippon Plc, Edinburgh Dragon he was responsible for all Accountant with a degree management team, before Brothers and European Head and has received a number Plc, Ecofin Water & Power Okoro project.
Mr Imomoh Ms Bryant was educated was President of the Society international equity and equity in Economics from Trinity becoming Head of Banking at of Equity Capital Markets at of East African Honorary Opportunities Plc and Mitra at the Universities of Texas, linked transactions together College, University of Dublin.
BZW and serving as a member Citigroup, formerly Salomon recognitions, including the Energy Limited.
of Petroleum Engineers in Harvard Graduate School 2013 and he has served with corporate broking and of the central Barclays Group Brothers.
He was previously Order of the Grand Warrior of Arts and Sciences, and Nomad responsibilities.
the Chairman of Equity OGW by H. E. the President on its board as Regional Kings College, London.
In July 30 July 2014, Mr Hayward has Capital Markets at Nomura of the Republic of Kenya, the held the position as Interim International plc.
Mr St. John National Peace Award, Kenya, 2014 Mr Imomoh became Executive Chairman, having Chief Executive Officer.
Prior is a founding Partner of and the Order of the Moran to that he held the position STJ Advisers.
of the Burning Spear MBS previously held the position of Non-Executive Chairman.
by H. E. the President of the Republic of Kenya.
2005 2009 2010 2005 2007 2012 2013 2014 Year Appointed 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 4 5 4 5 3 3 Meetings Attended Mr Imomoh has a wealth Mr Hayward has extensive Mr Comyn has extensive With over 40 years Mr St. Johns significant With over 36 years of industry Ms Bryant brings extensive Mr McLaren is a past president Experience of knowledge of the oil expertise in the equity capital financial, accounting and experience, Mr Bingham experience provides experience, including 20 years experience in strategy, of the Institute of Chartered and gas industry in Nigeria markets, as well as bringing capital markets experience brings considerable considerable insight into in various positions at Shell, corporate responsibility Accountants of Scotland and and Africa, acquired through financial and accountancy in both the emerging markets knowledge of international the international capital Mr Obath has a wealth of and community development has a BA in Accountancy many years of industry experience to the Board.
and the oil and gas industry.
experience as a senior oil and to the Board.
and Finance from Heriot-Watt experience including gas industry practitioner.
He also serves as serving as Deputy Managing Governor of St Columbas Director of Shell Petroleum Hospice and a member of Development Company Court of Heriot-Watt University.
Nigeria prior to establishing Afrens Nigerian subsidiary.
Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Audit and Risk Committee Audit and Risk Committee Nomination Committee Audit and Risk Committee Committee Membership Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Independent 74 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Mr Egbert Imomoh Mr Toby Hayward Mr Darra Comyn Mr Peter Bingham Mr John St. John Mr Patrick Obath Ms Sheree Bryant Mr Iain McLaren Name and Title Executive Chairman Interim Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mr Imomoh, a founder of A qualified chartered Mr Comyn was previously Mr Bingham is a Non-Executive Mr St. John was appointed Mr Obath, an East African Ms Bryant is a social Mr McLaren is a chartered Biography accountant, Mr Hayward the Group Finance Director for Director of Afren appointed to the Board of Afren in national, was appointed to entrepreneur with extensive accountant with over 40 years Afren, was previously Managing Director and has held a number of senior ITE Group plc and Expomedia in 2005.
Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Audit and Risk Committee Audit and Risk Committee Nomination Committee Audit and Risk Committee Committee Membership Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Independent Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75
