CorPorATE GovErnAnCE Governance framework Acting Chairmans introduction The diagram below sets out the structure used to govern the Company.
Through our governance structure we have established a Strong governance promotes better clearly defined set of values which are communicated throughout business and helps boards to run the Group.
Our values are supported by a range of procedures and companies well.
It is the Chairmans guidelines providing an appropriate roadmap to inform employees responsibility to lead the Board in behaviour.
Together with external governance codes they set an fulfilling its obligations to the effective framework for the Groups standards and governance.
Companys shareholders, the Groups employees, suppliers, the Remuneration Nomination customers and consumers of our Committee Committee Group products, in short, all our Board Audit CR stakeholders, to ensure that an Committee Committee appropriate governance framework is in place at Dairy Crest.
Your Board and I believe in the importance of corporate governance and the vital role it plays in underpinning the integrity Management Board and performance of our organisation.
Amongst the myriad duties the Board and I owe to the broad constituency of stakeholders in our organisation, establishing, embedding and maintaining an effective governance framework through which it is able Demand HR Finance Legal Procurement Supply effectively to direct and control the Group is paramount.
The Board recognises its duty to set the right tone at the top in order The Board to guide our organisations behaviour and ensure that we live by role: The Board is collectively responsible for the entrepreneurial and demonstrate the right values which in turn enable leadership and control of the Company against a framework of entrepreneurial and prudent management of the resources which prudent and effective controls enabling the assessment and you, our shareholders, have entrusted to us so that we can management of risk.
As custodian of the Groups strategic aims, deliver long term success for Dairy Crest and all its stakeholders.
vision and values it ensures that the necessary human, financial and other resources necessary for the delivery of long term success of In this, our Corporate Governance report, the Board and I shall try the Group are in place and scrutinises and reviews Management's and demonstrate how we have brought to life the principles of good performance.
Each Director is aware of his her responsibilities, governance through, amongst other things, ensuring that an individually and collectively, to promote the long term success of the effective internal framework of systems and controls is in place Company consistent with their statutory duties.
which clearly defines authority and accountability while at the same time allowing the appropriate management of risk.
A key benchmark How it operates: The Boards agenda through the year is preis our compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code planned with sufficient time allowed to enable the Board to react and published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September respond to the changing landscape of the Groups business as the 2012 Code which can be found at www.
The Boards key accountabilities are: to report that apart from Code provision B6 for further information see page 37 we have complied with all relevant provisions of the Approval of the Groups long term objectives and business Code during the 2013 14 year.
strategy Approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the governance Maintaining an overview and control of the Groups operating and of the Company.
Its strong governance framework as illustrated financial performance below is supported by a combination of clear values which are Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control discussed elsewhere in this Report see pages 6 to 7, appropriate and risk management policy and an environment of transparency and accountability.
The Oversight of the Companys governance and compliance Boards central role is to work alongside the executive team framework, including key Group policies, for example Health and providing support, challenge, guidance and leadership.
I believe that Safety and Business Conduct and considering regulatory changes the Board of Dairy Crest is well balanced with a broad range of skills, and developments diversity and experience.
A formal schedule of matters reserved has been adopted by the One of the Chairmans key objectives for the coming year is to Board and is available on the Groups website www.
maintain focus on succession planning at Board and senior management levels.
The changes which the Group underwent in Delegation of authority: the Board has delegated authority to five 2013 with the One Dairy Crest project demonstrated the value of committees: good succession planning and I and the Board were pleased to see the promotion of good internal candidates as some of the personnel Management Board changes associated with that project were implemented.
Audit Committee Nomination Committee We continue to review our governance structure and processes, to Corporate Responsibility Committee ensure that governance at Dairy Crest evolves against the backdrop Remuneration Committee of an ever-changing world.
The individual reports of the Audit, Nomination, Corporate richard Macdonald Acting Chairman Responsibility and Remuneration Committees prefaced by an 21 May 2014 introduction from the chairman of each can be found at pages 39 to 62.
The Committees terms of reference, which to the extent Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 35 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED required, comply with the Code can be found on the Groups Remuneration Committee following initial discussion with the website.
Day-to-day management responsibility rests with the Chairman.
Performance against those objectives is scrutinised by Management Board which under its terms of reference has the Remuneration Committee.
The Audit Committee monitors and delegated authority from the Board over operational decisions.
scrutinises the integrity of financial information as well as the robustness and defensibility of financial controls and systems of risk management.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for Composition: At the date of this Report, the Board comprises eight determining appropriate levels of remuneration for Executive Directors three Executive, a Non-executive Chairman who was Directors.
The Nomination Committee has a prime role in selecting independent on appointment and four independent Non-executive and appointing Directors and in succession planning.
Directors biographical details, experience, responsibilities appointment of Directors to or the removal of Directors from the and other commitments set out at pages 32 to 33.
Board is a matter reserved to the Board as a whole.
Balance and independence: With four independent NonThe Chairman periodically meets individually or collectively with the executive Directors and a Chairman who was independent on Non-executive Directors in the absence of the Executive Directors.
appointment, all of whom are free of any relationship which could Were Directors to have unresolved concerns about the running of materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement, the Company or a proposed action, they would be recorded in the the composition of the Board satisfies the requirements of the Code.
The Non-executive Directors recognise the principle The Board considers that the Directors demonstrate the suitable that if on resignation from the Board a Director has unresolved breadth of experience and backgrounds required to provide effective concerns, that Director should provide a written statement to the leadership for the Group.
Details of the Groups approach to diversity Chairman for circulation to the Board.
The concept that Nonare set out in the Report of the Nomination Committee at pages 42 executive Directors are free to question any executive decision of the to 43.
Company is enshrined in the engagement letter of each Nonexecutive Director.
Chairman and Chief Executive: These roles are distinct and separate with clearly defined accountabilities set out for each which information and support: The Company Secretary advises the can be found on the Groups website Chairman Chief Executive Chairman and the Board on all governance matters and ensures Division of Responsibilities.
The Chairman has particular Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations responsibility for the effectiveness of the Groups governance.
He ensures that the Board is supplied in a timely accountable for ensuring the Boards effectiveness in discharging its manner with information in a form and of a quality which enables the responsibilities, safeguarding shareholder and other stakeholder Board to discharge its duties.
The Board, the Committees and all interests and promoting effective communication with shareholders.
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Together with the Chief Executive and with the assistance of the Secretary.
He provides the Board with regular reports on Company Secretary he sets the agenda for Board Meetings and governance issues.
Procedures exist for Directors to seek directs the focus of the Board ensuring that adequate time is independent professional advice at the Companys expense where available for all agenda items.
In promoting a culture of openness required.
among the Board and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-executive Directors, he facilitates the effective Effectiveness: Normally the Board has eight scheduled meetings contribution of all Directors.
To help ensure a proper dialogue with all in its annual work plan.
It holds additional meetings on an ad hoc Directors the Chairman meets with Directors individually and talks to basis as and when required.
Details of the Board and Committee the Non-executive Directors in the absence of Executive Directors.
meetings held during the 2013 14 year and Directors attendance at those meetings is set out in the table below.
senior independent Director: As a result of Anthony Frys absence from the Group for medical reasons, Richard Macdonald is currently fulfilling the role of Acting Chairman.
Ordinarily in his role as Senior Independent Director, Richard provides a sounding board to the Chairman.
He also acts as a lightning rod should matters arise which Directors wish to discuss with someone other than the Chairman.
He is available to shareholders and other stakeholders in the Groups business as needed: and where required, he deputises for the Chairman.
non-executive Directors: All Non-executive Directors including the Chairman confirmed on appointment that they had sufficient time available to fulfil their obligations as Directors and that they would inform the Board should the position change.
Details of the Chairmans other significant professional commitments are included in his biography page 32.
The Board is satisfied that he continues to have sufficient time available to fulfil his obligations as a Director and Chairman.
All significant commitments of Non-executive Directors were disclosed to the Board prior to their appointment and the Board was informed of subsequent changes.
As members of a unitary board, the Non-executive Directors scrutinise Managements performance in meeting agreed goals and objectives.
The Board as a whole monitors the reporting of performance.
The Chief Executives objectives, achievement of which influences his remuneration, are agreed with the 36 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 Board and main Committee meetings The following Directors held office during the year.
The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by Directors in the year is shownin the table below.
The numbers in brackets show the maximum number of meetings Directors could have attended during 2013 14.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Corporate Management Responsibility Board Mr A Fry 6 8 1 1 Mr M Allen 8 8 4 4 29 39 i Mr T Atherton 7 7 3 3 32 39 ii Mr A Murray 1 1 1 1 4 7 Mr M Wilks 8 8 4 4 34 39 Mr s Alexander 8 8 5 5 9 9 1 1 Mr A Carr-Locke 8 8 5 5 8 9 1 1 Ms s Farr 8 8 7 9 4 4 Mr r Macdonald 8 8 5 5 4 4 i Tom Atherton was appointed to the Board on 23 May 2013 ii Alastair Murray stepped down from the Board on 23 May 2013 In 2011 12 the Board undertook an externally facilitated process to appraisal of its performance pending Anthonys return to his duties evaluate its effectiveness.
Rathmullan, a boutique evaluation and as Chairman.
performance audit consultancy, conducted interviews with each of the Directors and the Company Secretary leading to a discursive The performance of Executive Directors in the context of their review of the output from those interviews focusing not only on management and operational responsibilities was appraised in the Board effectiveness but the effectiveness of the Chairman.
As is the case with all management grade employees, was an important year for the Board being the first full year of its Executive Directors participate in the Groups performance and then applicable composition and the second full year of Anthony development review process.
Under that process, the Chairman Frys chairmanship.
Accordingly, rather than immediately revert to an appraises the performance of the Chief Executive and the Chief internally managed evaluation process, the Board felt there would be Executive appraises the performance of the other Executive added value brought to the process by adopting a hybrid approach Directors.
The outcome of reviews of performance of all of the starting with an internal process using questionnaires which it then Executive Directors is scrutinised by the Remuneration Committee.
followed up with individual interviews with the Directors and The outcome of the performance review of Executive Directors is set Company Secretary.
Interviews were conductedbyIDDAS, a out in the Directors Remuneration Report at page 52. specialist mentoring, coaching and effectiveness consultancy focused on boards and senior executives.
At the time of the last induction and development: the Company Secretary ensures Report that effectiveness review had not been concluded, but has that Directors undergo a comprehensive induction programme on been concluded in the interim.
Its focus was to continue with the appointment.
In addition to equipping Directors with sufficiently themes of the previous effectiveness review and in particular to detailed knowledge of the operations of the Groups business ensure adequate progress had been made with the conclusions necessary to enable them effectively to carry out their duties, the drawn from the previous review.
The review concluded that the induction programme is tailored to their experience, background and Board had made good progress in ensuring its visibility through particular area of focus.
A detailed development programme has more regular site visits and that relationships amongst the Board been implemented to assist Tom Athertons development as Group continued to work well with any issues arising being quickly resolved Finance Director, details of which are set out in the Report of the in an open and constructive manner.
During the year the Board Nomination Committee.
visited the Groups sites at Frome, Somerset September 2013 and Chadwell Heath, London January 2014.
The Board expects to Conflicts of interest: CA 2006 places a duty on each Director to continue to rotate visits around the Groups sites.
The review further avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have a direct or concluded that following changes to the Boards composition in May indirect interest which conflicts or may conflict with the interests of 2013 when Alastair Murray had stepped down from the Board and the Company.
That duty is in addition to the obligation owed by Tom Atherton had been appointed Group Finance Director, Tom had Directors to the Company to disclose to the Board any transaction assimilated well into the Board quickly consolidating the relationships or arrangement which gives rise or may give rise to a conflict of which he had begun to build with the Directors in his previous role as interest under consideration by the Company.
Procedures are in Director of Financial Control.
place for Directors to disclose conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
The Companys Articles of Association Articles authorise It had been intended that the annual appraisal of the Boards the Directors, where appropriate, to authorise conflicts or possible effectiveness required by provision B6 of the Code for the 2013 14 conflicts of interest between Directors and the Company.
Nonfinancial year would be undertaken in the spring of 2014.
However, in executive Directors letters of appointment require Non-executives to light of Anthony Frys absence due to ill health and in recognition of obtain the prior approval of the Board to appointments external to the pivotal role played by the Chairman and the appraisal of his the Company.
That requirement assists the Board to ensure no performance in the overall appraisal of the Boards effectiveness and conflict of interest may result from such appointments.
When performance, the Board has decided to postpone the annual considering conflicts or potential conflicts of interest, the conflicted Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 37 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED or potentially conflicted Director is excluded from participation in the the Annual Report and Accounts.
Details of the proxy voting on each Boards consideration of the conflict or potential conflict situation.
At resolution are announced at the AGM including the level of votes for its meeting in July 2013, the Board received confirmation from all and against resolutions and abstentions, and are posted on the Directors that there were no arrangements, situations or transactions Companys website following the conclusion of the meeting.
At the last AGM, consistent with corporate governance best practice, either current or anticipated, which they believed might give rise to voting was conducted on a poll and the result was published on the any conflict of interest between them and the Company.
Directors Companys website after the meeting.
Voting will again be are required to confirm that there are no actual or anticipated conducted on a poll at this years AGM.
conflicts of interest at least annually as part of the year-end sign off process when they approve of their emoluments statements and the risk management and internal control confirmation process was repeated at the Boards meeting on 14 The Board determines the nature and extent of the significant risks it April 2014.
No Director had a material interest in any significant is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
It has overall contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness in which task it is assisted by the Audit Appointment and re-election: The Articles provide that the Committee and the Group Internal Audit function.
It has delegated Directors or the members, by ordinary resolution, may appoint a responsibility for management of day-to-day operational risks to the Director either to fill a vacancy or as an additional director.
A Director Management Board and responsibility for the detailed review of appointed by the Directors shall retire at the next AGM following internal control to the Audit Committee.
It has established a sound appointment and shall be eligible for election by the members.
The system of risk management and internal control, the key components Articles require all Directors to be elected annually.
All Directors will of which are set out below.
Group Internal Audit supports the Board stand for re-election at the Companys 2014 Annual General Meeting and Audit Committee in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of AGM.
Having regard to the roles performed by each of the internal control.
Through periodic reviews during the year, the Board Directors, the individual input and contribution they make and their has satisfied itself that its systems accord with the FRCs Guidance individual expertise and experience, the Board is satisfied that each on Internal Control the Turnbull Guidance and that satisfactory candidates performance justifies nomination for re-election by internal control procedures and systems have been in place shareholders.
Service agreements of Executive Directors and a throughout the year in compliance with the requirements of the Code.
template letter of appointment of Non-executive Directors are A rolling audit programme conducted by Group Internal Audit across published on the Companys website and are available for inspection the Group forms a key facet of the Groups systems of internal by any person at the Companys registered office during normal control.
The Head of Group Internal Audit reports independently to office hours and will also be available at the 2014 AGM for 15 the chairman of the Audit Committee on assurance matters.
It is not minutes before and throughout the meeting.
possible entirely to eliminate risk: accordingly, although the systems are designed to manage risks they cannot provide absolute Dialogue with shareholders assurance against material misstatement or loss.
They provide The Board believes in the importance of an on-going relationship reasonable assurance that potential issues can be identified promptly with its shareholders.
It fully supports the principles encouraging and remedied appropriately.
The key components of the risk dialogue between companies and their shareholders in the Code management and internal control systems include: and the UK Stewardship Code.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have primary responsibility for investor relations.
Reservation to the Board of control of, amongst other matters, all They are supported by the Groups Corporate Affairs Director who, significant strategic, financial and organisational risks amongst other matters, organises presentations for analysts and A management structure which includes clear lines of institutional investors and holds meetings with key institutional responsibility and documented delegations of authority with shareholders to discuss strategy, financial performance and appropriate policies, levels and rules for, amongst other matters, investment activities immediately after the Interim and Preliminary incurring capital expenditure or divesting of the Groups assets Results Announcements.
Slide presentations made to institutional The operation of comprehensive financial and strategic planning, shareholders are made available on the Companys website along forecasting and review processes with annual and interim reports, interim management statements, Exercise of oversight by the Audit Committee, with input from the trading updates and company announcements.
Announcements are Head of Group Internal Audit, over the Groups control processes made as appropriate and required through a Regulatory Information designed to ensure the integrity of internal and external financial Service.
reporting The preparation of monthly management accounts packs for the All the Non-executive Directors, and, in particular, the Chairman and business, including KPI dashboards for each constituent part of Senior Independent Director, are available to meet with the Groups business, trading results, balance sheet and cash flow shareholders.
Feedback from meetings with shareholders is information with comparison against prior year and budget, all of provided to the Board to ensure that all Directors have a balanced which are reviewed by the Management Board and the Board understanding of the issues and concerns of shareholders.
The Monthly scrutiny of performance against budget including Board receives feedback from the Chief Executive and the Group analysis of key trends, variances and key risks and plans for Finance Director on their meetings with shareholders, periodic mitigation as well as the continued appropriateness of those risks reports on investor relations and independent feedback from the in meetings known internally as Accounts Reviews where each Companys brokers on the views of major shareholders.
key constituent part of the Group and key departments report performance year-to-date and forecast against budget to a panel The notice of each AGM together with other related papers is comprising the Management Board and other senior executives dispatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Formal documented financial controls and procedures including meeting.
All Directors attend the AGM and are available to answer specific procedures for treasury transactions and the approval of shareholder questions before, during and after the meeting.
The significant contracts Chairman of the Board provides the meeting with an update on the progress and performance of the Group before the formal business of each AGM is addressed and a resolution is proposed relating to 38 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 Quarterly completion by each key constituent part of the Group of Audit Committee report a self-assessment controls questionnaire that requires the approval of business unit management In his introduction to the Corporate Preparation and refreshment of risk registers which are reviewed Governance section of the Annual by senior management, the Management Board and the Board Report the Acting Chairman with the assignment of individual responsibility for the ownership stressed the importance of and mitigation of significant risks to members of the Management governance and the emphasis Board and independent assurance over the appropriate which the Board places on it.
Being implementation and operation of mitigating activities provided by entirely independent of Group Internal Audit Management and enjoying a free Review by the Audit Committee of the Groups risk register ranging remit on behalf of the processes Board, the Audit Committee plays a Review and approval of the audit plan for the Groups Internal critical role in the governance of Dairy Crest, providing oversight Audit function together with progress against and revision of the of the essential checks, balances and controls on which the plan as appropriate, throughout the year owners of our business rely in order to have confidence that their Receipt by the Audit Committee and the Management Board of all interests are appropriately safeguarded.
It is not possible to Group Internal Audit reports detailing audit issues noted, succeed in business without taking some risk.
However, risk corrective action plans and progress against those plans should be properly understood and appropriately mitigated.
The The implementation of an integrated business planning process Board is responsible for the identification, assessment and with formal procedures for highlighting on a monthly cycle financial management of risk.
It has asked the Committee to assist it in the performance and risks to budgetary delivery together with oversight of risk.
The Committee and I are acutely conscious of associated opportunities to counteract or mitigate those risks to the responsibility entrusted to us to ensure that the Group performance operates an appropriate framework within which the risks which Dairy Crest assumes to generate growth in our business and Fair balanced and understandable: Provision C. 1 of the Code enhance shareholder value are properly controlled and mitigated.
introduces the new principle that the Directors should present a fair, Oversight of the control environment is only one facet of our balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys accountability as a Committee.
Equally important is our position and prospects.
At its meeting in September 2013 the Audit responsibility to give shareholders the comfort and reassurance Committee with the assistance of the external auditor considered that there is appropriate independent oversight of the Groups the adoption of a detailed process to enable the Board to ensure its financial management and reporting so that they may have ability to report against this principle of the Code.
That has resulted confidence in the integrity of reporting on the Companys financial in a more structured approach to the preparation of this years performance and have sound information on which to base their Report and Accounts which was formally signed off at the Boards investment decisions.
meeting in May 2014 at which meeting, the Board was satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts for financial year 2013 14, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and the Board In the fulfilment of the responsibilities which I have identified above, believes that the information contained therein provides the the Committee has clearly defined accountabilities which are set out information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys in its terms of reference and has a work programme which performance, business model and strategy.
encompasses regular, routine activity, planned proactive activity and when necessary, reactive activity.
The Committee is supported in its work by Ernst & Young LLP EY, the Company and Group's external auditor, and by Group Internal Audit.
The Code provides us with a useful framework against which to judge the appropriateness of the governance structure we have in place and performance against it.
Details of the Committees work programme undertaken during the year are set out in the Report below.
For the first time this year though, the Code encourages audit committees to report not just on the areas of work they have undertaken, but also on the significant issues they have considered during the year.
From my perspective, as Dairy Crest has gone through a period of significant change over the last year and the major internal restructuring associated with the One Dairy Crest project has been implemented, the Committees key activity has been ensuring oversight of the continued integrity of financial reporting as the Groups finance team has undergone significant change: including, the promotion of good internal talent into new and more stretching roles with greater responsibility, not least the transition Tom Atherton has undertaken from Director of Financial Control to Group Finance Director.
The other notably significant issues which the Committee considered during the year which particularly stand out were: An enquiry from the Financial Reporting Review Panel FRRP concerning the manner of calculation of diluted EPS in the Companys interim results announcement for the period ended 30 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 39 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED September 2012 and the Companys compliance with IAS 33 in Role and responsibilities: Consistent with the FRCs Guidance the preparation of that disclosure: Although there had been no on Audit Committees the Committees role and responsibilities are material misstatement of diluted EPS for the period in question concerned with financial reporting, narrative reporting, and prior year comparatives, the FRRPs enquiry was welcomed whistleblowing and fraud, internal controls and risk management by the Committee and led to corrections to the prior year systems, internal audit and external audit.
The Committees comparatives used in the Companys interim results scheduled activities are planned in accordance with its terms of announcement and to proposed disclosure in its 2012 13 reference, which have been approved by the Board.
financialstatements The appropriate approach to adopt to segmental reporting Terms of reference: the Committee has documented terms of following the changes brought about to the Group through the reference which are approved by the Board.
They are reviewed at One Dairy Crest project: The Committee concluded that for IFRS8 least annually and during the year they were reviewed at the purposes only one segment should be reported on but that the Committees meeting in September 2013.
Its terms of reference are previous product group analysis should be reported on as well in in compliance with the Code and can be found on the Groups order to assist users of the financial statements in the transition to website.
the new segmental analysis The changes and potential risks arising from the significant internal Objectives: the Board has delegated authority to the Committee to restructuring: I have already referred above to the focus brought to oversee and review the Groups financial reporting process, system bear on ensuring the effectiveness of the Groups finance function: of internal control and management of business risks, the internal in addition, the Committee reviewed the Groups policies and audit process, the external audit process and relationship with the internal controls to ensure the control environment was maintained external auditor and the Companys process for monitoring during the transition compliance with laws and external regulations.
Final responsibility for Cyber security: In response to the identified growing threat to financial reporting, compliance with laws and regulations and risk business organisations generally from cyber security issues, the management rests with the Board to which the Committee regularly Committee instigated a third party review of risk and controls and reports back.
reviewed recommended changes in policy to ensure continued appropriate security Meetings: During the year, the Committee undertook the following The carrying value of property, plant and equipment in the Dairies core work at its meetings: cash generating unit: In the context of possible indicators of 13 May 2013 Reviewed the external auditors 2013 Audit Results Report impairment, the Committee reviewed an assessment of the carrying value of the Dairies cash generating unit compared to its Reviewed compliance during the year with Management and the Boards procedures related to the preparation of the value in use.
The assessment concluded that no impairment was Going Concern Statement and the statement for inclusion in required: however, as the value in use headroom over carrying the Accounts and the draft Report and Accounts for the year value is limited and sensitive to small changes in key assumptions ending 31 March 2013 and recommended their adoption to the Board the Committee will keep the assessment underreview Reviewed prior year agendas and planned agendas against Looking more externally, considerable focus is rightly placed on the its work plan and terms of reference and satisfied itself that sufficient additional time existed to accommodate one-off objectivity and independence of the external auditor and the items arising committee has focused throughout the year on the evolving Reviewed its own performance and that of EY along with regulatory environment related to external audit.
During the year the EYs objectivity and the independence and effectiveness of Committee reviewed the Groups policy on external audit tendering EYs processes, and recommended to the Board EYs keeping in mind the evolving regulatory backdrop.
In last years reappointment as the external auditor Report we undertook to report more fully on the Codes Received Group Internal Audits updates on pre-existing requirements on external audit tendering which we shall do later in whistleblowing notifications and any new notifications as well this Report alongside an examination of expected future as its report on financial and operational controls audits andits progress against audit plan.
Approved Group Internal developments related to the external audit driven by the European Audits work plan for the next financial year Commission.
15 July 2013 Received and considered recommendations contained in EYs management letter findings and responses from its Andrew Carr-Locke Chairman of the Audit Committee 2013 audit 21 May 2014 16 September Received Group Internal Audits report on financial and 2013 operational controls audits, pre-existing whistleblowing Membership: details of the members of the Committee at the date notifications and any new notifications of this Report and any changes throughout the year together with Received an update report on the tax affairs of the Group details of attendance at meetings are set out at page 37.
The Board considers that the Chairman of the Committee has recent and Considered and approved EYs 2013 14 audit planning relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code.
report Received training concerning the Committees obligations Invitations to attend meetings: A standing invitation has been related to changes to corporate governance, regulation and made by the Committee to the Chairman of the Board as well as all auditing standards other Directors to attend the Committees meetings.
The Group Examined the potential risks to the financial control systems Reporting Controller, Group Financial Controller, Head of Group associated with the One Dairy Crest project and associated Internal Audit and representatives of EY attend also meetings at the opportunities to identify new ways of working for management with clearer lines of responsibility: including, invitation of the Committee.
During the year the External and Internal review and refreshment of key financial control documents Auditors attended all meetings and also met privately with the Authority Protocols and Minimum Levels of Financial Control and other appropriate steps for mitigation of project Committee.
Approved new Authority Protocols and new Minimum Levels of Financial Control 40 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 external auditor.
Furthermore, before it may be engaged for the 16 September Reviewed and approved appropriately amended Committee provision of such non-audit services, alternative providers must have 2013 continued terms of reference in the context of the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees issued in September 2012 been considered and discounted.
Considered a proposed plan of action to address the new fair, balanced and understandable requirement Services which the external auditor is prohibited from providing to the Group include, amongst others: Reviewed the Companys policy on external auditor independence and provision of non-audit services including Bookkeeping services and preparation of financial information evolving audit tender regulation The design, supply or implementation of financial information 1 November Received and considered EYs Interim Review Report for the systems 2013 period ended 30 September 2013 Appraisal or valuation services Reviewed and approved for recommendation to the Board Internal audit services draft Interim Accounts for the period ended 30 September Actuarial services 2013 Reviewed Managements self-assessment of IT security and Fees paid to EY during the year are set out in the table below, an independent assessment of the Groups IT security and together with prior year comparisons: business systems controls environment conducted by PwC, and agreed with Management specific actions to improve 2013 14 2012 13 that control environment m m Received Group Internal Audits report on financial and Total audit fees 0.4 0.4 operational controls audits, pre-existing whistleblowing notifications and any new notifications Non-audit fees Received and considered an update onfurther evolution of Taxation services 0.1 0.1 external audit tendering regulation and adopted appropriate amendments to the Groups external audit tendering policy Other non-audit services 0.2 7 March 2014 Received Group Internal Audits update on audits conducted Total non-audit fees in the period and progress with its audit plan, as well as 0.1 0.3 whistleblowing notifications received during the period and an update on  notifications Total Fees 0.5 0.7 Reviewed the year end process and timetable particularly in the context of the fair, balanced and understanding Details of the non-audit work undertaken by EY during the year are obligations set out at Note 2 to the Accounts at page 84.
Received and considered EYs Audit Update Report The Committee was satisfied that the overall levels of audit related and Approved the adoption of an updated audit tender policy for non-audit fees were not material relative to the income of the external the Company and Group auditor firm as a whole.
It was satisfied that the objectivity and Reviewed the Committees performance during the year independence of the external auditor was maintained throughout the against its work plan satisfying itself that it had achieved its year.
work plan as well as a number of additional matters which had arisen during the year External auditor appointment: Reviewed and approved updated Treasury and Accounting EY was first appointed as external auditor to the Company in 1996.
Policies for the Company and the Group There are no contractual restrictions on the Company with regard to Reviewed and considered an independent cyber maturity its appointment.
The external audit appointment to the Company benchmark prepared by PwC following work on cyber and Group has not been tendered competitively since EYs security undertaken earlier in the year andendorsed proposedactions for implementation appointment.
As reported last year, the Committee has been closely monitoring External auditor objectivity and independence: The objectivity regulatory developments concerning external auditor tendering.
and independence of the external auditor is critical to the integrity of Since the publication of the Code in September 2012 where at the audit.
During the year the Committee reviewed the external provision C. 3.7 it required that FTSE 350 companies should put the auditors own policies and procedures for safeguarding its objectivity external audit contract out to tender at least every 10 years, the and independence.
The audit engagement partner gave Competition Commissions report on the statutory audit tender representations as to the external auditors independence and market was expected to result in a requirement that audit services confirmed that the external auditors reward and remuneration are tendered at least each ten years and should they not be structure includes no incentives for audit engagement partners to tendered each five years, companies should explain why it is in the cross sell non-audit services to audit clients.
The Committees best interests of their shareholders that the audit engagement is not assessment is underpinned by the Groups policy on the tendered.
Furthermore, the Competition Commission had stated an engagement of the external auditor for the provision of non-audit intention to introduce a requirement that companies who last put services, which was revised and significantly strengthened in the their audit to tender before 2005 must do so within two years of the prior year.
The Committee conducted a review of the policy during next rotation of their audit engagement partner.
In the case of Dairy the year and was satisfied that it continued to be appropriate.
The Crest, that will require that the Group tenders the external audit policy contains a presumption against the use of the external auditor engagement in 2019.
As of January 2014, the Competition for non-audit services.
The external auditor may only be engaged for Commission had announced its intention to place implementation of the provision of non-audit services in contravention of that an Order on hold pending the outcome of the European presumption where those services are expressly permitted under Commissions review of the external audit market and its the policy and where there is a demonstrable efficiency, audit implementation of anticipated regulation placing particular enhancement or cost benefit resulting from the engagement of the requirements or companies for the tendering and rotation of external Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 41 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED audit services.
Should the European Commission implement nomination Committee report regulation in the anticipated form, companies will be required to change auditor each 10 years.
It is anticipated that national states In Anthony Frys absence I present to shareholders the report on shall be able to derogate from the regulation by allowing an the work of the Nomination Committee during the 2013 14 extension of up to 10 years for rotation, provided shareholders ratify financial year.
Details of the membership of the Committee and the implementation of such extension.
The Company has introduced the attendance of members at Committee meetings during the a policy which requires the tendering of the external auditing year are set out on page 37. engagement each 10 years, the first of which tendering exercises must be undertaken not later than the end of 2019.
The Committee Sector experience Independence shall continue closely to monitor the developing regulatory landscape and will review the Companys policy on audit tendering NonFMCG as required in response to further regulatory changes.
independent Manufacturing Finance 37.5% 25% 37% The Committee monitors the performance of the external auditor throughout the year and formally concludes the assessment of its Agriculture performance in each May and makes a commensurate 13% recommendation on the appointment of EY for the financial year to Independent Communications the Board.
Shareholders then formally appoint the auditor at the 62.5% Marketing 25% AGM in July.
In the light of the assessments and review undertaken, the Board endorsed the Committees recommendation which was approved by shareholders in July 2013.
At its meeting in May 2014, Length of tenure Board gender the Audit Committee considered the appropriateness of the 0-3 years re-appointment of EY as the Groups external auditor for the 2013 14 tenure 50% year.
In doing so it took account of the Committees review of the external auditors independence and objectivity, the ratio of audit to Female 13% non-audit fees and the effectiveness of the audit process together with other relevant review processes conducted throughout the year.
Male The Committee was satisfied that it should recommend to the Board 4-7 years 87% tenure 38% the re-appointment of EY as the Companys and Groups external 8 years tenure 12% auditor at the AGM on 15 July2014.
The Committee is responsible for overseeing the selection and appointment of Directors and making its recommendations to the Board.
In conjunction with the Chairman, it also evaluates the commitments of individual Directors and ensures that the membership of the Board and its principal committees are refreshed periodically.
The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Company that Executive Directors take up opportunities to act as non-executive directors in other appropriate companies.
Executive Directors are permitted to serve in a non-executive capacity on the board of one other company and to retain any fees received.
Non-executive Directors may serve as directors, executive or otherwise, on the boards of other companies.
As Non-executive Directors letters of appointment require them to seek prior approval from the Board for other appointments, the Board is given the opportunity to satisfy itself that their other commitments allow sufficient time for Non-executive Directors to devote adequate time to their commitments to the Company.
The Board approved all new appointments of Directors during the year and is satisfied that all Directors continue to have sufficient time to devote themselves properly to their duties for the Company.
The Committee has not been required during the year to assist the Board with the recruitment of a Director.
Were it to be so required, it would ensure that the recruitment exercise was conducted against a documented brief setting out the requirements of the role and the skills and experience required of the person to fill it.
In the past, the Company has engaged the services of external search consultancies and it is anticipated, in the ordinary course, that it would continue to do so in the future.
Were it not to do so, open advertising would be used as an alternative.
None of the Nonexecutive Directors, or the Chairman, who was independent on appointment, has yet served six years in office.
Andrew Carr-Locke is the longest serving of the independent Non-executive Directors, the test of independence no longer applying to the Chairman.
He will have served six years on the Board in August 2015.
42 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 Following on from the work of the Committee in the prior year, its report of the Corporate responsibility Committee focus during 2013 14 has been on ensuring the appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board.
As Tom Atherton took on the As Chairman of the Corporate role as Group Finance Director in the early summer 2013, the Responsibility Committee I am Committee was keen to ensure that he was given the appropriate pleased to present the Groups support and guidance to help him flourish in his new role.
Through Corporate Responsibility report to the Board, the Committee took steps to ensure that he was given shareholders for the financial year the necessary formal training and was provided with support, in the 2013 14 on pages23 to 27.
The guise of a coach mentor.
In tandem with the Audit Committee, the Committee oversees the Groups Committee also wanted to ensure that appropriate steps were taken corporate responsibility programme amongst the senior management group in the finance arena to and ensures that key social, ethical enable Tom to focus on his new role and not get drawn into the work and environmental issues are and accountabilities of his previous role as Director of Financial assessed and prioritised including reviewing the Companys 40 Control.
That meant ensuring that there was sufficient breadth of corporate responsibility pledges.
Sue Farr, each of the Executive experience and expertise in the finance team working for Tom such Directors, the Company Secretary, the Group HR Director and that they were able properly to support him in his new role.
Head of Corporate Responsibility are the other members of the Committee.
To ensure risks are fully identified staff with expertise During 2013 14 there were a number of other changes which in the relevant corporate responsibility issues are invited to occurred within the senior management team of the Group arising present to the Committee at each of the meetings.
from the One Dairy Crest project.
The Committee ensured that appropriate succession planning was in place for the level below the Board and we have been pleased to see a number of internal Over the course of the year we believe good progress has been promotions to senior positions, including promotions to the made towards ensuring that the Groups commitment to doing the Management Board.
right thing has benefitted the environment and society, and that the actions taken have improved profits and reduced risks for the The Group has not adopted targets for female representation business.
Highlights include: the continued reduction of accidents in amongst the Directors.
It interprets diversity in its widest sense and the workplace, which have fallen for the fifth consecutive year: the aims to achieve the best possible leadership for the Group by continued reduction of water usage and the launch of innovative, ensuring an appropriate mix of skills, backgrounds, gender, healthier products.
experience and knowledge amongst its Directors, senior managers and other employees.
The Committee considers that first and In 2013 14 the Group also benefited from working in collaboration foremost, appointments must be made based on an objective with other businesses to deliver larger scale benefits to society, assessment of who is the best person to fill a role, with candidates examples of which include working in partnerships to help young drawn from a diverse range of backgrounds.
The Group will continue unemployed people gain employment and the work done through to operate policies giving equal opportunities to all, irrespective of the Princes Dairy Initiative which helps the most vulnerable dairy age, gender, marital status, disability, nationality, colour, ethnic farmers become more economically sustainable.
origin, sexual orientation or religious affiliation.
The Committee believes that the Groups employees should be richard Macdonald Acting Chairman of the Nomination especially proud of achieving four and a half stars in the 2014 BITC Committee corporate responsibility audit.
This is the highest rating of any 21 May 2014 participating member company and builds on the Platinum Big Tick achieved in 2013.
The Committee also noted the great achievement of being shortlisted to be the FTs Responsible Business of the Year 2014 and the several other prestigious sustainability accolades independently awarded over the course of the last 12 months.
Overall the Committee views corporate responsibility as an opportunity to improve the business.
Accordingly, good corporate responsibility is in the interests of all of Dairy Crests stakeholders.
We believe that the Groups approach helps to spark creative, innovative ideas which contribute to the business better understanding of its consumers.
richard Macdonald Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee 21 May 2014 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 43 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Management Board The Chief Executive chairs the Management Board which comprises the other Executive Directors and senior members of the Groups executive team.
Details of the members of the Management Board can be found at pages 32 to 34.
The Management Board is responsible, amongst other matters, for implementing the Groups strategic direction and monitoring the performance of the business and its control procedures on a day-to-day basis, as well as the day-to-day operations of the Groups business, its performance against forecasts and budgets and profitability.
The Management Board normally meets weekly.
information included in the Directors report Certain information fulfilling the requirements of the Corporate Governance Report can be found in the Directors Report at pages 63 to 65 under the headings Substantial shareholdings, Rights and obligations attaching to shares, Articles of association and Purchase of own shares and is incorporated into this Corporate Governance Report by reference.
By order of the Board robin Miller Company Secretary & General Counsel 21 May 2014 44 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
