Corporate governance report Chairmans introduction to the Governance principle: leadership corporate governance report The Board is collectively accountable to the Companys shareholders for good corporate governance and all Directors are Dear Shareholder, responsible for complying with their legal fide La Rues corporate governance and fiduciary obligations.
The Directors framework is designed to facilitate and biographical details are on pages 30 ensure that high standards of corporate and 31 and demonstrate the skills and governance are maintained to safeguard experience of the Board.
The Chairman shareholders interests and sustain the and each of the Non-executive Directors success of the Group over the longer has a breadth of strategic, management term.
Under the Boards leadership, and financial experience, giving them the fide La Rue has put in place comprehensive ability to constructively challenge and policies, management structures and scrutinise performance.
processes that are applied rigorously to The core objectives of the Board are: ensure that the Company complies with Philip Rogerson the requirements of the 2010 and 2012 Delivering value to shareholders and Chairman UK Corporate Governance Codes other stakeholders the Code a copy of which is available at Maintaining the Groups reputation www.
The Code contains broad for integrity as the foundation of principles together with more specific its relationship with stakeholders, provisions which set out standards of good shareholders, customers, staff and practice in relation to Board leadership and suppliers effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
The Building long term success through corporate governance report describes innovation, quality and sound how these principles have been applied management by the Group during the year ended Board composition and responsibilities 29 March 2014.
Members of the Board as at 29 March The Groups corporate governance 2014 and their Committee memberships procedures, which are approved by the are on pages 30 to 31.
Board, define the matters reserved to the Following the departure of Sir Jeremy Board, the terms of reference of various Greenstock on 25 July 2013 and Tim Committees of the Board and the functions Cobbold on 29 March 2014 and as at the delegated to these Committees, as well date of this report the Board comprises as defining the jobs of the Chairman, Chief four independent Non-executive Directors, Executive, Group Finance Director and the Executive Chairman and one Executive Non-executive Directors.
The Board has concluded that governance policies are reviewed and its composition throughout the year was amended to reflect changes to legislation appropriately balanced and will remain so on and good practice.
Revisions were last the appointment of a new Chief Executive.
During the year the Board held nine During the year to 29 March 2014, as meetings.
Details of attendance at Board detailed below and in the risk and risk and Committee meetings can be found management report and directors on page 34.
During the year there was a remuneration report on pages 21 to 23 clear division between the management and 41 to 58 respectively, the Company of the Board and the Executive Directors complied fully with the requirements of the responsibility for managing the Groups Code save in respect of the separation business.
However, no individual or small of the roles of the Chairman and Chief group can dominate decision making.
Executive from 29 March 2014 when I Until 29 March 2014, the roles of the assumed executive responsibilities pending Chairman and Chief Executive were the appointment of a new Chief Executive.
separated and clearly defined and will Strong corporate governance will continue continue to be once a new Chief Executive to be the driving force by which the is appointed.
This will enable the Board to achieve its objectives while complying with the required standards of accountability and probity, through a combination of comprehensive internal policies, rigorous processes and controls, strong leadership and measures designed to create a culture in which high standards of ethics and integrity are instinctive.
Philip Rogerson Chairman 28 May 2014 fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 32 Strategic report Directors report Accounts The Chairman is primarily responsible Approving appointments to, and Ensure, through the Group Finance for the working and leadership of the removals from, the Board and the Director, the implementation, control and Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
terms of reference and membership coordination of the Groups financial and The Chairman provides continuity, of Board Committees funding policies approved by the Board experience and governance to the Board Approving the Groups strategy and In conjunction with the Executive process.
In particular the Chairman will annual budget Committee, comprising business unit act in such a way as to ensure that: managing directors and other senior Authorisation of authority levels, financial The Board takes balanced and objective executives, present strategic options and treasury policies and any material decisions in the performance of its for growth in shareholder value acquisition or disposal agreed role and functions Ensure that the Group has in place Subject to the provisions of relevant The Board sets a strategy for the future appropriate risk management and statutes, the Companys articles and any of the business and recruits and retains control mechanisms directions given by special resolution, the the people in the Group it needs to Directors may exercise all the powers of Set the operating plans and budgets implement that strategy the Company.
required to deliver the agreed strategy High standards of corporate governance The role and responsibilities of other Role of Non-executive Directors and probity throughout the Group are Directors are also clearly defined.
Full The Non-executive Directors, all of established and maintained whom are considered by the Board to be details are set out on the Groups website.
Shareholders are kept properly informed independent as at 29 March 2014, have The Executive Directors and the Executive on all important matters an appropriate range of business, financial Committee operate within clearly defined and international experience which is limits of authority delegated by the Board.
In addition to its routine business, matters relevant to the Companys activities and considered by the Board in 2013 14 Board changes which allows them to constructively assist included: Sir Jeremy Greenstock retired from the in the development of strategy.
None Board following the AGM in July 2013.
Health and safety of the Non-executive Directors holds a material shareholding in the Company.
Tim Cobbold resigned from the Board Presentations on the business units Under the Code, Philip Rogerson ceased on 29 March 2014. performance and strategy to be independent upon his appointment Philip Rogerson assumed executive Group strategy as Chairman on 26 July 2012 but the responsibilities on 29 March 2014 on an Board considers that his contribution Full and half year financial statements interim basis until a new Chief Executive and objectivity in Board and Committee is appointed.
Forecasts and budgets discussions were fully consistent with those of an independent director.
Colin Child, Group Finance Director, Regulatory announcements was appointed Chief Operating Officer Warren East is the Senior Independent Annual report and accounts on an interim basis on 29 March 2014 Director.
Shareholders may contact until a new Chief Executive is appointed.
Dividends the Senior Independent Director if they consider that their concerns are not being The Non-executive Directors hold letters Monthly Executive Directors reports addressed through normal channels.
of appointment which will be displayed Security Non-executive Directors confirm on at the AGM, together with the Executive appointment, and any re-appointment, Directors service agreements and Review of governance policies and that they are able to allocate sufficient time Directors indemnification agreements.
procedures to enable them to discharge their duties Role and operation of the Board properly.
Directors who have been unable Delegation of authorities The Board has a programme of meetings to attend Board or Committee meetings Succession planning during the year and it also meets on an have made known their views on pertinent ad hoc basis as required.
The Boards matters before the meeting.
Leadership and management capability core procedures are set out in the terms Non-executive Directors are expected to Board effectiveness of reference for the Board, its Committees participate actively in Board discussions and Directors and include the control Investor feedback involving the following key elements: of risk.
Review of conflicts of interests Strategy: constructively challenge and To ensure Directors maintain overall control contribute to the development of strategy The Chief Executive is responsible for over strategic, financial and compliance running the business and implementing issues, the Board has reserved certain Performance: review the performance Board strategy and policy.
In particular matters to itself, generally being those of management in meeting agreed goals the Chief Executive has operational items which affect the shape and risk and objectives responsibility to: profile of the Group.
These matters are reviewed regularly by the Board.
Full details Risk: ensure that the financial and other Maintain a senior management team with are set out on the Groups website.
Key information is accurate and appropriate the appropriate knowledge, experience, aspects of the Boards role include: to enable the Non-executive Directors to skills, attitude and motivation to manage fulfil their roles and that financial controls the Groups day to day activities Determining the responsibilities of and systems of risk management are Directors, in particular those of the robust and defensible Exercise personal leadership and Chairman and Chief Executive develop, on an ongoing basis, a People: contribute to the development of management style which encourages Approving internal control processes appropriate levels of senior management excellent and open working relationships including Executive Directors and Approving the final and interim financial at all levels within the Group succession planning statements Approving, in conjunction with the Audit Committee, the recommendation of dividends fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 33 Corporate governance report continued Board committees Governance principle: effectiveness Directors terms of appointment The Board has established a number Board evaluation and effectiveness review Executive Directors are employees of Committees, the principal ones being The Code requires that the Board who have day to day responsibilities as Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, Ethics undertakes an annual evaluation of its own executives of the Group in addition to their and Risk.
Terms of reference for each performance and that of its Committees duties as Directors.
Each Executive Director Committee are available on the Groups and individual Directors and to do so enters a service contract on appointment website.
The Board is satisfied that the externally at least every three years.
see page 49 for further information.
Committees have the appropriate balance The performance evaluation for 2013 14 Non-executive Directors are generally of skills, experience and independence involved the use of an external independent independent of the Company, are not and that they discharged their facilitator, Linstock Limited.
employees and do not participate in the responsibilities satisfactorily.
Membership The review process involved completion daily business management of the Group.
of these Committees is given on the of online questionnaires which focused Non-executive Directors receive a letter of Directors biographies on pages 30 and on Board composition, expertise and appointment setting out the conditions of 31.
Reports on the activities of each of dynamics, Board support and process, their appointment.
Non-executive Directors the principal Committees are on pages 36 structure, behaviours and other key are appointed for an initial period of three to 42.
Details of key activities undertaken issues such as strategy and succession.
years, which may be extended with the by the Health, Safety and Environment The review also addressed delivery of the agreement of the Board see page 35 Committee and Risk Committee are on Boards objectives and any issues identified for further information.
during the previous review or which Service contracts and letters of appointment Senior management and advisers are became relevant during the year.
A report will be available for inspection at the AGM.
invited to attend Board and Committee on the performance of the Board and each meetings where appropriate to contribute of the principal Committees was compiled Outside commitments to discussions and advise members by Linstock and presented to the Board The Directors biographies and other of the Board or Committee on relevant and each relevant Committee as a basis appointments appear on pages 30 and matters.
The involvement of senior for discussing and agreeing appropriate 31.
The Boards policy is that the Chairman management additionally helps strengthen actions for the forthcoming year.
The Risk and Executive Directors should accept the relationship between the Board and Committee was evaluated by the Board.
appointments to the boards of other senior management and helps to provide companies only with the prior approval of The Chairman and each Committee the Board with greater understanding of the Board.
Non-executive Directors must Chairman has discussions with each operations and strategy.
seek the agreement of the Chairman and Director or Committee member based confirmation by the Board before accepting Board protocol on the responses.
The Senior Independent additional commitments that may affect the The Board timetable ensures that Director is responsible for appraising the time they devote to their role.
The Board the Board receives regular reports Chairmans performance in discussions is satisfied that these commitments do and presentations from the Executive with the Non-executive Directors in the not conflict with their ability to carry out Directors, operational managing directors absence of the Chairman.
The Chairman effectively their duties as Directors of and key functional heads.
and the Non-executive Directors also meet the Company.
in the absence of the Executive Directors.
Directors receive agendas and Board papers generally seven days before each The Board and individual Committees Board meeting: minutes are circulated as considered the output from the review soon as possible after the meeting.
The in May 2014 and concluded that the Board reviews progress on implementing performance of the Board, its Committees actions arising from the Board and its and individual Directors was effective.
Any areas for improvement are agreed by the Board.
There is also a defined procedure for dealing with urgent matters between Board meetings.
Details of attendance at Board and Committee meetings The number of Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director Any Director can request additional during the year was as follows: information from management at any time.
All Directors have direct access to Directors attendance Audit Ethics Nomination Remuneration 2013 14 Board Committee Committee Committee Committee the advice and services of the General Counsel and Company Secretary who Number of meetings held 9 4 2 2 4 is responsible for ensuring that Board Colin Child 9 9 procedures are followed.
The Board Tim Cobbold 8 8 decides the appointment and removal of resigned 29 March 2014 the Company Secretary.
Warren East 9 9 4 4 1 2 2 2 4 4 Sir Jeremy Greenstock 2 3 2 2 1 1 resigned 25 July 2013 Victoria Jarman 9 9 4 4 2 2 2 2 4 4 Gill Rider 9 9 4 4 2 2 2 2 4 4 Philip Rogerson 9 9 4 4 2 2 2 2 4 4 Andrew Stevens 9 9 4 4 2 2 2 2 4 4 Note Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 34 Strategic report Directors report Accounts Appointments and annual election Induction and training Other Board matters All Directors are required to submit All new Directors receive an induction Conflicts of interests themselves for annual re-election.
New on joining the Company, for which the Directors have a duty to avoid a direct Directors are subject to election by Chairman is responsible.
This covers or indirect interest which conflicts, or may shareholders at the first opportunity after such matters as the strategy, operation conflict, with the interests of the Group their appointment.
Non-executive Directors and activities of the Group including unless that conflict has been authorised are appointed for an initial period of three key financial data and business, social by the Board.
Such conflict may arise years with the expectation of one further and environmental risks to the Groups by reason of a situation or a specific three year term subject to satisfactory activities, corporate governance matters transaction.
The Board has established performance and annual re-election by such as the role of the Board and individual a process to review at least annually and, shareholders.
Terms beyond this period Committees, and the Groups corporate if thought appropriate, authorise any are considered on a case by case basis.
governance procedures as outlined in this conflict of interest and has carried out such report.
They are advised on the duties and a review during the year and authorised The Board, having carried out the obligations of directors of a listed company.
Any effectiveness and evaluation process, Site visits and meetings with senior transactional conflicts are reviewed as they considers the performance of each of the management are also arranged.
Directors are asked to review and Directors standing for re-election at this appointed Director, who has not previously confirm reported conflicts of interests as years AGM to be fully satisfactory and is been a director of a listed company, is part of the year end process.
of the opinion that they have demonstrated invited to attend external training covering ongoing effectiveness and continued Indemnity such duties and responsibilities.
To the extent permitted by the Companies Directors are briefed, where appropriate, Act 2006 and the FCA Listing Rules the The Board strongly supports their by the Groups external advisers and Group indemnifies certain officers so that re-election and recommends that functional management on changes to the Group may advance defence costs shareholders vote in favour of the legislation, regulation or market practice.
in civil or regulatory proceedings on such resolutions at the AGM.
Briefings from individual businesses terms as the Board may reasonably Succession planning are also received throughout the year.
determine but any advance must be The Board reviews its composition at least The Directors have the opportunity of refunded if the Director or officer is annually, assessing the skills profile, diversity attending appropriate training sessions.
The indemnity and type and number of Non-executive will not provide cover where the Director or The Board visits at least one operational Directors required to enable the Board to officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
site each year Gateshead and perform effectively.
The Board also reviews Westhoughton in 2013 14.
Directors are Corporate responsibility the Groups internal talent review process also encouraged to visit other sites and Information on the Groups initiatives and in planning Executive Director and senior meet with staff.
The General Counsel and commitment to corporate responsibility management succession.
Company Secretary, in conjunction with can be found in the corporate responsibility the Chairman, ensures that there is proper report on pages 25 to 28. communication between the Board and Internal controls its Committees and senior management The Company has complied with the and that Non-executive Directors receive provisions of the Code relating to internal appropriate information.
The Chairman control, which require the Board to review reviews and the General Counsel and the effectiveness of internal controls and Company Secretary facilitates induction to have in place an ongoing process for and other professional development identifying, evaluating and managing as required.
All Directors have access the key risks including financial and to the advice and services of the non-financial, operational and compliance Company Secretary.
controls and risk management systems.
Directors may take independent Further details are contained in the risk and professional advice at the Groups expense, risk management report on pages 21 to 23. although no such advice was sought This process has been in place throughout during the year.
the year and up to the date of approval by the Board of the annual report and accounts.
The Board concluded its latest review in April 2014.
This does not extend to associated companies or joint ventures where the Group does not have management control.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 35 Corporate governance report continued Governance principle: accountability All holders of ordinary shares are entitled Oversee the development and Financial and business reporting to attend the AGM and receive the adoption of, and compliance with, The Directors consider the annual report notice of meeting which is posted at the Groups ethical due diligence and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, least 20 working days before the AGM.
policies and procedures covering balanced and understandable and provides They are also entitled to speak at general business relationships, including third the information necessary for shareholders meetings of the Company, to appoint one party partners TPPs and mergers, to assess the Groups performance, or more proxies or, if they are corporations, acquisitions and major new projects business model and strategy.
corporate representatives, and to exercise Oversee the investigation of any voting rights.
Shareholders may vote and Investor and shareholder relations material irregularities of an ethical appoint proxies electronically.
Shareholders The Company places great importance on nature and review subsequent findings are encouraged periodically to register communications with and accountability to and recommendations their email addresses so that they may shareholders.
An audited annual report and benefit from immediate communication The Group delivers high profile security accounts is made available to shareholders of the publication of the Companys notice print products to customers across the either in hard copy by post or via the of meetings and our online annual report.
world, offering them security, confidence Groups website and the interim statement and efficiency.
It is essential that the is posted on the Groups website.
Other At this years AGM, voting on resolutions Group maintains the trust and confidence information about the Group is also will be conducted on a poll, the results of its customers, and everyone it deals available on the website including current of which will be made available to with both inside and outside the Group, business strategy, historical financial data shareholders on the Groups website.
At by demonstrating complete integrity and recent presentation materials.
the meeting, the Chairman will provide a in the way the Group and its business trading update and the Chairmen of the Announcements are also regularly made partners behave.
Board Committees will also be present to by the Company through a Regulatory answer questions on any matters relating The Group has clear core values and Information Service to the London Stock to the Groups business.
Shareholders principles which govern how the Group Exchange.
The shareholder register is also have an opportunity to meet Directors does business and which everyone within actively monitored.
The Group conducts informally after the meeting.
The way the Group a dedicated investor relations programme delivers these will be reflected in the way with institutional investors which includes Committees of the Board that the Group competes for business various formal events during the year, Ethics Committee report and delivers its services.
We believe that as well as a regular series of one to one The Ethics Committee was formed by committing to these values, supporting and group meetings.
In February 2014, in 2012 comprising all Non-executive the business objectives and adhering to the Group hosted a sell side and investor Directors and chaired by the Chairman the expected behaviours, fide La Rue will presentation at its Basingstoke and with the Chief Executive in attendance.
strengthen the culture of the business and Overton facilities, which included tours of The General Counsel and Company the industry itself and work towards achieving the technology centre, Overton mill and Secretary is Secretary to the Committee fide La Rues vision to be the leading holographics areas.
The tours focused and advises on governance.
The provider of secure products and services, on operational matters and the purpose Committee is responsible, on the Boards touching the lives of everyone, everyday.
of such events is to highlight a particular behalf, for reviewing compliance with issue, theme or announcement that the the Groups Code of Business Principles The Banknote Ethics Initiative BnEI Group believes warrants further explanation CBP.
fide La Rue is committed to the Accreditation Council accredited fide La Rue or clarification.
The views of shareholders preservation of its reputation and integrity as a BnEI member at its first meeting and analysts and brokers reports are through compliance with applicable laws, in February 2014, following a detailed reported to the Board and from time to time regulations and ethical standards across audit completed by independent auditors a survey of institutional shareholders views all territories in which it operates.
BnEI sets out a is carried out by the Companys brokers.
Committee considers recommendations rigorous framework for promoting and on ethical matters made by external maintaining high ethical standards in the The Chairman and the Senior regulatory authorities or other bodies and industry and requires members to commit Independent Director are available to makes recommendations to the Board on to a code of Ethical Business Practice that meet key shareholders to discuss strategy, how they should be applied in fide La Rue was developed in partnership with the governance and other matters.
To mark and underlines the Groups commitment Institute of Business Ethics.
Compliance the 200th anniversary of the foundation to ensuring that business ethics are a with the code is rigorously tested of fide La Rue, the Company hosted an fundamental and enduring part of the through an audit framework developed external event in 2013 with Board and Groups culture.
in conjunction with GC, recognised Executive Committee members present.
worldwide as a leading company in the This took the form of an exhibition of The main responsibilities of the Ethics field of assuring corporate responsibility items from the fide La Rue archive and Committee are to: and business ethics.
The initiative was demonstrations of some of the Groups Advise the Board on the development established to promote ethical business technologies such as banknote design of strategy and policy on ethical matters practice, with a focus on the prevention and cash processing equipment.
of corruption and on compliance with Advise the Board on steps to be taken to anti-trust law within the banknote industry.
embed a culture of integrity and honesty The Group played a leading role in the in all of the Groups business dealings establishment of the initiative.
Oversee the Groups policies and procedures for the identification, assessment, management and reporting of ethical risk fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 36 Strategic report Directors report Accounts fide La Rues ethics and business integrity The Committee meets at least once a year Remuneration Committee programme includes: and otherwise as necessary and makes Gill Rider was appointed to the recommendations to the Board with Remuneration Committee in July 2006 and Anti-bribery and corruption and anti-trust regard to any vacancies for Executive or she has been the Committee Chairman controls regular audits are undertaken Non-executive Directors or other changes since 26 July 2007.
The Committee met of the Groups anti-bribery and corruption to the composition of the Board that are on four occasions during the year.
An internal audit considered necessary.
The Committee has of the Committee and of the remuneration on the TPPs process was also undertaken the power to employ the services of such policy can be found in the directors during the year.
Targeted training took advisers as it deems necessary in order to remuneration report on pages 41 to 58. place during the year and will continue carry out its responsibilities.
The Committee during the forthcoming year in relation Risk Committee report also reviews the time commitment to all relevant employees and TPPs Core responsibilities of the Risk Committee required of Non-executive Directors at are to: CBP general refresher sessions took least once a year.
The Board as a whole place for all head office staff through approves the appointment and removal of Assist the Board by assessing the use of ethical dilemma training.
Directors and retains appropriate executive and reporting on the effectiveness, The appointment of ethics champions search consultants, having prepared a and promoting awareness, of the to all major sites was introduced during job specification for the particular role Groups internal control and risk the year to ensure that each site has to be filled.
management systems local support and representation for The Committee and the Board recognise Assist the Board in fulfilling its CBP related matters and understand the importance and responsibilities by reviewing the Gifts and hospitality in support of the benefits of gender diversity and currently framework for managing risks throughout CBP the Group reinvigorated its gifts and have two female Non-executive Directors the Group hospitality policy during the year.
All gifts, 33 per cent of the Board.
The Board Provide an appropriate level of reporting hospitality and entertainment offered, expects to maintain the number of women on the status of risk management within given or received above a certain value Directors to at least the current level, the Group are required to be recorded.
The Ethics while maintaining flexibility to ensure that Committee periodically reviews the gifts all appointments are made on merit, Provide an appropriate level of reporting and hospitality given or received by the regardless of gender.
to the Board, which retains overall Executive Directors responsibility, on the status of internal The Groups equality and diversity policy risk management Whistleblowing since 2004, employees is discussed further in the corporate have been able to access a confidential responsibility report on page 26.
The Committee, chaired by the General reporting line to report concerns about Counsel and Company Secretary, meets The Committee met twice during the any alleged malpractice within the Group.
and reports to the Board at least twice year and the principal activities of the The provision was enhanced recently with a year.
Other members of the Committee Committee during the period included: employees now able to report concerns, include the Chief Executive, Group Finance anonymously where necessary, through Review of the composition of the Board Director, heads of principal functions, all email as well as by traditional telephone and the range of skills and experience divisional managing directors, the Group and written reporting routes.
The Board on the Board Director of Risk and Internal Audit and the and Ethics Committee receive regular Group Director of Security and such other Consideration of Board and management updates on whistleblowing reports members as determined by the Board.
succession received and key investigations being Any Director may attend meetings.
The Audit Committee reviews Review of Board diversity year end, following review by the Audit the arrangements in place annually Committee of internal financial controls and Review of Non-executive Directors of the processes covering these controls, Insider trading relevant employees periods of appointment and confirmation the Board evaluates the results of the risk who have access to inside information that all should stand for re-election at management procedures conducted by are advised of their responsibilities under the AGM following a formal performance senior management.
the insider dealing rules and all new appraisal process employees are advised of the share The Committee is assisted by Group wide Review of the composition of Board dealing and market abuse policy which committees which deal with specific areas committees the Company has in place of risk, such as the Health, Safety and Recommendation to the Board on Environment Committee and the Security Nomination Committee report the successor to Sir Jeremy Greenstock Committee.
At the date of this report the Nomination as the Senior Independent Director Committee consists of four independent The Committee met twice during the year Non-executive Directors and the Chairman Recommendations to the Board on the and details of risk management and who chairs the Committee and once interim arrangements to be put in place particular risks within the Group are set out appointed the Chief Executive.
following the resignation of the Chief on pages 21 to 23.
Executive with effect from 29 March 2014, By order of the Board including the assumption of executive responsibilities by Philip Rogerson and appointment of Colin Child as Chief Edward Peppiatt Operating Officer Company Secretary Arrangements for the search for a 28 May 2014 successor to Tim Cobbold, the former Chief Executive, which is well advanced.
An external search consultancy which does not have other connections with the Company has been retained by the Company to assess potential candidates to be considered as the prospective replacement fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 37
