Audit Committee report I am pleased to present the report Activities of the Audit Committee for the financial During the period, the Audit Committee year ended 29 March 2014.
This report met on four occasions and dealt with describes the Committees ongoing the following matters: responsibilities and key tasks as well Groups half year results as its major activities over the past year.
Groups preliminary announcement Composition of the Audit Committee and annual results Members of the Committee are Victoria Jarman, Gill Rider and Andrew Stevens Principal judgemental accounting and myself, all of whom are independent matters affecting the Group based Non-executive Directors.
I have been on reports from management and the chief executive of a listed company the external auditors and therefore have strong financial External audit plans and reports experience.
In addition, Victoria Jarman is a chartered accountant and is chair of Risk and assurance plans and reports the audit committee at Hays plc and has including: Warren East CBE relevant financial experience.
The Board is Chairman of the Audit Committee Group risk profile satisfied that the membership of the Audit Committee meets the requirement for Internal audit plan relevant and recent financial experience.
Internal audit reports At my invitation, meetings are attended Follow up of internal audit by the Chairman, Chief Executive, Group recommendations Finance Director, General Counsel and Company Secretary, Group Director of Annual review of the system of internal Risk and Internal Audit and the external controls and internal auditors.
The internal and Internal control improvement activity external auditors each meet the Committee report without Executive Directors or employees being present.
Quality and security internal assurance review Role The Audit Committee provides an Internal control self assessment review independent overview of the effectiveness HSE legal compliance audit of the internal financial control systems and financial reporting processes.
Its principal Groups business continuity responsibilities are: arrangements The appointment of the external auditors Group disclosure and whistleblowing including the agreement of the terms of policy engagement at the start of each audit, Going concern the audit scope and the external audit fee Internal audit effectiveness and Monitoring and reviewing the independence effectiveness of internal financial controls and internal control and risk management External audit effectiveness, systems and the effectiveness of the independence, re-appointment and fees internal audit function Reviewing the integrity of the interim and full year financial statements Reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the financial statements Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors effectiveness, independence and objectivity including the nature and appropriateness of any non-audit fees Reviewing reports on the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing procedures and arrangements, details of which are set out on page 25 Advising the Board on whether the Committee believes the annual report and accounts are fair, balanced and understandable The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the Groups website.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 38 Strategic report Directors report Accounts Significant accounting matters Intangible assets Independence and objectivity The Audit Committee is responsible for The Committee considered a paper of external auditors reviewing whether suitable accounting prepared by management on their review The Committee ensures that the external policies have been adopted and whether of the carrying value of goodwill and auditors KPMG remain independent of the management has made appropriate intangible assets as at 29 March 2014 Group.
The Audit Committee has a detailed estimates and judgements in the against updated forecasts for each of policy covering: preparation of the financial statements.
This included Choosing the statutory auditors and respect of the financial statements for the a consideration of the sensitivity analysis approving the audit fee year ended 29 March 2014, the significant undertaken by management and issues reviewed and how these issues reviewed by the external auditors.
Commissioning non-audit work were addressed are summarised below: In view of the difficult market conditions Defining circumstances in which it being experienced by the CPS business Revenue recognition is appropriate or inappropriate for and as a consequence of this review, The Committee considered the Groups incumbent auditors to be allowed to the Committee concurred that it would revenue recognition and contract provide or be prohibited from providing be appropriate to recognise an impairment accounting policies and procedures to non-audit work loss of 3.2m in relation to goodwill on the ensure that they remained appropriate 2001 CSI acquisition, 7.4m in relation to fide La Rues procedures for procuring and that the Groups internal controls were intangible development costs and 3.6m non-audit services from external sources, operating effectively in this area.
Feedback was allocated to property, plant and which specifically prohibits KPMG from was also sought from the external auditors equipment across the CPS business.
undertaking certain types of service over the application of the revenue including but not limited to services recognition policy including a specific Warranties where it would audit its own work, where review of shipments pre and post year end.
The Group holds a number of provisions it would act in an advocacy role for the Following a review of the varied sources relating to warranties including present Group or where it would participate of information received, the Committee obligations for defective products and in activities normally undertaken concluded that the accounting treatments known claims as well as anticipated by management were reasonable and appropriate.
claims that had not been reported at the balance sheet date.
The Committee It may be cost effective for KPMG to Pension benefit obligations reviewed and discussed reports from perform certain non-audit services, in The Committee received and considered management and the external auditors particular where the skills and experience reports from management and the external concerning the significant provisions held required make KPMG the most suitable auditors in relation to the valuation of for such matters including any provisions supplier.
Certain categories of non-audit the defined benefit pension scheme and with notable movements.
The Committee services, including corporation tax challenged the key actuarial assumptions considered the background to such compliance and due diligence services used in calculating the scheme liabilities, provisions and challenged management must be subject to competitive tender especially in relation to discount rates, over the judgements applied in determining unless it is justifiable in the circumstances inflation rates and mortality.
The Committee the value of provisions required.
Areas which would not discussed the reasons for the decrease in Committee enquired of management and normally be acceptable non-audit services the net pension deficit and was satisfied the external auditors as to the existence but in exceptional circumstances may that the assumptions used were appropriate of other matters potentially requiring a be considered appropriate, such as and were supported by independent provision to be made.
The Committee litigation and compliance services, require actuarial specialists.
Details of the key concluded that it was satisfied with the my prior approval.
The selection criteria assumptions used are set out in note 22 value of warranty provisions carried.
include detailed proposals, timescales, to the financial statements.
local resource, cost and the safeguards Exceptional items Valuation of work in progress put in place by KPMG to avoid conflicts Although not considered to be a The Committee reviewed the Groups of interest or loss of independence.
In significant issue, as part of the Committees policies and procedures over the valuation addition, the Groups policy is for any deliberations over whether the annual and recoverability of work in progress.
individual assignment to be undertaken report and accounts, taken as a whole, The Committee received confirmation by KPMG where the fee is likely to be is fair, balanced and understandable, the that the valuation principles had been in excess of 50,000 to be approved Committee also considered the amounts consistently applied and noted that the by myself prior to any commencement disclosed as exceptional items.
The majority of inventory items were made of work.
During 2013 14 the amount of nature of the items classified as operating to order rather than held for generic stock non-audit fees paid to KPMG was 0.4m.
exceptional items during the period are and hence the recoverability risk was low.
described in note 3 to the financial The safeguards KPMG put in place Accordingly, the Committee concluded that statements.
The Committee considered avoid compromising their objectivity the accounting treatments were reasonable the accounting treatment and disclosure and independence.
They provide a written and appropriate.
of these items in the financial statements report to the Audit Committee on how they including seeking the views of the external comply with professional and regulatory auditors.
On the basis of this review, the requirements and best practice designed Committee concluded that the accounting to ensure their independence.
Key treatment and disclosures in relation to members of the KPMG audit team rotate these items were appropriate.
and the firm ensures, where appropriate, that confidentiality is maintained between different parts of the firm providing services to fide La Rue.
A copy of the corporate governance report is available on the Groups website.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 39 Audit Committee report continued Appointment of auditors Internal control and risk management Fair, balanced and understandable view The Audit Committee assesses annually As noted above, the Committee is At its May 2014 meeting, the Committee the qualification, expertise, resources and responsible for reviewing, on behalf reviewed the content of this annual report independence of the external auditors of the Board, the effectiveness of the and accounts and advised the Board and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Groups internal financial controls and that, in its view, taken as a whole, it is fair, The Audit Committees assessment the assurance procedures relating to balanced and understandable and provides is performed by an audit satisfaction the Groups risk management systems.
the information necessary for shareholders questionnaire completed by the Chairman, These controls and procedures are to assess the Groups performance, relevant senior management and Audit designed to manage, but not eliminate, business model and strategy.
the risk of failure of the Group to meet its business objectives and, as such, provide KPMG have been the Companys auditors reasonable but not absolute assurance Warren East CBE since 11 October 2006.
The Audit against material misstatement or loss.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee considers that the relationship The key elements of the Groups internal 28 May 2014 with the auditors is working well and financial control framework and procedures remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
The Committee During the year, the Audit Committee reviews these topics at each meeting considered the tenure, performance and and considers that none of the areas audit fees of the external auditors, and identified for enhancement during the year the level of non-audit work undertaken, constituted a significant failing or weakness and has not considered it necessary for the Group.
to date to require KPMG to re-tender for the audit work.
Accordingly, the Internal audit Committee recommended to the Board Assurance over the design and operation that a resolution for the re-appointment of of internal controls across the Group KPMG for a further year as the Companys is provided through a combination of auditors be proposed to shareholders at techniques.
The Board through the Audit the AGM.
Committee monitors the effectiveness of internal control systems through reports The Committee acknowledges the new received from the internal audit function recommendation in the Code that the during the period.
The internal audit external audit contract should be put out function has been outsourced since to tender at least every 10 years.
 LLP completion of the 2011 12 audit KPMGs have performed this role since the start audit engagement partner was rotated of 2013 14.
The Committee periodically providing fresh oversight of the audit reviews whether the internal audit function process.
Given this change, the Committee is likely to be more effective or efficient if will keep under review the timing of its provided internally.
In view of the nature next tender process but does not currently and scope of the Groups business and intend that the audit will be put out to its management structure, the Committee tender during 2014 15. considers that it continues to be more The Audit Committee places great effective and efficient for the core internal emphasis on the objectivity of the audit functions to be undertaken by a Groups auditors, KPMG, in reporting specialist external service provider.
Internal audit continued to ensure that The KPMG audit partner is present at their efforts were better aligned to the Audit Committee meetings to ensure operational risks that the Group faces communication of matters relating to while maintaining an emphasis on the audit.
The Audit Committee has reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness discussions with the auditors, without of general finance and IT controls across management being present, on the the Group on a cyclical basis.
In addition adequacy of controls and on judgemental to internal audit work, there is a system areas and receives and reviews of self assessment internal control the auditors highlights reports and reviews by which management are management letters which are one of required to detail and certify that controls the main outputs from the external audit.
are in operation to ensure the control environment in their business areas is The scope and key focus of the appropriate.
Actions agreed are followed forthcoming years audit is discussed with, up by senior management to ensure that and approved by, the Audit Committee.
The internal audit plan is set and reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Additionally, the Audit Committee reviews reports from the external auditors on internal control matters noted as part of their audit work.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 40
