C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E NOM I N A T I ON C OM M I T T E E R E P OR T Composition The individuals who served on the Committee during the year under review are set out below: Date appointed Attendance at meetings Members Committee member during the year Nigel Northridge Chairman 1 April 2010 3 3 Martina King 1 May 2010 3 3 Dennis Millard 9 May 2006 3 3 Mark Rolfe 1 October 2010 3 3 Sophie Turner Laing 1 May 2010 3 3 Reviewed the non-executive directors Dear Shareholder Committee evaluation time commitments and lengths of service I am pleased to set out the report of the The annual evaluation of the Committees and recommended to the board the Nomination Committee for the year to effectiveness was, in accordance with the re-appointment of Mark Rolfe for 30August 2014.
Code, undertaken by Lintstock Ltd, an afurther three year term with effect external facilitator, which has no other Responsibilities from1October 2013 connection with Debenhams.
It was The key responsibilities of the Committee are: concluded that the Committee uses its Carried out an annual review of the time effectively and the information Identifying and nominating, for the directors conflicts of interest register provided to the Committee is clear approval of the board, candidates to fill and the Committees terms of reference andconcise.
board vacancies as and when they arise Adopted a formal diversity policy together with leading the process for This year, when reviewing the re-election of such appointments Recommended the appointment of directors at the forthcoming Annual General MattSmith as Chief Financial Officer.
Meeting, the Committee took account of Putting in place plans for succession, in The appointment was facilitated by the fact that Dennis Millard will have served particular with respect to the Chairman, external search firm, MWM Consulting, nine years in May 2015.
The Committee the Chief Executive and the Senior which has no connection to the believes that he continues to demonstrate Independent Director Company.
MWM worked with the the qualities of independence and Reviewing regularly the board structure, Chairman to devise a long list of judgement in carrying out his role and size and composition and making candidates and then a short list.
thathis length of service and resulting recommendations to the board Candidates met with members of the experience and knowledge of the ofadjustments that are deemed Committee and the Chief Executive Company are of great benefit to theboard.
necessary afterwhich the Committee was able However, Dennis Millard has indicated that toformulate its recommendation he is likely to step down fromthe board Annually reviewing the time required sometime during the 2015financial year.
from and spent by a non-executive Diversity of the board director in fulfilling his or her duties Our goal is to ensure that the board is well The Nomination Committee is, inline with balanced and appropriate for the needs the UK Corporate Governance Code, The full terms of reference of the Committee ofthe business, comprising directors recommending that all thedirectors of are available on the Companys website whoare sufficiently experienced and theCompany stand for re-election at the and are reviewed annually by the Committee.
independent of character and judgement.
next Annual General Meeting along with Activities during the year When recommending new directors to the Suzanne Harlow who will stand for election The Committee held three meetings board, the Nomination Committee has to the board having been appointed as a during the yearat which the following regard to the balance of skills, knowledge, director during theyear.
matters wereconsidered: experience and diversity of psychological Nigel Northridge type, background and gender.
However, Evaluated the balance of skills, experience, Chairman, Nomination Committee allboard appointments will always be independence, diversity and knowledge made on merit.
Debenhams currently on the board and recommended the exceeds the 25% minimum target of appointment of Suzanne Harlow as an women on boards as recommended by the executive director of the Company, with Davies Report with women representing a effect from 11 December 2013 third ofits board.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 50
