C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E R E P OR T In accordance with the Listing Rules of Chairman Executive directors Non-executive directors theUK Listing Authority, the Company Group Senior Independent confirms that throughout the year ended Chief Trading Independent non-executive 30 August 2014 and as at the date of this Executive Director Director directors Annual Report it was compliant withall the Nigel Northridge Michael Sharp Suzanne Harlow Dennis Millard Peter Fitzgerald relevant provisions as set out inthe UK Corporate Governance Code September Stephen Ingham 2012 the Code, copies of which can be Martina King downloaded from the Financial Reporting Mark Rolfe Council website www.
Sophie Leadership TurnerLaing The board The board is responsible for the long-term success of Debenhams by directing and directors and their continual development, Michael Sharp has been Chief Executive supervising its affairs and isaccountable acting on the results of board evaluations ofDebenhams since September 2011. toshareholders for the Groups strategic and succession planning.
The Chairman The Chief Financial Officer aims, risk management and performance.
holds regular meetings with the nonThe Chief Financial Officer is responsible No individual or small group of executive directors without the executive for the financial reporting and management individualsdominates the boards directors being present.
In addition to the finance, decision-making process.
Nigel Northridge has been Chairman since audit, tax and treasury teams, the role is April 2010 and is also the Chairman ofthe Biographical details of the board of also responsible for legal and secretariat Nomination Committee.
directors are on pages 42 and 43.
board currently has nine members: the The Chief Executive As announced on 28 July 2014, Matt Smith Chairman, two executive directors and six The Chief Executive is responsible for the will join the board as Chief Financial Officer independent non-executive directors.
management of the Groups business and during 2015.
Neil Kennedy has carried out The Chairman for implementing the Groups strategic the role of ActingChief Financial Officer The Chairman is responsible for the effective aims.
He also chairs the Executive since 2January 2014. leadership, operation and governance of Committee and ensures that it achieves Group Trading Director the board and its committees.
He ensures thedelegated objectives within the The Group Trading Director leads the that all directors contribute effectively in the parameters set by the Companys business buying and merchandising activities and development and implementation of the policies.
The roles and responsibilities of isresponsible for the development of the Companys strategy whilst ensuring that the Executive Committee are detailed Debenhams product and brand strategy the nature and extent of the significant below.
The Chief Executive also chairs with the overriding objective of delivering risksthe Company is willing to embrace anannual strategy event to focus on the acompelling customer proposition.
The inthe implementation of its strategy are Groups overall performance and the roleis also responsible for the Groups determined and challenged.
The Chairman developments within each of the four sourcing function.
is also responsible for the induction of new pillars of the business strategy.
Executive Committee Michael Sharp Chief Executive Neil Kennedy Suzanne Harlow Ross Clemmow Richard Cristofoli Mike Goring Peter Swann Nikki Zamblera Acting Chief Group Trading E-Commerce Marketing Director Retail Director Operations HR Director FinancialOfficer Director Director Director Financial reporting Design, buying, UK and Product marketing, UK and Systems, supply Pay and reward, andmanagement, merchandising, International online advertising, PR, international chain and logistics.
learning and tax, treasury and distribution, sales and visual and creative, store operations development, internal audit.
customer strategy and store recruitment, external business.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 44 Chairmans responsibilities Board experience The effective running of the board The board has a wealth of relevant experience and expertise to govern and advise ensuring the directors receive aninternational, multi-channel brand such as Debenhams.
accurate and timely information toenable debate and high quality Consumer and retail decision making Number of directors with consumer and retail experience: 9 Promoting high standards of corporate governance Ensuring the board agendas take fullaccount of the important issues facing the Company and the concerns of all board members Digital business Ensuring, as Chairman of the Number of directors with digital business experience: 5 Nomination Committee, that there are board succession plans in place in order to retain and build an effective and complementary board International Number of directors with international experience: 7 Chief Executives responsibilities Running the business Marketing Implementing the business strategy Number of directors with marketing experience: 6 Regularly updating the board on progress against approved plans Ensuring the Executive Committee complies with all business policies, delegated authorities and regulations Significant financial expertise when conducting the objectives of Number of directors with significant financial expertise: 3 the business Gender ratios as at 30 August 2014 Board Executive Committee Senior executives All employees Male 67% 6 Male 75% 6 Male 57% 78 Male 23% 5,563 Female 33% 3 Female 25% 2 Female 43% 60 Female 77% 18,136 Excluding non-executive directors.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 45 C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E R E P OR T C ON T I N U E D well informed about the Company and Length of service as a non-executive have a strong command of the issues Director Date of appointment director at 30 August 2014 relevant to the business.
All the nonNigel Northridge 1 January 2010 4 years 8 months executive directors are considered by the Dennis Millard 9 May 2006 8 years 4 months board to be independent and free from any relationship or circumstances that Peter Fitzgerald 4 October 2012 1 year 11 months could affect their independent judgement.
Stephen Ingham 8 January 2013 1 year 8 months The table opposite details the length Martina King 1 August 2009 5 years 1 month ofservice for each non-executive director.
Mark Rolfe 1 October 2010 3 years 11 months Company Secretary Sophie Turner Laing 1 August 2009 5 years 1 month The Company Secretary plays a leading role in the good governance of the Company by supporting the Chairman and helping Suzanne Harlow has been Group Trading required.
The role also has responsibility the board and its committees to function Director of Debenhams since November for leading the annual appraisal of the efficiently.
Together with the Chairman, 2008 andwas appointed to the board in Chairmans performance and this appraisal theCompany Secretary keeps under December 2013. was conducted in October 2014. review the governance processes adopted Dennis Millard has been Senior Senior Independent Director by the Company to ensure they remain Independent Director since May 2010 Any concerns that shareholders may have fitfor purpose and considers any andis also chairman of the Remuneration which are not appropriate for discussion improvements that could strengthen the Committee.
through the normal channels of Chairman, governance of the Company.
All directors Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer have access to the services of the Company Non-executive directors would be dealt with by this director.
The Secretary and may take independent As detailed in their biographies on pages Senior Independent Director serves as an professional advice at the Companys 42 and 43 our non-executive directors have intermediary for the other directors with expense in conducting their duties.
The adiverse range of skills, experience and the Chairman as necessary and acts as Company Secretary acts as secretary to backgrounds and provide constructive asounding board for the Chairman as theboard and each of its committees.
They are Board activity throughout the year Visit to Danish Presentation on Met with Pension scheme Annual strategy Approved interim Reviewed five operation Magasin systems shareholders at the presentation meeting results and resolved yearplan du Nord Annual General to pay interim Meeting dividend Presentation on Approved full year Presentation on Reviewed budget thestrategy and results, report and thefive priorities performance accounts and under the pillars ofMagasin recommended the ofthe strategy final dividend Debated and Adopted diversity Approved approved the policy refinancing corporate risk map Reviewed the annual performance evaluation of the board and its committees Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 46 September 2013 October 2013 December 2013 January 2014 February 2014 April 2014 June 2014 Theappointment or removal of the The induction includes the provision of by the members of the Executive Company Secretary is a matter for the relevant current and historical information Committee andthe Company Secretary.
about the Company together with Details of the principal items discussed at applicable business policies.
Meetings each meeting are shown on page 46.
Paul Eardley has been Company Secretary arearranged with advisors and visits to since October 2007.
The presentation of timely, high quality operations around the Group are arranged.
information to the board and its committees One-to-one meetings are also held with Board diversity is essential to ensure that there is thorough members of the Executive Committee and Following the publication of Lord Davies consideration of the issues prior to and other senior executives of the business as report in February 2011, the Code was informed debate and challenge at board appropriate.
The Company Secretary amended in 2012 to require listed companies and committee meetings.
All information assists in the induction of new directors to establish a policy concerning boardroom ispublished in advance via a secure web and their ongoing development as diversity.
Our policy was formally adopted by portal.
If directors are not able to attend required and also undertakes a review the board in April 2014.
It is the responsibility meetings due to conflicts in their schedule, withnew directors following induction of the Nomination Committee to they review the papers for consideration at toconsider any new initiatives which implement and monitor the achievement that meeting and relay any comments to wouldimprove the induction process.
of the objectives set out in the policy and the Chairman in advance of the meeting to review it annually.
The most recent where possible, which are then passed Directors conflicts of interest annual review was carried out in onto the other directors.
The Company The Nomination Committee annually September 2014.
Debenhams believes that Secretary ensures relevant information reviews and considers the interests and diversity, in all its aspects, is important in flows within the board, its committees other external appointments held by the order for a board to operate effectively.
Each board members of the board.
All conflicts The main objectives under the policy are to meeting covers presentations from the declared were approved at its meeting ensure that the board iswell balanced and executive directors and from each of inSeptember 2014.
The directors have a appropriate for the needs of the business theother members of the Executive continuing duty to inform the board of and that the board comprises directors Committee.
Presentations are also anypotential conflicts immediately so that who are sufficiently experienced and requested by the board on an ad hoc such conflicts may be considered and, if independent in character and judgement.
basisfrom the trading divisions and other authorised, included within the register In doing the above, the Company will also business areas including investor relations, ofconflicts.
We recognise that nonseek to maintain a composition of at least treasury, taxation, health and safety and executive directors have other business 25% of women onthe board.
In addition, the board interests outside of the Company and onpage 45 demonstrate the gender receives regular updates on the key Group thatother directorships bring significant splitat board level, within the Executive risks and ensures that the risk management benefits to the board.
All existing Committee and senior management framework and profile support the four directorships are detailed within the andfor the workforce as a whole.
In accordance with the director biographies on pages 42 and 43.
Code, the formal schedule of matters Non-executive directors are required to Time commitment reserved for the boards decision is obtain the approval of the Chairman before All directors are aware of the need to reviewed annually, usually at the October accepting any further appointments.
allocate sufficient time to the Company in board meeting.
order to discharge their responsibilities A register of related parties is also effectively.
The board monitors the extent maintained by the Company Secretary.
ofdirectors external interests and any conflicts on acontinuing basis.
The letters Indemnification of directors ofappointment for non-executive directors Qualifying third party indemnity provisions set out the time commitment expected to as defined in section 234 of the Companies be necessary to perform their duties.
The Act 2006 are in force for the benefit of the time required by directors will fluctuate directors who held office during the year.
depending on the demands of the business The Company also provides directors and and other events but the expected number officers liability insurance for its directors of days required for eachnon-executive and other officers.
director is ten days per annum.
Board meetings Induction and ongoing The board held six scheduled meetings and two ad hoc meetings during 2014 development which were fully attended by all the board On appointment, a director is provided members except for one meeting which with an induction programme which is Dennis Millard was unable to attend due to tailored to his or her experience of being a a family bereavement.
In addition to the director of a listed company and based on directors, board meetings were attended his or her knowledge of the retail sector.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 47 C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E R E P OR T C ON T I N U E D The questionnaires addressed issues Board committees Shareholder engagement suchas: The board committees are the Audit, The board is responsible for ensuring that Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
the Company maintains a satisfactory Board composition and expertise The terms of reference of each committee dialogue with shareholders.
TheChairman which are reviewed annually can be found Relationships between the board and the Senior Independent Director are on our website at http: debenhamsplc.
andmanagement always available to major shareholders.
The members and the role of each Formal trading updates aregiven to the Board oversight committee are disclosed within each market on four occasions during the year.
In addition there is Risk management Following each of these announcements, asustainability committee which is a conference calls are held with shareholders Priorities for change committee of the board and is chaired and analysts and after the full year and byMartina King.
A 360 review of individual performance was interim results a presentation is made to the also conducted which was provided in shareholders and analysts.
Analyst research Performance evaluation confidence to the Chairman.
is circulated to the board.
A programme This years formal evaluation of the ofmeetings and conference calls is also Lintstocks report was discussed at the performance of the board, its committees, organised at appropriate times during the board meeting held on 16 October 2014. the individual directors and the Chairman year at which the Chief Executive and Chief The review concluded that the level of was conducted by Lintstock Ltd, an Financial Officer comment onCompany interaction between the board and senior external facilitator which has no other performance and respond to any issues management is good and that the boards connection withDebenhams.
In addition, Debenhams ability to test and develop the Companys arranges visits to its stores foranalysts and The first stage of the review involved strategy is highly rated.
Several priorities shareholders and holds regular capital Lintstock engaging with the Chairman for the future were identified.
The markets days dedicated to specific pillars andthe Company Secretary to set the importance of the board remaining ofthe business strategy.
context of the evaluation and to tailor focused on the key priorities and big thequestionnaires to the businesss issueswas stressed.
The key elements of the Groups investor currentchallenges and opportunities.
relations calendar in 2014 are shown below.
Share capital and control All participants were then requested The major shareholders of the Company Information which the directors are tocomplete an online questionnaire are listed on page 79 of the directors report.
required to disclose pursuant to section addressing the performance of the board 992 of the Companies Act 2006 can be The geographical analysis of shareholders andits committees.
The anonymity of all found on page 79 of the directors report.
is shown on page 49. participants was ensured in order to promote the openand frank exchange ofviews.
Investor relations calendar Full year trading update Capital markets day: US shareholder roadshow Annual General Meeting European shareholder roadshows First half results US shareholder roadshow Second half interim management Increasing choice and availability statement through multi-channel European shareholder roadshow Full year results First half interim management UK shareholder roadshow European shareholder roadshows statement UK shareholder roadshow Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 48 September 2013 October 2013 November 2013 December 2013 February 2014 April 2014 May 2014 June 2014 Shareholders by geography December 2014 AGM key highlights Full director attendance Between 720,482,084 and 726,430,430 votes were cast for each resolution All directors retired and were elected re-elected to the board receiving atleast 99.08% of votes castin favour The remuneration report resolution was passed with 99.58% of votes cast infavour England 58% Latest investor information USA 21% You can find all our latest investor news UAE 8% and financial reports online, as well as Singapore 5% Norway 3% our financial calendar and regulatory Other 5% announcements.
You can also monitor our share price and calculate the value of your shareholding.
Visit the investor relations section of our website at http: debenhamsplc.
com Full year trading update Capital markets day: US shareholder roadshow Annual General Meeting European shareholder roadshows First half results US shareholder roadshow Second half interim management Increasing choice and availability statement through multi-channel European shareholder roadshow Full year results First half interim management UK shareholder roadshow European shareholder roadshows statement UK shareholder roadshow Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 49 September 2013 October 2013 November 2013 December 2013 February 2014 April 2014 May 2014 June 2014
