S T R A T E GI C R E P OR T RE S O U R C E S, RE L A T I O N S H I PS AN D S US T A I NAB I L I T Y Ensuring our ability to endure W E R E C O G N I S E T H A T W E C A NN O T R UN O UR B U S I N E S S I N I S O L A T I O N. T H E R E F O R E OU R MO D E L I S UND E R P I NNE D B Y A S E R I E S O F R E L A T I O N S H I P S W I T H S T A K E H O L D E R S A T L O C A L, NA T I O final AN D I N T E R NA T I O N AL L E V E L, W H I C H C O NTR I B U TE T O T H E L O N G-T E R M S UC C E S S AN D S US T A I N AB I L I T Y O F T HE B U S I NE S S. Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 18 Building strong relationships Our customers We put our customers at the heart of everything we do, which is why the first pillar of our strategy is delivering a compelling customer proposition.
We takeour customers views very seriously and listen carefully to what they think aboutwhat we are doing.
Members of theExecutive Committee participate in customer closeness sessions where we meet eight to ten customers at a time to talk to them about their experiences of shopping at Debenhams.
We have a customer panel of15,000 customers to whom we send weekly surveys on a variety of topics.
Quarterly brand tracking research helps us to understand how customers perceive our brand against our competitor set.
Every customer is invited to participate in an online customer voice scheme.
We also operate an online website satisfaction study.
Our single customer view system also allows us to survey specific customers based on their purchase history.
Putting our customers first is also about making sure we give them great value every day.
As well as refocusing our The organisation continues to evolve in Local communities promotional strategy as described on order to support our changing business The pride and passion of our employees pages 10 and 11, we have improved value model and this year has seen the opening extends into the communities we serve.
in keycategories such as childrenswear.
of an office in Bangladesh to support our In2014 we raised 1.4 million for the causes Our employees growing sourcing activities in that country.
supported by the Debenhams Foundation.
Our relationship with our employees Our London head office is enjoying the Our charity partners reflect the causes that iscrucial to our success as a business.
benefits afforded by our move to a single our people and our customers hold dear.
In2014over 80% of our 28,000 employees location from five previous buildings.
During the year weadded Help for Heroes participated in the second annual Thecontinued focus on operational to our existing partners Children in Need engagement survey.
Theengagement effectiveness is being supported by a and Think Pink which comprises three score was the same as last year at 77%.
newperformance appraisal system and breast cancer charities.
Theresults of the survey make it very theroll-out of a simple behaviour-based The first Debenhams Foundation Ball was clearthat if you work at Debenhams it programme to stores.
It is called Pride, held in September 2013 in honour of the reallyis all about the people and the pride Passion & People and embodies the 200th anniversary of the Debenhams name in doing a good job.
The commitment and values important to us and our customers.
appearing on the high street.
It was loyalty of our team isevidenced by the We endeavour to keep our employees up supported by our long-standing supplier longservice of many ofour employees, to date with our strategy and performance base and our champion fundraisers.
some ofwhom have dedicated more in a number of ways, including personal than40 years to the Company.
briefings from the Chief Executive.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 19 S T R A T E GI C R E P OR T RE S O U R C E S, RE L A T I O N S H I PS AN D S US T A I NAB I L I T Y C O N T I N U E D We were pleased to receive the Silver Award We operate a comprehensive factory about fire prevention and safety, particularly for Payroll Giving 2014 from the Charities Aid approval and audit process for the 1,150 in Bangladesh, India and Pakistan.
We are Foundation in recognition of the generosity factories we source from around the world.
working with Impactt, a leading specialist of many of our employees.
During 2014, half of these factories were inethical trade, human rights and labour audited as part of our ongoing monitoring standards, on aproject in Bangladesh with Our suppliers programme.
We have compliance teams in areach of 200factories and more than As the business model on page 14 Hong Kong and Bangladesh in addition to 250,000 employees.
It is helping ready-made shows, nearly half of everything we using third party audit partners.
Having garment factories to become better sellisexclusive to Debenhams.
In the worked with a single third party partner for businesses which provide better employee 25years we have been working on our the last five years, in October 2013 we practices, aim to reduce overtime, improve ownbrandprogramme, wehave developed opened up our programme to other major production efficiency, reduce absenteeism relationships with suppliers around the independent providers in order to increase and improve skills.
The results have been world.
We work with more than 500 flexibility.
Our two preferred independent very positive so far andduring 2015 we will ownbrand suppliers to ensure that our audit companies are Intertek and UL.
Whilst start the same programme in India.
During customers are provided with exceptional our standard audit programme continues, 2014 wealso started to work with ILO Better quality at great value.
We require we have also increased our focus on Factories Cambodia to improve compliance oursuppliers to ensure that their own training, guidance and encouraging with labour standards in that country.
employees are paid afair wage, are treated transparency toenable positive change by Further, we became a signature to the with dignity, are not discriminated against way of open dialogue and more frequent Sustainable Clothing Action Plan SCAP.
orexploited in any way and have a safe visits to our suppliers and manufacturers.
More information on all of these projects working environment.
The standards we canbe found on our sustainability website expect are embedded inour policies and We participated in a number of projects athttp: sustainability.
set out in our supplier code of conduct during 2014, including working closely with which is incorporated intosuppliers WRAP to educate and raise awareness conditions of trading and towhich they areexpected to adhere.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 20 relationships with our partners at all levels Business partners Greenhouse gas emissions ofour organisation so they understand what Our business model and our strategy lead We have reported greenhouse gas our strategy is and the part they can play in us to work with many organisations.
They GHG emissions for our UK, Irish and executing it.
For example, during 2014 we include the Designers at Debenhams, third Danish operations since 2008.
Since hosted strategy briefings with audiences party brands and concessions whose thenthe footprint boundary has evolved including the Designers at Debenhams, the ranges we sell and the companies who own toinclude areas such as our international beauty houses, propertycompanies and and operate our international franchise offices, packaging, hangers and waste.
We have a number of partners Thissection provides a breakdown within our multi-channel business including ofourGHG emissions for 2014.
Managing resources the provider of the website platform, the Furtherdetailsof our GHG emissions Our success depends upon the availability operator of our fulfilment centres, our key canbefoundon our website at of scarce resources such aspower and fuel, search engines and the carriers who deliver http: sustainability.
We are also a our products.
We also work closely with our With the support of Ricardo-AEA, we have producer of waste, whether carbon store landlords.
applied the GHG Protocol Corporate emissions, waste water, packaging or It is important that we know that all of our Accounting and Reporting Standard 2013 general waste streams.
It is our responsibility partners are doing the right things and are and the UK government conversion factors to ensure that our use of resources and adhering to the same high standards that to calculate our carbon emissions.
We waste is proportionate and efficient, as well we set for ourselves and our suppliers.
report GHG emissions in line with our as being compliant with all relevant Thisis partly done through contractual financial year.
arrangements but also through building In 2014, based on the data provided, our overall carbon footprint has increased by 11%, from 174,080 tonnes CO e in 2013 to 2 193,365 tonnes CO e. A breakdown of this 2 isshown in table 1 overleaf.
This includes UK GHG emissions which have increased by 16% from140,866 tonnes CO e in 2013 to 2 163,890 tonnes CO e in 2014.
The increase is 2 due to two main reasons.
The predominant factor is the 10% increase in the UK grid electricity GHG intensity.
This has led to an increase in our UK electricity carbon emissions, even though our actual electricity consumption, in kWh, reduced by 2%.
The second reason for the increase in this years footprint is an increase in the number of GHG sources which have been included within the footprint compared with previousyears.
Whilst the overall footprint has increased, many other component sources have reduced including total oil and gas, Irish and Danish electricity, UK water use, UK road freight, air freight and international road freight.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 21 S T R A T E GI C R E P OR T RE S O U R C E S, RE L A T I O N S H I PS AN D S US T A I NAB I L I T Y C O N T I N U E D Energy efficiency Energy efficiency is a key component of ourstore expansion and modernisation programmes.
In 2015 we are investing 2.7million on initiatives.
This will result inabetter environment for customers andemployees in our stores through advanced control of heating, lighting andair conditioning.
New stores in Borehamwood and Scunthorpe will benefitfrom full LED lighting schemes onthe shop floor and back of house which will reduce total energy usage by some 20% compared with conventional lighting.
Transportation We are committed to driving down the impacts of deliveries to and from our million of turnover and tonnes CO e per Table 1: Group scope 1, 2 and 3 distribution centres through the use 2 2 m of floor area, respectively, as shown absolute GHG emissions shown in ofmore efficient vehicles and trailers intable3.
tonnes CO e andthrough more effective planning 2 2012 2013 2014 ofdeliveries.
Table 2: Group data used for intensity Scope 1 14,850 17,786 15,989 measures The anticipated growth in click and collect 2012 2013 2014 Scope 2 144,536 139,607 149,068 following the introduction of the next day service will lead to increased delivery GTV m 2,700 2,777 2,824 Scope 3 19,071 16,687 28,308 frequency to stores as we seek to fulfil Total floor 1,829,856 1,898,203 1,850,874 Total 178,457 174,080 193,365 clickand collect orders in the most cost 2 area m effective way.
Weare introducing a new This year we have captured more emission Total floor area includes back of house in stores, offices planning tool to assist us, building on the sources than in previous years and we and distribution centres as well as store trading space.
benefits we have already seen over the willcontinue to endeavour to do so Table 3: Assessment of absolute past year through better planning and goingforward.
In addition, we are investing in projects that 2012 2013 2014 To support our growing international will reduce our footprint and environmental Absolute 178,457 174,080 193,365 franchise business, we opened a impacts.
In 2014 we invested 1 million emissions distribution hub in Singapore in April 2013 inenergy efficiency projects and plan to tCO e 2 which ships product manufactured in Asia spend a further 2.7 million on energy Absolute 66 63 68 direct to our Middle East franchise partner.
efficient lighting, heating, cooling and tCO e m 2 Since then, we have added shipments to control projects in 2015.
GTV our partners in Indonesia, Malaysia and Emissions data are made more meaningful Absolute 0.097 0.096 0.104 thePhilippines and are now processing 2 when compared to a core business tCO e m 5million units per year through the facility, 2 variable.
We have developed intensity taking up to five weeks out of lead times.
Table 3 shows that intensity metrics have ratios for the total footprint using both Other resources grown ahead of the increases in the annual GTV and premises floor area.
You can find out how we manage GroupsGTV and floor space.
This is largely Table 2 shows the total annual GTV and otherresources online at due to the same reasons for the increase floor area for the whole business.
inabsolute emissions, in particular the absolute emissions are then divided by increase in UK grid electricity GHG intensity.
these figures to provide tonnes CO e per 2 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 22 in thefuture.
In a world of fast moving Sustainability in the 21st century anddeveloping technologies, it is well Our work in the area of sustainability is understood that content creators will overseen by a cross-function Sustainability always have a role, as long as the content is Committee which is chaired by Martina demanded and available.
Debenhams is in King, non-executive director.
an enviable position: our commitment to The primary goal of the Sustainability affordable designer collections, which Committee is to take a long-term view of are celebrating their 21st anniversary, the world in which we trade, to ensure that means that we are creators of our own we will continue to be a successful retailer content, not just a showcase of others for the next 150 years.
We need to consider creations, although that remains core to our our relationships with our stakeholders.
customer proposition as a contemporary These relationships have changed department store.
It is this dual approach dramatically over the past 20 years, that delivers increased margin, delighted primarily as a result of the advancement customers and greater long-term security.
oftechnologies, from global trading and Our committee has a watching brief distribution of goods at a mass scale to tomonitor long-term consumer and thelaunch of the internet, new payment technology trends, as well as ensuring our methodologies and mobile advancements, responsible approach to the consumption to name afew.
of the worlds resources, including looking There isahuge amount of debate still after the interests of the broadest raging regarding the role of the high street description of our stakeholder group.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 23
