A U D IT C O M M IT T E E R E PO R T Composition The individuals who served on the Committee during the year under review are set out below: Date appointed Attendance at meetings Director Committee member during the year 1 October 2010 Mark Rolfe appointed Committee Committee chairman Chairman 2 September 2012 3 3 Peter Fitzgerald 18 October 2012 3 3 Martina King 1 August 2009 3 3 Dennis Millard 9 May 2006 2 3 Sophie Turner Laing 1 May 2010 3 3 Dear Shareholder Dennis Millard was unable to attend the meeting in June 2014 due to a family bereavement.
I am pleased to set out the report of theAudit Committee for the year to August2014.
and to make recommendations to the Responsibilities board in relation to their appointment, The role and responsibilities of the Audit The Audit Committees report has remuneration and terms of engagement Committee are set out in its terms of beenmodified this year to reflect the reference which are reviewed annually responsibilities and reporting obligations To review the Companys plans for the bythe Committee, taking into account of the Audit Committee as set out in prevention and detection of fraud, relevant legislation and recommended theUK Corporate Governance Code bribery and corruption good practice.
The terms of reference September 2012.
This report sets out the ofthe Committee are available on the To provide advice to the board on significant issues that the Committee has Companys website.
whether the Companys annual report, considered and addressed in relation taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and tothe financial statements and outlines In accordance with the terms of reference, understandable and provides the howwe have assisted the board in making the Committees responsibilities include, information necessary for shareholders its statement on page 81, which confirms but are not limited to, the following matters: to assess the Companys performance, thatDebenhams 2014 annual report business model and strategy andaccounts is fair, balanced and To monitor the integrity of financial understandable.
statements including any related Activities duringthe year information presented with the In addition to the members of the Governance financialstatements and any formal Committee, the Chairman, the Chief This years formal evaluation of the announcements relating to the Financial Officer, the Director of Internal Committee was conducted by Lintstock Companys financial performance Audit and Risk Management and senior Ltd, an external facilitator.
The Committee To review any changes in accounting representatives of the Companys external considered the results of the review at its principles and consider the auditors,  LLP, meeting in October 2014 and concluded appropriateness of accounting attend and receive papers for each meeting.
that its composition is appropriate and that policiesadopted by the Company The Company Secretary is secretary it is effective in reviewing and testing the totheCommittee.
After each meeting work of the internal audit function and the To review the internal audit programme Ireport to the board on the matters external auditors.
It was felt that the and ensure that the internal audit discussed, on recommendations and Committee makes good use of its time function is properly resourced onactions to be taken.
and that it is effective at reviewing the To agree with the external auditors quality of the Groups financial reporting, The Committee met with the Companys thenature and scope of the audit atassessing the system of internal controls auditors twice during the year without andtoreview the output and at monitoring the management of risk.
management being present and once The Committee has identified its priorities To review and monitor the effectiveness witheach of the Chief Financial Officer for the coming year and these include of the risk management and internal andthe Director of Internal Audit and supporting the incoming Chief Financial control systems within the business RiskManagement without other Officer and providing some oversight of management being present.
To consider the appointment of the information systems development.
external auditors and their independence Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 51 C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E A UD I T C O MM I T T E E R E P O R T C O N T I NUE D The Committee started planning the andinternal financial controls, progress Significant issues process for this years annual report against the approved audit plan, the key The Committee pays particular attention andaccounts early in the year.
The early findings from reviews undertaken and tomatters it considers to be important planning included a preliminary but managements implementation of byvirtue of their impact on the Groups detailed discussion on the likely significant itsrecommendations.
results or the level of complexity, issues, the establishment of a compliance judgement or estimation involved in their External audit committee and agreement of that application on the Groups financial The scope of the audit for 2014 was committees terms of reference.
The significant issues agreedtogether with the fees and terms compliance committee, chaired by the considered in relation to the Groups ofengagement.
Details of the amounts Acting Chief Financial Officer, comprises financial statements for the year ended paid to the external auditors for the audit representatives from the finance, investor 30August 2014 are set out below together services for 2014 are given innote 6 on relations, risk and secretarial functions.
with a summary of the actions taken.
In page 106 of thefinancial statements.
Thecompliance committee met on two addition, the Committee and the external occasions, carrying out a full review of the auditors have discussed the significant risks Effectiveness of internal audit draft report and made some significant and the other risks described in the The effectiveness of the internal audit adjustments to it.
The compliance independent auditors report on pages function was reviewed during the year committee also reviewed feedback from 85to 87. using an external facilitator with input external parties on our prioryear report fromthe functions key customers within Revenue recognition and other external communications.
It the Group, in addition to the Committee, As with most companies there is a risk reported to the Audit Committee at its the Executive Committee and the that, in order to achieve the planned meeting in October 2014.
In addition the Company Secretary.
The questionnaire results, revenue may be recognised Committee also received assurances from covered areas including internal audits incontravention of the Groups policy all members of the Executive Committee understanding ofthe business, the Audit forrevenue recognition.
that they had reviewed the draft.
The Committees expectations and the Committee assessed at its October Actions: In a retail business, the vast robustness of theaudits.
meeting whether the annual report majority of sales are settled immediately The review concluded that the internal andaccounts were fair, balanced and and the process for allocating such audit function has a strong understanding understandable and reviewed all the revenue into individual accounting of its responsibilities, the business and processes that had underpinned this periods isstraightforward and tightly itsrisks.
It is firm in its challenges, liaises assessment.
The formal statement on the controlled.
Risks mostly arise around effectively with external audit and delivers annual report and accounts is set out on accounting adjustments applied to efficiently executed audits.
It demonstrates page 81. revenue and the recognition of credit good technical knowledge, integrity, good sales, largely relating to international The Committee continually assesses the judgement and a robustattitude.
Here, controls are need for training and sessions are provided inplace to monitor, reconcile and check Effectiveness of external audit to its members by internal experts.
During balances, with clear authority limits in The Committee assessed the effectiveness the year, training was provided on: revenue place.
The Committee received a of the external audit process using an recognition: margin and stock valuation: presentation from finance management external facilitator with input from the property leases: and pensions accounting.
during the course of the year setting out Committee, the Company Secretary, Financial reporting the accounting principles relating to theActing Chief Financial Officer, the The Committee reviewed the annual and revenue recognition and discussed the Director of Finance and Support Services interim financial statements during the related audit procedures with the external andtheDirector of Internal Audit and year.
It considered significant accounting auditors.
The Committee also reviewed RiskManagement.
The questionnaires policies, financial reporting issues and reports from both internal and external circulated focused on the quality of the judgements together with the findings as auditors in relation totheir examination of audit team, their understanding of the set out in the reports from the external controls in this area, the findings of which business, the audit approach and their auditors.
The Committee considered the were satisfactory.
clarity and completeness ofthe disclosures Inventory valuation The review concluded that the external within the financial reports reviewed.
The Company uses the retail method in auditors are effective, objective, respect of valuation of inventory in the UK Internal audit understand the business and its risks and and Ireland which is reliant on a number of The Committee received updates from that communication with them is good.
judgemental components, details of which theDirector of Internal Audit and Risk They are firm in their challenges to are set out innote 5 to the financial Management at each of its meetings during management where appropriate.
statements on pages 104 and 105. the year covering, amongst other matters, updates on the Groups significant risks Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 52 Actions: The Committee received a The work of the annual report compliance presentation from financial management inthe course of the year setting out the committee supports the Audit Committee accounting principles relating to inventory valuation and discussed the related audit in assessing whether the annual report, procedures with the external auditors.
The Committee also reviewed reports from takenas a whole, is fair, balanced and both internal and external auditors setting out inventory risk metrics and findings from understandable and that it complies with the examination of controls in this area, which indicated that inventory was valued all legal and regulatory requirements.
External auditor appointment  LLP PwC hasserved as the Companys auditors since2006.
In accordance with auditing standards and to protect independence and objectivity, John Ellis was appointed asthe audit partner on 1September 2013.
The objective of the Audit Committees services which the auditors may, in certain TheAudit Committee issatisfied that PwC policy in relation to the provision of circumstances, provide subject to remains appropriately independent and non-audit services by the auditors is to compliance with the independence isbest placed to conductthe Companys ensure that the provision of such services policy.
These services include tax advisory audit for 2015.
TheCommittee therefore does not impair the external auditors services or services where the auditors recommended PwC be re-appointed as independence or objectivity.
All fees for areacting as the Companys reporting the Companys auditors.
The Committee non-audit work require pre-authorisation accountant.
will keep under review the requirement to by either the Company Secretary, the Chief 0.2 million was paid by the Company to tender the external audit contract prior to Financial Officer or the Audit Committee in PwC for non-audit services which represents the 2016 financial year.
circumstances where the fees are above an 38% of the total audit fees paid to PwC, agreed threshold.
An independent report including 73,000 relating to the senior External auditors independence is produced each quarter during the year notes issue.
In order to ensure that an appropriate detailing all non-audit work, its cost, when relationship is maintained with the external it was carried out and who instructed it.
The audit fees paid by the pension schemes auditors, a policy on auditor independence This information is reported to the Audit were 29,500. has been established and is reviewed Committee at each meeting by the annually.
This policy covers matters such Mark Rolfe Company Secretary.
asthe auditors and their staff having no Chairman, Audit Committee The Companys policy identifies three family, financial, employment, investment categories of accounting services.
The or business relationship with the Company, firstcategory is audit-related services which the employment by the Company of the auditors are permitted to provide.
The former audit employees, the rotation of second category is prohibited services audit partners and the controls around the which the auditors are not permitted to provision of non-audit services.
Prohibited services are those Committee makes recommendations to which might result in the external auditors the board in respect of re-appointment auditing their own work or making annually for inclusion in the notice of management decisions for the Company Annual General Meeting.
As regards the and those where some mutuality of interest risk of the external auditors withdrawal is created or where the external auditors from the market, theCompany considers are put in the role of advocate for the that there are sufficient other auditors in Company.
The third category is potential the marketplaceshould this situation arise.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 53
