84 Letter from the Nomination Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our first Nomination Committee Report.
In previous years, a report on the activities of the Committee has been incorporated in the Corporate Governance Report.
However, given the recent Board changes and the appointment of a new Group HR Director, Katy Clough, the Committee has refocused its attention on succession planning, leadership development and talent management.
Dechras stance in relation to diversity is Michael Redmond detailed in the Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Chairman Report.
The following report provides an overview of the work carried out during the year under review.
Should you have any questions in relation to this report or the Committee, please feel free to contact me or the Company Secretary.
Michael Redmond Nomination Committee Chairman Find out more about Our People Plan on page 34.
View further content on our website: www.
com Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 84 Our Governance 85 Nomination Committee Report Committee Membership and Attendance The Committee considers that Michael Redmond The membership of the Committee, together with appointment continues to lead the Board effectively and maintains his dates and attendance at Meetings during the year, is set out on independence and integrity at all times.
He continues to page 69 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Other attendees provide an invaluable contribution and insight to the Board at the meetings include the Group HR Director, the Chief by reason of both his previous pharmaceutical experience Executive Officer and the Company Secretary who acts as and the longevity of his association with the Company.
A review of the initial observations of the incoming The Chairman does not chair the Committee meeting if it is Group HR Director dealing with the appointment of his successor.
The Senior The Group HR Director provided her initial observations to Independent Director, Ishbel Macpherson, takes the chair when the Committee in respect of a number of areas including required.
succession planning, talent management planning and leadership development.
In respect of succession planning, Role and Responsibilities a review of the Board and Senior Executive Team has The main role and responsibilities of the Committee are set commenced with a view to ensuring that the skills and out in the written terms of reference which are available on the experience are maintained for the longer term.
This Company website at www.
The Committees terms planning will continue on a regular basis to ensure that the of reference are reviewed on an annual basis and during the Group is managed by Executives with the necessary skills, 2014 financial year this took place at the February meeting.
In addition, the Board has a overview of the terms of reference is detailed on page 72 of the role to play in overseeing the management resources in the Corporate Governance Report.
Group and approved, in principle, the plans to formalise Principal Activities of the Committee during the year: a Group wide talent management and development Reviewing the Board Composition programme.
This will provide a robust process for providing Following Neil Warners decision to stand down from the information about the depth and quality of the leadership of Board at the 2013 Annual General Meeting, the Committee the Group.
confirmed that Julian Heslop would be appointed as the Appraisal Process and Re-appointment of Directors Chairman of the Audit Committee and Ishbel Macpherson Following an external evaluation, further details of which should be appointed as the Senior Independent Director.
are provided on page 75 of the Corporate Governance Report, the Committee has concluded that each of the Given Ed Torrs decision to stand down from the Board at Directors seeking re-election continues to be an effective the beginning of 2014, it was agreed that there would be member of the Board.
All of the Directors will stand down no requirement to appoint a replacement Non-Executive and be proposed for re-election at the 2014 Annual General Director.
The Board is considered to be fully compliant with Meeting.
the Code in relation to its balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Review of the Chairmans Tenure In light of the prior commitment to shareholders to review the Chairmans tenure prior to the 2014 Annual General Meeting a review was carried out by the Committee, chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
It was agreed that, given the number of changes which had taken place at Board level over the past 18 months and the strategic position of the Group following the divestment of the Services Segment, it remained in the best interests of the Group and its stakeholders for Michael Redmond to remain in position as Chairman until the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
It was agreed that this would provide sufficient time to oversee the continued development of the newly refreshed Board and develop their understanding of Dechra further.
The recruitment process for a successor will commence in early 2015. www.
