66 Letter from the Chairman on Governance Dear Shareholder In terms of my tenure as Chairman, it has been decided by the Nomination On behalf of the Board I am pleased to Committee that, given the changes to the present Dechras Corporate Governance Board over the past few years, it would Report for the year ended 30 June 2014. be prudent for me to remain in position until the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
This has been a year of strategic This will allow the newly refreshed Board transformation for Dechra, following the to settle into their roles and consolidate divestment of our Services Segment their understanding of the Group over a and subsequent refinement of our reasonable period of time.
The search strategy focusing on being a pure for my successor will be overseen by international veterinary pharmaceutical Ishbel Macpherson and will commence and related products company.
Board understands the importance of ensuring that there is a strong Effectiveness governance framework in place, which During the year Independent Audit Michael Redmond underpins Dechras ability to achieve Limited were commissioned to carry out Non-Executive Chairman its strategic goals, whilst still allowing an independent external evaluation of the the management of the business to Board and its Committees.
The findings exercise their skills and experience in of the evaluation and the corresponding an entrepreneurial manner.
This report actions are detailed within the report.
details the Companys governance The Board will now work together framework and provides an overview over the coming year to implement the of how the Company has applied the evaluations recommendations.
Overall, main principles of the UK Corporate the Board was considered to have the Governance Code the Code throughout requisite skills and experience necessary the year.
to take the business forward.
Leadership Accountability During the year there were a number of The Board has worked alongside Board changes: Neil Warner retired at the Deloitte LLP during the year to review Annual General Meeting in October 2013, and strengthen the risk assessment following which, Ishbel Macpherson was framework across the Group.
The newly appointed as the Senior Independent formed Senior Executive Team SET Director and Julian Heslop as the Audit is seen as pivotal in ensuring that the Committee Chairman: at the beginning of risk framework is embedded across the 2014 Ed Torr stood down as an Executive Group, and the Boards rolling agenda Director.
Both Neil and Ed have played now encompasses detailed reviews of an instrumental part in the evolution and each of the risks identified.
Further detail growth of Dechra and on behalf of the in respect of this project can be found on Board I would like to thank them for their pages 46 to 49. commitment, loyalty and hard work for the business over the years.
Further detail in respect of the SET can be found on pages 32 to 33.
View further content on our website: www.
com Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 66 Our Governance 67 The new Code provision requires the Directors to explain their responsibility for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and confirm that they consider, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the performance, strategy and business model of the Group.
The Audit Committee has been asked to assist in reviewing the process undertaken by management.
Further detail in relation to this is included in the Audit Committee Report on page 81.
Following assurance from the Audit Committee the Board is able to give this confirmation.
Relations with Shareholders The Annual General Meeting will be held in London on 24 October and I would like to take this opportunity to encourage our shareholders to attend.
As ever, it will provide investors with an opportunity to meet the Board and ask any questions that you may have in respect of the Groups activities.
Finally, should you have any questions in relation to the report, please feel free to contact me or the Company Secretary.
Michael Redmond Non-Executive Chairman 8 September 2014 www.
com Stock code: DPH 67 68 Corporate Governance Non-Executive Directors Compliance with the 2012 Code Throughout the year the Non-Executive Directors have The Code establishes the principles of good governance for provided a solid, independent element to the Board ensuring companies: the following report describes how the Company that decisions are constructively challenged and debated.
It is has applied these principles to its activities.
The Board considered that each of the Non-Executive Directors brings with remains committed to maintaining high standards of corporate them a breadth of experience which adds value to the decision governance.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has making of the Board as well as the formulation and progression complied with the Code June 2010 and September 2012 of the Dechra strategy.
Senior Independent Director Leadership Following Neil Warners retirement from the Board in October The Role of the Board 2013 Ishbel Macpherson was appointed as the Senior The Boards primary responsibility is to promote the long Independent Director.
She provides a sounding board for the term success of the Company by the creation and delivery Chairman and is available to shareholders if they have concerns of sustainable shareholder value.
The Board aims to achieve which contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve this through the establishment and delivery of the Groups or for which such contact is inappropriate.
During the course of strategy and ongoing monitoring of its progress.
Following the forthcoming year Ishbel will take the lead responsibility for the divestment of the Services Segment the Board refined its the recruitment of the Chairmans successor.
strategy around four growth drivers: Chief Executive Officer Product Development: The Chief Executive Officer, Ian Page, has day-to-day Portfolio Focus: responsibility for the management of the Group.
Alongside the Geographical Expansion: and SET, he develops the Group strategy and, once approved by the Board, implements this throughout the business.
Accompanying KPIs have been developed over the year in Ian Page is also the Non-Executive Chairman of Sanford order to monitor progress of the implementation and delivery of DeLand Asset Management Limited Sanford.
The Board fully the strategic plan.
Further details are provided on pages 44 to considered at the time of his appointment whether this would 45. materially impact on his current time commitment as Chief Executive Officer and whether it could give rise to any conflict.
Board Membership As Ian Page is not involved in any investment decision made by Details of the Directors together with their biographical details Sanford it was not considered that any conflict would arise nor can be found on pages 64 to 65. would there be any impact on his time commitment.
The Chairman Chief Financial Officer The primary role of the Chairman, Mike Redmond, is to: The Chief Financial Officer, Anne-Francoise Nesmes, has dayensure the effectiveness of the Board in all aspects of its role: to-day responsibility for financial planning and reporting for the Group.
She is also responsible for managing the financial facilitate the effective contribution of the Non-Executive risks and works with the Chief Executive Officer on all strategic Directors, ensuring that all decisions are subject to matters.
constructive debate and supported by sound decision making processes: and Managing Director of Dechra Veterinary Products EU lead the Board in the determination of its strategy and the The DVP EU Managing Director, Tony Griffin, has responsibility achievement of its objectives.
for the majority of the Groups turnover and roll out of the Groups strategy across the EU.
He is also the nominated The Chairman maintains a strong working relationship with Ian Director for health, safety and environmental matters.
Page, the Chief Executive Officer, and works closely with him to ensure that Board decisions and strategy are implemented Company Secretary throughout the Group.
There is a clear division of the two roles The Board is assisted by the Company Secretary, Zoe Goulding.
and their corresponding responsibilities, which were reviewed The primary role of the Company Secretary is to advise the and updated during the year.
Board on matters of procedure and governance, ensuring that all required information is made available to the Board The Chairman, at the time of his appointment, met and on a timely basis.
Both the appointment and removal of the continues to meet the independence criteria defined within the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Further details in relation to the tenure of the Chairman can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 84 to 85.
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 68 Our Governance 69 Matters Reserved for the Board There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
The schedule of matters covers a number of areas, including the following: Strategy and Management Approval and monitoring of long term objectives and strategy Approval of the Groups operating and capital expenditure budgets Major organisational changes Regular reviews of business performance Financial Reporting Approval of the Annual and Half-Yearly Reports and dividend policy Approval of development expenditure Approval of budget Approval of treasury policy Internal Controls Review and approval of internal controls and risk management policies and processes Corporate Governance Board and Committee composition Corporate Governance matters Approval of policies such as Health and Safety and the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy Board Meetings Directors are expected to attend all Board and Committee meetings of which they are a member.
The Board is scheduled to meet nine times per year.
During the year two additional meetings were held: one in relation to the disposal of the Services Segment and one in relation to the acquisition of the trade and assets of PSPC Inc.
Attendance at the Board and Committee meetings during the year to 30 June 2014 is set out in the table below: AnneMike Ian Francoise Tony Ishbel Dr Chris Julian Ed Neil Redmond Page Nesmes Griffin Macpherson Richards Heslop Torr Warner Appointment 19 April 13 June 22 April 1 November 1 February 1 December 1 January 31 October 2 May Date 2001 1997 2013 2012 2013 2010 2013 1997 2003 Board 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 5 1 Audit Committee n a n a n a n a 4 4 4 n a 1 Nomination Committee 1 1 n a n a 1 1 1 n a n a Remuneration Committee 6 n a n a n a 6 6 6 n a 2 Neil Warner attended one out of three Board meetings, two out of two Remuneration Committee meetings and one out of one Audit Committee meetings based on the number of meetings held prior to his date of retirement.
Ed Torr attended five out of six Board meetings based on his date of resignation.
com Stock code: DPH 69 70 Corporate Governance continued It is understood that there may be situations, either due to prior The Company Secretary ensures that an accurate record of commitments or circumstances beyond their control, which each Board meeting is made which is circulated to the Board mean a Director is unable to attend a Board or Committee as soon as practicable after the meeting.
In this situation the Board papers are still provided have concerns of any nature which cannot be resolved within allowing the Director to raise any queries or discussion points the Board meeting, they have the right to ensure their view is either through the Chairman or Company Secretary, thereby recorded in the minutes.
On resignation, should a allowing their views to be fully discussed at the meeting.
Non-Executive Director have any concerns, they have a right to Following the meeting any Director who was unable to attend is provide a written statement for circulation to the Board.
provided with the opportunity to discuss the meeting with either Board Meeting Agenda and Papers the Chairman, Company Secretary or any Executive Director.
The Directors are supplied in a timely manner with all relevant documentation and financial information to assist them in the discharge of their duties.
Prior to all Board meetings an agenda and supporting documentation are circulated to the Board.
During the year, in addition to its routine business, the Board considered the following matters: 5 July 2013 9 July 2013 29 August 2013 17 18 October 2013 6 December 2014 9 January 2014 Northwich Special meeting Northwich Northwich London Northwich via telephone conference Product Approval of Review year end Review quarter Product Review quarter Development the disposal of results one results Development two results presentation the Services and approval presentation Board evaluation HR Director by Susan Segment of amended by Susan recruitment Longhofer budget process Longhofer update Review of the Review and Update Update on key consolidated approval of the on internal financial projects budget 2014 capex for the controls risk 5 7 re-forecast Liquids, Creams management Services and review of and Ointments project Segment pre-close trading facilities upgrade disposal update Post Eurovet statement at Skipton acquisition Risk Review and Strategy review Assessment approval of discussion Review Review of DVP EU Product Pipeline Dechras strategic plan review Operating Review and Segments approval of Review of DVP Italy delegated business plan authorities Six monthly health and safety review HR Director recruitment update Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 70 Our Governance 71 Every meeting agenda comprises reports from the following and discuss key strategic areas on a regular basis and also individuals: ensures that a review of the risks surrounding that area, along with the appropriate mitigating actions, is carried out.
This Chief Executive Officer: provides an opportunity for each member of the SET, along Chief Financial Officer: with other senior managers in the business, to present to the Managing Director and Finance Director of each Business Board in respect of their individual areas of responsibility.
It also Unit: ensures that the Board gains a more in-depth understanding of the overall business and how the Group strategy is deployed Group HR Director: and monitored.
Product Development and Regulatory Affairs Director: and The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors generally meet Group IT Director.
the night before each Board meeting which allows them time to In addition, a health and safety update is received at each review and discuss any matters arising from the agenda without meeting.
the Executive Directors being present.
The Chairman also Each year an annual strategic agenda is drawn up and meets regularly with the Chief Executive Officer outside of the approved by the Board.
This enables the Board to focus on scheduled Board meetings.
21 February 2014 3 April 2014 1 May 2014 14 May 2014 6 June 2014 Northwich Birmingham Northwich Special meeting Sansaw, Shrewsbury via telephone conference Review of half-yearly Vetoryl marketing Review quarter three Review of the DVP Canada results presentation by Giles results acquisition of the Business Plan Coley trade and assets of presentation by IT Strategy and Six monthly review of PSPC Inc. Mike Eldred and Cyber Risk DVP US Strategy strategic plan Paul Ray presentation by presentation by Establishment of a Review and Allen Mellor Mike Eldred and committee to finalise DVP UK Strategy approval of strategic Nancy Zimmerman and approve the and Product Strategic plan milestones acquisition Marketing update Review and approval 8 4 re-forecast presentations by of revised KPIs Board evaluation Review of Phycox Mark Floyd and tender update Update on key acquisition Ellie Rothnie financial Projects Review of delegated Six monthly health authorities Update on change of and safety review Registrar Review of PSPC Inc. Review and approval trade and assets of treasury policy acquisition Review of new banking facilities Review and approval of Terms of Reference for the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman Review and approval of matters reserved for the Board www.
com Stock code: DPH 71 72 Corporate Governance continued Board Committees The Board has formally delegated specific responsibilities to Committees, in particular the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
A summary of the terms of reference of each of the Committees is set out in the table below.
The full terms of reference for each of these Committees are available on the Companys website or on request from the Company Secretary.
Committee Membership Required Report on Committee Role and Terms of Reference under the Terms of Reference Pages 78 to 83 Audit The main responsibilities are: At least three Non-Executive Directors.
All members should be independent to monitor the integrity of the financial Non-Executive Directors.
statements of the Group, and assist the Board in ensuring that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable: to review the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls systems as described on pages 81 to 82: to oversee the relationship with the external auditor, monitor their independence and objectivity, and set the policy for non-audit work: and to make recommendations to the Board on the requirement for an internal audit function.
87 to 105 Remuneration The main responsibilities are: At least three Non-Executive Directors.
All members should be independent to determine the remuneration, bonuses, long Non-Executive Directors.
term incentive arrangements, contract terms and other benefits in respect of the Executive Directors and the Chairman: to oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures: and to approve the design of any employee share schemes.
84 to 85 Nomination The main responsibilities are: At least three.
A majority of the members should be to oversee the plans for management independent Non-Executive Directors.
succession: to recommend appointments to the Board: to evaluate the effectiveness of the Non-Executive Directors: and to consider the structure, size and composition of the Board.
The Board also appoints Committees on an ad hoc basis to approve specific projects as deemed necessary.
Director Insurance and Indemnities The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Officers insurance in respect of legal action against Directors as permitted under the Companys Articles of Association and the Companies Act.
The Company also indemnifies the Directors under an indemnity deed with each Director in respect of legal action to the extent allowed under the Companys Articles of Association and the Companies Act.
As at the date of this report qualifying third party indemnity provisions are in force.
A copy of the indemnity provisions will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 72 Our Governance 73 Diversity Effectiveness The Board understands the importance of having a diverse Board Balance and Independence membership and recognises that diversity encompasses not only The Board recognises and understands the importance of gender but also background and experience.
However, the Board balance and refreshment in terms of its composition.
The does not have a formal diversity policy and is generally opposed following changes have taken place at Board level over the past to the idea of stated quotas for females.
The Board believes that 12 months: appointments should be made solely on merit, the key criterion The retirement of Neil Warner as Senior Independent Director being whether or not the appointee can add to or complement and Chairman of the Audit Committee: 17 October 2013 the existing range of skills and experience on the Board.
The resignation of Ed Torr as Business Development Director: 5 31 January 2014 As stated earlier in this report, the Chairman will stand down at 4 the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
The search for his successor will commence in early 2015.
3 Length of Tenure of Chairman and Non-Executives Directors 2 2 1 Male 1 0 Female Entire Executive Non-Executive Board 0 SET Overall Workforce 0 to 2 2 to 6 6 to 9 9 years years years years Board Composition The Board considers that all the Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and free of any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with, or compromise, their ability to exercise independent judgement.
This independence of mind provides them with the ability to challenge decisions and think strategically which is integral to Male 55.6% Male 47.6% the decision making process of the Board.
Female 44.4% Female 52.4% In terms of female representation below Board level 44.4% of the SET and 52.4% of the overall workforce are female.
Conflicts of Interest Pursuant to the Companies Act all Directors have a duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect conflict of interest with the Company.
The Articles of Association of the Company enable the Directors to authorise any actual or potential conflict of interest which could arise.
There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide Non-Executive Chairman 14.28% whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Firstly, Non-Executive Directors 42.86% only independent Directors i. e. those who have no interest in Executive Directors 42.86% the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision: secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors will also be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they deem this to be appropriate.
During the financial year under review no actual or potential conflicts have arisen.
com Stock code: DPH 73 74 Corporate Governance continued Induction and Training Each Director is entitled, on request, to receive information to In order to ensure that the Board maintains its knowledge enable him or her to make informed judgements in order to and familiarity with the Groups operations at least one Board adequately discharge their duties.
In addition, all Directors have meeting per year is held at one of the Groups operational sites.
access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary During the year a Board meeting was held at Dechra Veterinary and senior managers, and may take independent professional Products UK in Sansaw.
This provided the Board with an advice at the Companys expense in connection with their informal opportunity to meet with senior management based at duties.
Board Evaluation Any newly appointed Directors are provided with comprehensive The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its performance documentation aimed at providing information in relation and that of its Committees.
to the remit and obligations of the role, current areas under The 2013 Board evaluation: consideration for the Board and the latest broker reports.
New An internal evaluation was completed during 2012 2013 Directors are also offered the opportunity to visit the various focusing on the following areas: i Board composition: ii business units in order to allow them to meet with the executive strategy review process: iii the format of Board meetings teams and to be shown around the operations.
Field visits with and the decision process: iv training and development: v members of the UK sales team are currently being organised for the performance of the Board and the individual Directors: each of the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
This will vi Corporate Governance: vii leadership and culture: and give them the opportunity to observe the sales teams activity viii risk assessment.
One to one meetings were held by the in the field and their day-to-day interaction with practising Chairman with each of the Executive and Non-Executive veterinarians.
The evaluation of the The Chairman and Company Secretary are aware of the Chairman was undertaken by the Senior Independent ongoing requirement to review and agree with each Director Director.
The findings of the internal evaluation were then their training needs.
In order to assist with these training discussed at the August 2013 Board Meeting.
Overall it requirements the Company Secretary provides briefings for the was noted that no new issues of material significance had Directors, where necessary, that cover a number of legal and been raised during the review, rather input revolved around regulatory changes and developments relevant to the Directors progress of the previous years action points.
The main action areas of responsibility.
During the year these briefings included points were as follows: an update on the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations, changes to the Code and the new strategic report proposals.
In addition, the Company Secretary informs the Directors of any external training courses which may be of relevance.
Action Progress Following the divestment of the Services Segment a A refinement of the Group strategy commenced with a SET workshop refinement of the Group strategy was required.
which highlighted the main areas of strategic focus.
Following this the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer drafted a comprehensive strategic plan for discussion with the Board at its October meeting.
The plan was approved by the Board, following which, strategic milestones and KPIs were established to enable that progress of the strategy could be appropriately monitored.
More detail in relation to the strategy can be found on pages 20 to 22 and the KPIs on pages 44 to 45. Review of the internal controls and risk assessment Following a successful tender, Deloitte LLP was appointed in December process was to be undertaken.
2013 to assist with a review and strengthening of the current controls and risk assessment process.
More detail in relation to the project can be found in the Audit Committee Report on page 81.
Recruitment of a Group HR Director.
An independent specialist HR recruitment company, Frazer Jones LLP, was retained in November 2013 to assist with the search for a new Group HR Director.
Following a successful selection process, Katy Clough was appointed to the position at the end of April 2014.
More detail in relation to the Group HR Directors strategic plan can be found on page 34.
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 74 Our Governance 75 The 2014 Board evaluation Accountability During the year Independent Audit Limited Independent Financial Reporting Audit was commissioned to carry out an external evaluation The Board seeks to present a fair, balanced and understandable of the Board and its Committees.
The process undertaken by assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
Independent Audit involved: The responsibilities of the Directors and the external auditor in a review of the Board and Committee minutes, agenda connection with the Financial Statements are explained in the papers and ancillary documents: and Statement of Directors Responsibilities and the Independent one to one meetings with each member of the Board and Auditors Report on pages 115, and 118 to 120 respectively.
Prior to the meetings a list of Preservation of Value focus items was forwarded to each interviewee which The basis on which the Group generates and preserves included the role of the Board and its Committees, focus value over the longer term and the strategy for delivering the on strategic versus operational matters, the Chairmans objectives of the Group are to be found in the Strategic Report.
leadership, relationships between Executive and NonExecutive Board members along with areas for discussion Going Concern such as risk, Board composition and succession planning The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely Following the interviews a comprehensive report was to affect its future development, performance and position, are compiled for initial discussion with the Chairman and set out in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 61.
The principal Company Secretary, after which there was a presentation to risks that may affect the Groups future performance are set out the Board in relation to the various findings and suggested on pages 46 to 49. actions.
During the year being reported, trading has been resilient The findings were presented to the Board in July, at which it with an improvement in profitability being achieved.
The was agreed that time be set aside at the Board meeting to be net proceeds from the disposal of the Services Segment to held on 1 September to establish an implementation plan and Patterson Companies, Inc. in August 2013 were used to reduce time frame in relation to the various findings.
the Groups debt through the payment and cancellation of the Groups then existing 50.0 million term loan facility and the The actions and progress made will be reported in next years reduction in amounts drawn under the Groups then existing Annual Report.
The Board will perform a further external evaluation in three In order to ensure that the ongoing funding requirements of years time.
Internal evaluations will be completed during the the Group are aligned to its strategic objectives, the Group has intervening period.
completed a refinancing and entered into a facilities agreement Re-election of Directors in September 2014 the Facility Agreement with a syndicate of On appointment, Directors are required to seek election at their banks comprising HSBC Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland first Annual General Meeting following appointment.
At the plc and Barclays Bank PLC the Banks under which a facility forthcoming Annual General Meeting, all of the Directors will of 120.0 million was made available.
The Facility Agreement retire and offer themselves for re-election.
Each of the Directors includes a committed revolving credit facility of 90.0 million, has been subject to a formal evaluation by the Nomination together with an Accordion facility of 30.0 million.
The facility Committee and it is considered that each Director continues is committed for five years until September 2019. to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment, not As at 30 June 2014 the Group had cash balances of only in respect of their roles and responsibilities, but also in 26.8 million and net debt of 5.0 million.
relation to the Group and its shareholders.
The Board therefore recommends that shareholders vote in favour of their respective The Directors have a reasonable expectation that both the re-elections.
Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these annual financial statements.
com Stock code: DPH 75 76 Corporate Governance continued Internal Control and Risk Management Each business unit is represented at the SET by their The Directors are responsible for maintaining the Groups respective Managing Director, along with the Executive system of internal control and risk management and for Directors, Company Secretary, Group IT and HR Director.
reviewing its effectiveness from a financial, operational and Together they aim to ensure that the Group policies, compliance perspective.
These systems aim to: procedures and authority levels are consistently embedded across the Group and reviewed on a regular basis.
Any safeguard the Companys assets: amendments or actions arising from these reviews are then ensure that proper accounting records are maintained: communicated by the SET to the Board.
ensure compliance with statutory and regulatory Policies and Processes requirements: and There are a number of centrally defined financial, legal and ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of operations.
compliance policies and procedures which are embedded The system of internal control is designed to mitigate rather across the Group: than eliminate risk of failure of delivery of the business objectives i Delegated Authorities: This document establishes both and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance operational and financial levels of authority below Board against material misstatement or loss.
level and is reviewed on an annual basis along with the schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
The document The Group has an established, ongoing and embedded aims to ensure that the authority levels in place provide a framework of internal financial and operational controls for robust level of control but without hindering the day-to-day identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced administration of the business.
A framework has been in place throughout the year under review, and has continued up to the date of approval ii Anti-Bribery and Corruption: This policy has been of the Annual Report.
implemented across the Group alongside training to all relevant employees.
The policy aims to ensure that: The Groups control framework comprises the following tiers and is underpinned by the Dechra Values.
no bribes or facilitation payments are made: all gifts and hospitality given or received are maintained within agreed limits and are recorded by the employees: and all third party arrangements are reviewed in order to ascertain whether or not they could be deemed to be a significant bribery risk.
Management iii Whistleblowing: This policy establishes a confidential Structure channel of communication for employees to bring matters of concern about the running of the business to the attention of senior management.
Upon being notified of such a concern, the policy sets out a defined process Policies and Procedures which allows a full investigation to take place and, where necessary, corrective action to be taken.
Business Planning iv Code of Business Conduct: This policy sets out the standards of conduct to be adopted by all employees when Operational Level Controls acting on behalf of the Group.
In setting these standards Quality Information Financial Pharmacovigilance the Board aims for Dechra to maintain a reputation for Assurance Technology Controls acting responsibly and with integrity.
More information Dechra Values in relation to the Code of Business Conduct is provided within the Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities Report on page 107.
Management Structure The Board, assisted by the SET, ultimately sets the tone in v Charitable Donations Policy: This policy sets out the relation to the level of risk and control which it is willing to take authorised limits and types of charities to which charitable in achieving the Groups strategic goals.
There are strict limitations on giving donations to businesses which Dechra may have had The Group is organised into Operating Segments within which a previous commercial relationship with.
More information there are a number of business units.
Each business unit has in relation to the Charitable Donations Policy is provided its own Managing Director and executive team: there are clear within the Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities reporting lines and delegated authorities embedded within all Report on page 106. of the business units.
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 76 Our Governance 77 Business Planning Relations with Shareholders Business Plans and Strategy Discussion: We have Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders established a five year strategic plan which is reviewed Relationships with shareholders receive high priority and and updated by the Board twice a year.
This provides a a rolling programme of meetings between institutional framework within which a two year budget and forecasts shareholders and Executive Directors are held throughout the are set with each business unit.
The plans are reviewed by year.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer the Executive Directors, and then by the Board for ultimate give annual and half-yearly results presentations to institutional approval.
The businesses performance during the financial shareholders, analysts and the media.
These meetings are in year is monitored monthly against budget, forecasts and addition to the Annual General Meeting and seek to foster a previous year.
Relevant KPIs are also established which allow mutual understanding of the Companys and shareholders transparency of progress of both the Groups and business objectives.
Such meetings are conducted in a format to protect units strategic goals.
price sensitive information that has not already been made generally available to all the Companys shareholders.
Similar Pipeline Review: The pipeline is reviewed on a regular basis guidelines also apply to communications between the Company with a view to i ensuring that products within the pipeline are and other parties such as financial analysts, brokers and media.
progressing according to schedule: and ii adding new ideas The Company also organises site visits on a periodic basis.
to the pipeline, after an initial exploratory review, to ensure a consistent flow of new products in Dechras product portfolio: Feedback is collated by the Companys brokers after such and iii measuring returns.
The feedback is then circulated to the Board for review and consideration.
In addition, the Board is provided Operational Level Controls with a monthly market summary report which reports on share Quality Assurance: Across the Dechra Manufacturing sites price and share register movements.
Where material changes there is an established Quality Management System which, in respect of remuneration or governance are proposed the at the Skipton site, is accredited to BS 9001.
This system of Board seeks to consult with its major shareholders before processes and procedures aims to ensure that all products implementing such changes.
leaving our manufacturing facilities have been manufactured to the highest standard.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting All members of the Board are scheduled to attend the Annual Pharmacovigilance: Dechra has invested heavily over several General Meeting the Meeting and the Chairmen of the Audit, years on establishing a robust pharmacovigilance system with Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available a view to ensuring that any adverse event reactions related to to answer shareholders questions at the Meeting.
Notice of the use of our products are reported and dealt with promptly.
the Meeting is dispatched to shareholders at least 20 working Information Technology: Dechra first established Oracle at the days before the Meeting.
The information sent to shareholders Skipton site over seven years ago.
Following the appointment includes a summary of the business to be covered, with a of a Group IT Director, in 2012, there is a schedule and plan separate resolution prepared for each substantive matter.
When to implement the system across the Group.
a vote is taken on a show of hands, the level of proxies received for and against the resolution and any abstentions are disclosed Financial Controls: Work has been carried out during the year at the Meeting.
Following which the results of votes lodged to strengthen the financial controls across the Group.
The for and against each resolution are announced to the London financial control element is split into three stages: Stock Exchange and displayed on the Companys website.
At Entity Control Levels: controls performed by Head Office the Meeting there will be an opportunity, following the formal and senior management across the Group: business, for informal communications between shareholders Month End and Year End Procedures: controls performed and Directors.
by business unit management: and Transactional Level Controls: Controls operated on a dayto-day basis.
Together, these three levels of controls set the structure of Dechras financial control framework which aims to prevent and detect misstatement or fraud.
Dechra Values It is the Boards aim that the Dechra Values should underpin all actions and behaviour of the Groups employees providing an important role in ensuring that they understand what is expected of them and how they can assist in achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
