78 Letter from the Audit Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder We have also continued to work closely with KPMG throughout the 2014 financial Following my first year as Chairman of year.
In advance of the Committees the Audit Committee, I am pleased to review of both the half-yearly and year present this years Audit Committee end results, I have held a meeting with Report which fully reflects the changes the Lead Audit Partner, his team and required under the UK Corporate Anne-Francoise Nesmes, the Chief Governance Code the Code and the Financial Officer, to review and discuss Guidance on Audit Committees issued the key matters impacting the results and by the Financial Reporting Council FRC any major audit points raised.
The report is split privately with the Lead Audit Partner prior into four sections which provide an to the Committees review of theyear overview on: end results.
As set out in last years report the Committee will undertake an the Committees purpose and function: external audit tender process during its major activities during the year the next financial year to coincide with Julian Heslop including primary areas of judgement the rotation of the current Lead Audit Audit Committee Chairman on the financial results : Partner.
The successful audit firm will be our review of internal financial controls responsible for all external audit work and the requirement for an internal from the commencement of the 2016 audit function: and financial year.
our interaction with the Companys Finally, we specifically reviewed, at external auditor and the results of our the request of the Board, whether the assessment of the quality of their work 2014 Annual Report was fair, balanced and their integrity and independence.
and understandable and concluded that it was.
The basis supporting our During the period under review we conclusion is set out on page 81. have focused particular attention on significant matters such as the profit on the divestment of our Services Segment Julian Heslop and the valuation of intangibles.
This is Audit Committee Chairman particularly important where judgement is involved and is supported by the independent review and challenge of our external auditor, KPMG LLP, and our discussions with them.
The following report makes clear the specific judgements and factors the Committee considered in reviewing these matters on page 80.
We appointed Deloitte LLP during the year to review the Groups internal financial controls and risk framework and management are now working Further detail in relation to risk framework closely with Deloitte to implement and management can be found on pages 46 recommendations arising from their to 49. report.
The Committee will continue to View further content on our website: monitor progress on a regular basis.
com Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 78 Our Governance 79 Audit Committee Report The Committees Purpose and Function The Committee has discussions at least twice a year with the Membership, Meetings and Attendance external auditor without management being present including The membership of the Audit Committee the Committee, the meeting which reviews and endorses the annual results.
together with appointment dates and attendance at meetings is Neither the Company nor its Directors have any relationships detailed on page 69 of the Corporate Governance Report.
that impair the external auditors independence.
In accordance with the Code, the Board considers that Julian Role and Responsibilities Heslop has recent and relevant financial experience as a result The main role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in of his financial background and qualification.
In addition, its the written terms of reference which are available on the Company other two members, Dr Chris Richards and Ishbel Macpherson website at www.
The Board reviewed the Committees provide different but specific skills and experience which terms of reference during the year and amended them to reflect the support the Committee in meeting its objectives as set out in its updated Code and FRC Guidance on Audit Committees.
The biographies of all Committee members details on the terms of reference are provided on page 72 of the are detailed on pages 64 to 65.
All members of the Committee Corporate Governance Report.
are considered to be independent, in line with the Code.
Major Activities of the Committee during the year The Company Secretary, Zoe Goulding, also attends each The Committee met four times since the last Annual Report was meeting and acts as its secretary.
Zoe Goulding assists the issued.
The meetings are timed to coincide with the financial Chairman in ensuring that all Committee papers are provided reporting timetable of the Company.
The Chairman and the prior to each meeting in a timely manner and provides advice to Company Secretary have developed an annual programme of the Committee on all governance related matters.
business, in order to ensure that standing items are appropriately The Lead Audit Partner together with the Chief Executive Officer considered alongside any exceptional matters that may arise and Chief Financial Officer attend each meeting at the Committees during the course of the year.
The table below provides an invitation.
Other members of the Board also normally attend each overview of the main matters discussed at the meetings.
meeting together with the Group Financial Controller.
Meeting Date Main Activities 6 December 2013 Meeting with Deloitte LLP Deloitte, in their capacity as the newly appointed advisers in respect of the internal risk management and assurance project Discussion and review of the tax strategy project update including approval of a new tax policy 20 February 2014 Review of the Groups half-yearly report Consideration of the Audit Memorandum prepared by the external auditor Review of the Committees terms of reference Review of non-audit fee spend including actual and projected spend Consideration of the progress of the internal risk management and assurance project Meeting with the external auditor without management present 1 May 2014 Review of the audit strategy for the year ended 30 June 2014 including timetable, scope and fees Discussion in relation to the Company expectations of the external auditor and audit process Review of the Anti-Bribery Policy and Companys Whistleblowing Policy Consideration of the progress of the internal risk management and assurance project Review of a new treasury policy and recommendation to the Board of its approval Discussion of the programme of business for 2014 2015 1 September 2014 Review of the Groups preliminary statement and draft Annual Report including the Audit Committee Report for the year ended 30 June 2014 Consideration of the Audit Memorandum prepared by the external auditor, including: review of accounting treatment of non-underlying items assessment of intangible assets and goodwill commentary on the general control environment across the Group Review and approval of going concern statement Review of the external audit effectiveness, external auditor independence and level of non-audit fees Meeting with the external auditor without management present Discussion in relation to timetable and process for the external audit tender Fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Annual Report www.
com Stock code: DPH 79 80 Audit Committee Report continued All significant matters under consideration were supported by the appropriate justification paper and fully discussed in order to ensure that due and appropriate consideration was given before any decision was approved or action proposed.
Further details in relation to a number of the matters listed are provided below: Financial Judgements The Committee reviewed the annual financial statements and, earlier in the year, the half-yearly financial statements.
This process included an analysis by management of key judgements made in determining the results over matters such as the carrying value of intangible assets: the Committee reviewed this in detail and endorsed managements judgements.
In reviewing both the annual and half-yearly financial statements the Committee gave particular attention to significant matters where judgement was involved, or which were complex in nature or where adjusted numbers were provided to enhance investors understanding of the underlying performance.
These matters were well supported by briefing papers provided by management and were specifically reviewed and agreed by the external auditor, KPMG, in their reports to the Committee and in related discussions.
The key matters so reviewed comprised: Significant risk considered by the Committee Corresponding actions taken by the Committee in relation to the financial statements to address the issues Review of the carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill of The Committee reviewed the analysis provided by 196.2 million which represents 96% of the Group net assets.
management which supported the underlying carrying values.
Special attention was paid to the assumptions relating to future growth rates in the context of current underlying performance including the impact and calculation of terminal values.
The impact of sensitivity analysis was also considered where relevant.
In addition, the Committee focused on the expected longevity of the intangible assets.
It also reviewed the discount rates used.
Significant judgements considered by the Committee Corresponding actions taken by the Committee in relation to the financial statements to address the issues Reporting of the impact of the completion of the disposal of the The disposal of the Services Segment gave rise to a post-tax Services Segment in August 2013. profit on disposal of 38.6 million.
The Committee reviewed the basis supporting this calculation including tax clearances received from HMRC and supporting audit work carried out by KPMG.
Review of the corporate tax rate on underlying continuing The detailed review of the Groups tax position and strategy moving forward, which was undertaken by Deloitte, was operations for the year of 20.1% 2013: 24.1% following the reviewed.
The Committee discussed the key recommendations disposal of the Services Segment and a strategic review carried and risks in respect of corporate tax and considered KPMGs out by Deloitte.
In order to assist investors with a better understanding of the The Committee reviewed the basis for calculating the underlying performance of the business, management present underlying figures and its consistency with previous years within the financial statements figures for underlying profit figures.
It also sought confirmation from the external auditor and earnings.
This is reconciled to the figures provided in the that they were satisfied with the accuracy of these figures.
financial statements and excludes matters such as intangible amortisation, profit on business disposal and acquisition related restructuring costs.
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 80 Our Governance 81 Going Concern Tax: The Committee reviewed managements forecasts for profit, The Committee reviewed and approved the tax policy which cash flow and net debt and the committed financing facilities sets out the standards the Board applies in respect of the available to the Group.
Based on this, it concluded that it management of taxes and the governance it employs to was appropriate to use the going concern principle for Group ensure those standards are embedded throughout the global reporting.
Further detail in relation to this is provided on page 75 business.
In particular, the tax policy governs how significant of the Corporate Governance Report.
decisions in respect of tax are made and the circumstances which require Board approval.
Fair, Balanced and Understandable Assessment of the Annual Report Internal Financial Controls At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether The Board retains overall responsibility for establishing the the 2014 Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable systems of internal control and monitoring their ongoing and whether it provided the necessary information for effectiveness and also for the identification and management shareholders to assess Dechras performance pages 38 to 49, of risk.
The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness business model page 14 and strategy pages 20 to 22. of the Groups internal financial control activities and the requirement for an internal audit function.
Further details The Committee based its assessment on a review of the in respect of the internal controls are provided within the processes and controls put in place by management.
This Corporate Governance Report on pages 76 to 77. included the relevant senior management providing the information for their own sections and their confirmation that Following the acquisition of Eurovet in 2012, the Committee it was fair, balanced and understandable.
In addition, the agreed that the Group was of sufficient size and complexity final draft document was reviewed by members of the Senior to warrant the appointment of an internal audit function.
The Executive Team SET which included the Chief Executive Officer Committee commenced discussions in relation to the role and Chief Financial Officer who also concluded that it met the specification in August 2012.
However, following the resignation fair, balanced and understandable test.
of the then Group Finance Director it was agreed that the discussions and subsequent recruitment be placed on hold until An integral part of the process was the Committees final review: the new Chief Financial Officer, Anne-Francoise Nesmes, had other Board members and the external auditor were invited so taken up her role with the Company.
Following that issues could be debated and a final assessment made.
The Anne-Francoises appointment, the Committee revisited the external auditor also confirmed that in their opinion the Annual necessity for an internal audit function and agreed that the Report was fair, balanced and understandable.
best approach was to seek tender invitations from a number of accountancy firms excluding the external auditor for a review This assessment was carried out by the Committee on of Dechras existing enterprise risk management and internal 1 September 2014, following which the Committee reported financial controls and for an assessment of the resourcing of the to the Board that it was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the internal audit and risk assurance function.
Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Review of Policies and Procedures Following a successful proposal and presentation, Deloitte were During the year the Committee reviewed the following policies: appointed to the role.
The project commenced in January 2014: Anti-Bribery and Whistleblowing: i Assessment of the Risk Management Process: The Committee reviewed the current documentation, as Deloitte carried out preliminary interviews with the risk circulated to all employees within the Group, and noted that owners from each Operating Segment and Head Office with no further changes were required.
The Company Secretary a view to gaining an insight into their perceptions of the key has ensured that the Committee is updated on a regular risks and the current risk management framework.
Following basis in respect of the ongoing training and monitoring of the these interviews a risk workshop was attended by the SET policies across the Group.
In respect of the whistleblowing which resulted in the validation of the existing risks and the policy, the Committee reviewed the process in place to report identification of a number of new risks.
From within the SET, issues and to follow up on them.
owners have been identified to take responsibility for each of these risks and the matter will remain as a standing agenda Treasury: item for all SET meetings going forward.
In addition, each An updated policy was discussed by the Committee.
The SET member is scheduled to present to the Board, on a document establishes clear responsibilities for the treasury rolling annual basis, to discuss strategic progress and risk operations of Dechra.
In particular the policy defines what management within their function.
matters are reserved for the Board.
com Stock code: DPH 81 82 Audit Committee Report continued ii Review of Internal Financial Controls: As stated above, a specific questionnaire has been formulated To date, Deloitte have carried out a review of the existing for completion by all finance directors across the Group who internal financial controls of each Operating Segment.
This provided information and assistance to the external auditor.
The has comprised site visits to each of the finance functions questionnaire covered a number of areas, including: including Head Office.
Deloitte interviewed all relevant Quality of the audit team: members of the finance teams in order to ascertain the Knowledge and understanding of the Group: key judgemental and complex areas within the accounts and identify the main areas of risk.
Deloitte documented Appropriateness of the areas of audit focus: the existing controls and recommended specific actions Interaction with audit specialists: and to improve the control environment.
The results of these Timeliness and adequacy of communication by the external reviews have been presented to the Committee throughout auditor.
Management are now working to embed these recommendations across the Group.
The Committee is The results of the questionnaire were reported to the Committee reviewing progress on a regular basis.
at the meeting on 1 September 2014.
Finally the Committee reviewed the overall assessment of the Based on the review set out above the Committee remains Groups internal financial controls at its meeting on 1 September satisfied of the external auditors independence, effectiveness 2014.
It concluded that there was reasonable assurance that and objectivity.
internal financial controls operated effectively as referred to Re-appointment of External Auditor on pages 76 to 77 of the Corporate Governance Report.
The At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting a resolution to Committee also reviewed at that meeting the proposal on how appoint KPMG LLP as the external auditor and to authorise the to resource the internal audit and risk assurance function going Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed.
Further detail will be provided in next years Committee Report.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Committees capacity to recommend a particular firm as External Auditor external auditor and Dechra does not provide an indemnity to Audit Plan the external auditor.
KPMG agreed their audit plan with the Committee which included their audit scope, key audit risk areas and materiality.
External Audit Engagement Director Rotation The Committee discussed the audit plan with KPMG and In line with the ethical standards of the Audit Practices Board approved it together with the fees proposed.
the Lead Audit Partner is rotated every five years.
The current Lead Audit Partner was appointed during the 2011 financial Independence, effectiveness and objectivity of the audit process year and consequently will stand down following the completion The Committee reviews the independence, effectiveness and of the audit of the 2015 financial results.
objectivity of KPMG each year based on: External Audit Firm Tendering its own assessment of the quality of the audit plan, the rigour KPMG as KPMG Audit Plc and latterly as KPMG LLP has of the audit findings and conclusions and the extent to which been appointed as the external auditor since the Companys the Lead Audit Partner understands and constructively formation in 1997 and their performance has been reviewed challenges management: annually by the Committee since that time.
The Committee the results of a specific questionnaire on external auditor has remained consistently satisfied with the level of effectiveness and efficiency further detail on which is independence of the external auditor and the integrity of the provided below : external audit process.
However, the Committee is aware a report prepared by KPMG setting out its processes to of the recommendations in the Code in relation to the ensure independence and its confirmation of compliance with expectation that the external audit is put out to tender every them: ten years.
Therefore, as reported in the 2013 Annual Report, the Committee will undertake a tender process over the next the level of non-audit fees as a percentage of the audit and nine months in line with the rotation of the Lead Audit Partner.
half-yearly review fees paid to the external auditor, which were This timing will allow the successful audit firm not disallowing 52.4% 2013: 127.6%.
for the fact that this could be the incumbent firm to take up its appointment when the current Lead Audit Partner stands down.
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 82 Our Governance 83 Non-Audit Assignments With respect to non-audit assignments undertaken by the external auditor, the Company has a policy of ensuring that the provision of such services does not impair their independence or objectivity.
Prior approval of the Committee is required before the external auditor is appointed to carry out non-audit work and the rationale for doing so is provided to the Committee, which assess the qualification, expertise, independence and objectivity of the external auditor prior to granting approval.
As such, nonaudit fee expenditure is a standing item on the agenda for every Committee meeting.
The Committee firmly believes that there are certain non-audit services where it is appropriate for the Group to engage the external auditor.
During the year, the external auditor was commissioned to carry out due diligence work in respect of the acquisition and assets of PSPC Inc.
The external auditor was considered the most cost effective and appropriate firm to perform this work given their detailed knowledge of Dechras business.
In such cases safeguards are in place to ensure continued external auditor independence including the use of separate teams to undertake the non-audit work separately from the audit work.
The Committee did not consider that the performance of this non-audit work would affect or impair the external auditors integrity.
This is consistent with the ethical standard published by the Accounting Practices Board.
The result of this policy is that: i Deloitte was appointed in 2012 to undertake global tax compliance work in substitution for the external auditor and has subsequently been appointed during the year to undertake a a strategic tax review for the Group and b an enterprise risk management and internal financial controls project: ii KPMG were prohibited from tendering for both the enterprise risk management and internal controls project and the global tax compliance work: and iii during the course of the year Deloitte and PwC have been appointed to provide advice on employment and related tax advice.
A summary of audit and non-audit fees in relation to the year is provided in note 6 to the Groups financial statements.
This shows that non-audit work represented 52.4% 2013: 127.6% of the annual audit and half-yearly review fee, and reflects the policy set out above.
