60 Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 report of the audit committee report of the audit committee letter from the Chairman of the audit Committee Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present its report for the year ended 30 June 2014.
This year, we have split out reporting on the Audit Committee from the Corporate Governance Report: I trust that this will be helpful to shareholders and other stakeholders in understanding the work of the Audit Committee.
In preparing the report of the Audit Committee, we have sought to describe its role and the work it has carried out during the year.
We have recognised too that, this year, we are subject to a revised version of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which contains new requirements for both the Board and the Audit Committee.
One new requirement is that the Board should ensure that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
This may be seen as an evolution from the previous position, which called for a balanced and understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects.
Of course, true and fair has been an underpinning principle of the financial statements within the Annual Report for many years.
The Audit Committee provided advice to the Board on this matter and this is covered in more detail in the report.
A second new requirement is to give a description of the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee in relation to the financial statements, and how these issues were addressed.
Again, this is covered in detail in the report.
In its work, the Audit Committee has sought to balance independent oversight of the business with support and guidance to management.
I believe that there are good reasons why I, as chairman, together with shareholders and other stakeholders, can be confident that the Audit Committee has carried out its duties in the year under review, effectively and to a high standard, thereby helping to protect value for the company.
The members of the committee are individuals who hold or have held senior office in business and have the knowledge and experience to properly discharge their duties.
They are supported by members of senior management of the company and the external auditors, who regularly attend meetings of the committee and who are experts in their respective fields.
The schedule of business considered by the committee covers the key areas within the committees remit and is supported by information provided by management and the external auditors that is of a high standard and ensures that committee members have the information they need to give proper consideration to all matters brought before them.
Philip scott Chairman of the Audit Committee philip Scott Chairman of the Audit Committee Strategic report governance Financial statements additional information for shareholders Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 61 report of the audit committee Treatment of restructuring costs.
The committee determined that report of the all costs were directly attributable to the objectives of the 2014 restructuring programme and that, because of its size, the audit committee programme is appropriately disclosed as exceptional see note 4.
Assumptions used in respect of post employment plans.
Having role of the audit Committee considered advice from external actuaries and assumptions used The formal role of the Audit Committee is set out in its terms of by companies with comparator plans, the committee agreed that reference, which are available at www.
com en-row the assumptions used to calculate the income statement and ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
Key elements of the balance sheet assets and liabilities for post employment plans role of the committee and work carried out during the year are set were appropriate see note 13. out as follows.
As referred to in the chairmans letter above, this year there is a new Financial statements Code requirement: in summary, the Board must state that the Annual During the year, the Audit Committee met four times and a Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
With the support of sub-committee met once and reviewed the annual reports and management, the Audit Committee reviewed the companys 2013 associated preliminary year end results announcement, focusing on Annual Report and concluded that it was already broadly compliant key areas of judgement and complexity, critical accounting policies, with the new regulations.
However, some areas were identified to provisioning and any changes required in these areas or policies.
further enhance the report, as follows.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviewed the interim results Description of the business model, strategy and risks.
We have: announcement, which included the interim financial statements better ordered and highlighted key information: provided clear and the companys interim management results.
linkages between various elements: moved to more graphic The company has in place internal control and risk management visual presentation: and introduced performance drivers.
systems in relation to the companys financial reporting process Disclosure of principal risks.
We have: introduced more graphic and the groups process for preparation of consolidated accounts.
visual presentation: and provided more narrative on mitigation A review of the consolidated financial statements is completed by of key risks.
management through the work of its filings assurance committee Important messages.
We have sought to ensure that these are not FAC to ensure that the financial position and results of the group obscured by immaterial detail, by: removing duplications: better are appropriately reflected therein.
The Audit Committee reviewed ordering, using cross-references and separating the UK and US the work of the FAC and a report on the conclusions of the FAC annual report filings: conducting a full review of annual report process was provided to the Audit Committee by the Chief content, taking into account materiality: removing disclosures that Financial Officer.
are not material for shareholders investors: and using graphics Significant issues and judgements that were considered in respect rather than long narratives.
of the 2014 financial statements were as follows.
These include the matters relating to risks disclosed in the UK external auditors report.
On the basis of this work, the Audit Committee recommended to the Disclosure on the quality of the earnings and one off items Board that it could make the required statement that the Annual included in cash flow.
The committee agreed that sufficient Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
disclosure was made in the financial statements.
internal control and risk management: audit and risk programme: Review of carrying value of assets in particular intangible assets.
business conduct and ethics including whistleblowing The committee agreed that an impairment charge be made At each of its meetings, the Audit Committee reviewed detailed against Shui Jing Fang a Chinese white spirit brand but that, reports from the heads of the Global Risk and Compliance GRC and otherwise, the fair value of the companys assets was in excess Global Audit & Risk GAR teams including coverage of the areas of their carrying value see note 10. mentioned in the title of this section and had sight of the minutes Exchange rate used to translate operations in Venezuela.
The of meetings of managements Audit & Risk Committee.
A key focus committee determined that the appropriate rate used for the for the work of both the GRC and GAR during the year and their year ended 30 June 2014 was the Sicad II rate of $1 VEF49.98 reporting to the committee, was a review of recent acquisitions.
1 VEF85.47 compared with $1 VEF9 1 VEF13.68 for the The committee in turn were thus able to keep under review the year ended 30 June 2013 see note 1. development of the controls and compliance framework in acquired Equity investment in United Spirits Limited USL.
The committee companies, bearing in mind the appropriate level for those that were considered the IFRS 10: Consolidated Financial Statements associates during the year rather than wholly-owned subsidiaries.
definition of control and applied this to the facts and The committee also received regular updates from the group general circumstances of the increased investment in USL, and concluded counsel on significant litigation and from the head of tax on the that control was not achieved until after 30 June 2014.
The audit groups tax profile and key issues.
committee agreed that it was appropriate for the investment to The GRC reporting included a consideration of key risks and be accounted for as an associate for the year ended 30 June 2014 related mitigations, including those set out in the section of this see note 6.
Annual Report dealing with principal risks.
Based on this activity Review of legal cases.
The committee agreed that adequate during the year, the Audit Committee made a recommendation to provision has been made for all material litigation and disputes, the Board covering the nature and extent of the risks it was willing to based on the currently perceived probability of the outcomes, take to achieve its strategic goals and its internal statement of risk including: litigation in Colombia: a customs dispute in Korea: and appetite this was considered also by the Audit & Risk Committee.
other legal, customs and tax proceedings see note 19.
The Board agreed this recommendation.
62 Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 report of the audit committee service must be approved by the Audit Committee, unless the Through the activities of the Audit Committee described in this report and its related recommendations to the Board, the Board proposed service is both expected to cost less than 250,000 and confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the companys also falls within one of a number of service categories which the systems of internal control and risk management.
Fees paid to the auditor for audit, audit related and other services are analysed in the notes to the external auditor consolidated financial statements.
The nature and level of all services During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the external provided by the external auditor is a factor taken into account by the audit strategy and the findings of the external auditor from its Audit Committee when it reviews annually the independence of the review of the interim results and its audit of the consolidated external auditor.
The Audit Committee reviews annually the appointment of the Financial expert and other attendees auditor taking into account the auditors effectiveness and For the purposes of the Code and the relevant rule under SOX, independence and all appropriate guidelines and makes a section 407, the Board has determined that Philip Scott is independent and may be regarded as an Audit Committee recommendation to the Board accordingly.
Any decision to open the external audit to tender is taken on the recommendation of the Audit financial expert.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the The Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer, the group general companys current choice of external auditor.
counsel the group financial controller, the head of GAR, the GRC director, the group chief accountant and the external auditor The current overall tenure of the external auditor dates from 1997 and the audit was last tendered in 1999.
Since then there have been regularly attend meetings of the committee.
four different lead audit partners, in accordance with regulatory The Audit Committee met privately with the external auditor requirements and KPMGs own guidance on independence, most and with the head of global audit and risk as appropriate.
recently for the year ended 30 June 2013.
In light of the requirements training and deep dives of the Code and other changes to the regulatory framework, the During the year, the Audit Committee had risk review and training committee has commenced a tender for the external audit, which is sessions, presented by senior executives, on cyber risk and on expected to conclude in late 2014.
The current intention is that the compliance in certain territories.
The committee concluded at new engagement will commence in 2016. the time that it was satisfied with the companys position on The Audit Committee assessed the ongoing effectiveness and these matters but that they would be kept under review.
quality of the external auditor and audit process on the basis of meetings and a questionnaire-based internal review with finance and GAR staff and other senior executives.
The group has a policy on auditor independence and on the use of the external auditor for non-audit services, which is reviewed annually, most recently in July 2014 the new regulations on non-audit services will be taken into consideration as part of next years review.
Under this policy, the provision of any non-audit
