48 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABILITY & RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW: GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS Second, there is greater awareness about Organisational leadership and culture GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS This year we developed specific training for SpeakUp amongst all our employees, PERFORMANCE general managers and their direct reports following refresher training on our Code where appropriate, which is being rolled out by which everyone went through this year.
Manager level and above employees completing each of our markets.
We also continued our Annual Certification of Compliance Response and continuous improvement focus on line managers with the Leaders of All identified breaches are taken very seriously Integrity toolkit and training, as this middle tier of 100% 100% IN 2013 and those that require action are investigated.
our organisation is central to developing a more Employees leaving Diageo due to a breach of fundamental culture of ethics and integrity.
the Code of Business Conduct or other policies Reported and Substantiated Breaches Risk management 831 146 VS 116 IN 2013 Our risk management standard requires 743 all markets and functions to perform risk We are committed to conducting our business assessments at least annually to ensure that responsibly and in accordance with all laws and risks concerning human rights, bribery and 440 regulations to which our business activities are corruption, anti-money laundering, and all other 376 subject.
Our risk and compliance programme, relevant laws and regulations, as well as our overseen by the Audit and Risk Committee, own Code, policies and standards, have been focuses on effective risk management, considered, and that mitigation plans for their compliance and ethics, and strong internal most significant risks have been established.
controls each of which has an annual plan to 2013 2014 Training and communications ensure we have a strong culture of integrity at During the year we took all our employees Diageo.
How the programme is implemented, Reported Reported through SpeakUp 242.
Substantiated Reported through SpeakUp 299. through a refresher training session on our Code.
however, is determined by each of our markets, 16,819 employees completed the training based on their areas of greatest risk.
We tailor Our response to proven breaches varies in one of 16 languages via a new interactive the interventions and training to create what depending on the severity of the matter.
online course, with the rest of our employees will work best for each market, in the context Internally, we carefully monitor our breaches receiving face-to-face training.
of local and international laws and regulation.
to identify any trends or common areas where Each market also has its own training plan Our over-riding aim is to encourage integrity further action may be required, and respond for our Code and key policies, which they deliver in every part of Diageo: we want employees accordingly.
This year, 146 people exited the through locally organised, risk-based training.
to act with exemplary conduct in all their business as a result of breaches of our Code To further embed ownership of this agenda business interactions and truly embody our or policies.
with employees, some regions go beyond value of being proud of what we do.
basic training with annual engagement events Enforcement and incentive Standards and procedures such as the Pathway of Pride programme in Wherever possible, we look to improve Our Code of Business Conduct our Code Africa, and Ethics Day in Asia Pacific.
our culture through training, coaching and sets the standard for what is expected of When an employee joins Diageo, he or she incentives.
Annual performance appraisals are everyone working at Diageo and our other must complete training about our Code within weighted with 70% based on performance policies and standards flow from its principles.
The estimated 3,085 employees who and the other 30% based on behaviour Our manager level and above complete an joined us this year were taken through a oneincluding the individuals commitment to Annual Certification of Compliance ACC to hour induction on compliance and ethics.
Diageos controls, compliance, and ethics confirm their understanding of, and adherence agenda.
Employees overall performance Monitoring, auditing, and reporting to, our Code and any applicable policies, and to affects their pay increases, and where We strive to have a culture in which employees identify any areas of possible non-compliance.
feel comfortable raising concerns about In 2014, the ACC was completed in 16 languages potential breaches of our Code or policies.
We by all eligible managers 9,960 of our employees, Controls expect anyone who comes across a breach to or 36% of our people.
We have a strong internal control environment, report it immediately, either through SpeakUp, and we have an annual programme to assess, Due care in delegating authority our confidential whistleblowing helpline, to test, and report on the effectiveness of internal As our business expands, it is important their line manager, or to a member of the controls across our company.
Our controls to ensure that we embed our standards and controls, compliance and ethics, human cover all aspects of risk, ranging from financial procedures in all new business units.
We plan resources or legal teams.
SpeakUp is also to operational to reputational risk, and all ahead and move quickly to ensure our new available to suppliers.
markets and functions are required to certify acquisitions are operating to the same There were 831 suspected breaches reported annually whether their internal controls are standards as our existing businesses, this year, of which 440 were subsequently operating effectively and quickly remediate and we are consistent in our stance substantiated.
Of the suspected breaches, 299 any weaknesses identified.
were reported through SpeakUp, compared We are also committed to establishing with 242 in 2013.
We believe that there are Further details in the good working relationships with our partners two contributing factors to this increase.
S&R Performance Addendum 2014. and ensuring that they adhere to our standards.
First, we have seen an increase in reporting of Further details at www.
For more information on how we manage concerns from some of our acquisitions and social and ethics risks in our supply chain, emerging markets as our Code and policies see page 49 on Value chain partnerships.
have been embedded further in these areas.
