56 Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 corporate governance report corporate governance report letter from the Chairman of the board of Directors and the Company secretary Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, we are pleased to present the corporate governance report for the year ended 30 June 2014.
This year we are subject to a revised version of the UK Corporate Governance Code, as defined below, which contains new disclosure requirements on: the fair, balanced and understandable nature of the Annual Report: the activities of the Audit Committee: external audit tenders: and Boardroom diversity.
However, as the introduction to the revised Code notes, its original definition of corporate governance endures and we have quoted from it here to set the context in which we prepare and present to you this report on Diageos corporate governance structure and activity: Corporate governance is the system by which companies are directed and controlled.
Boards of Directors are responsible for the governance of their companies.
The shareholders role in governance is to appoint the Directors and the auditors and to satisfy themselves that an appropriate governance structure is in place.
The responsibilities of the Board include setting the companys strategic aims, providing the leadership to put them into effect, supervising the management of the business and reporting to shareholders on their stewardship.
The Boards actions are subject to laws, regulations and the shareholders in general meeting.
We also continue to believe that the right behaviours in the Boardroom are key in delivering good corporate governance and that your Board fully demonstrates these behaviours.
The principal corporate governance rules applying to Diageo as a UK company listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE for the year ended 30 June 2014 are contained in The UK Corporate Governance Code as updated and published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2012 the Code and the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA Listing Rules, which require us to describe, in our Annual Report, our corporate governance from two points of view: the first dealing generally with our application of the Codes main principles and the second dealing specifically with non-compliance with any of the Codes provisions.
The two descriptions together are designed to give shareholders a picture of governance arrangements in relation to the Code as a criterion of good practice.
Throughout the year, Diageo has complied with all relevant provisions set out in the Code which is publicly available under the heading Corporate Governance at the website of the FRC, www.
Diageo must also comply with corporate governance rules contained in the FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules as well as certain related provisions in the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
As well as being subject to UK legislation and practice, as a company listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, Diageo is subject to the listing requirements of the NYSE and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
Compliance with the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 SOX, as it applies to foreign private issuers, is continually monitored.
As Diageo follows UK corporate governance practice, differences from the NYSE corporate governance standards are summarised in Diageos 20-F filing and on our website at www.
com en-row ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
While the Directors believe that the groups corporate governance policies continue to be robust, changes have been and will continue to be made in light of the rules and guidance that are in place at any point in time and of what we consider to be the right Boardroom behaviours as we aspire to become one of the most trusted and respected consumer products companies in the world.
Dr Franz B Humer pD tunnacliffe Chairman Company Secretary
