Dignity plc 42 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance Audit Committee report During 2014, the Committee monitored the integrity of the financial statements and other information provided to shareholders.
Ishbel Macpherson Chairman of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder, Monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the function: review the internal audit plan: all internal audit Audit Committee report for 2014. reports: review and monitor managements responses to the findings and recommendations of the internal audit function: Membership and Process and maintain an effective relationship with the Head of The following Directors served on the Audit Committee the Internal Audit: and Committee during 2014: me as Chairman, Alan McWalter Monitor and review the arrangements by which employees Senior Independent Director, Jane Ashcroft and Martin Pexton can, in confidence, raise concerns about any possible each of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
improprieties in financial and other matters such as compliance with the Bribery Act.
The Board is satisfied that I, as Chairman of the Committee, have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Company The terms of reference are available on the Groups corporate Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
I report the website at www.
Committees deliberations at the next Board meeting and the minutes of each meeting are made available to all members Activities in the year of the Board.
The key activities of the Committee during the year were: The Committee met four times during 2014: in March prior It reviewed the financial statements in the 2014 Annual Report to the release of the Preliminary Announcement for 2013: in and Accounts and the 2014 Interim Report.
As part of this June 2014 to recommend the appointment of Ernst & Young review the Committee received reports from the external LLP EY as external auditors following the resignation of auditors on their audit of that Annual Report and their review  LLP PwC : prior to the release of the interim results.
It also reviewed the Preliminary and of the Interim Announcement for 2014 in July: and again in Interim Announcements made to the London Stock Exchange: December 2014 immediately prior to the end of the financial At all meetings, save for the one where EY were appointed period.
The attendance records of the members is shown external auditors, it reviewed reports made by Internal Audit on page 39.
The external auditors, PwC and latterly EY, the which included the review of progress against the plan for the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the period, the results of principal audits and other significant Operations Director have attended meetings by invitation.
findings, adequacy of managements responses and the timeliness of resolution of actions arising: Role The Committee works with the full Board to fulfil its oversight Review and agreement of the 2014 External Audit Plan and responsibilities.
Its primary functions are to: a three year rolling plan for Internal audit: A six month review and formal adoption of the Risk Register.
Monitor the integrity of the financial statements and other This is part of a formal ongoing process of identifying, information provided to shareholders to ensure they represent evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the a clear and accurate assessment of the Groups position, Group.
The principal risks facing the Group are considered performance, strategy and prospects: on pages 27 and 28 of the Annual Report: Consider the financial statements and recommend to the Selecting EY as external auditors following a rigorous tender Board on whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken and evaluation process involving KPMG LLP, Deloitte LLP as a whole, is fair, balanced, and understandable: as well as EY: Review significant financial reporting issues and judgements Formally review the going concern assumptions adopted in contained in the financial statements: the preparation of the 2013 and 2014 accounts: Review the systems of accounting, internal control and Commissioning and reviewing an independent external risk management: assessment of Internal Audit which was completed by Monitor and review the significant risks identified by the BDO LLP during the period: and Group as well as the mitigation of those risks: Reviewing the terms of reference of the Committee to ensure Oversee and maintain an appropriate relationship with they meet both current and best practice.
The revised terms of the Groups external auditors and review the effectiveness, reference were then adopted by the Board.
They are available independence and objectivity of the external audit process: on the Groups corporate website at www.
Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Other Information Governance Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 43 The Audit Committee, on an annual basis, normally formally Areas that have been discussed and considered by the considers the performance and independence of the external Committee in relation to the 2014 Annual Report are: auditors.
The Committee did not review the performance of the external auditors in the period as EY were only appointed on Pensions We examined the assumptions used in the 5 June and it was felt to be too early in their tenure to have a actuarial valuation for the defined benefit pension scheme meaningful review.
The formal annual reviews will recommence which include the discount rate, the inflation rate and in 2015.
The Committee was, however, satisfied with their mortality.
We considered the consistency of the basis of performance in 2014. calculation of the assumptions used with 2013, and agreed with the judgements reached by management: The Committee is confident that the objectivity and independence of the external auditors is not compromised by Provision for doubtful trade receivables We discussed the reason of non-audit work, not least because now such work will risks relating to the trade receivables ledger and the adequacy generally be undertaken by other professional firms.
A formal of provisions made against them.
We considered the statement of independence from EY has been received in consistency of the provisioning methodology to the prior year.
We agreed with the judgements reached by management: and Audit Tender Capital refinancing and Return of Value to shareholders As discussed in the 2013 Annual Report the Group decided to The Committee considered the appropriateness of the tender the role of external auditor for Dignity plc as the ratio of accounting treatment adopted for the capital refinancing and non-audit to audit services had continued to be high.
PwC did Return of Value to shareholders in the year, including that not take part in the tender process leaving them available to relating to professional fees.
This consideration extended provide the non-audit services from which the Group has to consider the appropriateness of extinguishment versus benefitted over recent years.
modification accounting and was based on professional advice received as part of the transaction.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the choice of external auditor save for under the terms of the Secured The Committee discussed the annual external audit plan in Notes.
Dignity 2002 Limited and certain of its subsidiaries advance of the year end with the external auditors, which are only permitted to engage a firm of accountants of repute addressed the planned audit approach to these key accounting in the UK.
Consequentially the Group invited tenders from areas.
The Committee discussed the auditors views on key EY, KPMG LLP and Deloitte LLP.
The process consisted of judgement areas and audit findings relating to key accounting comprehensive presentations to the Chief Executive, the matters at the conclusion of the audit.
As this was EYs first Finance Director, myself and the Financial Controller of the year as auditors they have considered various other judgements Group together with individual face to face meetings with made by the Group.
The Committee also considered these in certain Directors.
Following that process a recommendation greater detail than usual.
was made by myself, after discussions with the Chief Executive The Committee holds a private session with the Lead Partner and the Finance Director, to the Audit Committee to appoint EY.
from our external auditors without management present at This recommendation was accepted by the Committee and least twice a year.
In addition, I, as Chairman of the Audit recommended to the Board.
Committee, met with the Lead Partner three times through the year to provide the opportunity for open communication and Policy on non-audit fees the free flow of any concerns relating both to the openness, With effect from 1 January 2014, the Group adopted a more transparency and general engagement of management with rigorous and comprehensive policy on the use of the external the audit process as well as to understand EYs assessment auditors for non-audit work.
The policy states that non-audit of key judgements as they arise.
fees are limited to no more than 50 per cent of the annual audit fee unless there are exceptional circumstances, which The Audit Committees role are defined as: The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on The work necessitates the use of the auditor for regulatory external audit.
This policy assigns responsibility for monitoring reasons: and objectivity, independence and compliance with ethical and Their use represents a material time cost benefit to the Group regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee with day to in conducting a transaction.
day responsibility assigned to the Finance Director, Steve Whittern.
The Committee also retains responsibility for the This policy also precludes the use of the external auditors for appointment and removal of the external auditors, who certain types of work.
All such work will be fully analysed in are currently EY.
the Annual Report between tax compliance and advisory, non statutory acquisition related services and statutory services.
If non-audit fees to be incurred with the external auditor are Dignity plc 44 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance Audit Committee report continued An external evaluation of the Internal Audit function was to be in excess of 20 per cent of the audit fee, Audit Committee completed by BDO LLP during the period.
The Chartered approval will be required prior to the work being commenced Institute of Internal Auditors requires under the International and further disclosure of the works and the reasons for it being Professional Practice Framework that external assessments performed by the external auditors will be included in the must be conducted at least once every five years by a qualified, following Annual Report.
The Audit Committee do not envisage independent assessor or assessment team from outside the that non-audit fees payable to the external auditors will exceed organisation.
The Committee decided that it was appropriate 50 per cent in the future, other than in exceptional to complete such an assessment.
BDO LLP concluded that circumstances.
Internal Audit was operating efficiently and effectively.
A number of suggestions for minor improvements were In the period, EY undertook no non-audit work on behalf of made which will be implemented.
the Group except for their review of the Interim Report for 2014 and completion of turnover certificates and financial covenants Whistleblowing compliance certificate.
Total fees of 40,000 were charged A formal process, established via the Committee, exists for the non-audit services, compared to 0.2 million of by which employees of the Group may, in confidence, raise audit services.
concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
This ensures arrangements are in place for the Audit partner rotation proportionate and independent investigation of such matters Consistent with the Auditing Practices Board, EY audit and appropriate follow-up action.
Whistleblowing reports are partners serve for a maximum of five years on listed clients.
formally reviewed on an annual basis by the Committee or This is the first year that Simon ONeill is Dignitys audit more frequently should the need arise.
partner as a consequence of the change of external auditors.
This Audit Committee report was reviewed and approved by The Audit Committee considers that the relationship the Board on 4 March 2015. with the auditors is working well and is satisfied with their effectiveness.
The Audit Committee has also kept under review the independence of EY and has been satisfied at all times that any threats arising to their independence have Ishbel Macpherson been subject to appropriate safeguards.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Internal Audit 4 March 2015 The Group has a dedicated Internal Audit team, which reports to the Chief Executive and the Audit Committee.
It coordinates the completion of self-assessment reports by operational management that assists in highlighting areas of control weakness or exposure.
Internal audit reviews are completed on such areas together with selected areas of the head office function and any area where a Director or the Audit Committee requests a review.
During 2014 as in 2013, there were quarterly meetings between the Head of Internal Audit and the Executive Directors formally to review and discuss Internal Audits work programme and findings.
In addition, regular meetings between Internal Audit and the external auditors, PwC and latterly EY, were held during the year to discuss and plan audit work and to ensure a complementary approach.
The Head of Internal Audit provides reports to the Audit Committee at every full meeting and met on a one to one basis with me, as the Chairman of the Audit Committee on three occasions in the period.
