Dignity plc 36 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance Board of Directors Peter Hindley Mike McCollum NonExecutive Chairman Chief Executive Appointed to the Board: 2004 Appointed to the Board: 2004 Background and experience: Background and experience: Our strong and experienced Peter has extensive experience of Mike joined Dignitys former parent, Board is responsible for the industry having been appointed SCI, in 1995 from KPMG Corporate the long-term success Chief Executive of Plantsbrook Group Finance in London.
He subsequently led a Director he was part of the of the Group.
management buy out of Dignity in management team that guided the 2002.
The Company was then floated Group through the leveraged buy out on the Stock Exchange in 2004. in 2002 and IPO in 2004.
He was Peter became Non-Executive appointed Chief Executive in 2009.
Before He has a law degree from Birmingham entering the funeral service industry, University, is a solicitor and also holds Peter held a number of senior an MBA from Warwick University.
Peter was appointed Chairman of the Steering External appointments: Committee of the French funerals Non-Executive Director of group OGF, SA in January 2014.
Steve Whittern Andrew Davies Richard Portman Finance Director Operations Director Corporate Services Director Appointed to the Board: 2009 Appointed to the Board: 2004 Appointed to the Board: 2006 Background and experience: Background and experience: Background and experience: Steve joined the Group in 1999 from Andrew joined his family owned Richard joined SCI from HSBC business in 1979 and worked KPMG.
He was appointed Finance as Chief Accountant in 1999.
Director at the beginning of 2009, as a funeral director and embalmer Following the IPO, Richard was until the business was sold to Great having spent the previous two years as appointed as Company Secretary Financial Controller, being responsible Southern Group in 1993.
He then held and became Corporate Services for the Groups finance function.
Steve various management positions within Director in 2006.
Richard is an FCA, has led the three refinancings and Great Southern Group and following holds a geography degree from Returns of Cash since 2010, and the the acquisition by SCI in 1994, held Birmingham University, is a Fellow debt and equity funding for the Yew senior operational positions within SCI of the Chartered Management Acquisition in 2013.
He became Operations Director Institute and is a Member of the and holds a mathematics degree from in 2001 and was a member of the Investor Relations Society.
management buy out team in 2002.
External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: None.
Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Other Information Governance Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 37 Alan McWalter Ishbel Macpherson Senior Independent Director NonExecutive Director Appointed to the Board: 2009 Appointed to the Board: 2009 Board Committee Membership as at 26 December 2014 Background and experience: Background and experience: Alan is Non-Executive Chairman Ishbel is a Non-Executive Director Audit Remuneration Nomination of Churchill China plc, Belfield and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Furnishings Ltd, Kornicis Ltd and Committee of Galliford Try plc, Senior Peter Senior Independent Director of Independent Non-Executive Director Hindley SDL PLC.
Prior to these roles Alan was of Dechra Pharmaceuticals plc and Group Marketing Director of Marks Senior Independent Non-Executive Alan and Spencer plc and before that held Director and Chairman of the Audit McWalter senior positions with Kingfisher plc Committee of Bonmarche Holdings Ishbel and Thomson Consumer Electronics.
Prior to taking on non-executive Macpherson roles she held senior positions with Barclays fide Zoete Wedd, Hoare Govett Jane and Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.
Ashcroft Martin Pexton Chairman Member Jane Ashcroft CBE Martin Pexton NonExecutive Director NonExecutive Director Appointed to the Board: 2012 Appointed to the Board: 2012 Background and experience: Background and experience: Jane is Chief Executive of Anchor, a Martin was previously Managing leading provider of services to older Director of LMS Capital plc and people and has held a number of prior to that an Executive Director of senior positions since joining them London Merchant Securities plc and in 1999.
She is also Non-Executive Personnel Director of the law firm Director of Care England, Treasurer Allen & Overy.
He has also in the of The Silver Line and was previously past held a number of non-executive a Non-Executive Director of Stroud & positions including roles with Minerva Swindon Building Society.
A graduate plc and Inflexion plc as well as a of Stirling University, she is a Fellow number with private companies.
of the Institute of Chartered He has an MBA from the London Secretaries & Administrators, a Business School.
Links Member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development, See Audit Committee report: p. 42 to p. 44 a Trustee of Silver Line and was created a CBE in the 2014 New See Nomination Committee report: p. 45 Years honours list.
See Report on Directors remuneration: p. 46 to p. 58
