Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Other Information Governance Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 45 Nomination Committee report The Terms of Reference of the Committee were comprehensively reviewed in the period.
Peter Hindley Chairman of the Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder, There were no changes to the composition of the Board On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 2014 in 2014.
At the meeting in January 2014 the Committee Nomination Committee report.
recommended to the Board that Jane Ashcroft and Martin Pexton be appointed for a further two year period having Throughout 2014 the Nomination Committee the Committee already served for two years from 1 April 2012.
At the meeting consisted of me as Chairman, Alan McWalter Senior in December 2014 the Committee recommended to the Board, Independent Director, Jane Ashcroft, Ishbel Macpherson and following a rigorous review of their performance, that Ishbel Martin Pexton each of whom are independent Non-Executive Macpherson and Alan McWalter be appointed for a further two Directors.
The Company Secretary, Richard Portman, acts as years from 14 December 2014, having already served for six Secretary to the Committee.
The principal duties of the Committee are as follows to: The Committee, and by extension the full Board, continue to support the spirit of Lord Davies Report Women on Boards.
Keep under review the structure, size and composition of the In 2011 we set a goal of 20 per cent of Board positions to be Board which includes ensuring that it has the necessary skills, filled by women by 2015.
This objective was achieved in 2012. knowledge and experience: We continue to remain mindful of the overall need to recruit the very best candidates regardless of gender and will continue to Regularly consider succession planning for the Directors and encourage similar diversity in senior management positions senior managers: and throughout the workforce.
Be responsible for identifying and nominating for approval by the full Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when I am also pleased to confirm that the Group will continue they arise: to publish the details on corporate diversity suggested in Recommendation 2 of the Davies Report, support the changes Keep under review the leadership needs of the Group, both to the UK Corporate Governance Code in Recommendation 3 executive and non-executive: and report on our compliance Recommendation 4 and Review annually the time required from the Non-Executive appointment process Recommendation 5 in our Annual Report.
Directors: and During the period, the Board completed an internal performance Review the results of the Board performance evaluation that evaluation of itself and its Committees.
The results of this are relate to the composition of the Board.
The terms of reference of the Committee were comprehensively Finally, the Companys Articles provide that all Directors retire reviewed during 2014 to ensure they meet both current and by rotation with one third being subject to re-election each best practice.
The revised terms of reference were then adopted year.
However we continue to adopt the provisions of the UK by the Board.
They are available on the Groups corporate Corporate Governance Code such that all Directors offer website at www.
The Committee met three times in 2014.
At these meetings This Nomination Committee report was reviewed and approved the principal duties of the Committee were formally considered by the Board on 4 March 2015. and no issues or concerns were identified.
The members of the Committees attendance record is set out on page 39.
I report on the Committees proceedings at the next full Board Peter Hindley meeting and the minutes of those meetings are made available Chairman of the Nomination Committee to all members of the Board.
