DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance 47 Audit Committee Report Members of Committee: Attendance MarieLouise Clayton Chairman 6 6 John Nicholas 6 6 Charles Packshaw 6 6 MarieLouise Clayton Chairman of Audit Committee Key Duties Dear Shareholder Full terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
I am pleased to present my report on the activities of the Audit Committee in the year ended 30 September 2014.
Monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to external It has been another busy year for the Committee and much has been financial reporting and similar announcements, including Half Year reviewed and reported from across the Group.
The Committee held six and Annual financial statements, Interim Management Statements meetings during the year, during which it focused in particular on the and trading updates.
integrity of the Groups financial reporting and on the effectiveness of both the internal and external audit.
Reviews key accounting and auditing issues.
The Committee also focused attention on ensuring that the Groups Reviews the Groups internal control systems and risk policies relating to antiBribery and Corruption continue to develop.
Thisis a significant challenge in a decentralised group such as ours with businesses operating over a wide spread of geographies and markets.
Recommends appointment and or reappointment of the external The Committee was pleased to support managements response to auditor and approves their terms of engagement.
these challenges by developing a comprehensive elearning training programme which will initially focus on antibribery training, before Reviews and monitors independence of the external auditor and being extended to other matters of governance.
This training will be the effectiveness of the audit process.
provided to all employees across the Group and is due to commence early in the new financial year.
Monitors policy on external auditor supplying nonaudit services.
The acquisition of Kentek Oy and subsequent political upheaval in Monitors fraud reports and operation of the Companys Ukraine has also challenged the Committee to closely review the scope Whistleblowing and the antiBribery and Corruption policies.
of international sanctions applied against certain Russian operations and to ensure that appropriate procedures are in place in the Groups Russian Reviews effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and makes businesses to ensure that compliance with these sanctions is maintained.
I have continued to meet separately with the Companys auditor to seek Approves the Internal Audit work programme and reviews the their views on the strength and depth of financial reporting and internal results of the work undertaken.
control processes over the Groups activities.
Based on this discussion and on the report the Committee receives from the Groups Internal Reviews the basis on which the Company and its principal Audit manager, I am satisfied that management maintains a strong focus subsidiaries continue to prepare their financial statements on a on ensuring that robust systems of internal control are in place across going concern basis.
Reports to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
MarieLouise Clayton 17 November 2014 48 DIPLOMA PLC Governance Audit Committee Report continued Audit Committee The Committee is chaired by MarieLouise Clayton and comprises Audit Committee Agenda independent nonExecutive Directors.
The Chairman of the Committee 2014 and John Nicholas are both qualified accountants, who have recent and relevant financial experience.
Reviewed and agreed the scope of work to be undertaken by the external auditor and agreed the terms of engagement and fees to John Rennocks, the Chairman of the Company, resigned from the be paid for the external audit.
Audit Committee on 13 November 2012 in accordance with good governance practice, but continues to attend meetings at the invitation Reviewed the Annual Report & Accounts and received reports of the Committee.
from the Group Finance Director and the external auditor on the key accounting issues and areas of significant judgement.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Reviewed the processes necessary to ensure that the Board TheExecutive Directors also attend Committee meetings and the was able to confirm that the Annual Report & Accounts are Internal Audit manager also attended two Committee meetings.
The fair, balanced and understandable.
Committee met with the external auditor during the year, without the Executive Directors being present.
Reviewed the report from the Group Finance Director on the controls in place to mitigate fraud risk.
Engagement of the external auditor The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the financial Reviewed the Interim Management Statements and Trading statements of the Group and of the Company.
The audit includes the Updates at meetings held in January, March, July and September.
review and testing of the systems of internal financial control and the data contained in the financial statements, to the extent necessary Invited the Internal Audit manager to attend meetings in forexpressing an audit opinion on the truth and fairness of the September and January to review the results of the Internal Audit financialstatements.
work for the current year and to agree the scope and focus of Internal Audit work to be carried out in the following year.
Deloitte LLP has been the Companys auditor since its appointment in 2008.
Deloitte LLP provides the Committee with relevant reports, reviews Reviewed the Half Year Announcement and received reports from and advice throughout the year, as set out in their terms of engagement.
the Group Finance Director and the external auditor on the key accounting issues and areas of significant judgement.
In accordance with UK regulations, the Companys auditor adheres to a rotation policy based on best practice and a new Group lead engagement Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk partner was appointed in 2013 in place of the previous lead engagement management procedures and made recommendations to the partner who had completed a term of five years in that role.
Board on areas for improvement.
During the year, the Committee carried out an assessment of the Reviewed the Groups policy on antiBribery and Corruption and effectiveness of the external audit process.
The assessment was led by the procedures being developed to ensure compliance across the the Chairman of the Committee, assisted by the Group Finance Director Group.
and focused on certain criteria which the Committee considered to be important factors in demonstrating an effective audit process.
These Reviewed the scope of sanctions issued during the year by the factors included the quality of audit staff, the planning and execution of European Union and the US and the procedures set up to monitor the audit and the role of management in the audit process.
Following compliance by the Groups businesses.
this assessment, the Committee concluded that the external audit process remained effective and that it provides an appropriate Reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process and independent challenge of the Groups senior management.
recommended the reappointment of the Groups external auditors.
The Committee remains satisfied that Deloitte continues to provide arobust and effective audit and supports the work of the Committee through clear and objective communication on developments in Reviewed the Groups policy on nonaudit services which may be financial reporting and governance.
The Committee supports the provided by the auditor and the Groups policy on whistleblowing.
requirement of the Code that the audit should be put out to tender atleast once every ten years.
The Committee will be reviewing the Reviewed the Audit Committee Terms of Reference.
Companys audit tender timetable and processes as part of a wider review of the Competition & Markets Authority Order which is effective from 1January 2015.
DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance 49 Financial reporting and significant judgements Risk management and internal control As part of its monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements, The Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the the Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have been Groups system of internal control.
The system of internal control is adopted and whether management has made appropriate estimates and designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve judgements and seeks support from the external auditors to assess them.
business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The main issues reviewed in the year ended 30 September 2014 are set out below: The Board has established a clear organisational structure with defined authority levels.
The daytoday running of the Groups business is Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets: delegated to the Executive Directors of the Company.
The Executive The Committee considered the carrying value of goodwill and the Directors visit each operating unit on a regular basis and meet with both assumptions underlying the impairment review.
In particular, the operational and finance management and staff.
Committee discussed with management and the external auditor the background to the change of the level at which goodwill is assessed for Key financial and operational measures are reported on a weekly and or impairment, as described further in note 10 to the consolidated financial monthly basis and are measured against both budget and half year statements.
The Committee was satisfied that this change was reasonable reforecasts which have been approved and reviewed by the Board.
The judgements in relation to goodwill impairment On an annual basis, each business unit is required to implement a risk largely relate to the assumptions underlying the calculations of the value assessment process on the key strategic, operational, financial and in use of the business or Sector being tested for impairment.
These accounting risks to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks judgements are primarily the calculation of the discount rate, the to the Groups business.
They include common definitions of risk and achievability of long term business plans and macroeconomic ensure, as far as practicable, that the policies and procedures established assumptions underlying the valuation process.
This area is a prime by the Board are appropriate to manage the perceived risks to the sourceof audit focus and accordingly the external auditor provided Group.
These assessments are supplemented by a detailed evaluation detailed reporting to theCommittee.
of the key financial controls of the business units which are critically reviewed by the Groups Internal Audit manager.
The Committee Valuation of inventory: annually reviews the results of these assessments and the key strategic The Committee reviewed the Report of the Group Finance Director and operating risks of the Group identified by management.
During the that set out the gross balances by business, together with any related year, the risk assessment process revealed no significant risks of which provision against the carrying value.
The Committee reviewed the bases the Board was not previously aware.
used to value and confirm existence of inventory held across the Group: they also considered the appropriateness of provisions held against the The risks and uncertainties which are currently judged to have the most carrying value of inventory, having regard to the age and volumes of significant impact on the Groups long term performance are set out on inventory, relative to expected usage.
These matters were also discussed pages 34 to 37. with the Group Finance Director and the external auditor.
The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk Recoverability of accounts receivable: management and internal control systems for the period from 1 October The Committee reviewed the Report of the Group Finance Director 2013 to the date of this Report.
Taking into account the results of this that set out the gross balances by business, together with any related years business risk assessment process and the reports from the Internal provision against the carrying value.
The Committee reviewed the Audit manager, the Board, with the advice of the Committee, is satisfied report of work done by the external auditor on trade receivables to that the Group has in place effective risk management and internal confirm both existence and recoverability: the appropriateness control systems.
of provisions held against the carrying value of accounts receivable were also considered, having regard to the age and creditworthiness of the customer.
These matters were also discussed with the Group Finance Director and the external auditor.
The Committee was satisfied that each of the matters set out above had been fully and adequately addressed by the Executive Directors, appropriately tested and reviewed by the external auditor and that the disclosures made in the Annual Report & Accounts were appropriate.
In addition to the main issues reviewed above, the Committee also seeks confirmation from the auditor that the Groups businesses follow appropriate policies to recognise material streams of revenue and that the audit work carried out more generally has assessed any instances where management may be able to override key internal controls designed to guard against fraud or material misstatement.
The auditor also reports to the Committee on other less material matters relating to the Groups small defined pension scheme, the Groups taxation position and any legal provisions existing at the reporting date.
50 DIPLOMA PLC Governance Audit Committee Report continued Internal audit Taxation services are generally not provided by the auditor: a separate The Groups finance department includes a separate Internal Audit firmis retained to provide tax advice, including any assistance with tax function.
This is managed by a qualified internal auditor who is based compliance matters generally.
During the year the Company continued to in Toronto, Canada.
On larger audit engagements the Internal Audit use the tax department of Deloitte LLP to provide advice to the Company manager is assisted by the Group finance team at Diploma PLC.
in connection with legislation relating to controlled foreign companies.
This legislation was significantly amended by HMGovernment during the A full programme of internal audit visits has been completed during the year and the implications are currently being assessed by the Company year.
The scope of work carried out by internal audit generally focuses with the assistance of Deloitte LLP tax advisors.
As this is not a significant on the internal financial controls and risk management procedures assignment, the Committee remains satisfied that the work is sufficiently operating within each business.
In January, the Internal Audit manager ringfenced so as not to conflict with the duties of Deloitte LLP as auditor.
presents his audit plan for the year to the Committee for their approval.
Written reports are prepared on the results of each visit which set out In other circumstances, proposed assignments are generally put out to weaknesses identified during the work, together with recommendations tender and decisions to award work taken on the basis of demonstrable to improve the control environment.
These reports are reviewed and competence and cost effectiveness.
discussed with the Executive Directors.
The Committee assures itself of the auditors independence by receiving At the conclusion of the financial year, the Internal Audit manager regular reports which provide details of any assignments and related reports to the Committee on the results of the audit work carried out in fees carried out by the auditor in addition to their normal audit work, the year.
The Committee reviews managements response to matters and these are reviewed against the above guidelines.
raised, including the time taken to resolve such matters.
There were no significant matters identified in the internal audits undertaken during Details of the external auditors total fees, including nonaudit fees of the year, but recommendations were made in relation to ensuring the 12,000 paid to Deloitte LLP during the year are set out in note 27 to completeness and sufficiency of cycle counts of inventories and to the financial statements.
ensuring that the procedures for chasing older receivable balances remained robust and were consistently applied.
The Internal Audit Sanctions manager also assisted the Committee in its oversight of the Groups In January 2014, the Company acquired Kentek, a specialised controls designed to ensure compliance with the policy on antiBribery distributorof filters and related products which is based in Finland and and Corruption.
As part of this work Internal Audit work ensured that with substantial operations in Russia and the Baltic States.
Shortly after appropriate support was provided in relation to employees claims for completion of the acquisition, and in response to political developments reimbursement of expenditure on entertaining customers and suppliers.
in Ukraine, the EU and US implemented various sanctions against a growing list of market sectors, corporations and individuals based in The Internal Audit manager also reported to the Committee that good Russia.
As a consequence, the Audit Committee worked with senior progress had been made by the Groups businesses in implementing management of the Company, in conjunction with local management recommendations made last year and in particular in improving of Kentek, to determine the scope and reach of these sanctions and procedures operating over supplier masterfile data and credit have implemented a system to ensure ongoing compliance with this cardterminals.
The Committee has received reports on compliance with these sanctions and will continue to monitor The Committee continues to keep under review the need for a more developments until the sanctions are suspended or revoked.
independent Internal Audit function in the Group.
The Committee remains satisfied that the Groups system of internal control is appropriate AntiBribery and Whistleblowing for a group of the size and nature of Diploma PLC and the Committees Diploma has a Groupwide antiBribery and Corruption policy to comply current view is that a separate formal independent Internal Audit function with the Bribery Act 2010 and it periodically reviews its procedures to is not required at this time.
ensure continued effective compliance in its businesses around the world.
During the year, the Group developed an elearning training programme Nonaudit fees on antiBribery and Corruption which will be undertaken by all Group The Committee has established a set of guidelines covering the type employees during the new financial year and .
ofnonaudit work that can be assigned to the external auditor.
These guidelines were reviewed and updated last year and relate to advisory During the year, the Committee formally reviewed the Groups services where the auditors detailed knowledge of the Groups affairs Whistleblowing Policy, which provides the framework to encourage means that it may be best placed to carry out such work.
This extends andgive employees confidence to blow the whistle and report to, but is not restricted to, shareholder and other circulars, regulatory irregularities.
Employees are encouraged to raise concerns with reports, and on occasions, work in connection with disposals.
designated individuals, including the Executive Directors, the Group Company Secretary or the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
All such The external auditor may only provide such services where these do not reports are investigated and reported to the Committee, together with conflict with their statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
Work in details of corrective action taken.
The Groups Whistleblowing Policy is connection with acquisitions, including due diligence reviews, is not monitored by the Committee and no matters were reported to the provided by the auditor, but is placed with other firms.
Committee under this policy during the year.
