42 DIPLOMA PLC Governance Corporate Governance Members of Board Attendance Chairman John Rennocks 7 7 Independent nonExecutive Directors MarieLouise Clayton 7 7 John Nicholas 7 7 Charles Packshaw 7 7 Executive Directors Iain Henderson 7 7 Nigel Lingwood 7 7 Bruce Thompson 7 7 John Rennocks Chairman Compliance with the Code Dear Shareholder Diploma PLC is required to state whether it has complied with the Main I am pleased to present Diplomas report on Corporate Governance on Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code, published by the behalf of our Board.
Financial Reporting Council in September 2012.
Set out on pages 43 to 67 is an explanation of how the Company has complied with the main Set out in this section of the Annual Report & Accounts is a report on Principles of the Code.
the activities of the Board and each of its three Committees which are responsible for ensuring that the Board fully discharges its governance The Board confirms that throughout the financial year, the Company duties and applies the principles of good governance as set out in the applied all of the Principles set out in sections A to E of the UK Corporate 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Governance Code for the period under review.
The Board also confirms that it complies with all of the Provisions of the Code as at the date of In my Report to shareholders on Governance in 2011, I set out clear this Report with the exception of one: namely the Companys evaluation objectives for the Board to develop its policies and processes to ensure of the Board has not been externally facilitated at least every three years, that the Board would be able to meet the stringent governance standards as explained further on page 45.
In addition and as explained in the 2013 required for a Company that is now firmly established in the FTSE 250 Annual Report & Accounts, the Company had not identified a Senior constituent group.
I am pleased that, as I come to the end of my term Independent Director from 1 October 2013 until 15 November 2013 with the Company, we have made good progress in meeting those when John Nicholas was appointed as Senior Independent Director.
objectives with a refreshed set of nonExecutive members of the Board and its Committees.
Further amendments in the Boards existing The Companys auditor Deloitte LLP, is required to review whether the governance processes will be required next year as the FRC continues above statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine to revise and expand the scope of the Code with the publication of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for their 2014Code.
review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reflect such compliance.
The Committees have been focused this year on ensuring that the Boards governance polices remain both robust and in line with best practice and appropriate to manage the development of the Group as itcontinues to broaden its activities into new markets and geographies.
The Audit Committee has had to extend its activities to ensure that As part of this work, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed theGroups newly acquired Russian businesses comply fully with furtherthe appropriateness of the Groups remuneration policies, newinternational sanctions.
The Committee has also worked with whichhas included a consultation exercise with the Companys management to develop further its procedures for maintaining largershareholders.
compliance with the Groups antiBribery and Corruption policy.
Following the announcement of my intention to retire from the Board in Finally, as always I would like to encourage shareholders to find the 2015, the Nomination Committee has worked diligently with the Chief timeto attend our AGM on Wednesday, 21 January 2015.
It provides Executive Officer to ensure that a transparent and orderly process has anexcellent opportunity to meet the Executive Directors and the been followed to identify and appoint John Nicholas as my replacement independent nonExecutive Directors on the Board whose Committees as Chairman of the Company.
Reports are set out in the following pages of this Report on Governance.
The Nomination Committee has also begun an exercise to identify John Rennocks and appoint a new nonExecutive Director which will ensure that the 17 November 2014 Company continues to maintain an appropriate composition and structure for the Board and its Committees, with the right balance of skills and experience to lead Diploma as it continues to grow.
DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance 43 Framework of Corporate Governance The Board The Diploma PLC Board is accountable to the Companys Audit Committee shareholders for standards of governance across the Groups Chaired by MarieLouise Clayton businesses.
Certain strategic decisionmaking powers and authorities Number of meetings in the year: six of the Company are reserved as matters for the Board.
The principal matters reserved for the Board are set out below.
Daytoday Role of the Committee operational decisions are managed by the Chief Executive Officer.
The Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing and monitoring the Companys financial statements, accounting Setting the overall strategic direction and oversight of the processes, audit internal and external, internal control systems and management of Diploma PLC.
risk management procedures and also monitors issues relating to fraud and whistleblowing.
Nomination Committee Approval of the Group and Company financial statements.
Chaired by John Rennocks Number of meetings in the year: two Maintaining sound internal control and risk management systems.
Role of the Committee Approval of major corporate transactions and commitments.
The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees.
It identifies Succession planning, appointments to the Board and senior and nominates suitable candidates to be appointed to the Board management remuneration.
subject to Board approval and considers succession generally.
Review of the Groups overall corporate governance arrangements and reviewing the performance of the Board and its Committees Remuneration Committee annually.
Chaired by John Nicholas Number of meetings in the year: eight Approval of the delegation of authority between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive and the terms of reference of all Role of the Committee Committees of the Board.
The Committee reviews and recommends to the Board, the framework and policy for the remuneration of the Chairman and the Where appropriate, matters are delegated to a Committeewhich Executive Directors.
The remuneration of the nonExecutive Directors will consider them in accordance with its terms of reference.
is determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The Details of each Committees terms of reference are available on Committee takes into account the business strategy of the Group the DiplomaPLC website at www.
com and how remuneration policy should reflect and support that strategy.
44 DIPLOMA PLC Governance Corporate Governance continued Leadership To ensure that nonExecutive Directors can constructively challenge Board composition and support proposals on strategy, the Board has adopted a process The Board comprises a Chairman, three Executive Directors and three of reviewing and approving the agreed strategy for the Company on a independent nonExecutive Directors.
The nonExecutive Directors two three yearly basis.
It is intended that the next formal review of the are appointed for specified terms and the details of their respective Companys strategy will be carried out by the Board in June 2015 at one appointments are set out in the Remuneration Committee Report on of the Groups businesses based in the US.
The previous formal strategy page 59.
The biographical details of the Board members are set out on development review took place in October 2012 at the Groups business pages 40 and 41. in Swindon, UK.
Meetings of the Board The existing Chairman has confirmed that he will stand down from his The Board has six scheduled meetings each year and meets more role as Chairman and retire from the Board at the conclusion of the frequently as required.
It met on seven occasions during the year under Annual General Meeting on 21 January 2015. review and attendance at these meetings is set out on page 42.
The Board has appointed John Nicholas, who is currently a non Each Director is expected to attend all meetings of the Board Executive Director and the Senior Independent Director of the orCommittees of which they are a member.
In addition senior Company, as Chairmandesignate.
As a consequence of this management from across the Group and advisors attend certain appointment, the Board has also asked the Nomination Committee meetings for the discussion of specific items in greater depth.
toset up an appropriate process to identify and recommend for appointment a new nonExecutive Director.
This process has not This exposure to the members of senior management from across the yetconcluded as at the date of this Report.
businesses helps enhance the Boards understanding of the businesses, the implementation of strategy and the changing dynamics of the Activities of the Board markets in which the businesses operate.
The Companys governance framework is set out on page 43 together with a summary of the formal terms of reference.
The core activities of Effectiveness the Board and its Committees are planned on an annual basis and this Independent nonExecutive Directors framework forms the basic structure within which the Board operates.
The nonExecutive Directors are determined by the Board to be independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships The Boards terms of reference also set out the separate and distinct orcircumstances which could affect, or appear to affect, a Directors roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman, John Rennocks was considered independent by the Board both at the time of his appointment as Director on 12 July The Chairman is responsible for the overall leadership and governance 2002 and as Chairman on 7 January 2004.
In accordance with the of the Board and ensures that the Directors have an understanding of Code, the ongoing test of independence for the Chairman is not the views of the Companys major shareholders.
The Chairman sets the appropriate.
The Chairmandesignate, John Nicholas is considered Boards agenda and ensures that there is a healthy culture of challenge bytheBoard to be independent.
and debate at Board and Committee meetings.
All nonExecutive Directors are advised of the likely time commitments The Board appoints the Chief Executive and monitors his performance at appointment.
The ability of individual Directors to allocate sufficient in leading the Company and providing operational and performance time to the discharge of their responsibilities is considered as part of the management in delivering the agreed strategy.
The Chief Executive is Directors annual evaluation process, overseen by the Chairman.
Any responsible for developing, for the Boards approval, appropriate values issues concerning the Chairmans time commitment are dealt with by and standards to guide all activities undertaken by the Company and for the Nomination Committee, chaired for this purpose by the Senior maintaining good relationships and communications with investors.
The approval of acquisitions, for the most part, is a matter reserved for Each nonExecutive Director is required to inform the Board of any the Board, save that it delegates to the Chief Executive the responsibility changes to their other appointments.
for such activities to a specified level of authority.
Similarly, there are authority levels covering capital expenditure which can be exercised During the year, the Chairman has also held meetings with the by the Chief Executive.
Beyond these levels of authority, projects are nonExecutive Directors, without the Executive Directors present.
referred to the Board for approval.
The appointments of nonExecutive Directors are subject to formal, Other matters reserved to the Board include treasury policies, internal rigorous and transparent procedures which are described more fully control and risk management.
inthe Report from the Nomination Committee which is set out on page51.
The Company has purchased insurance to cover its Directors and Officers against the costs of defending themselves in legal proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect of any damages resulting from those proceedings.
The Company also indemnifies its Directors and Officers to the extent permitted by law.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where the Director or Officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance 45 Diversity The Board had intended this year to carry out an evaluation of the Board The Board is committed to a culture that attracts and retains talented using external facilitation.
However, with the impending appointment of people to deliver outstanding performance and further enhance the a new Chairman and as the current nonExecutive Directors have only success of the Group.
In that culture, diversity across a range of criteria is been members of the Board for a relatively short period, it was decided valued, primarily in relation to skills, knowledge and experience and also to postpone this externally facilitated evaluation of the Board until 2015. in other criteria such as gender and ethnicity.
The Board has considered setting objectives in relation to diversity, but does not believe that such The Board therefore continued with its normal internal evaluation objectives are appropriate at this juncture, given the relatively small exercise this year, as described above.
This exercise was completed in Board.
The Board will however keep this matter under review, September 2014 and identified the following areas that the Board particularly in light of Board succession and development.
wished to address in 2015: Information and professional development strengthen the Boards competencies through appointment of a new An induction programme is agreed for all new Directors aimed at ensuring nonExecutive Director with broad industrial experience gained in an that they are able to develop an understanding and awareness of the international environment: Groups core processes, its people and businesses.
The nonExecutive seek more regular presentations at Board meetings from senior Directors awareness of the businesses is further developed through management across the Group: and periodic visits to the principal business locations and presentations to the target a meeting of the Board to focus on management of risk and Board by senior management of the businesses.
review of effectiveness of Groups risk management and internal control systems.
Following the new appointments to the Board last year, a managed induction programme was set up which included a visit by each of the The Board will report next year on the progress it has made with new nonExecutive Directors to the major business units in each of the theseobjectives.
Groups Sectors where they had an opportunity to meet with senior The decision to postpone the externally facilitated evaluation this management in these businesses.
Meetings were held individually yearhas led to the Company not being in compliance with the Code between each of the nonExecutive Directors and the Executive Provision which requires that such an external facilitation is carried out Directors and with some of the principal advisors to the Company.
at least every three years.
The Chairman, with the assistance of the Chief Executive and the Reelection GroupCompany Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that Directors All Directors to the Board are subject to election by the shareholders aresupplied with information in a timely manner that is in a form and of at the first AGM following their appointment by the Board and in aquality appropriate to enable them to discharge their duties.
In the accordance with the Code, all Directors will also stand for reelection normal course of business, the Chief Executive gives an oral report to annually at the AGM.
the Board at each meeting and information is provided and reported through formal Board reports that include information on operational Conflicts of interest matters and strategic developments.
There are also reports on the Directors are subject to a statutory duty under the Companies Act 2006 performance of the Groups businesses, financial performance relative the Act to avoid a situation where they have, or could have, a direct to the budget, business development and investor relations.
or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly could conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Act allows directors of public companies to The training needs of the Directors are periodically discussed at Board authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where appropriate, where the meetings and where appropriate, briefings as necessary are provided on Articles of Association contain a provision to this effect.
The Act also various elements of corporate governance and other regulatory issues.
allows the Articles to contain other provisions for dealing with Directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The Group Company Secretary acts as an advisor to the Board on matters concerning governance and regulatory issues and ensures Procedures adopted to deal with conflicts of interest continue to compliance with Board procedures.
All Directors have access to his operate effectively and the Boards authorisation powers are being advice and a procedure also exists for Directors to take independent exercised properly in accordance with the Companys Articles of professional advice at the Companys expense.
No such advice was Association.
The appointment and removal of the Group Company Secretary and his remuneration are matters for the Board Accountability as a whole.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report &Accounts present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups Board evaluation position and prospects.
The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of effectiveness using specifically designed evaluation forms and under the direction of the The Board is also responsible for determining the nature and extent of the Chairman.
This exercise encompasses an evaluation of the performance significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives and of the Board as a whole, as well as of each of the Committees and for maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems.
Feedback on Board performance is presented by the also reviews the effectiveness of these systems through the work of the Chairman to a meeting of the Board and actions and objectives are Audit Committee as reported on in the Report of the Audit Committee on agreed for the following year.
46 DIPLOMA PLC Governance Corporate Governance continued The key risks which the Board has focused on this year are set out in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on page 34 to 37.
The Board is committed to providing shareholders with a clear assessment of the Companys financial position and prospects.
This is achieved through this Annual Report & Accounts, the Annual Review and through other periodic financial statements and announcements.
Relations with shareholders The Company has a welldeveloped investor relations programme managed by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
Through this programme, the Company maintains regular contact with major shareholders to communicate clearly the Groups objectives and monitors movements in significant shareholdings.
During the past three years, these communications have been enhanced by the introduction of Investor Days, both in the UK and in Canada which were well attended.
In addition, Investor Roadshows are now held each year in the US as well as in the UK and formal investor presentations are made twice a year to groups of private client fund managers.
Most shareholder contact is with the Chief Executive Officer and GroupFinance Director through presentations made twice a year on theoperating and financial performance of the Group and its longer term strategy.
The Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director generally deal with questions from individual shareholders.
All financial and trading announcements are published immediately on the Companys website, including copies of the presentations made to analysts and keyshareholders.
The nonExecutive Directors are given regular updates as to the views ofinstitutional shareholders and an independent insight is sought through research carried out twice a year by the Companys advisors, focused on both investors and analysts.
Through these processes, the Board is kept abreast of key issues and the opportunity is available on request for shareholders to meet the Chairman or Senior Independent Director, separately from the ExecutiveDirectors.
Electronic communications to shareholders include the Notice of the AGM which is sent at least 20 working days prior to the meeting.
The Company proposes a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue and for each resolution, proxy appointment forms provide shareholders with the option to vote in advance of the AGM.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the Companys AGM when the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer give a statement on the Groups performance during the year, together with a statement on current trading conditions.
The Chairman of the Board and of the Remuneration and Audit Committees will normally be available to answer questions at the meeting.
The Board has resolved, in line with best practice, to conduct a poll on each resolution proposed at the AGM.
The results of the AGM resolutions, including details of votes cast, are published on the Companys website.
