DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance 51 Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Committee is chaired by John Rennocks, the Chairman Members of Committee Attendance of the Company.
The Committee is chaired by the Senior Independent John Rennocks Chairman 2 2 Director on any matter concerning the chairmanship of the Company.
MarieLouise Clayton 2 2 The Committee comprises the nonExecutive Directors.
John Nicholas 2 2 Charles Packshaw 2 2 The Group Company Secretary acts as a Secretary to the Committee.
Chairmanship During the year, John Rennocks after 12 years service on the Board, Key Duties indicated his intention to retire from the Board.
At this stage, John did not specify the actual timing of his retirement, as he was keen to ensure Full terms of reference are available on the Companys website that an orderly succession took place with the full support of the existing members of the Board.
Reviews the size, composition and structure of the Board and the Board Committees.
The Committee carefully considered the process it should follow to appoint a Chairman and concluded, in view of the relatively small Board Ensures the right balance of skills, knowledge, experience and size and the importance of close but challenging working relationships, diversity on the Board.
that it was in the best long term interests of the Company to appoint a Chairman with good knowledge and experience of the Company and Identifies, evaluates and nominates candidates to fill Board and the Board.
The Committee invited the Chief Executive and the existing Committee vacancies.
Chairman to lead the selection process.
The Committee took informal soundings from existing members of Reviews succession planning for the Board and senior executives, the Board and from the Companys advisors.
At the conclusion of this taking account of experience, knowledge, skills and diversity.
exercise and in light of his demonstrable commitment and suitability for the role, the Committee proposed to the Board that John Nicholas Reviews the Group policy on conflicts of interest and register and should replace John Rennocks as Chairman of the Board.
ensure there are no material conflicts of interest.
On 11 November 2014, John Rennocks confirmed to the Board that Reviews, as part of the annual evaluation exercise, the time he would retire as Chairman at the conclusion of the Annual General commitment of nonExecutive Directors to the role and externally.
Following this decision, the Board confirmed its intention to appoint John Nicholas as successor to John Rennocks as Chairman of the Board, with effect from the conclusion of Agenda 2014 the AGM in 2015.
The Committee has now commenced a formal search, using the Considered and progressed the process for Chairman succession.
appointment process described below, for a new independent nonExecutive Director to preserve balance on the Board.
In this search Evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the process, the Committee is working with Norman Broadbent LLP, which Board and its diversity, including gender.
has no other connection with the Company.
The Committee has also commenced plans to appoint a new Senior Independent Director and Commenced search with Norman Broadbent for a further make changes to Board Committees which will be required following nonExecutive Director and prepared a description of the role and the change of Chairman.
These new appointments will formally be capabilities for candidates for appointment.
announced once they have been confirmed by the Board.
Considered succession planning in relation to the Executive Succession planning Directors and senior management.
The Board annually reviews succession planning for the Executive Directors and for the senior management cadre comprising ca.
80 senior Reviewed and recommended appointment of Senior Independent managers across the Groups businesses.
The next review will take place Director and changes to membership of Committees.
in January 2015 in conjunction with the Remuneration Committees review of compensation for the senior management cadre.
The Board Reviewed and updated Board members register of conflicts will also focus more substantially on future succession plans at the Board ofinterest.
Strategy Review meeting to be held in June 2015.
Appointment of Directors Reviewed Committee Terms of Reference.
As part of any appointment process for new Directors, the Committee determines the selection criteria for each Director which takes account of diversity, including gender and sets out a detailed description of the requirements for the role.
The Committee works with external search agencies as appropriate, who draw up a longlist of candidates from a range of industries and backgrounds for initial appraisal by the Committee.
From this, a shortlist is prepared of suitable candidates that most closely meet the selection criteria and these candidates are interviewed by members of the Committee.
Following these interviews, the Committee recommends to the Board the appointment of a Director.
The Committee implements the Boards policy on diversity as set out on page45.
