Directors Report Corporate Governance Statutory Information The directors present their report and audited financial In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, and statements for the year ended 30 April 2014. to the extent permitted by law, the Company may indemnify its directors out of its own funds to cover liabilities incurred as a The Strategic Report, which provides a comprehensive review result of their office.
The Group holds Directors and Officers of the development, performance and future prospects of the Liability Insurance cover for any claim brought against directors Groups operations for the year ended 30 April 2014, includes or officers for wrongful acts in connection with their positions.
the following: The insurance provided does not extend to claims arising from fraud or dishonesty.
Business Overview, including principal activities: Subject to the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Strategic Summary: Association, the Companies Act and any directions given by Performance Review, including the Corporate Responsibility the Company by special resolution, the business of the Report: and Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the Corporate Governance.
management of the business of the Company or not.
The matters reserved for the Board are detailed in a specific These sections are incorporated by reference and are deemed schedule, which is reviewed annually and details are provided to form part of this report.
in the Corporate Governance Report.
Changes in composition of the Group during the year Directors responsibilities During the year, the Group disposed of its Electroworld The directors responsibilities for the financial statements operations in Turkey and Unieuro in Italy, as well as its pure contained within this Annual Report and the directors play PIXmania business.
On 19 May 2014, the Group confirmations required under Disclosure and Transparency announced its agreement to dispose of its Electroworld Rule 4.1.
12 are set out on page 59. operations in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, and its expectation that this will complete within the first half of 2014 15.
Employees and employee share schemes Further details on these disposals are shown in note 27 to the A commentary on the Groups role as an employer is included Financial Statements.
in the Corporate Responsibility Report and details of employee involvement through share participation are contained in the It is envisaged that these changes will enable the Group to fulfil Remuneration Report.
the Companys strategic plan of focusing on markets where it holds a leading position.
Details of the Groups employee share plans and long term incentive plans are contained in the Remuneration Report Directors and note 25 to the Financial Statements.
The names, biographies and dates of appointment of the Board of directors are provided on pages 29 and 30.
Share capital The Companys only class of share is ordinary shares.
The Shareholders should note that, given the expected timetable for authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together the merger with Carphone Warehouse Group plc the Merger, with any shares issued during the period, is set out in note 23 to Dixons is not currently intending to convene a 2014 AGM prior the Financial Statements.
The voting rights of all Dixons Retail to completion.
In the event that the Merger does not complete, plc shares are identical, with each share carrying the right to or is not implemented in accordance with the expected one vote.
Dixons Retail plc holds no shares in Treasury and did timetable, Dixons may convene and notify shareholders of an not make any market purchases of its own shares during the AGM in due course.
In this case, all directors would retire and period under review.
offer themselves for re-election at that AGM in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Restrictions on transfer of securities of the Company There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding The Remuneration Report provides details of applicable service nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the agreements for executive directors and terms of appointment for general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing non-executive directors.
The Board is satisfied that each legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements director is qualified for reappointment by virtue of their skills, between holders of the Companys shares that may result in experience and contribution to the Board.
restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
During the year, no director had any material interest in any No person has any special rights of control over the Companys contract of significance to the Groups business.
Their interests, share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
including those of any connected persons, in the shares of the Company are outlined in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Change of control significant agreements The Company does not have any significant agreements With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, which contain change of control clauses other than for its the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, borrowings.
Further details are disclosed in note 17 to the the Code, the Companies Act and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
In addition, provisions under the rules of the Companys share incentive schemes may cause options and awards granted under these schemes to vest and become exercisable in the event of a change of control, as will be the case with the current proposed merger.
Dixons Retail plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Statutory Information continued Major shareholders Payment of suppliers As at 25 June 2014, the Company has been notified in It is the Groups policy to agree terms of payment with its accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure suppliers on a case-by-case basis prior to commencing trade and Transparency Rules of the following interests in the voting with them.
Payments are made in accordance with these terms rights of the Company: provided the supplier has complied with relevant contractual obligations.
Trade creditors as at 30 April 2014 represent 46 Direct Indirect No.
of shares % days of annual purchases made during the period 30 April 2013 52 days.
Standard Life Direct and Investments Ltd Indirect 334,133,351 9.12 Going concern AXA Investment Managers S. A.
Indirect 182,488,142 5.03 In considering the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements, the directors have considered the Groups Invesco Limited Indirect 178,859,553 4.94 objectives and strategy, the risks and uncertainties to achieving Schroders Plc Indirect 180,411,104 4.93 the objectives, and the review of business performance, all of Majedie Asset which are set out in the Business Overview, Strategic Summary Management Ltd Indirect 178,163,135 4.90 and Performance Review sections of this Annual Report and Capital Research & Accounts.
The Groups liquidity and funding arrangements are Management Company Indirect 175,071,032 4.84 described in notes 17 and 22 f to the Financial Statements, as Tameside MBC re well as in the funding section of the Performance Review, and Greater Manchester the directors consider that the Group has significant covenant Pension Fund Direct 142,578,014 3.89 and liquidity headroom in its borrowing facilities for the foreseeable future.
Represents shareholdings on the date on which the notification of interest was made to the Company.
Accordingly, after reviewing the Groups expenditure Issue of shares commitments, current financial projections and expected future In accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, cash flows, together with the available cash resources and shareholders can authorise the directors to allot shares in the undrawn committed borrowing facilities, the directors have Company up to one third of the issued share capital of the considered that adequate resources exist for the Group to Company.
Accordingly, at the 2013 AGM shareholders continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
approved a resolution to give the directors authority to allot Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going concern shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 30,290,138. basis in preparing the financial statements.
The directors have no present intention to issue ordinary shares, other than pursuant to obligations under employee Post balance sheet events share schemes.
This resolution remains valid until the Particulars of any important events affecting the Group since conclusion of this years AGM when, should the Company 30 April 2014 are described in note 32 to the Financial convene an AGM in the light of the proposed merger timetable, Statements.
a resolution will be proposed to renew the authority.
Corporate governance compliance Use of financial instruments The statement on compliance with the Financial Reporting Information about the use of financial instruments is given Councils UK Corporate Governance Code the Code for the in note 22 to the Financial Statements.
reporting period is contained on page 34 of this report.
Related party transactions Audit information Details of related party transactions undertaken during the year So far as each person who is a director at the date of approving are contained in note 31 to the Financial Statements.
this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information being information needed by the auditor in connection with their Political and charitable donations report of which the auditor is unaware.
Having made enquiries The Group engages in various charitable activities as set of fellow directors, each director has taken all the steps that out in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
During the period he she is obliged to take as a director in order to make under review, the Group made donations of 234,000 2012 13 himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to 308,000 to local charities serving the communities in which establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
At the 2013 AGM, the shareholders of the Company adopted a resolution authorising the Board to incur political expenditure up Auditor to an aggregate amount not exceeding 25,000 during 2013 14.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to be reappointed Notwithstanding this, the Company made no political donations as auditor of the Company.
Upon the recommendation of the during the year under review 2012 13 nil.
The Company has Audit Committee, resolutions to reappoint them as auditor and no present intention to make contributions to political parties but to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be while the legislation is drafted with a wide definition of political proposed at the 2014 AGM, should such AGM be convened.
donations, it feels that it is in the best interests of shareholders that the directors are authorised to engage with people in the political arena on issues that are important to the Company.
A resolution will therefore be presented to the 2014 AGM should such AGM be convened to renew this authority.
Helen Grantham Company Secretary 25 June 2014 Dixons Retail plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support
