Directors Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report Helen Grantham, Company Secretary and General Counsel, The Board confirms that during the year ended 30 April 2014, acts as Secretary to the Board and its committees.
She is also and as at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, the responsible for ensuring that correct Board procedures are Company has been in compliance with the UK Corporate followed and advises the Board on legal and corporate Governance Code the Code.
This report, together with the governance matters.
All directors have access to the advice Statutory Information, the Audit Committee Report, the and services of the Company Secretary and may also take Nominations Committee Report, and the Remuneration Report, independent professional advice at the expense of the provides details of how the Company has applied the principles Company in furtherance of their duties.
The appointment and and complied with the provisions of the Code during the year.
removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
The Board At 30 April 2014, the Board of Directors was made up of nine Board attendance members, comprising the Chairman, three executive directors The Board held two separate strategy days in addition to and five non-executive directors.
There have been no changes meeting on eight occasions during the year under review, all of to the Board since this date.
The Board has reconfirmed that all which were scheduled Board meetings.
the non-executive directors continue to be considered independent and each brings their own senior level of Member Attendance experience.
Upon appointment, the Chairman was also deemed John Allan 8 of 8 to be independent.
Sebastian James 8 of 8 Katie Bickerstaffe 8 of 8 The division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Humphrey Singer 8 of 8 Group Chief Executive is formally defined, set out in writing Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 8 of 8 and reviewed by the Board on a regular basis, as it was on Andrea Gisle Joosen 8 of 8 11 March 2014.
The Chairman is responsible for the overall operation, leadership and governance of the Board.
The Group Tim How 8 of 8 Chief Executive is responsible for the executive management Jock Lennox 8 of 8 of the Groups business and for implementing the Groups Dharmash Mistry 8 of 8 strategic and commercial objectives.
Committees of the Board Tim How, Senior Independent Director, supports the Chairman The Board has three main committees: Audit, Nominations and and is available for approach or representation from shareholders Remuneration.
Individual reports on the work of these who feel they are unable to raise issues with the Chairman committees and their membership and attendance are set out directly.
The Senior Independent Director also discusses, on separately in this Annual Report and Accounts.
an individual basis, the performance of the Chairman with each director and provides feedback on these discussions to the Dixons Retail is dependent on its senior management to Chairman.
The role of the Senior Independent Director is clearly operate its business and execute its strategies.
The Group has defined, set out in writing and reviewed regularly by the Board.
a decentralised management structure with many high-level management decisions delegated to divisional or country The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its management.
These regional managers report back to the decision.
This schedule was reviewed during the year and Board.
The Managing Directors of the Groups major operating includes, but is not limited to: businesses present a business review to the Board on an annual basis and to the executive directors on a quarterly basis.
approval of Group strategy and the annual budget: overseeing the Groups operations and review of its Board information and development performance: The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that changes relating to the Companys share capital or corporate they have full and timely access to relevant information.
The structure: quality and supply of information provided to the Board is communications with shareholders, including approval of the reviewed as part of the Board evaluation exercise.
The Interim Statement, Annual Report and Accounts including Company continues to use an electronic board paper system the review of critical accounting policies and judgements, which enables the fast dissemination of quality information in and assessment of going concern, and other major public a safe and secure manner.
It has also implemented guidelines announcements: on the form and content of board papers to ensure that the information presented to the Board is clear, informative and maintenance and monitoring of the Groups system of internal concise.
The directors have the opportunity to request further control and risk management: information if necessary.
approval of major capital expenditure, material acquisitions and divestments and material contracts: and It is Board policy that, wherever possible, a formal agenda and written reports be issued to the directors on the Wednesday of appointment and remuneration of the external auditor on the week prior to the Board meeting, allowing time for detailed the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Formal minutes of Board and committee meetings are prepared by the Company Secretary and approved by the Board committees at the next meeting.
Dixons Retail plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The Chairman holds regular meetings with the non-executive Authorisation of conflicts of interest directors without the executive directors being present to The Company has procedures in place to identify, authorise discuss, amongst other matters, corporate strategy, business and manage conflicts of interest which have operated effectively performance and the performance of the executive team.
Potential conflicts are approved by the Board or is frequent contact between directors outside formal meetings by two independent directors where an authorisation is needed to progress the Groups business and to promote open quickly then reported to the main Board at its next meeting for communication and team working.
A register of directors conflicts is maintained and is reviewed by the Audit Committee on an annual basis.
The Board holds meetings at a variety of the Groups business locations to help all Board members gain a deeper Internal control understanding of the business.
This also provides senior The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of management from across the Group with the opportunity to internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst senior present to the Board as well as to meet the directors on more management is responsible and accountable for internal control informal occasions.
In 2013, the Board held a two day meeting and effective risk management at an operational level.
in Norway at Elkjps headquarters and the non-executive directors had the opportunity to meet senior management The Board confirms that the Group has established and without the presence of executive directors.
The meeting maintained a process for identifying, evaluating and managing included presentations from the Nordic team.
the significant risks faced by the Group and this has been in place throughout the year ended 30 April 2014, up to the date All Board directors are encouraged to attend external seminars of approval of the financial statements.
This process accords relevant to the retail industry and corporate governance matters with the Turnbull guidance and the Code and is designed to in order to refresh and update their knowledge and skills.
The manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve Chairman discusses any professional development needs with business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not each director as part of the performance evaluation and actions absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
are agreed following these discussions.
The Board also receives bi-monthly updates on legal matters affecting the Certain of the Boards responsibilities have been delegated Group and wider corporate governance best practice.
to the Audit Committee, which has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control including material, financial, New directors appointed to the Board receive a tailored operational and compliance controls and risk management for induction programme, together with guidance and training the year under review.
The Audit Committee has ensured that appropriate to their level of previous experience.
Each director any required remedial action has or is being taken.
Areas of is given the opportunity to meet with senior management and focus have included participation of internal audit in key control store colleagues, and to visit the Groups sites both in the UK projects in certain business units, participation in business unit and overseas.
This enables familiarisation with the businesses, balance sheet reviews and assessment of business units operations, systems and the markets in which the Group against their financial control frameworks.
New directors are also encouraged to meet with the Groups auditors and advisors.
The system of internal control and the process for managing risk include the following elements: Board evaluation The Company last conducted an external board evaluation discussion and approval by the Board of the Groups strategic in 2011 12.
As with 2012 13, the Board felt that the 2013 14 direction, plans and objectives, and the risks to achieving evaluation should be conducted internally.
This involved a them: two stage process as follows: the Board and management committees meet regularly to monitor progress against the targets set out in the Groups A discussion between the Company Secretary and each budget and strategic five year plan: Board director to review progress on actions arising from the defined levels of authority established by the Board previous reviews and to discuss any further views on the current operation of the Board.
A summary of these ensure that significant decisions are taken at an appropriate discussions was circulated initially to the Chairman and then level, supported by a Group-wide delegation of authority to the Board, and actions discussed at a Board meeting.
process: The Chairman also arranged individual meetings with each each business function has established procedures and Board member to discuss their performance and the Senior controls to minimise the risk of fraud and to safeguard the Independent Director led an evaluation of the performance Groups assets: of the Chairman.
policies, procedures and governance structures to ensure Each committee performed a self-evaluation of its capital investment is appropriately approved and performance on the basis of a detailed questionnaire relating subsequently monitored: to the areas of responsibility for that particular committee and policies, controls and procedures have been established over provided feedback to the Board.
No major areas for action were identified.
the security of data held on, and functionality provided by, the Groups business systems, including disaster recovery arrangements: business continuity plan: the Group appoints individuals who are of a calibre to enable them to discharge the duties and responsibilities of the roles assigned to them to minimise operational risk: Dixons Retail plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued the Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal Bribery Act with each significant risk that has been identified.
These The Group reviews regularly its policies and procedures to help strategies include insurance, treasury policies and operational prevent individuals associated with the Group from committing framework, and common standards of internal control: acts of bribery.
These policies and procedures include training for individuals to ensure awareness of acts that might be all employees in subsidiaries within the Group have the construed as contravening the regulations.
The Groups opportunity to make confidential disclosures about suspected Anti-Bribery policy is included on the Investors section of the impropriety or wrongdoing to a hotline run and monitored by corporate website.
a third party: policies and procedures covering financial reporting: Relations with shareholders The Company supports the initiatives set out in the Code and local management at each business unit and in those the Stewardship Code and actively encourages engagement functions of the Group requiring greater overview have with major institutional shareholders and other stakeholders.
responsibility for identification and evaluation of significant risks to their business areas, together with design of Effective two-way communication with institutional investors, mitigating controls: and brokers and analysts is established through regular presentations the Company Code of Ethics.
and meetings in the UK and overseas, usually by the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Investor Relations The Groups approach to managing risk has been reviewed Director.
The Chairman holds occasional meetings with major and remains appropriate.
Risk and opportunity radars Radars shareholders to discuss matters of mutual interest, including exist for each business in the Group to identify, assess and corporate strategy and governance.
Where appropriate, the monitor key risks, and the most significant of these are chairman of the Remuneration Committee communicates with consolidated into a group level radar for Board review.
Each major shareholders to canvass opinion when deciding risk is monitored by an executive owner and is included on remuneration policy.
The Senior Independent Director and business unit leadership team agendas on a regular basis.
the other non-executive directors are also available to attend Business unit management across the Group review key meetings with major shareholders if requested.
Any issues business risks twice per annum, followed by Board reviews.
of importance arising from these meetings are reported to the Group Board directors and business management teams are Board at the next meeting.
The Board also receives a regular interviewed by the risk management team in alternate years, investor relations report at each of its scheduled meetings, in to refresh and develop the Radars.
addition to a detailed annual review of the perception of the Company amongst stakeholders.
There are clear processes for monitoring the system of internal control and reporting any significant corrective control The Company is committed to communication with all of its weaknesses, together with corrective action.
These include members, whether institutional investors, private or employee reports to the Audit Committee from assurance providers, shareholders.
The Company reports formally to shareholders periodic certification from business units, reviews by Group and when its full year and half year results are published.
These regional management, whistleblowing facilities and independent results are posted on the investor section of the corporate assurance from both internal and external audit.
Regular trading updates are also posted on the these are described in more detail below.
corporate website in addition to other external announcements and press releases made by the Company.
In accordance with Internal audit the Listing Rules, formal notification of the Companys AGM The Internal Audit department is fully independent of business is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days in advance operations and has a Group-wide mandate.
Its work is driven by of the meeting.
The directors, including the respective chairmen a risk-based methodology ensuring that the controls to mitigate of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, the Groups key risks are audited on a periodic basis.
Third are available for questions formally during the AGM and parties may be engaged to support audit work as appropriate.
Its plans are approved by the Audit Committee, which also receives reports on its findings and progress of related actions As previously mentioned, the Company is not expecting to at each meeting.
The department also works with the convene an AGM prior to completion of the merger with businesses to promote and further develop effective risk Carphone Warehouse Group plc.
However, should the merger management and control within their operations.
The Director not be implemented in accordance with the expected timetable, of Internal Audit attends all Audit Committee meetings.
the Company may convene and notify shareholders of an AGM in due course.
External auditor The external auditor provides further independent observations of certain elements of the internal financial controls as part of their audit of the financial statements.
Their findings are presented to the Audit Committee with updates on progress John Allan against the recommendations being made throughout the year.
Chairman 25 June 2014 Whistleblowing policy The Group operates a whistleblowing policy and has a confidential helpline operated by a third party.
This can be used to report, anonymously if so wished, on matters of concern to employees.
This can range from unethical behaviour, such as fraud, to practices that might endanger the health of customers and colleagues.
Dixons Retail plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support
