Directors Report Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Chairmans overview undertake a review of the effectiveness of risk management.
The Audit Committee has detailed duties set out in its terms of The independent review of internal audit highlighted some reference.
In addition to this, it serves to reassure shareholders further opportunities to improve and embed risk processes that the Companys financial management, internal control and across the Group and a full review of risk practices will be reporting practices are properly protecting their interests.
As undertaken by the Group Director of Internal Audit and such, I have the pleasure of reporting to you how the Audit Risk Management and reported to the Audit Committee Committee has discharged its duties over the past financial in the coming year: year and the priorities for the year ahead for the Group on a continue the roll out of the minimum control standards for all standalone basis.
financial processes and put in place action plans to address any identified gaps: and The Committee supports the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and has reviewed its terms of seek opportunities to further standardise systems, processes reference.
Accordingly, the Committee has this year and controls across the Group, through Group-led initiatives.
implemented a suitable process for it to be able to advise the Board as to whether the Annual Report and Accounts are a fair, balanced and an understandable assessment of the business.
This included a summary being presented to the Committee which focused on key matters affecting the financial results and Jock Lennox to what degree these are discussed in each section of the Chairman of the Audit Committee Annual Report and Accounts.
This enabled the Committee to 25 June 2014 determine the appropriate weighting given to each matter in each section.
You will have seen the progress the Company has made in streamlining the business by the completion of the sale of Electroworld Turkey, Unieuro and PIXmania operations, as well as the recently announced agreement to sell our Central European operations.
The Audit Committee has carefully analysed the accounting treatment of those transactions to ensure that each transaction was adequately represented and Audit Committee Main objective: To assist the Board in fulfilling its corporate that any judgements made in reporting these transactions were governance obligations relating to the Groups financial appropriate.
reporting practices, internal control and risk management framework, and its internal and external audit processes.
Further to the above, in 2013 14 we have: built on the framework to enhance Group-wide financial Chairman: Jock Lennox policies and controls by introducing a set of minimum Number of meetings: 4 control standards, along with revising the management selfMember Attendance assessment process.
This has been subjected to internal audit reviews to report on their effectiveness: Jock Lennox 4 of 4 Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 4 of 4 continued to embed our enhanced enterprise risk Andrea Gisle Joosen 4 of 4 management policies: Tim How 4 of 4 overseen the recruitment of a new Group Director of Internal Dharmash Mistry 4 of 4 Audit and Risk Management.
I was actively involved, as Audit Committee Chair, in the final selection process alongside management: and undertaken an independent review of the effectiveness of Committee membership and attendance internal audit.
As part of this review, areas of improvement The Committee comprises exclusively non-executive directors were identified, including making better use of technology in compliance with the Code.
The members are set out in the and tools, the prioritisation and focus of audit effort and table above along with their attendance for the year under enhancing working practices.
An action plan has been put review.
The biographical details of the current members are in place by the new Group Director of Internal Audit and set out on pages 29 and 30.
Risk Management and progress against this plan will be monitored and reported to the Committee.
Notwithstanding The Board is satisfied that the Chairman of the Committee, a the opportunities for improvement, it has been concluded member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland, that the Internal Audit function continues to provide effective meets the requirement for recent and relevant financial assurance to the Board on the adequacy of the risk experience.
The Company Secretary and General Counsel management and internal control procedures of the Group.
acts as Secretary to the Committee and attends all meetings.
You will have seen earlier that it is our intention to merge the The Committees deliberations are reported by its chairman to Group with Carphone Warehouse Group plc.
Our main priorities the following Board meeting and the minutes of each meeting on a standalone basis over the coming year will be to receive are circulated to all members of the Board.
and review reports from management for which the objectives will be to: Dixons Retail plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued Role Judgements taken in the calculation of losses of 158.1 The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its oversight million arising on disposal of subsidiary companies.
Matters responsibilities by acting independently from the executive discussed included the amounts of deferred consideration to directors.
be recognised and any requirements to accrue for potential liabilities relating to warranties: There is an annual schedule of items which are shared across Classification of items between underlying and the meetings during the year to ensure the Committee fully non-underlying, including consideration of the components of covers those items in its terms of reference.
Standing agenda the 33.3 million pre-tax non-underlying items.
Discussions items are as follows: centred around confirming that the items fell within the Groups definitions on non-underlying items as well as the corporate governance, risk management and finance consistency of treatment of such items year on year: updates: Tax matters: The Committee reviewed judgements accounting and control findings from the external audit, and concerning any significant provisions and discussed the the status and progress on recommendations arising: assumptions being made.
In addition, international tax progress against the internal audit plan and revised plans: matters were considered and in this respect managements presentations incorporated any external advice in order to internal audit reports and findings together with status and enhance the Committees understanding: and progress on action plans: The integrity and sufficiency of information disclosed in the approval of audit fees: Annual Report and Accounts to ensure that, taken as a fees paid to the auditor for non-audit services: and whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the tax matters.
Group and the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
This included an assessment of the narrative These standing items are supplemented by key matters arising reporting section to ensure consistency with the financial throughout the course of the year.
The Committees terms of reporting section.
In this respect, the co-ordination and review reference are reviewed annually by the Committee and then of the various sections of the Annual Report and Accounts by the Board.
A copy of the terms of reference, approved on 4 follows a well established process which is performed in September 2013, is available on the Groups corporate website.
parallel with the formal process undertaken by the external auditors.
The Annual Report and Accounts undergoes Attendance at meetings numerous reviews, with drafts being presented to the The Chairman of the Board, Group Chief Executive, Group Committee at various stages of the process.
The Committee Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Group Chief received a summary of the approach taken by management Accountant and Head of Tax, Group Director of Internal Audit in the preparation of the 2013 14 Annual Report and and Risk Management, Deputy Company Secretary and Accounts and also the contents of individual sections.
external auditors were invited by the Chairman of the The Committee was then able to recommend to the Board Committee to attend meetings during the year.
Other members that the Annual Report and Accounts contained a fair, of senior management were also invited during the year if the balanced and understandable assessment of the Group subject under discussion fell within their remit.
Each time the Committee convenes, it meets with external Internal control and risk management auditors without the presence of management in order to allow The lessons learnt from any incidents of fraud detected within private discussion of any matters that the auditors wish to raise the Group: without management or the Company Secretary being present.
Occasionally, a private discussion is also held between the the financial control framework and its subsequent members of the Committee, the external auditors and the assessment by Internal Audit: Group Director of Internal Audit and Risk Management without the assessment of the Groups response to information management present.
security and data protection risks, including compliance with PCI Payment Card Industry standards which seek to protect In undertaking its duties, the Committee has access to the customer payment card data: and services of the Group Finance Director and the Company Secretary and General Counsel, as well as external the proposed enhanced approach to risk management and professional advice as necessary.
In addition, the Chairman of the outcome of the risk work with the respective business the Committee meets regularly with the external auditors units and Group.
outside of formal meetings and without management present.
Compliance Key matters considered during the year Monitoring compliance activity in relation to the terms of the During the period the Committee reviewed the following: Groups financing: and reports on the Anti-Bribery policy and procedures and Financial reporting compliance with them.
The Committee received management papers setting out the main assumptions and judgements applicable to the following Internal audit key areas.
These were discussed and the Committee concurred The effectiveness of Internal Audit and the adequacy of with managements conclusions: its resources: significant issues arising from Internal Audit reports: and Dixons Retail plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued the succession to the Director of Internal Audit which To ensure this policy is applied appropriately, the Committee occurred during the year, in which the Chairman of the monitors quarterly all fees paid to the external auditor.
All fees Committee participated in the recruitment selection process.
paid to the auditor in respect of non-audit work above 50,000 require pre-approval of the Audit Committee Chairman.
These External audit are then reported back to the Committee as part of the The effectiveness of the external auditors through a survey of Committees agenda.
key stakeholders and consideration of their responses.
Such stakeholders included the members of the Committee as well During 2013 14 the auditor has performed non-audit work which as divisional finance directors and key members of the Group has been mainly in relation to statutory or contractually finance team: mandated areas.
For example, providing an interim review report on the Groups Interim Statement and providing auditor the annual audit fee, which is set out in note 3 to the Financial opinions on tax returns where local legislation requires this.
Statements, with due regard to the balance between audit In addition, work has also been performed in respect of the and non-audit fees and the policy for approval of non-audit Corporate disposal transactions which occurred during the year.
fees paid to the Groups auditor: fees paid to the auditor for non-audit services: and The Committee is satisfied that the policy is conducive to retaining auditor independence and objectivity, and is satisfied significant issues and areas of judgement arising from reports with the operation of the policy during the year.
The level of from the external auditor which, in addition to those matters non-audit fees paid to the external auditor is set out in note 3 to referred to above under Financial Reporting and Internal the Financial Statements and amounts to approximately 33% of Control and Risk Management, included revenue recognition total fees paid to the auditor, although after adjusting for the relating to customer support agreements, inventory effects of the interim review, which are treated as non-audit fees provisioning, defined benefit pension assumptions, liquidity, for statutory reporting purposes, amounted to 25% of the total covenant compliance, going concern and an assessment of of year end and interim fees paid to the auditor.
the quality of earnings reported.
External auditor In respect of the areas of judgement, note 1.19 to the Financial Deloitte LLP has been the auditor of the Company since 1987 Statements sets out the critical accounting policies in respect of and the current lead partner has acted for the Company for five revenue recognition relating to customer support agreements years, with this being the final year before rotation would occur.
and taxation, whilst note 21 to the Financial Statements sets out The Audit Committee acknowledges the requirements of the defined benefit pension assumptions including sensitivities provision C. 3.7 of the Code whereby FTSE 350 companies to these.
Non-underlying items are set out in detail in note 4 to should put out to tender the external audit every ten years.
All of these areas, together with the The Committee had adopted a policy to comply with these quality of earnings reported, were set out in the reports from the requirements with view to tendering during 2014, however, external auditor and were discussed with the Committee.
The owing to the proposed merger with Carphone Warehouse, this Committee concluded that the judgements taken and process was suspended.
Should the merger not occur, the assumptions made were all fair and reasonable.
Committee will revert to its conclusions to tender, but in any event will consider the most appropriate point to invite a tender, Other matters taking into account the FRCs transitional provisions.
The The Audit Committees performance and terms of reference: Committee is keeping under review the ongoing legislative the Companys whistleblowing policy and its implementation proposals on audit tendering and rotation from the EU and the across the international jurisdictions of the Group: and Competition Commission now the Competition and Markets Authority, and will implement them in accordance with the the expenses of all Board members.
In the meantime, the Committee is recommending the reappointment of Deloitte LLP.
Policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit services The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the external The Audit Committee has approved a policy for the use of our audit process by issuing a questionnaire to the members of the external auditor for non-audit purposes which has remained in Audit Committee, the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, place for the whole of the current and previous financial year.
Group Finance Director and all business units finance directors.
The policy allows the auditor to perform other services for The results were then collated and the findings discussed by specific reasons such as where: the Audit Committee and communicated and discussed with the external auditor.
Having considered the results of this years it is a statutory or contractual requirement: or annual performance review, and the internal policies and significant historical knowledge may place the auditor in the representations of Deloitte LLP, the Audit Committee remains best position to perform such non-audit work.
satisfied with the auditors objectivity and independence and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Given the expected timetable The auditor is specifically not permitted to undertake the of the merger with Carphone Warehouse, the Group does not following services: currently expect to call an AGM prior to completion of the Merger.
However, should there be any delay to the timetable bookkeeping or similar services relating to the preparation of then an AGM may be called.
In that case, the Committee will financial statements: recommend to the Board that a resolution for their reappointment be proposed at that AGM.
internal audit: and any other assignment which would place the auditor in a position of conflict with its duties as external auditor.
Dixons Retail plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support
