Directors Report Corporate Governance Nominations Committee Report Chairmans overview Role The Nominations Committee reports directly to the Board of The principal duties of the Committee are to: the Company and is made up of a majority of non-executive directors as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code review the structure, size and composition of the Board and the Code.
its Committees and to recommend changes as necessary: review the leadership needs of the organisation, both It has been a quiet year for the Nominations Committee executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the following the last two years where appointments to the Board continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively: have been made.
I am happy to set out for you what the Committee has concentrated on in the following pages.
be responsible for the succession planning for Board members and, in so doing, other senior management of the organisation: identify, evaluate and nominate candidates to fill vacancies on the Board: and John Allan make recommendations to the Board regarding the Chairman of the Nominations Committee continuation in office of a director upon the expiry of any 25 June 2014 specified terms of appointment.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually by Nominations Committee the Committee and then by the Board.
A copy of the terms of Main objective: To monitor the size and composition of the reference, approved on 11 March 2014, is available on the Board and its Committees and ensure a formal, rigorous and Groups corporate website.
transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors and to plan for succession.
Key matters considered During the year, the principal matters considered by the Chairman: John Allan Committee were as follows: Number of meetings: 2 consideration of the succession planning process: Member Attendance an evaluation of the size, composition and structure of the John Allan 2 of 2 Board and its Committees: Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 2 of 2 a review of the Diversity Policy: 1 Andrea Gisle Joosen 1 of 2 consideration of the time commitment of non-executive Tim How 2 of 2 directors along with a review of the external appointments Jock Lennox 2 of 2 policy: Dharmash Mistry 2 of 2 a review of the Committees performance and terms 1 Andrea Gisle Joosen was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to a prior commitment.
of reference: and a review of the roles of the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and the Group Chief Executive.
Committee membership and attendance The Nominations Committee keeps itself up-to-date on best The members of the Nominations Committee are shown in practice through a combination of private research and briefings the table above along with their attendance for the year under by internal and external advisors on key developments relevant review.
At least half of the Board of Directors are independent to the Company.
non-executive directors as required by the Code.
Board tenure The biographical details of the members of the Committee are The chart below shows Board tenure in years: set out on pages 29 and 30.
The Company Secretary and General Counsel acts as Secretary to the Committee.
1 The Committees deliberations are reported by its chairman to 11% the following Board meeting and the minutes of each meeting 4 are circulated to all members of the Board.
33% 2 45% 3 11% Dixons Retail plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Nominations Committee Report continued Appointments to the Board The Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors.
Appointments are made to the Board on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard to the benefits of diversity and the leadership needs of the Company.
Terms of reference The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee were reviewed during the year and re-approved.
Succession planning Succession planning was mentioned in the 2011 12 externally facilitated Board effectiveness review as an area for improvement.
The Nominations Committee will maintain succession planning as an area of focus in 2014 15.
A talent management review of senior personnel was conducted during the year which has helped to support succession planning objectives.
This review was supported by the Group HR Director and executive management.
Diversity The Board recognises the importance of diversity, including, but not restricted to, gender diversity on the Board and in its senior management team, and the important role that diversity plays in achieving the right mix of skills, knowledge and experience in order to help the organisation reach its potential.
The Board continues to believe that individuals should be appointed on merit.
We are committed to increasing boardroom and senior management diversity as suitable candidates present themselves.
For further information on board diversity and length of service refer to the directors biographies on pages 29 and 30, and on employee diversity refer to the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 26.
Re-election Should the Merger timetable be delayed, and an AGM be called by the Company, all directors will seek election or re-election at the AGM.
Each of the directors are being unanimously recommended by the other members of the Board due to the directors individual experience, knowledge and wider management and industry experience, continued effectiveness and commitment to their role.
The independent non-executive directors were re-affirmed by the Board to be independent in character and judgement.
The executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection by prior arrangement during normal business hours at the Companys registered office.
They will also be available for inspection at the venue prior to the AGM, should one be called by the Company prior to completion of the Merger, details of which will be contained in the Notice of Meeting.
Dixons Retail plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support
