CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CHAIRMAN'S INTRODUCTION We are very pleased to welcome Sucheta Govil and Rachel Hurst We remain committed to who were both appointed to the Board on 25 November 2014. achieving high standards of They will bring a new perspective and valuable experience.
Sucheta corporate governance and Govil has a wide knowledge of international business, particularly in Asia, the Middle East and Africa, the regions which provide exciting we have established policies growth opportunities for Domino.
Rachel Hurst has a broad and procedures which are understanding of all aspects of the Groups operations gained during her 24 years with the Company.
She has been instrumental in the designed to facilitate good development of Dominos global manufacturing capability.
governance in a practical andworkable way.
The reports on the following pages explain our governance arrangements in more detail and describe how we have applied the principles of corporate governance contained in the Code which applies for the year under review.
We have considered the new Corporate Governance Code 2014which applies to financial years ending after 1 October 2014 and we have, where we considered it necessary, revised our arrangements to ensure compliance with this new code for the current year.
Peter Byrom Chairman 15 December 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT The Company fully supports the principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 2012 the Code.
Except as stated in the section on dialogue with shareholders, the Company has, throughout the year, been in compliance with the Code Provisions and has applied the principles set out in the Code.
An explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out in this report and in the reports of the Committees.
40 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS BOARD OVERVIEW The aim of the Board is to promote the long-term success of the Company.
It is responsible for creating a framework of strategy and controls within which the Company operates.
The Board takes account of the impact of its decisions not only on shareholders but also on a wider group of interested parties including employees and local communities.
The Board is responsible for monitoring the implementation of strategy by the management team.
A number of key items are specifically reserved for the Boards approval.
For example, budgets, major acquisitions and significant new product programmes.
Other matters are delegated to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
There are terms of reference for each of these Committees which specify their responsibilities which are available on the Companys website.
BOARD MEMBERSHIP Information about the Directors is given on page 39.
Attendance All Directors attended each Board meeting THE CHAIRMAN The role of the Chairman is to provide leadership to the Board and to ensure that the Board and its Committees operate effectively.
He sets the agenda for Board meetings and chairs themeetings to facilitate open and constructive debate.
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day-to-day management of the business and for the development of strategy for approval by the Board.
There is a formal document agreed by the Board setting out the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR The role of the Senior Independent Director is to act as a sounding board to the Chairman and to provide an additional point of contact for shareholders.
He acts as an intermediary for other Directors and is responsible for the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The non-executive Directors have a wide range of senior level, international skills and experience.
Details of their background are given on page 39.
Their role is to provide an independent element to the Board and to constructively challenge management.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED INDEPENDENCE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS During the year authorisation has been given for potential conflicts The Board has reviewed the independence of the non-executive arising as a consequence of other positions held by some Directors.
Directors and concluded that they are independent.
The review No actual conflicts of interest arising in respect of specific took into account the results of the performance evaluation arrangements or transactions have been declared to the Board.
together with the factors listed in the Code.
In determining whether to authorise conflicts of interest, only The Board believes that to be judged independent each Director: those Directors who have no interest in the matter may make the decision and they must act in good faith in the manner most likely should be free from any relationship or connection which could to promote the Company's success.
affect his ability to discharge his responsibilities impartially: and should have demonstrated a scrupulously independent DIALOGUE WITH SHAREHOLDERS approach by conducting himself impartially in all matters relating The Company actively seeks to enter into a dialogue with to the Group and by challenging the views of management and institutional shareholders and holds regular meetings with them other Board members in a robust and constructive manner.
both in the UK and in the US and Europe.
This year an open day was held for fund managers and analysts at which presentations TIME COMMITMENT were given by senior managers and the Companys new N610i The non-executive Directors are expected to spend digital printer was demonstrated.
approximately 20 days per year on Domino business.
This includes attendance at Board and Committee meetings, preparation for the In order to assist non-executive Directors to develop an meetings and the provision of advice and assistance to the understanding of the views of major shareholders, reports are Company outside of the Board and Committee meetings.
made of meetings with such shareholders.
Although Sir Mark Wrightson, the Senior Independent Director, has been available to BOARD MEETINGS attend meetings with shareholders as suggested by Code provision There are regular scheduled Board and Committee meetings E1.1 no meetings have been requested by shareholders.
The Board throughout the year and ad hoc meetings may be held as considers that Sir Mark has a good understanding of the issues and necessary.
This year there were eight Board meetings including a concerns of major shareholders.
two-day strategy meeting and a further two day meeting in October to review the budget and strategic issues.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity for communication with private shareholders.
All the Directors attend There is an annual work plan which lists the recurring items to be the meeting and are available to answer questions.
Time is set dealt with at each scheduled Board and Committee meeting.
aside after the formal business of the AGM for shareholders to talkinformally with the Directors.
BOARD PAPERS The Directors receive detailed Board papers in advance of each AGM 2014 meeting.
These include routine reports on the performance of the business and on any matters for Board decision.
Standard formats 2014 AGM held on 19 March 2014 at Domino's offices in have been developed for the reports to make it easy to track BarHill, Cambridge.
progress against targets and identify key facts.
In addition to All resolutions passed.
written reports, presentations are also given to the Board.
High level of voting up to 86% of the issued share capital.
All Directors were re-elected to the Board with at least 92% of Topics of some of the presentations given to the the votes cast in favour.
Board during the year: Health & Safety FINANCIAL CONTROL UK business The key internal financial controls that were in operation during New product launches the year were: FINANCIAL REPORTING A detailed agenda is prepared for each meeting to make sure there All operating units complete business plans and budgets for the is sufficient time allocated to deal with all issues.
Each month, the unit produces written reports in a defined non-executive Directors generally meet before the Board meeting format on its performance against these plans and provides to discuss significant agenda items.
The reports and forecasts are reviewed by the executive Directors and significant issues are CONFLICTS OF INTEREST reported to the Board.
The Company has adopted and followed a procedure under which Directors must declare actual or potential conflicts of interest as they arise.
The Board reviews potential conflict of interest situations arising from other posts held by Directors on an annual basis.
42 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES RISK MANAGEMENT The Company has written accounting policies and procedures.
There is a risk management sub-committee chaired by Andrew Local management are required to provide written confirmation Herbert, the Chief Financial Officer, which meets at least quarterly.
of compliance with the policies and procedures.
There is a formal The role of the subcommittee is to: internal audit process which seeks to verify that policies and procedures have been correctly applied and to confirm that there promote effective identification and management of risk is an effective process of management and control within the throughout the Group: business.
Internal audits are carried out by suitably qualified and maintain a risk register identifying significant risks, risk control experienced staff that have no current connection with the measures and responsibility for control measures: operation being audited.
review and confirm that all significant risks have been identified and suitable control measures adopted: SECURITY OF THE GROUP'S COMPUTER SYSTEMS monitor implementation of risk control measures for all The Group relies on financial and management information significant risks: and processed by, and stored on, computer systems.
Controls and ensure all subsidiaries operate an effective risk management procedures have been established to endeavour to protect the process.
security and integrity of data held on the system, with standby arrangements in the event of failure of a major system.
Tests are The risk management sub-committee receives presentations on conducted on an annual basis to assess the security of the systems.
This year there has been a particular focus on cyber security and a presentation was made to the full Board on this issue.
Some of the topics considered by the sub-committee during the year: TREASURY The treasury function operates under guidelines approved by Digital Printing theBoard and regular reports are made to the Board on Research and development treasuryactivities.
CAPITAL INVESTMENT A senior manager is given responsibility for devising and The Company has defined procedures for the review and control implementing control measures for each significant risk.
Expenditure requires different levels of manager is required to provide a quarterly report to the subapproval according to the amount.
Significant expenditure requires committee on the status of implementation of control measures full Board approval and all approval requests are presented in a to manage that risk.
defined format to ensure that full justification is provided.
The sub-committee reports to the executive management OPERATIONAL CONTROLS committee which in turn reports to the Board.
A formal risk All Domino businesses are required to operate in accordance with management review of subsidiaries is conducted as part of the detailed standards and procedures which cover all material aspects internal audit programme.
Monthly reports to the executive of their operations.
Compliance with these standards is subject to Directors submitted by subsidiaries and business units cover risk assessment by internal and external review.
control issues relevant to the particular subsidiary or business unit.
There have been no significant control failures during the year.
Internal control and compliance statement COMPLIANCE There is a Group policy on standards of conduct and business The Directors acknowledge their overall responsibility for the ethics and a separate anti-bribery policy.
Both documents are system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
They have established a system that is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material There is a schedule of delegated authority designed to ensure that misstatement or loss and to manage rather than eliminate the all material transactions are considered at the appropriate level risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
There is a continuing within the Group and are subject to review by the head office legal process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks department.
All subsidiaries have access to local lawyers and the faced by the Group that has been in place for the year under head office legal department.
review and up to the date of approval of the annual report.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the revised Turnbull guidance.
Steps continue to be taken to embed internal control further into the operations of the business and to deal with any issues that come to the Boards attention.
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 43
