AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to present the Membership Audit Committee's report Sir Mark Wrightson Chairman and member with financial describing our work during experience, Chris Brinsmead and Sir David Brown.
Key responsibilities The integrity of the financial statements Audit arrangements Review of internal controls and risk management The full terms of reference of the Committee are available onDomino's website www.
com Attendance All Committee members attended each meeting.
AUDIT PLANNING The Committee oversees the plans for the audit to ensure it is comprehensive, risk based and cost effective.
As in previous years, Deloitte drafted an initial audit plan in conjunction with executive management and presented it for review by the Committee.
The plan described the proposed scope of the work and the approach to be taken.
It also proposed the materiality levels to be used based on forecast profit.
This year the materiality level has been reduced to take account of changes in the audit approach and the Financial Reporting Councils review of materiality.
In order to focus the audit work on the right areas, the auditor identified particular risk issues based on its knowledge of the business and operating environment, discussions with management and the half year review.
REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND AUDIT FINDINGS The Committee reviewed the full and half year financial statements and the report of the auditors on these statements.
The Deloitte partner responsible for the Domino audit attended the Audit I am pleased to present the Audit Committee's report describing Committee meetings to present the reports and answer questions our work during the past year.
Stuart Henderson, the Deloitte from Committee members.
Senior Deloitte staff who have had engagement partner, will stand down this year under the normal day-to-day involvement in the conduct of the audit also attend.
This provides a convenient point to review our audit arrangements and, as previously announced, we have started an audit tender process.
We expect to make a final decision on auditor appointment in March 2015.
We view selection of the right firm of auditors as an essential part of the governance process and we have planned to devote significant time to a thorough selection programme.
The section in this report on audit tender describes the programme in more detail.
44 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS ASSESSMENT OF AUDITOR The Committee considered the following significant issues: The Committee is required to assess the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence of the external auditor and the Issue Assessment objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process.
This assessment was carried out during the year on the basis of the Committee's Goodwill and other The assessment of goodwill for own appraisal of the performance of the auditor and the views of intangibles impairment continues to be a key the senior management team as well as consideration of materials area of management judgement.
The criteria used for this assessment The Committee addressed this remained unchanged from last year and were as follows: matter by reviewing the assumptions underlying these judgements and delivery of a thorough and efficient global audit in compliance considering the advice of the auditor with the agreed plan and timescales: on their validity.
provision of accurate, robust and perceptive advice on key accounting and audit judgements, technical issues and best Valuation of contingent The valuation of contingent practice: consideration in respect of consideration requires assumptions a high level of professionalism and technical expertise acquired businesses to be made about the expected consistently demonstrated by all audit staff: future results of the acquired maintenance of continuity within the core audit team: and businesses.
The Committee reviews strict adherence to independence policies and other regulatory these assumptions.
This is also an requirements.
area of focus for the auditor and the Committee receives detailed reports INDEPENDENCE OF AUDITOR from the auditor.
The Committee monitors arrangements to ensure that the partner in charge of the audit is changed every five years and that Revenue recognition Management judgement has to be the relationship between the auditor and management does not applied in some cases to determine affect the auditors independence.
the point at which revenue on a sale is recognised.
The issue is particularly The Committee is responsible for devising and maintaining a policy relevant to N-Series digital printing for the engagement of the auditor to provide non-audit services.
In sales which are comparatively high order to seek to minimise any potential impairment of the auditors value and may have a protracted independence, the Companys policy is that, except for tax installation process.
Revenue compliance and acquisition due diligence work, the auditor will not recognition is an area of focus for be engaged to provide non-audit services without the consent of the audit and Deloitte carried out the Committee.
The Committee considers that it is cost effective detailed testing and provided a to use the auditors for tax and due diligence work because of its report on this issue to the expertise in these areas coupled with in-depth knowledge of Committee.
Inventory held in GraphGraph-Tech AG was acquired in During the year Deloitte has provided the following Tech 2012 and has built up significant non-auditservices: inventory holdings for the manufacture of digital printers.
audit related assurance services: and Deloittes Swiss team has checked taxation compliance services.
the quantity and valuation of FEES PAYABLE TO DELOITTE 000 inventory and the Committee has reviewed their findings.
400 350 300 The Committee has reviewed the annual report and accounts 250 to ensure that they are fair, balanced and understandable and 200 provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess 150 the Company's performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee considers whether the report contains sufficient 100 information to enable shareholders to make this assessment.
50 It also considers whether the information is presented in a comprehensible and balanced manner and that sufficient Audit of the Companys annual accounts prominence is given to critical issues.
Audit of the Companys subsidiaries Audit-related assurance services Taxation compliance services Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 45 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED RISK MANAGEMENT REVIEW None of this work was carried out on a contingency fee basis.
The Committee reviewed the scope and effectiveness of systems to identify and address financial and non-financial risk.
The review The Committee considered the nature of the potential threat to was based on the report of the Risk Management Committee independence posed by the provision of non-audit services and which identified the key risks, risk control measures and the the safeguards applied.
It concluded that the non-audit work implementation status of risk control measures.
The report was undertaken by the auditor did not impair independence.
presented to the Committee by the Chief Financial Officer who also chairs the Risk Management Committee.
The report on page Service provided Potential threat Safeguards 26 provides further information on the risk management process.
to independence applied WHISTLEBLOWING POLICY Services relating to Self-review threat The teams The Committee is responsible for monitoring the Group taxation compliance performing the whistleblowing policy.
There is a dedicated e-mail address which computation and enables staff anywhere in the Group to raise issues directly with the audit work head office.
E-mails sent to this address are initially received by the were separate and Group HR Director and the Company Secretary and investigated independent and appropriately.
Any concerns raised are reported to the Audit were led by different Committee.
MEETINGS Taxation advisory Self-review and The teams The Committee met three times during the year and all Committee services self-interest threat performing the members attended each meeting.
Representatives of the auditor advisory work and including the partner responsible for the Domino audit also the audit work attended each meeting.
The executive Directors are invited to were separate and attend the meetings.
At two meetings the Committee arranged independent and to speak with the auditor without the executive Directors being were led by different present and on one occasion the Committee met with the Group partners.
Financial Controller without the executive Directors being present.
The following table lists the standing agenda items which have INTERNAL AUDIT been dealt with by the Committee.
The Group has an internal audit process where trained finance staff unconnected with the entity being audited carry out internal audits Meeting date Standing agenda items according to defined procedures.
The procedures were revised during the year with the aim of ensuring resources are deployed as June Review half year interim statement effectively as possible.
Under the revised arrangements the Group before consideration by the Board.
Finance Controller, who heads the internal audit function, compiles Committee to meet with auditor a list of areas to be audited based on a risk assessment and without executive Directors being determines the type of audit to be conducted.
and self-certifications may be used.
The proposed schedule of audits Review Audit Committee terms of is subject to approval by the Audit Committee.
reference and make recommendations to the Board.
The Committee receives reports on audits conducted which include a list of the outstanding points raised by the audits.
October Approve the audit proposal covering Summaries of internal audit reports were circulated to all terms of engagement of auditor, Committee members and full reports were available on request.
remuneration and the nature and scope of the audit.
The Group Financial Controller has a direct reporting line to the Review and monitor the qualifications, Chairman of the Committee.
The Group Financial Controller is expertise, resources and independence required to meet with the Committee at least once a year without of the external auditor and the objectivity the executive Directors being present.
and effectiveness of the audit process.
46 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS This selection process is expected to be completed in March 2015.
Meeting date Standing agenda items Therefore, in the notice for the AGM in 2015, Deloitte, as the incumbent auditor, will be proposed for reappointment.
If Deloitte December Review full year preliminary statement is not successful in the tender process it will resign and the and draft announcement before successful firm will be appointed by the Directors so that it is in consideration by the Board.
position to carry out audit services for the 2015 financial year.
Review financial controls, audit The successful firm will then be proposed for reappointment by report and management response.
shareholders at the AGM in 2016. Review letter of representation before approval by the Board.
TERMS OF REFERENCE Review statement on internal control The Committee keeps its terms of reference under review and risk management for report and and makes recommendations for changes to the Board.
accounts prior to approval by the Board.
The full terms of reference are available on Domino's website Review annual report and advise the at www.
Board whether it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for the assessment of the Companys performance, business model andstrategy.
Sir Mark Wrightson Assess scope and effectiveness of Audit Committee Chairman systems established by management 15 December 2014 to identify and manage risk.
Review policy on appointment of auditor to provide non-audit services.
Review the effectiveness of the internal audit function and programme.
Ensure internal audit function is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing within the Company.
Review the remit and work plans of the internal audit function.
Review procedures for detecting, monitoring and managing the risk of fraud including the method by which staff can raise concerns.
AUDIT TENDER Deloitte has been the Company's auditor since 1993 and there hasbeen no tender held for audit services during that time.
The Committee considers that the auditor's knowledge of the Group's business and systems gained through experience has significantly contributed to the rigour and effectiveness of the audit process.
However, as previously reported the Committee intends to comply fully with the FRC Audit Committees Guidance regarding the frequency of audit tender and has started an audit tender process.
Auditor selection will be made by the full Board and the Group Financial Controller.
Specific criteria have been defined and each tenderer will be assessed against these criteria.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 47
