NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The subject of diversity has received much attention through the Membership and attendance Davies Report and subsequent reviews.
The Board fully appreciates the benefits of diversity and is committed to equal opportunities Peter Byrom Chairman, Nigel Bond, Chris Brinsmead, forall.
Dominos equal opportunities policy is available on the SirDavidBrown, Sir Mark Wrightson.
At present some 70 per cent of Group employees live and work outside the UK and our workforce is The Committee met four times in the year.
becoming increasingly diverse as we extend our activities in Asia.
The senior leadership team in the Company comprises 11 people, All members then in office attended all of the meetings with the ofwhom three are women.
Further information on gender exception of Sir Mark Wrightson who attended three meetings.
representation can be found on page 25.
The Company has a graduate recruitment programme and a development programme for high-flyers to develop the pool of talent available to meet the Key responsibilities longer-term needs of the Company Monitor the composition and performance of the Board and During the year the Committee also carried out the its committees followingtasks: Evaluate the balance of skills and experience on the Board and the diversity of its members Reviewed its own terms of reference Monitor executive development and succession planning Reviewed the succession plan for the executive management Evaluate the independence of the non-executive Directors and Considered the independence of the non-executive Directors their time commitments.
Approved renewed terms of office as non-executive Directors for Sir Mark Wrightson, Chris Brinsmead and Sir David Brown Carried out an evaluation of the Board and its committees During the year the Committee continued to develop its Since the year end has reviewed and approved the form of succession plans for both the executive team and for the nonthisreport.
executive Directors taking into account their respective tenures ofoffice and analysing current or anticipated gaps in skills or experience.
We will continue to appoint the best candidates but with an emphasis on recruiting candidates from a more diverse background and with international experience.
Since the end of the year the Board has been bolstered by the appointment of Sucheta Govil as a non-executive Director.
Peter Byrom Sucheta has extensive sales and marketing experience, particularly Chairman in Asia, the Middle East and North Africa.
Her biography can be 15 December 2014 found on page 39.
Odgers Berndtson was engaged for Suchetas appointment.
Thefirm has no other connection with the Company.
Also since the year-end the Board has appointed Rachel Hurst, Group Operations Director, as an executive Director.
Rachel has 24 years experience with the Company and during this time has gained a detailed understanding of all aspects of the Groups operations and has been instrumental in the development of Dominos global manufacturing capabilities.
As executive Director her role is extended to encompass all the Groups research and development and product development and introduction activities.
Her biography can be found on page 39.
48 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014
