CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Corporate governance is at the core of what we do and this report details how the Board has applied the principles and provisions in the Financial Reporting Councils FRC UK Corporate Governance Code September 2012 the Code.
The Code sets out principles and specific provisions on how a company should be directed and controlled to achieve standards of good corporate governance, and it provides a guide to a number of key components of effective board practice.
The Code applies to all companies with a premium listing of equity shares, regardless of whether they are incorporated in the UK or elsewhere.
The Company is therefore required to report against the Code for the financial year ended 28 December 2014.
A copy of the Code is available at www.
INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN The required regulatory and governance assurances are provided On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our corporate throughout this report and also in the Directors report on pages 62to64.
governance report for the financial year ended 28 December 2014.
AsChairman, it is my responsibility to ensure that the Group is governed and managed with transparency and in the best interests THE BOARD of stakeholders.
The purpose of this report is to provide a clear and accessible explanation of what governance means to us in terms of its impact on decision making in the operation of our business and to ensure as far as possible that the values you would expect from the Group are in place and adhered to.
REMUNERATION NOMINATION AUDIT As a Board and as a Group, we believe that corporate governance COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE is more than just a set of guidelines: rather, it is a framework that underpins the core values for running the business in which we allbelieve.
The Board Structure The Board is supported in its work by the following key Committees: Stephen Hemsley Chairman The Remuneration Committee 25 February 2015 The Remuneration Committee determines the terms and conditions ofemployment, remuneration and rewards of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and the leadership teams.
The Remuneration Committee focuses on what is necessary to attract, retain and motivate these individuals.
During the year under review, the Remuneration Committee also implemented the remuneration policy, which was approved by the shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting 'AGM'.
The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee manages the recruitment of the Directors and advises on matters relating to the Boards membership and Committee appointments, and this includes reviewing succession plans.
During the year under review, the Nomination Committee has focused on finding independent non-executive Directors in order to replace John Hodson and Nigel Wray who stepped down from the Board on 29 July 2014 and Syl Saller who stepped down from the Board on 20 September 2014, which resulted in the appointment of Kevin Higgins on 8 September 2014.
The Nomination Committee also regularly reviews and monitors the skill set of the Board in general, particularly in light of the Groups increasing growth and presence in parts of Europe.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities for the integrity of the financial statements, reviewing the current internal controls and risk mitigation strategies and monitoring the effectiveness andobjectivity of the external auditor.
During the year under review, theCommittee decided to appoint  to conduct specific internal audit reviews which will be done in2015.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 36 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Focus during the year Chief Executive Officer During the year, the Board, supported by its Committees, has focused on: The role of the Chief Executive Officer including during interim appointment is: o Board composition, particularly in relation to the replacement of theExecutive Directors together with the appointment of one new o leading the development of the Groups strategic direction independent non-executive Director.
The Board continues to search andobjectives: fora further independent non-executive Director and, in 2015, will o identifying and executing acquisitions and disposals and leading concentrate on recruiting a new Chief Financial Officer: geographic diversification initiatives: o formulating and driving the Groups strategy: o reviewing the Groups organisational structure and recommending o driving new business opportunities: changes as appropriate: o reviewing the full-year and half-year results: o identifying and executing new business opportunities: o a review of the risks register, to ensure the Groups risk profile o overseeing risk management and internal control: isaligned with its strategic objectives: and o managing the Groups risk profile including the health and safety o a review of the long-term business development plans for Germany performance of the Group: and Switzerland.
o implementing the decisions of the Board and its Committees: Board responsibilities and processes include: o building and maintaining effective Group Executive: and o setting and approving the overall strategy of the Group: o ensuring the Chairman is alerted to forthcoming complex, contentious o making and reviewing major business decisions: or sensitive issues affecting the Group.
o monitoring current trading against previously approved plans: Chief Financial Officer o exercising of control by annual review of matters reserved The role of the Chief Financial Officer is: fortheBoard: o recommending to the Board an annual budget and financial plan: o reviewing significant contractual commitments: o examining all trade, investments and major capital expenditure o reviewing corporate governance arrangements: proposed by Group companies: o reviewing major risks and mitigation strategies: o reviewing and monitoring the Groups remuneration policy: o planning Executive and senior management succession: and o overseeing risk management and internal control: o reviewing control capital expenditure.
o ensuring effective communication with shareholders and key stakeholders and updating institutional investors on the business Governance structures strategy and performance: and Board roles and responsibilities o maintaining relationships with the Groups banks and managing the There is a clear separation between the roles of the Chairman and the investment and banking portfolio.
The role descriptions were updated and agreed Non-executive Director by the Board in 2013 and then again on the appointment of David Wild as Interim Chief Executive Officer an appointment that later became The role of the non-executive Director is: permanent and are summarised below.
The Chairman meets with the o providing creative contribution to the Board by way Chief Executive Officer, off-site, at least once a month and regularly : meets with the Chief Financial Officer.
The Chairman also has separate discussions with the non-executive Directors.
o bringing independence, impartiality, experience, specialist knowledge and a different perspective to the Board: Chairman o guiding matters of concern and strategy: The role of the Chairman is: o overseeing risk management and internal control: o providing coherent leadership and ensuring effectiveness in the running of the Board: o protecting shareholder and stakeholder interests: o ensuring Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information and o constructively challenging the Executive Directors and the monitoring ensuring that agendas emphasise strategic, rather than routine, issues: of Executive performance: o facilitating effective contribution of non-executive Directors and o supporting the Executive team in the shaping and delivery of the arranging informal meetings of the Directors, including meetings strategic goals of the business: ofthe non-executive Directors: o optimising shareholder return and protection of shareholder assets: and o guarding the Boards decision making processes: o ensuring the Board is able to work together effectively and make o ensuring effective communication by the Group with its shareholders: maximum use of its time.
o arranging for the Chairs of the Committees to be available to answer questions at the AGM and for all Directors to attend: and o taking the lead in providing a properly constructed, full, formal andtailored induction programme for new Directors.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued John Hodson and Nigel Wray stepped down from the Board as Governance structures continued non-executive Directors on 29 July 2014 and Syl Saller stepped Board roles and responsibilities continued downon 20 September 2014.
Ebbe Jacobsen was appointed as a non-executive Director on 31 January 2014 and Kevin Higgins on Senior Independent Director 8September 2014.
During the year under review, David Wild stepped down from the role ofSenior Independent Director SID and was replaced by Michael As at 28 December 2014, the Board consisted of two Executive and six Shallow whilst David Wild acted as Interim Chief Executive Officer.
non-executive Directors, four of whom were deemed to be independent.
DavidWilds position as Chief Executive Officer became permanent The structure of the Board and the integrity of the individual Directors on30 April 2014 and Michael Shallow continued as SID in light of ensures that no single individual or group dominates the decision thisappointment.
BothMichael and Davids biographies are available making process.
There is a common purpose of promoting the overall onpage 35. success of the Group with a unified vision of the definitions of success, TheSIDfocuses on: the core strategic principles, and the understanding, alignment and mitigation of risk.
o meeting regularly with the independent non-executive Directors: At the 2014 AGM, each Director retired voluntarily and submitted o providing a sounding board for the Chairman and acting as themselves for re-election.
intermediary forother Directors: Terms of reference for all Committees, which are approved by the Board o being available to shareholders if they have reason for concern that and reviewed annually, are available on the Company's investor relations contact through the normal channels of Chairman or Chief Executive website corporate.
co. uk along with the formal schedule of Officer has failed: and matters reserved for the Board, which remains unaltered.
o holding annual meetings with non-executive Directors without Biographies of the Directors and the Company Secretary and details theChairman present.
oftheir other time commitments are set out on page 35.
Company Secretary Independent non-executive Directors During the year under review, Mark Millar resigned from his role as The independent non-executive Directors during the year under Company Secretary on 31 July 2014.
Paul Waters was appointed as reviewwere Michael Shallow, SylSaller resigned 20 September 2014, Company Secretary on 1 August 2014.
The Company Secretary is Helen Keays, Ebbe Jacobsen appointed 31 January 2014 and Kevin responsible for: Higgins appointed 8 September 2014.
David Wild was an independent o developing, implementing and sustaining high standards of non-executive Director until 31January 2014 when he became Interim corporategovernance: Chief Executive Officer andthen Chief Executive Officer on 30 April 2014. o supporting the Chairman and other Board members as necessary: Michael Shallow ceased to be an independent non-executive Director on 1 January 2015 due to his length of service but has agreed to o advising the Board of legislation, regulation and corporate governance temporarily stay until a new non-executive Director is appointed.
developments that impact the Group, and maintaining the Groups corporate governance manual: The Board reviews the independence of its non-executive Directors as part of its annual Board effectiveness review.
In assessing the independence o communicating with shareholders and keeping the Board of each Director, the Board considered whether each was independent  opinions: and in character and judgement.
We have a diversity of skills, backgrounds o ensuring compliance with statutory and regulatory and experience within our independent non-executive Directors and .
they play a key governance role in protecting shareholders interests and complement the skills and experience of the Executive Directors.
All of Board composition the independent non-executive Directors are tasked with ensuring that A series of changes have occurred to the composition of the Board the Board and Company matters are effectively challenged from a range during the year under review in relation to both Executive Directors and of external perspectives.
The independent non-executive Directors meet at least twice during the Lance Batchelor resigned as Chief Executive Officer on 16 March 2014. year, under the leadership of the SID.
David Wild was appointed to the Board in November 2013 as a The letters of appointment of our non-executive Directors are available non-executive Director and was appointed as Interim Chief Executive for inspection at the Companys registered office and at our AGM.
David Wild became Chief Executive Officer on 30 April 2014.
Executive Directors Lee Ginsberg retired and stood down as Chief Financial Officer at the The Executive Directors of the Company during the year under review AGM on 2 April 2014.
Sean Wilkins was appointed as Chief Financial were Lance Batchelor, Chief Executive Officer, until his resignation Officer Designate in November 2013 and took over as Chief Financial on16 March 2014: David Wild, Interim Chief Executive Officer from Officer on 2 April 2014.
Sean Wilkins resigned as Chief Financial Officer 31January 2014 and Chief Executive Officer from 30 April 2014: on 20 January 2015.
LeeGinsberg, Chief Financial Officer, until he stood down on 2April2014: and Sean Wilkins, Chief Financial Officer Designate until2April 2014 and Chief Financial Officer thereafter.
Sean Wilkins resigned as Chief Financial Officer on 20 January 2015.
A full biographyfor David Wild canbe found on page 35.
Details of the Executive Directors service contracts can be found on pages 49 and 50.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 38 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BALANCE OF BOARD MEMBERS Chairman 12.5% Chairman 14% NEDs 12.5% NEDs 29% 28 DECEMBER 26 FEBRUARY 2014 2015 Independent NEDs 50% Independent NEDs 43% Executives 25% Executives 14% Length of service of each non-executive Director Non-executive Director Date of appointment Years in post at 28 December 2014 1 Stephen Hemsley 1998 16 2 Colin Halpern 1993 21 3 Michael Shallow 2006 8 Helen Keays 2011 3 Ebbe Jacobsen 2014 Less than 1 Kevin Higgins 2014 Less than 1 1 Stephen Hemsley was appointed as non-executive Chairman in 2010.
However, he was first appointed to the Company in 1998.
Full details of Stephens history with the Company can be found in the Directors biographies on page 35.
2 Colin Halpern acquired the Dominos Pizza master franchise for the UK and Ireland in 1993 and has held a variety of jobs within the Group.
Full details of Colins history with the Company can be found in the Directors biographies on page 35.
3 As at 1 January 2015, Michael Shallow will have served 9 years as a non-executive Director and is therefore no longer independent.
Michael Shallow has agreed to stay on as a non-executive Director until a new non-executive Director is appointed.
Board attendance The Board held eight formal meetings during the year together with two off-site strategy meetings.
The Board is responsible for setting and approving the strategy and key policies of the Group and monitoring the progress in achieving these objectives through regular reporting and discussion on financial performance, material operational issues and risk.
Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Board meetings Number of meetings held 3 2 4 8 Executive Directors 1 Lance Batchelor 1 2 David Wild 8 Lee Ginsberg 3 3 Sean Wilkins 8 Non-executive Directors 5 Stephen Hemsley 8 Colin Halpern 8 Michael Shallow 3 2 4 8 4 Nigel Wray 3 4 John Hodson 2 1 3 3 5 Syl Saller 2 4 7 5 Helen Keays 3 2 8 Ebbe Jacobsen 7 5 Kevin Higgins 1 2 1 Lance Batchelor resigned on 16 March 2014 and Lee Ginsberg retired on 2 April 2014.
2 David Wild was appointed as a non-executive Director on 14 November 2013 and a member of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees on 19 November 2013 but stood down upon his appointment as Interim Chief Executive Officer on 31 January 2014.
3 Sean Wilkins was appointed as Chief Financial Officer Designate on 18 November 2013 and became Chief Financial Officer on 2 April 2014.
4 John Hodson and Nigel Wray resigned on 29 July 2014.
5 Syl Saller resigned on 20 September 2014.
She stood down as a member of the Remuneration Committee and as Chair of the Nomination Committee and was replaced, respectively, by Kevin Higgins and Stephen Hemsley on 22 September 2014.
Helen Keays was also appointed on 22 September 2014 as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued The outcome of this process was discussed by the Board as a whole Governance structures continued and the Board agreed that the Company is served by a strong, cohesive Board induction and professional development Board.
Certain recommendations have been added to the Board action o When newly appointed, each Director receives a tailored induction list for implementation, which include the need to further strengthen the pack and programme that is designed to familiarise the Director with Board by the appointment of an additional independent non-executive the Company and the Group as a whole as quickly as possible and to Director and to ensure greater focus during the year on the succession ensure that they have the necessary knowledge and understanding planning of senior management.
ofthe Group and its activities.
The programme will usually include an The Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committee each appraised the overview of the business model and the Board processes, meetings performance of their Committees and have confirmed that each Committee with the Group Executive, senior managers and major franchisees, continues to operate effectively.
The Remuneration Committee also reviews store visits and briefings on key governance and compliance issues.
Executive Directors performance when it reviews remuneration packages o The Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, regularly discusses each year.
In summary, the Board is satisfied that the arrangements for any development or training needs with individual Directors.
The Board review and appraisal of the performance of the Board, its Committees also recognises the importance of ongoing training and education, andindividual Directors are appropriate.
particularly regarding new laws and regulations that are relevant to the Group Executive Group.
Such training or education is typically provided and kept under review by the Company Secretary, who is responsible for Director The day-to-day management of the Groups operations for delivering the induction and the ongoing training of Directors.
During the year under Groups strategy is undertaken by the Group Executive.
review, training was provided in matters including Directors duties, The Board is kept up to date with developments in the business through risks and internal controls.
These training programmes have also been the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officers monthly report, shared, as appropriate, with the Group Executive to ensure that there is which is discussed in detail at each Board meeting.
Group Executive the necessary knowledge and support right across senior management members regularly attend Board meetings to present items, and they inthe Group.
also meet with the Chairman, as appropriate, to discuss matters which o Non-executive Directors are encouraged to attend major franchisee are specific to their area on a less formal basis.
events during the year in order to gain further insight into the business.
Decision making Professional advice Our governance structure aims to enable appropriate, effective decision All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and making with clear accountabilities and sets out how the business is may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
managed and operated at all levels and across all territories.
It aims The Company Secretary reports to the Chairman in respect of his core toensure that the risk profile of the business reflects the strategic duties to the Board.
The removal of the Company Secretary is a decision objectives of the business, with the ultimate aim of protecting the specifically reserved for the Board.
Any questions shareholders may business from reputational or operational damage.
have on corporate governance matters, policies or procedures should Matters requiring Board and Committee approval are generally the be addressed to the Company Secretary.
subject of a proposal by one or more of the Executive Directors or the Company Secretary and are submitted to the Board, together with Insurance supporting documentation, as part of the Board or Committee papers.
The Company provides insurance cover and indemnities for its Directors At each Board meeting, the Board pack includes an update from the and officers, although no cover exists in the event Directors or officers Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and contains other are found to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
financial results and functional updates.
There are presentations on the Companys operations and regular discussions on strategy, marketing, Board evaluation franchisee profitability and relationships, employee engagement and The Board evaluation process consists of an annual internal review social and governance matters.
exercise together with an independent third-party evaluation carried outat least once every three years.
At each Board meeting a senior manager is invited to make a presentation to the Board and there are a number of formal and A thorough external Board effectiveness review was conducted by informal social occasions each year that enable the Board members MBSLimited at the beginning of the 2013 financial year.
The review tomeet senior management.
confirmed that there was a supportive working climate on the Board, coupled with a healthy level of challenge and debate.
Relations between Diversity Executive Directors and non-executive Directors are good and there We are unmistakably proud of the diversity in our system and both we isastrong degree of alignment on the areas requiring attention over and our franchisees recognise the benefits that this brings.
The Group thecoming year as part of the Boards commitment to continuous and its franchisees try to develop talent in our respective businesses improvement.
The review generated a number of insightful suggestions and encourage people to develop themselves and succeed regardless which have been implemented by the Board, which included ofgender, race or any other characteristic.
therecruitment of two new independent non-executive Directors tostrengthen the Boards skills and knowledge, particularly in With regard to gender diversity, as at 28 December 2014, the Company Europeanoperations.
had one female non-executive Director on the Board.
We are of the view that it is in the interests of the Company and the communities in which At the end of the financial year under review, we conducted an internal our franchisees operate that together we recruit and develop the very Board effectiveness review, which consisted of a discussion between best people from the widest pool of talent, regardless of gender.
The the SID and the non-executive Directors to discuss the Chairmans policy of the Board on recruitment is always to seek to appoint the best performance, the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its candidate to each role.
However, the Board seeks to monitor and ensure Committees and the individual Directors.
a good balance of male and female members on the Group Executive and the Board.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 40 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BOARD DIVERSITY UK LEADERSHIP TEAM DIVERSITY GROUP WORKFORCE DIVERSITY AT 28 AT 28 AT 28 DECEMBER DECEMBER DECEMBER 2014 2014 2014 Male 87.5% Male 78% Male 81% Female 12.5% Female 22% Female 19% Relations with shareholders Members The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, and the o Kevin Higgins appointed 22 September 2014 Chair : Company Secretary carry out extensive engagement with analysts, o John Hodson resigned on 29 July 2014 : institutional shareholders and potential shareholders to ensure that there is a strong relationship and to understand their views on material o Michael Shallow: issues relating to the business.
Feedback on all such meetings is o Helen Keays appointed 22 September 2014 : provided to the Board in summary form, together with independent feedback from investors sought by the Companys broker.
All brokers o Syl Saller resigned 20 September 2014 : and notes are circulated to the entire Board in order that the Board maintains o David Wild was appointed Chairman from 13 December 2013 but an understanding of market perceptions of the Company.
In addition, stepped down from the Committee on 30 January 2014 when the Chairman, the Chair of the Remuneration Committee and the appointed Interim Chief Executive Officer.
Company Secretary meet with major shareholders, principally relating toremuneration and governance issues.
At all times during the financial year the Remuneration Committee comprised only independent non-executive Directors.
The Chairman The SID and the other non-executive Directors are available for ofthe Board, the Vice-Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer often meetings with shareholders if so requested.
Please address any attend meetings, although some part of every meeting is dedicated to requests via the Company Secretary.
discussion among only the Committee members.
The Company Secretary The AGM offers the opportunity to all shareholders to communicate attends in his capacity as secretary of the Remuneration Committee.
directly with the entire Board.
Notice of the AGM and related papers Activities aresent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Allproxy votes received in respect of each resolution at theAGM are The Committee met formally four times during the year but, in addition, counted and the balance for and against and any votes withheld are spent considerable time outside of formal meetings discussing Committee indicated.
The results are announced at the meeting and published on matters.
Further details about the Remuneration Committee, its activities the Company's investor relations website after the meeting, which also during the year and an explanation of how it applies the Directors contains a host of up-to-date information on the Group forshareholders remuneration principles of the Code and other applicable rules and and other interested parties.
regulations governing remuneration are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 44 to 61.
Committee information The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee were reviewed by Remuneration Committee the Board in 2014, and it was concluded that they remained fit forpurpose.
The Remuneration Committee determines the terms and conditions Nomination Committee ofemployment, remuneration and benefits of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and senior management.
It also advises the Board on The Nomination Committee manages the process to advise and make theGroups remuneration strategy and framework to recruit, retain recommendations to the Board on matters relating to the Boards membership andreward senior management.
and committee appointments, including reviewing succession plans.
Chairmans overview Chairmans overview The principal purpose of the Remuneration Committee is to assess and The principal purpose of the Nomination Committee is to lead the recommend to the Board executive remuneration arrangements that are process of assessing the skills and attributes needed by the Board to used to attract, retain and motivate the Groups senior managers and function effectively and discharge its responsibilities.
It also reviews the provide suitable alignment between individual remuneration and structure, composition and size of the Board to ensure that the Board individual contribution to the Groups overall performance.
continues to develop and remains effective over time.
Significant work has been carried out in relation to factors now required of The Nomination Committee had a busy year in 2014 and has spent a the Directors remuneration report, which is built within this Annual Report considerable amount of time on the appointment of the replacement Chief and Accounts.
Executive Officer alongside the recruitment of new non-executive Directors.
In 2015, the Nomination Committee will continue to search for a further independent non-executive Director and will concentrate onrecruiting a new Chief Financial Officer.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued In accordance with the Code, Michael Shallow is identified as having Committee information continued recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee also has Nomination Committee continued access to the Companys finance team and to its auditor and can seek further professional advice, at the Companys cost, as appropriate.
Chairmans overview continued The Nomination Committee also regularly appraises Board and senior The meetings are regularly attended by the Chairman of the Board, management succession over the longer term and continues to focus on theChief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and his team, ensuring that the Company has the optimum mix of Directors to lead and theexternal auditor and by the Company Secretary as Secretary support the business across all territories for the future, informed by oftheCommittee.
considerations of diversity in terms of experience, relevant knowledge Significant issues considered and gender.
Classification of non-underlying items Members The financial results include a number of non-underlying items, many o Syl Saller resigned 20 September 2014 : ofwhich relate to the restructure of the German business.
The Audit o Michael Shallow: Committee has a responsibility to ensure appropriate classification ofallsuch items to ensure that the results are fair, balanced and o John Hodson resigned on 29 July 2014 : understandable.
The Audit Committee ensured that it had a thorough o David Wild joined the Committee from 13 December 2013 but stepped understanding of these through a detailed report from management, down on 30 January 2014 when appointed Interim Chief Executive Officer: and also the external auditor's report to the Audit Committee, in order todetermine the appropriate quantum and disclosure of each o Stephen Hemsley appointed 22 September 2014 Chair : and non-underlying item.
o the Company Secretary attends meetings in his capacity as Secretary What the Committee did in 2014 of the Nomination Committee.
The Committee met three times this year during which it: Activities o reviewed results, announcements and the 2013 Annual Report The Committee met on two occasions during the year and the andAccounts, including the 2014 half-year results and interim Committee considered: management statements.
Inherent in this review was consideration o the recruitment of a new Chief Executive Officer: ofthe accounting principles, policies and procedures adopted intheGroups financial statements, including, where necessary, o the recruitment of new non-executive Directors: challenging the judgements made and the accompanying narrative o the re-appointment of all Directors retiring at the 2014 AGM: and when appropriate: o Board succession and composition over the longer term.
o received regular reports from the Chief Financial Officer, the Financial Controller, the audit partner and the Company Secretary on risk and The Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee were reviewed by compliance matters: the Board in 2014, and it was concluded that they remained fit for purpose.
o oversaw further development of the internal controls testing framework Audit Committee and assessed the need for an internal audit function and commissioned The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities  to conduct specific internal audit reviews for the integrity of the financial statements, the effectiveness of the for2015: systems of internal control, and regulatory and financial risk management.
o approved the auditors work plan for the Group and the Groups own It also monitors the objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditor.
annual controls testing plan: Chairmans overview o reviewed the emerging risks and material risk profile: In addition to monitoring the integrity of the financial statements o discussed the Companys tax strategy: andannouncements of the Group, the principal purpose of the Audit Committee is to review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls o reviewed and monitored the external auditors independence and and external audit in addition to providing assurance on the Groups risk objectivity, considered the effectiveness of the audit process and management processes.
there-appointment of the external auditor, approved the external auditors remuneration and fees being charged by Ernst & Young In line with the evolving expectations of the FRC, the Audit Committee foraudit and potential non-audit services: and determines that the Annual Report and Accounts contains fair, balanced and understandable information, and that there is an appropriate balance o oversaw the dedicated whistleblowing facility for all employees, which and alignment of financial and narrative reporting to enable shareholders allows employees to raise concerns about possible improprieties in to make their assessment of the Company.
financial reporting or other matters.
We have built on the work previously completed and overseen a further Members detailed review and analysis of the Groups risks.
o Michael Shallow Chair : The Committee also put in place and approved an auditor o John Hodson resigned 29 July 2014 : independence policy and considered an auditor rotation policy.
o Helen Keays: However, it was determined in line with The Auditing Practice Board Ethical Standard 3, audit engagement partners should rotate every five o David Wild joined the Committee from 13 December 2013 but years or seven in certain circumstances and the Company rotated its stepped down on 30 January 2014 when appointed Interim Chief audit partner in 2014.
Executive Officer: and o Kevin Higgins appointed 22 September 2014.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 42 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Committee had regular private discussions with the auditor during Assessment of effectiveness of auditor the year with no management present, in order to understand the The effectiveness of the audit process carried out by EY is an important auditors views on the control and governance environment and aspect of the Audit Committees confidence in the Companys approach managements effectiveness therein.
to controls and risks and in the integrity of its financial reporting.
During The Terms of Reference for the Audit Committee were reviewed by the the year, the Committee discussed EYs effectiveness with the senior Board in 2014, and it was concluded that they remained fit for purpose.
finance team, the auditor and the Board, considered the audit inlight of the audit plan, and concluded that EY continue to prove effective in its Risk management and internal controls role as external auditor.
Risk management Independence of auditor The Groups risk management system has been thoroughly reviewed EYs independence is evidenced through its robust challenge to throughout the year.
It is designed to encourage entrepreneurial spirit management during the audit process.
EYs effectiveness enables the and also to provide assurance that risk is fully understood and managed.
Audit Committee to recommend its re-appointment as external auditor Risks are identified by way of a traffic light system in terms of both for 2014.
The external auditor carved out some non-audit work in 2014 likelihood and impact and subsequently ranked as either primary to a total value of 21,000 in the year under review.
However, there is a orsecondary risks to the business.
formal policy governing the conduct of non-audit work by the auditor This categorisation allows senior management to focus on those primary inline with theAuditing Practice Boards Ethical Standards which was risks that are most pertinent to the Groups business, rather than having implemented in the year under review.
the key risks lost in the wider pool of other risks.
Detailed risk mitigation During the year ended 28 December 2014, EY fees for audit services strategies for all risks have been produced and are reviewed regularly were 269,000 and a summary of the audit fees for 2014 is given in and reported on to the Audit Committee.
note 6 to the financial statements.
Overall responsibility for risk management sits with the Board and the The Committee has recommended to the Board that EY be re-appointed Board monitors the Groups risk management system and its effectiveness as auditor of the Company.
A resolution for the re-appointment will be within the context of the Groups strategy.
The Group Executive and put to a shareholder vote at the AGM on 21 April 2015. leadership teams are responsible for implementing and maintaining theappropriate controls and systems in relation to risk and, at least The Audit Committee satisfied itself that there is a continual process for biannually, the Company Secretary reports to the Board on the current identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks that is risk analysis matrix.
Full and further details of the Groups risks and risk regularly reviewed by the Board.
This has been in place for the financial management can be found in the strategic report on pages 20 to 24. year being reported and up to the publication date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Internal controls No material financial problems have been identified that would affect The Audit Committee reports to the Board on its review of the the results reported in these financial statements.
The Board confirms Companys internal controls and risk management.
This includes the that if significant weaknesses had been identified during this review, it appropriateness, effectiveness and sustainability of the Groups risk would have taken the necessary steps to remedy them.
management systems of internal control and governance frameworks and processes in light of the Groups strategy.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
Any system of internal control is designed to manage and mitigate, rather than eliminate, risks or the failure to achieve business objectives and strategy and or risks.
During the year under review, the Directors have not identified, or been advised, of any failings that appear to be significant weaknesses.
However, the system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Internal audit As the Group continues to expand and enters new territories, the requirement for internal controls and risk management becomes more key.
During the year, the Board commissioned  to conduct specific internal audit reviews for 2015.
External auditor Ernst & Young LLP EY has served as the Groups auditor since 1997.
However, the Company did not become a public interest entity until itjoined the Main List in 2008.
The partner engaged on the audit is changed in line with Code standards and the services provided by EYare reviewed periodically.
The Audit Committee plays a key role inmanaging the relationship with the Groups external auditor.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 43
