73 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Audit Committee report Membership and process: Audit Committee Role of the Committee Committee Chairman The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its oversight David Lindsell responsibilities.
Its primary functions are to: Senior independent non-executive director, monitor the integrity of the financial statements and other information provided to shareholders:, review significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the financial statements: Committee members, review the systems of internal control and risk management: Tim Cobbold, Melanie Gee, David Lindsell and Tony Thorne, maintain an appropriate relationship with the Groups all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
external auditor and review the effectiveness and objectivity The Board is satisfied that the membership of the of the external audit process: Committee meets the requirement for recent andrelevant, monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit financial experience.
The Group Company Secretary acts function which is provided by Grant Thornton UK LLP, asSecretary to the Committee.
review the internal audit plan, all internal audit reports and review and monitor managements responses to the findings Attending by invitation and recommendations of the internal audit function: and Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive, Finance Director, advise the Board on whether the Committee believes Group Financial Controller, Group Finance Manager, Head of the Annual report and accounts are fair, balanced Risk Management, External auditor, Internal auditor.
Terms of reference Number of meetings held in 2014 The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board.
The terms 4 of reference are available on the Groups website at www.
At meetings in February and July 2014, the Committee reviewed the Groups Preliminary results announcement No changes to the terms of reference were considered to be and Annual report and accounts, and the Half year results necessary following review in July 2014. announcement and Half year report respectively.
At these The Chairman of the Committee reports the Committees meetings, the Committee received reports from management deliberations to the following Board meeting and the minutes and the external auditor on the application of accounting of each meeting of the Committee are circulated to all policies on significant estimates and judgements made in members of the Board.
preparing the financial statements, and on the methods used to account for any significant or unusual transactions.
In undertaking its duties, the Committee has access to the Our principal accounting policies are set out in the notes to the services of the Finance Director and the Group Company accounts.
In respect of all such matters, the external auditor Secretary and their resources, as well as access to external concurred with the judgements made by management and professional advice.
the Committee was satisfied that the accounting policies were applied appropriately and the estimates and judgements made Main activities during the year were appropriate.
In addition, the Committee also satisfied itself of the independence and objectivity of the external During the year, the Committee undertook its duties in auditor on the basis set out below under Independence of the accordance with an agreed annual work plan.
items which are put to each meeting are as follows the Committees rolling annual plan review, reports from the internal audit function on the progress of their programme for the year including fee analysis and new internal audit reports.
The Committee continues to focus on specifically identified strategic risk areas, as well as ensuring the provision of a core compliance assurance service.
No significant weaknesses were identified in any of the internal audit reports although certain improvements in processes and procedures were made as a result of reviews.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 74 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Audit Committee report continued In addition, other matters relating to the application of Reviewing the 2014 Annual report and accounts accounting policies or accounting treatment have been At the meeting in February 2015, the Committee reviewed the considered during the year at the February, July and November content of the 2014 Annual report and accounts, alongside a 2014 meetings, and again at the February 2015 meeting in paper on accounting issues and judgements impacting the relation to our financial reports.
The significant issues and judgements considered, the accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions in were as follows: relation to ROC valuation and income recognition, obligations, ROCs and LECs The value of ROCs and LECs is recognised under the Community Energy Savings Programme, as they are earned through generating electricity from retirement benefit obligations pension, taxation and burning biomass.
Accordingly, the value is deducted from investments.
Further detail on these areas can be found in the cost of the biomass burnt and held on the balance sheet note 3 to the consolidated financial statements: and until sold.
The valuation is necessarily based on assumptions, other accounting issues, namely in relation to application regarding future sales prices of these instruments in the of accounting policies or accounting treatment capital market.
The Committee was satisfied that the assumptions expenditure, segmental reporting, accounting for made by management were appropriate and that the Contracts for Difference CfDs and new items in the Companys accounting policy for ROCs and LECs has been financial statements were reviewed.
Where applicable our applied in a manner consistent with the previous year accounting policies are set out in the relevant note to the seenote 14 to the consolidated financial statements : consolidated financial statements.
Derivatives As explained in more detail in note 20 to The Committee met twice in the absence of management with the consolidated financial statements, the Group enters each of the external auditor February and July and internal into commodity contracts to manage its exposure auditor April and November.
No matters of concern were to commodity price movements and forward foreign drawn to the Committees attention at any of these meetings.
currency exchange contracts to manage its exposure to The Committees understanding with both the external and transactions denominated in currencies other than sterling.
internal auditor is that, if they should at any time become The Committee gained assurance regarding the valuation aware of any matters occasioning them material concern, ofand movements in the Groups derivative contracts they will immediately draw it to the Committees attention via through management reports on derivative valuations the Chairman of the Committee.
Nothing was subject to this supported by market data, detailed reports of the year end procedure in the course of the year.
positions, and discussion with management regarding the approach taken to fair value measurement and the In addition to the routine items outlined above, there were application of hedge accounting.
The Committee also a number of specific items which are put to the meetings notedthat an independent review of internal controls over as follows: certain aspects of trading activities during the year had Meeting Item under review raised no significant issues: and February Effectiveness of internal controls and consideration of fraud, Property, plant and equipment The net book value of Disclosure of information to auditors the Groups property, plant and equipment was 1.7billion Assessment of effectiveness of external audit process at 31 December 2014 see note 11 to the consolidated April Review of Senior Accounting Officer reporting financial statements.
The useful economic lives of assets Review of internal controls over ROC valuation and making up a large proportion of this balance are based on incomerecognition the assumed economic life of the Drax Power Station as a Auditor independence policy review whole.
This assumption therefore has a material impact on Whistleblowing reporting policy review Ethics and Business Conduct Steering Committee review the depreciation charge in the income statement and the Review of the external auditors management letter carrying value of the assets concerned.
The Committee received a report on the outcome of a review by July IT key controls review Trading, Risk & Settlement project review management of the useful economic life of Drax Power Audit Committee terms of reference annual review Station and was satisfied that the 35-year life set in 2004 remained appropriate.
The Committee also discussed with November Effectiveness of internal controls, consideration of fraud andreview of risk register management the possibility that, due for example to new Biomass sustainability report regulatory requirements and or the biomass transformation Review of finance team project, any assets in the balance sheet were impaired.
Treasury controls review The Committee was satisfied that, based on reviews carried Fuel contracting controls review out by management, no firm indicators of asset impairment Review and approval of the internal audit plan for 2015 had been identified.
Review and approval of the external auditor terms ofengagement Explanation of the critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions is set out in detail in note 3 to the At the meeting in February 2015, in line with the Financial consolidated financial statements.
Reporting Councils Guidance on Audit Committees, the Committee undertook a review of its own effectiveness and concluded that the composition of its membership, the manner in which it operates and the reviews that it undertakes throughout the year all contribute to the continued effective functioning of the Committee.
75 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014, a policy on the employment by the Group of former Fair, balanced and understandable view employees of the external auditor, the essence of which At the February 2015 meeting, the Committee reviewed the is to require a period of two years to elapse between the content of this Annual report and accounts and advised the cessation of an individuals association with the auditor and Board that, in its view, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and appointment to any financial reporting oversight role within understandable and provides the information necessary for the Group.
shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business The Committee receives reports from the external auditor on model and strategy.
its own processes and procedures to ensure its independence and objectivity and to ensure compliance with the External auditor effectiveness relevant standards.
At the February 2015 meeting, the Committee reviewed Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor during the the effectiveness of the external auditor, Deloitte LLP.
year for audit and other services are set out in note 5 to the This process incorporated feedback from management and consolidated financial statements on page 111.
The external key individuals across the Group, as well as its own experience.
auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for The assessment considered the robustness of the audit the Group audit every five years and the current audit partner, process, the quality of delivery of the audit plan, the quality of James Leigh, is in his first year of tenure and took responsibility reporting on findings and recommendations to the Committee with effect from the 2014 audit.
and management, and the experience and expertise of the No contractual obligations exist that restrict the Groups choice audit team and the quality of service provided.
Having reviewed Deloittes performance during the year and satisfied itself of their continuing independence and objectivity Audit tendering within the context of applicable regulatory requirements and professional standards, the Committee has invited the Board Last year, the Committee recommended that the Board to recommend the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor at decide not to comply for the time being with provision C. 3.7 the next Annual General Meeting AGM and a resolution to ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, as revised that effect appears in the Notice of the AGM.
in September 2012, which stipulates that the external audit contract should be put out to tender at least every ten years.
Independence of the external audit The Committee considered at that time the importance we place on the period of transformational change the business The Group has an Auditor Independence Policy, in accordance is undergoing to become a predominantly biomass-fired with which the Committee annually reviews the quality and power generator.
The incumbent auditor has accumulated cost-effectiveness of the external audit and the independence knowledge and experience that allows it to carry out effective and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Auditor and efficient audits during this period of change and provide Independence Policy can be found on the Companys website insightful and informed challenge.
In addition, to conduct a at www.
com thorough competitive audit tender process would require The provisions of the Policy include: substantial Board and management participation at a time when the transformation of the business is placing greatly, seeking confirmation that the auditor is, in its professional increased demands on them.
judgement, independent of the Group and obtaining from it an account of all relationships which may affect the firms Accordingly, the Committee intended to recommend going independence and the objectivity of the audit partner through a full audit tender process for the 2016 year end, in line and staff: with the substantial completion of the biomass transformation process, and committed to review this decision annually.
a policy governing the engagement of the auditor to conduct non-audit work under which: Subsequently, in June 2014, EU audit reform legislation, effective from June 2016, was enacted requiring public interest the auditor may not be engaged to provide certain entities to rotate their auditor every ten years.
This would take categories of work, including those where they may be effect for the first auditor appointment after June 2016, which required to audit their own work or make management for Drax would be the 2017 year end appointed at the AGM in decisions, or where the auditor would act in an advocacy April 2017. role for the Group: EU member states can opt, by derogation, to extend there is a clear process of approval for engaging the auditor the maximum duration of the audit engagement to 20 to conduct other categories of non-audit work, subject to years, subject to retendering at least every ten years.
financial limits: The government has issued a discussion document in which it all engagements of the auditor to conduct non-audit work states that it proposes to take up this option, but the results of are reported to the next meeting of the Committee: this consultation are not expected until Summer 2015. the balance between the fees paid to the external auditor for audit and non-audit work is monitored by the Committee: and Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 76 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Audit Committee report continued As a result, if Drax were to conduct an audit tender process The Committee receives reports at each meeting regarding in time for the appointment of auditors to be proposed at the internal audit programme and reviews undertaken.
the 2016 AGM, it would have to commence the process Recommendations are made to management for process without knowing whether it would be able to appoint the improvements as appropriate.
Topics dealt with by internal incumbent auditor for more than one year before having to audit reports reviewed by the Committee during 2014 included: conduct another audit tender process.
In view of the small, compliance with Regulation on Energy Market Integrity and number of audit firms that have the experience and expertise Transparency REMIT and European Market Infrastructure required to carry out a high quality and efficient audit of the Regulation EMIR : Groups financial statements and that are independent in accordance with Draxs auditor independence policy, and, Group risk management, oil and freight hedging: the relevant professional standards on independence, the, review of US operations fibre procurement and shipments: Committee does not wish to reduce that number by excluding the incumbent auditor from the tender process if it is not, key financial controls over revenue and financial reporting, necessary.
Accordingly, the Committee considers that it would compliance with Senior Accounting Officer legislation and be appropriate to defer the tender process for a further year, i. e. HMRC guidance: to put the audit for 2017 out to tender during 2016. key IT controls in relation to system access: and In coming to a recommendation the Committee considered, in respect of Haven Power, business continuity processes, how, notwithstanding its recommendation to defer putting planned infrastructure, position management and key the external audit out to tender, the Group would adhere to the financial controls in respect of revenue.
principle of the Code to maintain an appropriate relationship with the auditor.
The independence and effectiveness of In November, the Committee supported a proposal from the auditor are reviewed annually by the Committee and no management to consider developing a different approach to weakening in the level of the auditors scepticism or in its desire internal audit with the introduction of an in-house internal to challenge managements assumptions and judgements in audit team.
An initial scoping exercise is underway to assess relation to financial reporting has been noted.
the appropriate areas of focus and balance between internal and external resources.
The Committee will review progress The Committee continues to undertake to review this during the course of 2015. decision annually.
The Chairman of the Committee, independent of management, maintains regular and direct contact with both the internal and Internal audit external auditor.
Grant Thornton UK LLP undertakes the Groups internal This report was reviewed and approved by the Audit audit function.
The Committee periodically reviews whether Committee on 23 February 2015. the internal audit function is likely to be more effective or efficient if provided internally.
In view of the nature and scope of the Groups business and its management structure, the Committee considers that it continues to be more effective David Lindsell and efficient for core internal audit functions to be undertaken Chairman of the Audit Committee by an external service provider, augmented as appropriate by additional reviews that require specialist expertise.
