77 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Nominations Committee report Membership and process: Nominations Committee Role of the Committee Committee Chairman The principal duties of the Committee are to: Charles Berry Chairman of the Board, keep under review the structure, size and composition of the Board including the skills, knowledge and experience required by it :, consider succession planning for the directors and other senior managers: Committee members, identify and nominate candidates to fill vacancies among Tim Cobbold, Melanie Gee, David Lindsell and Tony Thorne the directors: and all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
review the time required from non-executive directors.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Terms of reference Attending by invitation The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board.
The terms Chief Executive, Head of Human Resources.
of reference are available on the Groups website at www.
Number of meetings held in 2014 4, Succession planning The Committee reviews the The Chairman of the Committee reports on the Committees succession plan at least annually.
The Company has a wellproceedings to the following Board meeting and, subject to established succession planning process which covers all redaction in the event that they include personal information, Executive Committee members and their direct reports, as the minutes of each meeting of the Committee are circulated well as other individuals who have been identified as having to all members of the Board.
long-term potential for senior roles.
In the Committees The Committee has an annual programme of work which is opinion the plan is well prepared and appropriate for the designed to fulfil its principal duties.
This programme reviews: size of the Groups business and management structure and there are considered to be many good candidates for, Re-election and appointment of directors The Committee senior roles.
met on 17 February 2015, following the completion of the 2014 Board evaluation process, and determined In addition to the regular programme of work, the Committee that all of the directors who are the subject of annual also considered the question of Board diversity, and gender re-election will retire at the forthcoming Annual General diversity in particular.
During the year the Company has actively Meeting AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for engaged with initiatives promoted by the Department for re-election.
The evaluation of the Board described on page Business Innovation and Skills to improve gender diversity 66 concluded that the directors offering themselves for at Board level.
The Committee recognises the strength that re-election continue to demonstrate commitment to their can be achieved through diversity in its wider sense in the particular role and to perform effectively: Groups management.
In particular, it is the Boards policy to, Size, structure and composition of the Board At its ensure that the proportion of women on the Board is one meeting in June 2014 the Committee concluded that of the considerations for Board and senior management the Board, constituted with four executive directors, four appointments.
That policy is implemented as part of the independent non-executive directors and a chairman who recruitment and selection process.
Further details of gender was independent on appointment, was appropriate for the diversity in the Group are included in the Sustainable business Company.
It also concluded that the Board collectively has review on page 54. the necessary balance of skills, experience, independence Finally, following my decision to step down as a director and and knowledge to enable it to discharge its duties: Chairman of the Company at the conclusion of the AGM in April2015, the Committee has undertaken a rigorous search, Membership of Board Committees It the Board policy and selection process for a successor.
normally to invite all independent non-executive directors to join the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
The process was led by David Lindsell, the Senior Independent The Defence Committee comprises executive and nonDirector.
Russell Reynolds Associates were engaged to assist executive directors with particular skills and experience with the process.
The brief provided to Russell Reynolds was relevant to the work of that Committee.
The Committee specifically targeted to search for someone capable of leading reviewed this policy and considered that it continues to the Board through the next stage of the Groups development.
ensure that each of the Committees is constituted with the skills, experience, independence and knowledge to enable it to discharge its duties: and Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 78 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Nominations Committee report continued As well as the necessary personal and leadership characteristics, the Committees specification included experience and demonstrable achievement leading a listed company, relevant sector experience and an understanding ofrelationships with government and regulators.
The Committee considered a long list of candidates from a diversity of backgrounds and identified three short-list candidates.
Initially, each of the short-listed candidates was interviewed by David Lindsell and one other member of the Committee, followed by a meeting with the Chief Executive.
The lead candidates subsequently met with each of the members of the Committee.
The Committee agreed that PhilCox was the preferred candidate to be recommended to the Board.
Members of the Executive Committee then met PhilCox.
On the Committees recommendation the Board agreed that Phil Cox should be invited to join the Board subject to receipt of satisfactory references.
Excellent references were provided in discussion with Russell Reynolds by two chairmen of boards on which Phil Cox served.
On 18 December 2014, an announcement of Phil Coxs appointment was made to the London Stock Exchange.
I am delighted that the Company has been able to appoint someone of Phils calibre and experience as my successor and Iwish him well.
The Companys Articles provide that directors retire by rotation.
However, the UK Corporate Governance Code provides that all directors should be subject to annual re-election.
The Company follows the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code on the annual re-election of all directors.
The Committee initiated a review of the effectiveness of the Board, its committees and individual directors and the outcome is reported in the Corporate governance report on page 66.
The executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection by prior arrangement during normal business hours at the Companys registered office.
They will also be available for inspection at the venue, prior to the AGM, details of which are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Nominations Committee on 23 February 2015.
Charles Berry Chairman of the Nominations Committee
