64 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance A commitment to good governance Drax is committed to good corporate governance, which is a cornerstone to a successful and sustainable company.
Charles Berry Chairman Chairmans letter I am pleased to present the Groups Corporate governance I have found this to be the case from my meetings with report for 2014.
In 2014, we complied with the requirements shareholders, which have been one of the most enjoyable of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code except in relation aspects of my time with Drax.
In addition to meeting to provisions on tendering the appointment of auditors as with shareholders, we also commissioned a shareholder audit in 2014 which was undertaken by Makinson Cowell explained in the Audit Committee report on page 75.
Limited Makinson Cowell, an independent capital At Drax we believe that governance is not only about following markets consultancy firm and part of the KPMG Group.
good rules and setting up the right processes.
It is as much This corroborated the Boards impression of shareholders about how we actually do things.
It is my role to ensure that views, particularly their support for the Groups biomass the Group is led by an effective Board which sets a tone of strategy and its implementation.
We do note that shareholders openness, transparency and behaviour that matches our core recognise that uncertainty can arise from the political and values.
Good governance needs to be embedded throughout regulatory environment in which we operate.
The Board has the business to enable effective management.
This is aclear focus on the need to ensure that the business is robust increasingly important as the scope of the Groups operations in this environment.
has changed through the growth of our retail business, the development of our supply chain operations and the US With Phil Cox taking over from me as Chairman after the business.
The role of the Board in establishing the right culture Annual General Meeting AGM Iam confident that I will be for all parts of the Group to work together is vital.
leaving the Board with an excellent balance of skills, expertise and experience to take the Group forward.
Diversity is part of The Board regularly reviews the work involved in operating this mix, and our policy is to ensure that diversity including the Groups internal control and risk management systems.
gender diversity is one of the factors taken into account when It is important that we have the assurance that these are considering appointments to the Board and senior roles.
embedded in the day-to-day operations of the business More detail on our corporate governance arrangements is set and are addressing risks in line with the overall risk appetite out on the following pages.
We have been pleased with the incremental enhancement of these processes, particularly as our operations have been changing, and with the additional review of risk to ensure optimisation across the Group.
Part of my role as Chairman is to ensure that the Board is Charles Berry Chairman aware of the views of shareholders.
The Company and its management are fortunate to enjoy the support of a stable group of major shareholders who are extremely supportive.
65 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Our governance framework Governance structure The Chairman The Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Chief Executive Executive Committee Group Risk Management Assurance Accountability Committee Drax Biomass Treasury and Haven Power Regulation and Corporate Services Safety, Health, Risk Management Commodity Risk Management Strategy Risk Management Environment and Committee Risk Management Committee Risk Management Committee Production Integrity Committee Committee Committee Risks: Risks: Risks: Risks: Risks: Risks: Development, Treasury, Commodity Haven operational Regulatory Compliance, HR, IT, Health and Safety, Engineering, and Trading and Strategic Reputational and Technical plant Corporate, Legal, development Corporate Finance and Environmental Financial etc.
performance Each director has the benefit of a deed of indemnity from the How the Board functions Company and its subsidiaries in respect of claims made and The Board receives regular reports on performance against liabilities incurred, in either case arising out of the bona fide the Business Plan and periodic business reports from senior discharge by the director of his or her duties.
Directors are briefed on matters to be discussed also arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal at meetings by papers distributed in advance of Board and action against directors of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Board has adopted a policy whereby directors may, in the Selection, appointment, review and re-election furtherance of their duties, seek independent professional Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, which provide advice at the Companys expense.
During 2014, no director that one-third of directors shall retire by rotation each year sought independent professional advice pursuant to the policy.
and are eligible for re-election by shareholders at the AGM, The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board and in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, on all governance matters, ensuring good information flows the Company will continue to propose all directors for annual within the Board, its committees and senior management, re-election.
Accordingly, each of Tim Cobbold, Peter Emery, and ensuring that Board processes are complied with.
He is Melanie Gee, David Lindsell, Tony Quinlan, Paul Taylor, Dorothy also responsible for compliance with the Listing, Prospectus, Thompson and Tony Thorne will retire at the forthcoming AGM Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Companies and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
In his role he is also responsible for advising the Board Charles Berry will retire at the conclusion of the forthcoming on legal matters and has responsibility for the Company AGM and will not seek re-election.
Secretarial, Group Legal and Human Resources functions, and for the management of the Groups internal control and risk The Articles require that, following appointment to the Board, management framework and processes.
directors submit themselves for election by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment.
Phil Coxs appointment The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the to the Board was since the last AGM and, therefore, he will directors power to authorise conflicts of interest.
The Board retire and offer himself for election by shareholders at the has adopted a procedure that has operated effectively, by forthcoming AGM.
which situations giving rise to potential conflicts of interest are identified to the Board, considered for authorisation and The evaluation of the Board described below concluded that recorded.
The Articles also allow the Board to exercise voting the directors offering themselves for election or re-election rights in Group companies without restriction e. g. so as to continue to demonstrate commitment, management appoint a director to the Board of a Group company without and industry expertise in their particular role and to this counting as a conflict requiring authorisation.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 66 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance continued The election or re-election of each director is recommended operates.
Directors were asked to provide scores against by the Board.
Details of the service contracts for the executive specific statements and to provide narrative comment.
directors and letters of appointment for the non-executive The review concluded that each of, the Board, its individual directors are set out in a table on page 92. directors and its committees were effective.
No significant areas of concern were identified, but some suggestions to It is the Boards policy that each non-executive director will improve effectiveness were made.
In particular, directors be appointed for a term of three years which, subject to the recognised the importance of energy policy and the regulatory Board being satisfied as to the directors performance and environment to the Groups strategy and agreed to consider commitment, and a resolution to re-elect at the appropriate further steps to maintain their knowledge and understanding AGM, may be renewed by mutual agreement.
However, it is the in this area.
There were also some practical suggestions made Boards policy not to extend the aggregate period of service to improve the means by which non-executive directors can of any independent non-executive director beyond nine years, further contribute and add value to the Group.
and any proposal made to extend a non-executive directors aggregate period of office beyond six years is the subject During the year, the Chairman held a meeting with the nonof a rigorous review.
Such reviews in cases where a director executive directors in the absence of the executive directors, remains in office after six years, will be conducted annually, as and the Senior Independent Director held a meeting with part of the evaluation of the Board.
the non-executive directors without the Chairman being present, as required by provision A.
4.2 of the UK Corporate The Board is satisfied that all the directors are able to devote Governance Code.
sufficient time to their duties as directors.
The Board is committed to the development of all employees and directors and has reviewed and will periodically continue Performance reviews and directors development to review each directors development requirements and make appropriate arrangements to address them.
All new directors The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of receive an induction, including being provided with information the Group.
Having used an external facilitator in 2013 to about the Group and their responsibilities, meetings with key conduct the annual review of the effectiveness of the managers and visits to the Groups sites.
Board, its committees and individual directors, the review was facilitated internally in 2014.
Each director completed a In addition, each non-executive director visits operational sites questionnaire covering matters including strategy, objectives, both in the UK and the US.
Periodically, they also meet with performance monitoring, succession and management senior management to be briefed on the Groups business and development, process and governance, and matters relating specific Board training days are arranged, where appropriate, to the general business environment in which the Group involving presentations on relevant topics.
Committees of the Board The table below details the standing committees established by the Board and the membership thereof: 1 2 Committee Audit Nominations Remuneration Defence Executive Group Risk Charles Berry Invited to attend Chairman Member Member Tim Cobbold Member Member Member Member Peter Emery Member Member Melanie Gee Member Member Member Member 3 Philip Hudson Secretary Secretary Secretary Secretary Member Chairman David Lindsell Chairman Member Member Tony Quinlan Invited to attend Chairman Member Member Paul Taylor Member Member Dorothy Thompson Invited to attend Invited to attend Invited to attend Member Chairman Invited to attend Tony Thorne Member Member Chairman Notes: 1 The Executive Committee is a committee through which the Chief Executive discharges her duties in respect of the day-to-day management of the Group.
In addition to those named above, Andy Koss Director of Strategy and Matthew Rivers Director of Fuel are also members.
Phil White Deputy Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Executive Committee.
2 In addition to those named above, Janet Arsenault SVP Legal, US and Rachel Kemsley Finance Director, Haven Power each chair a risk committee which reports to this Committee.
3 Philip Hudson is the Group Company Secretary.
Details of the work of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees are given in the respective reports of those committees.
The terms of reference for the committees are reviewed annually by each committee and then by the Board andareavailable on the Groups website at www.
com Group Risk Management Committee The Group Risk Management Committee GRMC overseas the operation of the Groups risk management system and internal controls and co-ordinates the activities of the six business risk committees.
The GRMC provides oversight of Group risk optimisation and cross-Group risk issues.
Four meetings of the GRMC were held in 2014.
67 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 The purpose of the GRMC is to: Directors interests, indemnity arrangements and other significant agreements, monitor the risk management process on a Group wide basis: Other than a deed of indemnity between each director, the, maintain the Consolidated Risk Register and Cross-Group Risk Register: Company and each of its subsidiaries in respect of claims made and personal liability incurred as a result of the bona fide, oversee the risk management process in relation to discharge of the directors responsibilities, a service contract cross-Group risks: between the executive directors and a Group company, or, provide an escalation route for Risk Committees who as noted in the Remuneration Committee report, no director disagree on materiality or probability of a shared or had a material interest at any time during the year in any common risk: contract of significance with the Company or any of its, assist in the risk analysis conducted within the business units subsidiary undertakings.
and identify areas where best practice in one area can be There are no agreements between the Group and its directors transferred to another: providing for compensation for loss of office or employment, provide additional assurance on the control environment: that occurs because of a takeover bid.
make recommendations to improve effectiveness of internal The Board has reviewed the independence of each noncontrols: and executive director.
None of the non-executive directors who, make recommendations for changes in procedures have served during the year had any material business or other and policies.
relationship with the Group, and there were no other matters that were likely to affect their independence of character and judgement.
The Board therefore considers all of the nonexecutive directors to be independent.
Board and Board Committee attendance The table below shows the number of meetings and attendance at them by directors of the Board, Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees during 2014.
The number in brackets represents the maximum number of meetings that each individual was entitled to and had the opportunity to attend.
1 Time on the Board Time with Drax Audit Nominations Remuneration 2 3 years months years months Board Committee Committee Committee Charles Berry 9 0 9 0 9 9 3 3 4 4 Tim Cobbold 4 3 4 3 8 9 4 4 6 6 3 4 Peter Emery 9 2 10 6 9 9 Melanie Gee 2 0 2 0 9 9 4 4 6 6 4 4 David Lindsell 6 1 6 1 9 9 4 4 6 6 4 4 Tony Quinlan 6 4 6 4 9 9 Paul Taylor 3 4 10 6 9 9 Dorothy Thompson 9 2 9 3 9 9 Tony Thorne 4 6 4 6 9 9 4 4 6 6 4 4 Notes: 1 This includes both the time spent on the Board of Drax Group plc and also the effective predecessor companies Drax Group Limited and Drax Power Limited, up to 31 December 2014.
2 The Board meetings identified include the Boards annual review of strategy.
In addition to the meetings, there is a conference call arranged to update the Board in each month except August when there is no scheduled meeting.
3 Charles Berry did not attend meetings of the Nomination Committee at which his succession was considered.
Non-executive directors also spend time with management in Time commitment order to maintain their knowledge of the developing business Under the terms of his letter of appointment, the Chairman is and to understand the operational challenges being faced.
expected to commit between 50 and 70 full days a year to fulfil his role.
Corporate governance Under the non-executives letters of appointment, the time commitment each is expected to give in respect The Group is committed to high standards of corporate of membership of the Board, is 12 to 15 full days a year.
governance, details of which are given in this Corporate That includes attendance at Board meetings, the AGM, governance report and the Audit, Nominations and one annual Board strategy day and at least one site visit per Remuneration Committee reports set out on pages 73 to 96. year.
In addition, they are expected to devote appropriate The various sections of this report contain in summary certain preparation time ahead of each meeting.
The time provisions of the Companys current Articles of Association the commitment expected in respect of their membership of Articles and applicable English law concerning companies committees of the Board, notably the Audit, Nominations and the Companies Act 2006.
This is a summary only and the Remuneration Committees, is an additional three to four full relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should days a year in each case.
be consulted if further information is required.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 68 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance continued The directors consider that this Annual report and accounts, Compliance with the UK Corporate taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and GovernanceCode provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess It is the Boards view that throughout the period commencing the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Pages 1 on 1 January 2014, there has been full compliance with the to 57 provide an assessment of the Groups affairs.
The Annual principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code report and accounts is available to shareholders at least 20 issued in September 2012, and this compliance is illustrated in working days before the AGM.
Registered shareholders receive the details set out in this report.
However, the Board has, on the a Form of Proxy which provides for a shareholder to vote in recommendation of the Audit Committee, taken the decision favour or against, or to indicate abstention as an alternative not to comply for the time being with provision C. 3.7. of the on each separate resolution.
Particulars of aggregate proxies Code, to put the external audit contract out to tender at least lodged are announced to the London Stock Exchange and every ten years.
A detailed explanation is included within the placed on the Groups website as soon as practicable after the Audit Committee report on page 75. conclusion of the AGM.
Internal control Statutory information Details of the Groups system of internal control and Annual General Meeting risk management are contained in the Principal risks and uncertainties section together with the Directors A separate document contains the notice convening the AGM responsibilities statement in accordance with the UK and a description of the business to be conducted.
Share capital Relations with shareholders The Company has only one class of equity shares, which are 16 ordinary shares of 11 pence each.
There are no restrictions 29 The Chairman is keen to ensure that he maintains an open on the voting rights of the ordinary shares.
relationship with the Groups major shareholders and communicates directly with them, offering the opportunity Shares in issue to meet any other directors in order that the Board can understand their views on the Group, be it corporate At 1 January 2014 402,566,332 governance issues or any other points they might wish to raise.
1 Issued in period through the BMP 2,129,475 2 The Board also reviews and discusses the investor feedback Issued in period through the SAYE 125,754 from post-results investor meetings conducted by the Chief At 31 December 2014 404,821,561 Executive and the Finance Director in the UK, Europe and Issued between 1 January and 24 February 2015 the US.
These took place following both the preliminary and 3 throughthe BMP 8,184 half year results announcements in 2014.
Makinson Cowell At 23 February 2015 404,829,745 is engaged by the Group to advise and assist in relation to Notes: communications with shareholders.
1 85 members of the Bonus Matching Plan had shares Vest at the third anniversary following the Award and one member had shares vest upon his retirement.
The Companys private registered shareholders hold, in 2 101 members of the SAYE Plan exercised options at the maturity of their 2011 three-year grant, aggregate, approximately 0.6% of the issued share capital.
five members exercised options upon retirement and seven members exercised options following redundancy.
The Board is as interested in their concerns as it is in the 3 Two members of the Bonus Matching Plan had shares vest upon retirement.
concerns of institutional and corporate shareholders.
All shareholders are free to put questions to the Board at No other ordinary shares were issued during the year and the the AGM.
Questions asked in person at the AGM will receive Company held no treasury shares during 2014. a verbal response whenever possible.
Otherwise a written response will be provided as soon as practicable after the Authority to purchase own shares AGM.
Questions asked at other times will normally receive a At the AGM held on 23 April 2014, shareholders resolved to written response.
Shareholders attending the AGM will have an authorise the Company to make market purchases of up to 10% opportunity to meet informally with the directors immediately of the issued ordinary share capital.
At the forthcoming AGM, after the meeting.
shareholders will be asked to renew this authority.
Details are All information reported to the market via a regulatory contained in the Notice of the AGM.
information service also appears as soon as practicable on the The Company did not purchase any of its own shares Groups website.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are set out in the Articles.
The Articles may only be changed by the shareholders by special resolution.
69 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Variation of rights Shares in uncertificated form Subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached Directors may determine that any class of shares may be to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent held in uncertificated form and title to such shares may be of the holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal transferred by means of a relevant system or that shares of value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction any class should cease to be held and transferred.
Subject to of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate General the provisions of the Companies Act, the CREST Regulations Meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate and every other statute, statutory instrument, regulation or General Meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding or order for the time being in force concerning companies and representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the affecting the Company.
The provisions of the Articles shall not issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held apply to shares of any class which are in uncertificated form to as Treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of the extent that the Articles are inconsistent with the holding any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in of shares of that class in uncertificated form, the transfer of the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied title to shares of that class by means of a relevant system or any by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu provision of the CREST Regulations.
Voting Transfer of shares Subject to the Articles generally and to any special rights or All transfers of shares which are in certificated form may be restrictions as to voting attached by, or in accordance with, effected by transfer in writing in any usual or common form or the Articles to any class of shares, on a show of hands every in any other form acceptable to the directors and may be under member who is present in person at a General Meeting shall hand only.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on have one vote and, on a poll, every member who is present behalf of the transferor and except in the case of fully paid in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall which he she is the holder.
It has been the Companys practice remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of since incorporation to hold a poll on every resolution at Annual the transferee is entered in the register.
All transfers of shares General Meetings and Extraordinary General Meetings.
which are in uncertificated form may be effected by means of Shares are held by the trustee on behalf of employees in the CREST system.
respect of the Groups Share Incentive Plan.
The voting rights The directors may decline to recognise any instrument of attached to such shares are not directly exercisable by the transfer relating to shares in certificated form unless it: employees.
The employee may direct the trustee on how to vote at the AGM and the trustee may only cast its vote in a is in respect of only one class of share: and respect of shares voting rights over which it has received a b is lodged at the transfer office duly stamped if required valid direction from employees.
accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and such Under the Companies Act, members are entitled to appoint a other evidence as the directors may reasonably require to proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and, all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other behalf at a General Meeting or class meeting.
A member may person on his her behalf, the authority of that person so appoint more than one proxy in relation to a General Meeting to do.
or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to The directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares at their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason held by that member.
A member that is a corporation may therefore, refuse to register any transfer of shares not being appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a General fully paid shares provided that, where any such shares are Meeting or class meetings as a corporate representative.
admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether fully paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer, they shall send within two months after the date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company, to the allottee or transferee, notice of the refusal.
A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares to take place.
The Articles provide that the directors must give reasons for any refusal to register a transfer of shares in accordance with the Companies Act.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 70 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance continued Deadlines for exercising voting rights Restrictions on voting Votes are exercisable at a General Meeting of the Company in No member shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
be entitled in respect of any share held by him her to vote Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less to shareholders meetings if any call or other sum presently than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the payable by him her to the Company in respect of that share meeting or adjourned meeting.
In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if he she has been served with a notice after failing to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Interests in voting rights As at 23 February 2015, the Company has been notified, in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the voting rights of the Company: Number of voting rights in qualifying % of the Date last TR1 Number of voting Number of voting financial Total number of issued share 1 notification made rights directly held rights indirectly held instruments voting rights held capital held Invesco plc 08.01.2015 105,534,864 105,534,864 26.06% Artemis Investment Management LLP 10.02.2014 19,257,920 1,959,839 21,217,759 5.27% Schroders plc 04.02.2015 20,269,066 20,269,066 5.00% Orbis Holdings Limited 14.01.2015 16,452,561 16,452,561 4.06% Woodford Investment Management LLP 19.08.2014 21,703,125 21,703,125 5.36% Note: 1 As at the date of the last TR1 notification made to the Company by the investor.
Other significant agreements Under a 75 million guarantee issued by The Lords Commissioners of Her Majestys Treasury dated 23 April 2013 in Under a 100 million amortising term loan facility agreement respect of a 75 million guaranteed loan note instrument issued dated 20 December 2012 between, amongst others, Drax by Drax Finance Limited to Friends Life Limited, on a change of Finance Limited and the Prudential M&G UK Companies control, if the guarantor requires, it may by giving notice to Drax Financing Fund, on a change of control, if any lender requires, Finance Limited within 30 days of receiving notice from Drax it may by giving notice to Drax Finance Limited and the facility Finance Limited that a change of control has occurred, require agent within 30 days of receiving notice from Drax Finance redemption of the outstanding loan notes and repayment of Limited that a change of control has occurred, cancel its any outstanding amounts due under the guarantee within commitments and require the repayment of its share of any three business days of such notice being given.
outstanding amounts within three business days of such cancellation notice being given.
Under two note purchase agreements dated 8 May 2014 of 100 million in aggregate, in each case between Drax Finance Under a 50 million amortising term loan facility agreement Limited and various funds managed by M&G Investments, on dated 20 December 2012 between, amongst others, Drax a change of control, if a noteholder requires, it may by giving Finance Limited and the Green Investment Bank, on a change notice to Drax Finance Limited within 30 days of receiving of control, if any lender requires, it may by giving notice to notice from Drax Finance Limited that a change of control has Drax Finance Limited and the facility agent within 30 days of occurred, require redemption of the outstanding loan notes receiving notice from Drax Finance Limited that a change of held by the noteholder within three business days of such control has occurred, cancel its commitments and require the notice being given.
repayment of its share of any outstanding amounts within three business days of such cancellation notice being given.
Under the terms of the above credit facility agreements, a change of control occurs if any person or group of persons Under a 400 million revolving credit facility agreement dated acting in concert gains control of Drax Group plc.
20 December 2012 between, amongst others, Drax Power Limited and Barclays Bank PLC as facility agent, on a change There are no other significant agreements to which the Group of control, if any lender requires, it may by giving notice to Drax is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of Power Limited and the facility agent within 30 days of receiving control of the Group following a takeover bid.
notice from Drax Power Limited that a change of control has occurred, cancel its commitments and require the repayment of its share of any outstanding amounts within three business days of such cancellation notice being given.
71 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Auditors and the disclosure of information to the auditor So far as each person who is a director at the date of approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being information needed by the auditor in connection with preparing the report, of which the auditor is unaware.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors, each director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to ascertain any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
This information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act.
In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act, a resolution is to be proposed at the AGM for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the auditor of the Group.
A resolution will also be proposed authorising the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the auditor, the auditors effectiveness and relationship with the Group, including the level of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditor.
Further details on the work of the auditor and the Audit Committee are set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 73 to 76.
Directors report The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the financial statement and auditors report for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Corporate governance section set out on pages 64 to 71 forms part of this report.
No significant events since the balance sheet date have arisen.
An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Company and details of research and development activities are included in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 57.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its subsidiaries is given in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements.
Philip Hudson Group Company Secretary 23 February 2015 Registered office: Drax Power Station Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PH Registered in England and Wales No.
5562053 Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
