P e r f o r m a n c B B d e. g m r o w r a t t a o e g r m e u d. B v R i i E v d e B M e M. M G T A g w m G r t M M R E A t g s m g C y T G T. S r P H T M e E a I S a T T T g g g g l.... r n n n n l g g g g t a a i i i i m t t t t I e d d d d d t M S i a a a a m m g S a r r r r r r r n n. g T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T t r r y e e v l i c p e F y e S T E w c r u S B c G m n s R U s M t t o a U G g T g a. U A n i r R A c n n e Y a i T T T g v. r b e n g a n o i m i t l d d t i g i a m g t n s n r. y y g T T T t a g i s l l o i t B b v p m o n a e t a r g r n e e d. i n a m t a J t A n y a s. N Y c G T g a m u r L U e t M M t p S U A m g o T G J. s R Y p u T T T g. n r r n g a m i o t o d d t i a m B g n r. C g T T T 42 Governance Directors Governance Report Group annual reporting framework Financial results and reports Board meetings Sustainability governance Corporate planning cycle to investors Seven Board meetings a year Four quarterly Sustainability Divisional strategy Fullyear results Committee meetings development Group Management Halfyear results Board approval Team GMT Talent and performance Interim Management Eleven GMT meetings a year review process Budgetary process Statements Talent and Divisional budget Trading Meetings performance reviews Trading updates development Each division provides Bonus targets and payments monthly updates Board approval Salary reviews Annual Report & Accounts 2014 r s a t e d B. l y u r g m o l s a t l t a e u r o m g r B d. w F D e E i C E v. G m E T g N M t e t M M U g T r m J B. G I E R T T T T g. r L n g a H m i r t a d e d t l s i f a m g u n y r. l e t a s g T T T r t e g N r O a V G. Y m t T g E A M t t M M s g T M m. B G u E n R T T T g. r o n g a m i t d B d t i g a m n r. g T T T B d. m r g o a t t a o r g m p d. B e M O r i C f L. I d T G. m R T g r O - M t t M P g e B T A y m. G E e v R i a T T T e g. r n r g a m i w t d d t i a m g n r. g T T T Governance 43 Manual, referenced in the Operating Currently, reflecting the smaller Board size, ROUTINE PROCESSES Framework and available on the Groups all nonExecutive Directors are members The Group annual reporting framework is intranet, Plexus.
This process is owned of the three principal committees with designed to ensure that the Group and the by the Group Financial Controller.
the exception of the Chairman, who is individual businesses have a clear inyear not a member of the Audit Committee.
plan aligned to the corporate strategy.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE Following the strengthening of the Board Results are closely monitored monthly and STRUCTURE with the appointment of two new non compared to the agreed budget and the Executive Directors, consideration will The Board has delegated authority to three prior year.
This ensures that management is be given in 2015 to a more apportioned principal committees: quickly aware of issues as they emerge and committee membership structure.
corrective actions can be implemented Audit Committee: efficiently when required.
As part of the OTHER BOARD COMMITTEES Remuneration Committee: and monthly reporting process, businesses The Board has delegated certain powers, Nomination Committee.
are required to update their fullyear mainly of a routine nature, to the General forecast, which should be a balanced view See pages 51 to 74 for the Committee Purposes Committee, which comprises the in terms of both risks and opportunities.
All Board Committees have written Group Chief Executive and the Group The policies relating to reporting are terms of reference agreed by the Board and Finance Director under the chairmanship contained within the Group Accounting these are regularly reviewed and updated.
of the Group Chief Executive.
Manual and the Group Financial Procedures LEADERSHIP Board and Board Committees Nomination Audit Remuneration Annual General 5 Independent Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting Total number of meetings in 2013 14 7 4 4 5 1 Total number of meetings attended in 2013 14 Executive Directors Miles Roberts No 7 7 4 4 1 1 1 Adrian Marsh No 5 5 0 0 2 Steve Dryden No 1 1 0 0 NonExecutive Directors Gareth Davis On appointment 7 7 4 4 4 4 4 5 1 1 Chris Britton Yes 7 7 4 4 4 4 3 5 1 1 3 Chris Bunker Yes 2 2 1 3 1 1 1 2 1 1 4 Philippe Mellier Yes 1 4 0 3 1 3 0 3 0 1 Jonathan Nicholls Yes 7 7 4 4 4 4 5 5 1 1 Kathleen ODonovan Yes 6 7 4 4 4 4 5 5 0 1 The Board held seven scheduled meetings during the year.
Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended.
All Directors received papers for all meetings, and had the opportunity to comment in advance of meetings where they were unable to attend.
1 A drian Marsh was appointed to the Board on 24 September 2013.
2 S teve Dryden resigned from the Board with effect from 28 June 2013.
3 C hris Bunker resigned from the Board with effect from 3 September 2013.
He had completed his third consecutive term in December 2012, but the Board concluded that he remained independent.
4 Philippe Mellier resigned from the Board with effect from 11 February 2014.
5 Philippe Mellier and Kathleen ODonovon were unable to attend the 2013 AGM due to prior commitments.
com 44 Governance Directors Governance Report continued Key responsibilities building and leading an effective BOARD DIVERSITY Chairman Gareth Davis GMT and management of the The Board aims to ensure that diversity leading the operation and governance Groups business.
in its broadest sense remains a key priority of the Board and its Committees of the Board.
Miles Roberts is assisted in meeting his as well as building and maintaining responsibilities by Adrian Marsh, Group Whilst all Board appointments are made an effective Board: Finance Director, and the GMT which on merit, we seek to ensure that the Board overseeing corporate governance comprises the heads of the Groups maintains an appropriate balance through matters and ensuring they principal operations and functions.
a diverse mix of experience, backgrounds, are addressed: skills, knowledge and insight, to further Senior Independent Director leading the performance evaluations strengthen the diversity of gender and Jonathan Nicholls of the Group Chief Executive, non experience already on the Board and being available to liaise with Executive Directors and the Board: continue to improve it.
We will report shareholders who have concerns that ensuring Directors receive timely, annually against these objectives and they feel have not been addressed accurate and clear information on Group other initiatives taking place in the Group through the normal channels: business and that all Directors are fully which promote gender and other forms conducting the annual performance informed of relevant matters: and of diversity.
review of the Chairman: and communicating effectively with We firmly believe in the importance of providing advice and judgement for shareholders and stakeholders.
a diverse Board membership and fully the Chairman as necessary.
support the Lord Davies Report on Gareth Davis, in conjunction with Matt Independent nonExecutive Directors Women on Boards.
Our Board gender Jowett, ensures that Directors receive a providing a strong source of advice and and experience split is shown on page full, formal and tailored induction to the judgement: 40.
Currently 25% of the Board are female Group and ongoing training as relevant.
constructively challenging and helping and we hope to maintain at least this level The roles of the Chairman and Group develop proposals on strategy: and in the short to mediumterm.
Chief Executive are clearly established and separate.
providing significant external commercial We commit to having diverse and inclusive experience and a broad range of skills for leadership which supports all colleagues in Group Chief Executive Miles Roberts the Board to draw on.
reaching their full potential, including the leading the development of the Groups development of a pipeline of highcalibre strategic direction and implementing Group General Counsel and Company candidates from within the business.
More the agreed strategy: Secretary Matt Jowett information on this can be found in the ensuring a good flow of information to communicating effectively with Employees section on page 32. the Board and its Committees and shareholders and stakeholders: between the GMT and the overseeing business operations EFFECTIVENESS nonExecutive Directors: and managing risks: The Board carried out an internal appraisal facilitating all Director inductions: and is the Director with prime responsibility of its performance and that of the advising the Board on corporate for health and safety within the Group Committees and the individual Directors governance and keeping the and its subsidiary operations : and between March and June 2014.
A detailed Board up to date on all legal and questionnaire was completed by each regulatory developments.
Director followed by individual discussions between the Chairman and each Director.
Board Committee Structure The review this year investigated a variety The Board of aspects associated with Board effectiveness and, in addition, revisited those areas identified last year to measure whether progress had been made.
The Audit Remuneration Nomination General feedback was collated into a report and Committee Committee Committee Purposes Identifies and makes presented to the Board for discussion and Independent scrutiny Aims to attract Committee of the Groups and retain good recommendations Has a schedule of the outcomes and action plan are outlined financial and non management and to concerning the routine matters financial performance, incentivise them to composition of the delegated to it for risks and audit create shareholder Board and its approval functions value committees Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance 45 BOARD EVALUATION ACTIONS AND OUTCOMES Area Actions from 2013 14 Areas for consideration in 2014 15 Ensuring that an appropriate balance of skills, experience and diversity A more structured annual agenda will be developed for Board role and on the Board is maintained: the Nomination Committee, to ensure that executive composition succession planning and talent management receive The appointments of Ian Griffiths, Adrian Marsh and Louise Smalley due consideration.
Diversity, particularly the need for more continental European experience, will continue to be a key factor when considering the makeup of the Board.
The understanding of the Board and its visibility of risk and executive The membership of the Board committees will be Effectiveness succession planning was further developed: considered and the possibility of moving to a more apportioned membership will be discussed.
A Group Risk Officer was appointed during the year and gives regular reports to the Audit Committee and the Board.
Further training opportunities will be made available to Directors, in particular on audit and remuneration issues.
The Board sees members of the senior management team at Board dinners as well as in Board meetings and individual Directors meet with senior managers from time to time.
A Group Communications Director was appointed to augment our The profile of the share register will continue to be Relations with Investor Relations activities.
monitored with a view in particular to attracting stakeholders further investment from international shareholders.
There has been more structured discussion at Board dinners around It continues to be important for the Board to meet other Board agreed topics, involving external contributors and other senior managers and key people in the business.
More senior executives attended Board meetings Support for the various Board Committees needs to be Committees and dinners during the year.
reviewed to ensure that each Committee is getting the right level of help and assistance.
All Directors and the of Directors standing for election or reviewed at the next Board meeting and, Company Secretary participated in the reelection at the 2014 Annual General if considered appropriate, authorised in exercise.
Next year, in accordance with Meeting AGM.
accordance with the articles of association.
the Boards policy to utilise an external Conflicts Directors do not participate in the facilitator every three years, the review will As part of our annual review process, discussion, or vote regarding their own be carried out by an external facilitator.
during the Board meeting in April 2014 we conflicts.
If authorised, any conflicts are The Board reviews the independence of reviewed and reconsidered all situations entered in the Conflicts Register.
The its nonExecutive Directors as part of the entered in the Conflicts Register.
Each of the procedures continue to operate effectively.
The Directors in office reviews their individual Each Director has access to information nonExecutive Directors bring a strong position regularly and new Directors review relating to the Group and to the advice and independent oversight to the Board and, their individual positions prior to joining the services of the Company Secretary who following this years review, the Board Board.
As a routine item Directors are asked, is responsible for ensuring that Board considers that all of the nonExecutive at the start of each Board meeting, to procedures are followed and, as required, Directors continue to demonstrate declare any interests that might conflict external advice at the expense of the Group.
with the agenda items under discussion.
In addition to formal Board meetings, A separate review of the Chairman was The Company has also put procedures the Chairman and Executive Directors carried out by the Senior Independent in place, via the Company Secretary, maintain regular contact with all Directors Director.
The review concluded that the whereby the Directors can notify any and hold informal meetings with non Chairman had devoted sufficient time to future conflicts or potential conflicts of Executive Directors to discuss issues the role and had continued to perform well.
interest that may arise so that the Board affecting the Company.
Individual can consider whether authorisation is Following this evaluation the Board Directors are encouraged to make site appropriate.
Any such notifications are recommends the election or reelection visits during the year.
com 46 Governance Directors Governance Report continued DIRECTOR INDUCTION BOARD VISIT TO KEMSLEY MILL RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS It is essential that all new Directors are The Board meeting in March was We aim to provide balanced, clear and provided with an effective, tailored held at Kemsley Mill.
Prior to the Board transparent communications which allow induction aimed at providing each of them meeting Directors received a presentation our shareholders to understand how we with the information they need to know in by the general manager about the see our prospects and the market order to become as effective as possible in improvement progress, and made a tour environments in which we operate.
Each induction of the site.
Board visits provide invaluable The Company has a programme of regular programme is tailored to their specific insight into the business for Directors and meetings, site visits and results briefings needs, taking into account their individual the Board will hold at least one meeting a with its major institutional shareholders, qualifications and experience.
which provide opportunities to discuss For Adrian Marsh, our new Group Finance the progress of the business.
BOARD MEMBERSHIP Director, an induction programme was Over the course of the past year, we have designed which comprised a series of Summary of Board and held regular meetings with institutional meetings with the head of each of our major Committee changes shareholders, including several days of business divisions and Group functions.
meetings following each of the fullyear and Month Change This allowed Adrian to meet the business halfyear results announcements, two visits and function heads with responsibility for June 2013 Steve Dryden resigned to investors in the United States, investor implementing the Boards strategy and from the Board and as a meetings in Paris and further ad hoc to discuss specific matters affecting that member of the General meetings and conferences.
We also held a Purposes Committee.
He also met with capital markets day for investors and equity key advisers and major shareholders.
September 2013 Chris Bunker retired analysts at our Brussels innovation centre.
from the Board and from The induction programme for Ian Griffiths the Audit, The Board receives feedback from major and Louise Smalley, who joined the Board Remuneration and shareholders following the full and half in June 2014, included the provision of Nomination year results.
information on the Groups strategy, key the Executive Directors, the Group risks and policies and procedures, individual September 2013 Kathleen ODonovan Communications Director and the Head time with the Chairman, Group Chief appointed as Chairman of Investor Relations ensure the Board is of the Remuneration Executive, Group Finance Director and briefed on shareholders views such that Committee.
Group General Counsel and Company any issues or concerns are fully understood Secretary and key advisers and site visits September 2013 Adrian Marsh appointed and considered by the Board.
as Group Finance to business locations.
He was also The Senior Independent Director is available All the Directors are advised of the legal appointed to the to discuss with shareholders any major and other duties they have as Directors General Purposes issues that cannot be resolved through Committee.
February 2014 Philippe Mellier retired DIRECTOR TRAINING from the Board and from The AGM is used as an opportunity to As part of the continuing development of the Audit, Remuneration communicate with private shareholders, and Nomination the Directors, the Group General Counsel including a short presentation on the Committees.
and Company Secretary ensures that the business and current trading position, Board is kept up to date on relevant new June 2014 Ian Griffiths and Louise as well as an opportunity for questions Smalley appointed as legislation and regulatory changes, key from investors to the Chairman of the nonExecutive governance developments throughout the Board and the chairmen of the Audit and Directors.
business and changing commercial risks.
All Directors who attend the AGM make themselves available to meet shareholders after the Biographical details of each of the current formal business of the meeting.
To ensure members of the Board, including their compliance with the Code, separate external commitments, can be found resolutions are proposed on each discrete on page 41.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance 47 an Operating Framework laying down subject.
All Directors will retire and stand and have been reviewed by the Board common control procedures and policies for election or reelection this year.
A Group Risk Committee, to apply throughout the Group: comprising the GMT, meets regularly and To reflect the voting preferences of all its activities are described in more detail regular formal meetings between the shareholders wishing to vote at the AGM, the on page 55.
Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Company will take a poll on all resolutions put Director and divisional management to to shareholders.
We offer all our shareholders The Board determines the objectives discuss strategic, operational and the choice of submitting proxy votes either and broad policies of the Group.
It meets financial issues: and electronically or in paper format.
We also regularly and there is a schedule of offer them the facility to abstain.
The final matters which are required to be brought communicating key corporate values results are published through a Regulatory to it for decision.
The Board has delegated through our Code of Conduct to Information Service and on the Companys to management the responsibility for all employees.
establishing a system of internal control The Groups Internal Audit function appropriate to the business environments At our 2013 AGM we received votes undertakes regular reviews of the individual in which the Group operates.
Key elements representing approximately 70% 2012 13: businesses operations and their systems of of this system include: 80% of our issued share capital.
internal control, makes recommendations to a clearly defined divisionalised improve controls and follows up to ensure Our next AGM will be held on Wednesday organisation structure for monitoring that management implement the 17 September 2014.
Full details are the conduct and operations of individual recommendations made.
contained in the Notice of Meeting available business units: The Internal Audit plan is determined on on our website and, where applicable, clear delegation of authority throughout a risk assessment basis and is reviewed posted with this Annual Report.
the Group, starting with the matters and approved by the Audit Committee.
Regular communication with shareholders reserved for the Board: Internal Audits findings are reported to also takes place through the Annual Group and divisional business management a formal process for ensuring that key Report and via the Companys website, as well as to the Audit Committee.
risks affecting all the Groups operations www.
In addition, are identified and assessed on a regular in March and September, the Company The Board can confirm that it has carried basis, together with the controls in place provides Interim Management Statements out an annual review of the overall to mitigate those risks.
Risk consideration to update investors on the performance effectiveness of the Groups system of is embedded in decisionmaking of the Group.
internal control and risk management processes.
The most significant risks are procedures, during the year and up to the periodically reported to the Board and INTERNAL CONTROL date of approval of this Annual Report.
The risk process is The Board has overall responsibility for the This included a process of selfcertification reviewed by the Audit Committee: Groups system of internal control, including by senior divisional management in which the preparation and review of financial, operational and compliance they were asked to confirm that their comprehensive annual divisional and controls, and risk management systems, divisions had complied with Group policies Group budgets and an annual review and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such and procedures and to report any significant and approval by the Board of the a system, however, can only be designed control weaknesses identified during the corporate strategy: to manage rather than to eliminate risk and past year.
In addition, it involved reviewing therefore can provide only reasonable and the monthly reporting of actual the results of the work of the Groups not absolute assurance against material results and their review against budget, Internal Audit function and the risk misstatement or loss.
In accordance with forecasts including bank covenant identification and management processes the Turnbull guidance, the Company has headroom and the previous year, identified above.
in place the procedures necessary to with explanations obtained for all ensure that there is an ongoing process significant variances: for identifying, evaluating and managing clearly defined policies for capital the significant risks to the Group.
These expenditure and investment, including procedures have been in place throughout appropriate authorisation levels, with the year under review and up to the date of larger capital projects, acquisitions and the approval of these financial statements disposals requiring Board approval: dssmith.
com 48 Governance Directors Governance Report continued In 2013 14 a tax expense of 3 million was to the extent legally possible and DIVIDENDS incurred for tax balances written off in commercially practicable, pension free An interim dividend of 3.2 pence net per relation to the disposal which was recorded basis.
This was subject to customary post ordinary share was paid on 1 May 2014 and in discontinued operations.
the Directors recommend a final dividend of 6.8 pence net per ordinary share which, Certain fair values assigned to the net SHARE CAPITAL together with the interim dividend, increases assets at the date of acquisition were Details of the issued share capital and the total dividend for the year to 10.0 pence provisional and, in accordance with IFRS 3 the rights and restrictions attached to the 2012 13: 8.0 pence.
Subject to approval of Business Combinations, the Group has shares, together with details of movements shareholders at the Annual General Meeting adjusted the fair values attributable to in the Companys issued share capital during to be held on 17 September 2014, the final this acquisition during the year ended the year, are shown in note 24.
Pursuant to dividend will be paid on 3 November 2014 30 April 2014, resulting in a net decrease the Companys employee share option to shareholders on the register at the close in goodwill of 3 million.
During the year schemes, 10,659,040 ordinary shares of of business on 3 October 2014. ended 30 April 2014, the Group completed 10 pence each were issued during the year.
settlement of postcompletion adjustments We have improved our dividend 129,368 shares pursuant to the Companys with SCA, the effect of which is included documentation for individual shareholders employee share option schemes were within exceptional items.
in order to alert them to any unclaimed issued between 30 April 2014 and 25 June dividends.
This has enabled back payments to 2014 inclusive.
The Company has not On 25 May 2012, the European Commission be made to a number of shareholders.
Details utilised its authority to make market granted competition clearance for the of the Companys dividends and how to purchases of shares granted to it at the SCA Packaging acquisition.
The clearance receive your dividend direct to your personal 2013 AGM but will be seeking to renew such required the Group to divest three sites account can be found on the Companys authority at this years Meeting, details of after the acquisition, which represented website: www.
com investors which can be found in the Notice of Meeting.
approximately 1% of the enlarged Group  dividends profit.
All three remedy disposal sites were POLITICAL DONATIONS divested during the year ended 30 April ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTMENTS No political donations were made during 2013 for total proceeds of 43 million.
DS Smith has Group incurred transaction costs of 2 During the current financial year, the Group a policy of not making donations to political million of which 1 million was recognised completed various business combination organisations or independent election as an expense for the year ended 30 April transactions with total cash consideration candidates or incurring political expenditure 2013, with the remainder included in the of 27 million, and various business disposals anywhere in the world as defined in the opening fair value less cost to sell of the with total cash consideration of 12 million Political Parties, Elections and Referendums two remedy disposal sites gained through which are not considered material to the Act 2000. the SCA Packaging acquisition.
Group individually or in aggregate.
In the year ended 30 April 2013, the DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS 2012 13 Group made additional minor disposals of LIABILITY INSURANCE On 30 June 2012, the Group acquired SCA associates and subsidiary businesses for The Company has purchased and maintains Packaging.
SCA Packaging was the second proceeds of 8 million, net of cash and cash appropriate insurance cover in respect largest packaging business in Europe and equivalents.
These include the Groups of Directors and Officers liabilities.
The the acquisition represents a significant associate GAE Smith, UK Packaging Company has also entered into qualifying opportunity for the Group to achieve its disposals and the sale of the Groups third party indemnity arrangements for stated strategic aim of becoming the Norwegian subsidiary.
the benefit of all its Directors, in a form and leading supplier of recycled packaging for Office Products Wholesaling scope which comply with the requirements consumer goods in Europe.
The acquisition In April 2013, DS Smith received 7 million in of the Companies Act 2006.
These was effected by the purchase of equity of relation to final settlement of the disposal indemnities were in force throughout the 100% of SCA Packaging Holding BV and of its Office Products Wholesaling division in year and up to the date of this Report.
SCA Packaging Nicollet SAS for 1,281 2011 12 to Unipapel SA, which was recorded million 1.6 billion on a cash, debt and, in discontinued operations in 2012 13.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance 49 SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
As at 30 April 2014, the following information has been received, in accordance with DTR5, from holders of notifiable interests in the Companys issued share capital.
Ordinary shares held % Nature of holding Standard Life Investments Limited 139,737,679 14.56 Direct & indirect Old Mutual plc 47,403,372 5.05 Indirect Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 46,864,824 4.99 Direct & indirect Royal London Asset Management Limited 37,906,288 4.03 Direct OTHER DISCLOSURES GOING CONCERN DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR This Directors Governance Report fulfils the In considering the going concern basis for requirements of the Directors Report for preparing the financial statements, the Each of the persons who is a Director at the the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
Directors have considered the Companys date of the approval of this Annual Report The Strategic Report can be found on pages objectives and strategy, risks and confirms that: 2 to 37, and encompasses our Corporate uncertainties in achieving its objectives a s o far as the Director is aware, there is Social Responsibility Report.
and its review of business performance, no relevant audit information of which which are all set out in the Strategic Report We have chosen, in accordance with the the Companys Auditor is unaware: and on pages 2 to 37.
The Groups liquidity and Companies Act 2006, to include certain funding arrangements are described in b t he Director has taken all the steps he information in our Strategic Report or notes 18 and 20 to the financial statements, ought to have taken as a Director in financial statements that would otherwise as well as in the capital structure and order to make himself aware of any be required to be disclosed in the Directors treasury management section of the relevant audit information and to Report, as follows: Strategic Report, and the Directors consider establish that the Companys Auditor Subject matter Page that the Group has significant covenant and is aware of that information.
liquidity headroom in its borrowing facilities Important events since the 121 This confirmation is given and should be financial yearend for the foreseeable future.
interpreted in accordance with the provisions Likely future developments in 16 After reviewing the Companys expenditure of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. the business commitments, current financial projections Research and development 25 Deloitte LLP have expressed their and expected future cash flows with Use of financial instruments 23 willingness to continue in office as Auditor appropriate sensitivities applied, together Human rights 26 and a resolution to re-appoint them will be with the available cash resources and Employment of disabled persons 32 proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
undrawn committed borrowing facilities, Employee involvement 32 the Directors have considered that adequate By order of the Board Greenhouse gas emissions 30 resources exist for the Company to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable The information that fulfils the future.
Accordingly, the Directors continue requirements of the Corporate Governance to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Statement for the purposes of the the financial statements.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules can be found on pages 38 to 57, and forms Matt Jowett part of the Directors Report.
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 25 June 2014 dssmith.
