Governance 51 Audit Committee Report DEAR SHAREHOLDERS The Audit Committees work in the current year has been undertaken against the backdrop of the continuing integration of the SCA Packaging business into the Group.
As a result, the Committee has had a renewed focus on the robustness of the financial reporting and control framework so as to ensure its adequacy for the enlarged business.
The Committee has also monitored the resolution of the working capital negotiations with SCA and the ongoing integration costs that have been incurred.
As noted in last years report, the Committee took the decision to undertake a full tender process for external audit services.
The exercise was completed in the first half of the year and Deloitte have been reappointed.
One of the significant requirements of the Code is that the Board confirms that the Annual Report presents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee assists the Board in this task.
The Committee has continued to conduct its usual oversight of financial results, internal Key responsibilities audit reviews and the management of risk across the Group.
In particular, it has overseen the development and introduction of a programme to enhance the Groups approach to risk The accounting principles, management, the results of which will provide valuable operational and control benefits.
policies and practices adopted in the Groups accounts.
External financial reporting and associated announcements.
The appointment, independence, effectiveness and remuneration Jonathan Nicholls of the Groups external Auditor.
Chairman of the Audit Committee The resourcing, plans and effectiveness of Internal Audit AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP performed on behalf of the Group by Chairman of a major accountancy firm currently the Committee Members KPMG, which is independent from 1 2 3 Jonathan Nicholls Chris Britton, Chris Bunker, Ian Griffiths, Philippe Mellier, the Groups external Auditor.
2 Kathleen ODonovan, Louise Smalley The adequacy and effectiveness 1 C hris Bunker resigned from the Board with effect from 3 September 2013. of the internal control environment.
2 Ian Griffiths and Louise Smalley joined the Board on 23 June 2014.
3 P hilippe Mellier resigned from the Board with effect from 11 February 2014.
The Groups risk management processes and performance.
of a requirement to put the external audit AUDIT COMMITTEE STRUCTURE The Groups compliance with the Code.
out to tender at least once every ten years.
The terms of reference of the Audit The Audit Committees Terms of As reported on page 54, the audit was Committee include all the matters indicated Reference can be found at tendered in August 2013 and Deloitte have by the Code, except the oversight of business www.
Refinements have risks which is the direct responsibility of the corporategovernance committees been introduced to enable the Committee Board with the risk management framework to assist the Board in confirming whether and processes overseen by the Committee.
the annual financial statements, taken The revisions to the Code, effective for as a whole, are fair, balanced and periods beginning on or after 1 October understandable and provide all information 2012, have resulted in a review of the necessary to assess the Groups priorities of the Committee.
The key performance, business model and strategy.
change to the Code is the introduction dssmith.
com 52 Governance Audit Committee Report continued Key activities in 2013 14 Key priorities in 2014 15 Significant accounting and financial Review of provision of nonaudit services.
reporting issues: Carry out an assessment of the external Auditors effectiveness and consider whether the Accounting for the SCA Packaging acquisition.
Auditor should be recommended for reappointment.
Classification and presentation of Test whether there has been any impairment to the balance sheet and review going concern.
Review the risk management framework and processes and the reporting thereon.
The carrying values of goodwill, tangible Review and approve the halfyear and fullyear results.
Review the Internal Audit report on internal control matters and review management response.
Evaluate systems of internal control across the Group, including IT controls.
Adequacy of working capital provision.
The performance of the Committee was enlarged group have continued to be reviewed the results of these tests, evaluated as part of the Board performance consolidated and rationalised.
The Audit including an assessment of the robustness evaluation process described on pages Committee has reviewed the financial of the processes, the assumptions 44 to 45. consequences of these activities and their underpinning the values in use, and the presentation in the financial statements and appropriate sensitivities to changes in the The Committee receives and reviews has concluded that they are appropriate.
The impairment work, and regular reports from the external Auditor, the Committees review thereon, also Internal Audit and the Group Finance Classification considered the carrying values of the Director.
In addition, it reviews the adequacy The Group continued its programme to individual cashgenerating units with their and effectiveness of the Groups risk integrate SCA Packaging and, additionally, values in use.
The Committee was satisfied management process, summaries of the instigated further initiatives to restructure with the results of the work.
Groups key risks, and the Groups the enlarged business.
The costs of these Taxation performance in responding to these risks.
programmes, together with other elements Taxation represents a significant cost to of income and cost including acquisition Under its terms of reference the Committee the business both in cash and accounting costs, impairments and gains or losses on is empowered to seek independent external terms.
Once again, the acquisition of SCA business disposals are classified as advice but did not do so during the year.
Packaging had a significant impact on the exceptional because of their nature, Groups exposure to differing tax regimes, incidence or size.
The Directors believe SIGNIFICANT MATTERS the carrying values of tax balances including that such a classification assists in the CONSIDERED IN 2013 14 deferred tax and the resultant income understanding of the trading and financial In 2013 14, the Committees work on statement charges.
The Committee reviewed results of the Group.
The Audit Committee significant accounting and financial the tax charge, including the underlying tax has reviewed the appropriateness of the reporting issues included a focus on effect, the appropriateness of tax provisions income and costs included in, and excluded the key activities outlined above: recognised, and the risks associated with from, exceptional items, and is satisfied these.
The Committee is satisfied with the with the resulting presentation.
Accounting for the SCA tax charge and level of provisions.
Packaging acquisition Goodwill The acquisition of SCA Packaging in June The Group has significant goodwill and Working capital 2012 had material accounting and financial intangible fixed asset balances.
Goodwill is The Group operates from a large number of reporting consequences including, but not subject to mandatory impairment testing, locations, particularly in Europe, and, as a limited to, the recognition of intangible which is conducted at both the half year consequence, has exposure to the carrying assets, fair value adjustments to the and the year end.
Intangible fixed assets, values of working capital, particularly carrying values of other acquired assets tangible fixed assets and other investments inventory and trade debtors.
The Group has and liabilities, and provisions for the costs such as associates are subject to testing operating procedures and financial controls of, inter alia, onerous contracts and other when there are indications of impairment.
to manage these balances and accounting obligations.
The acquisition completion In undertaking the impairment testing, policies to ensure that the carrying values process included revisions to initial fair goodwill is allocated to the appropriate are appropriate.
The fair value exercise value adjustments and agreement with operating segments and the resulting undertaken on the acquisition of SCA the vendor of working capital balances.
carrying values are compared to the Packaging aligned these procedures and In addition, the financial operations of the relevant value in use.
The Committee assesses these Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance 53 THE COMMITTEE ADDRESSED THE FOLLOWING MAIN MATTERS DURING THE YEAR: June 2013 October 2013 December 2013 April 2014 June 2014 Key agenda items Key agenda items Key agenda items Key agenda items Key agenda items The Committee reviewed The Committee oversaw The Committee The Committee The Committee reviewed evaluations that the the external audit reviewed evaluations reviewed the significant evaluations of going concern preparation of the yearend tender process to of going concern accounting policies and sensitivity analysis and financial statements on ensure that it was fair, and sensitivity analysis and judgements and recommended to the Board a going concern basis open and efficiently run.
and recommended to reviewed going concern.
that the preparation of the was appropriate.
the Board that the yearend financial statements The Committee Reviewed non preparation of the on a going concern basis Working capital, cash flow discussed and approved, audit fees.
and covenant headroom and continues to Reviewed the Internal statements on a were reviewed.
monitor, a programme of Working capital, cash flow Audit plan for 2014 15. going concern basis change to enhance the and covenant headroom The Committee received was appropriate.
Reviewed and Groups approach to risk were reviewed.
reports from Internal Audit on approved the updated management, led by the Ongoing impairment internal control matters and The Committee received Speak Up!
workplace Groups newly appointed tests of the carrying reports from Internal Audit on from the external Auditor on malpractice policy.
values of goodwill and the conduct of their audit.
internal control matters and other intangible assets.
Internal Audit from the external Auditor on The Groups exceptional items strategy, findings The Committee the conduct of their audit, their policy was reviewed in order and management discussed the progress review of accounting policies, to ensure appropriateness responses to proposals and resolution of the areas of judgement and the and consistency of approach made in the audit SCA Packaging financial statements and their towards exceptionals.
reports issued by completion accounts comments concerning risk and The Committee considered the function during claim, including internal control.
the effectiveness of systems the year were consideration of the The Groups exceptional items for monitoring and reporting reported, debated associated accounting.
policy was reviewed in order to on risks faced by the Group, and management ensure appropriateness and and reviewed the Groups Key actions monitored for consistency of approach Risk paper.
The Committee monitored Pension assumptions The Committee considered the ongoing integration of and valuation results the effectiveness of systems SCA Packaging into the Group, were reported to for monitoring and reporting covering, inter alia, the Committee on risks faced by the Group, operational, financial and and reviewed.
and reviewed the Groups cost aspects.
The Committee implemented, as appropriate, the revisions to the Code.
procedures and policies at the halfyear and Auditor as to any relationships that might auditors.
Audit fees are negotiated with yearend reporting, and on a continuous have a bearing on their independence, the Group Finance Director and approved basis through its oversight of the Internal whether they consider themselves by the Audit Committee.
The Committee is satisfied independent within the meaning of the The effectiveness of the external Auditor with the carrying values of working capital.
UK regulatory and professional is monitored through private meetings requirements, and on their quality control between the Audit Committee and Deloitte.
EXTERNAL AUDIT processes and ethical standards.
The The tender process, discussed below, The Committee meets with the external independence of the external Auditor was presented an opportunity to benchmark Auditor to determine annually their confirmed as part of the tender process Deloittes overall effectiveness against qualifications, expertise, resources, discussed on the next page.
The Committee is satisfied independence, objectivity and In order to ensure the independence and with Deloittes independence and effectiveness.
In addition, the performance objectivity of the Auditor, the Committee effectiveness and their fees are regularly of the external and Internal Audit functions maintains and regularly reviews the Auditor compared with peer companies by the is evaluated.
The Audit Committee receives Independence Policy which covers services Committee.
Under professional standards, written confirmation from the external which may be provided by, and fees paid to, the partner responsible for the audit is dssmith.
com 54 Governance Audit Committee Report continued generally changed every five years: the INTERNAL AUDIT OPERATION OF THE COMMITTEE most recent rotation took place in the The Group has engaged KPMG to provide During the year, the Committee met four current financial year.
There are no its Internal Audit service and act as the times and met privately with the external contractual restrictions on the Group Head of Internal Audit.
The Internal Audit Auditor after each meeting.
The Chairman with regard to Deloittes appointment.
function provides assurance on the Groups of the Audit Committee also held separate internal control environment and support in private meetings during the year with the NONAUDIT FEES developing and improving that environment external Auditor, representatives from The policy on the supply of nonaudit as the Group continues to grow.
The Internal Audit and the Group Finance Director services by external auditors is as follows: Chairman of the Audit Committee reviews and his team.
The Committee received The Group should not employ the Auditor all Internal Audit reports and KPMG sufficient, reliable and timely information to provide nonaudit services where either presents summaries of its work at each from management to enable it to fulfil its the nature of the work or the extent of such Audit Committee meeting.
The Committee is satisfied services might impair the Auditors reviews the findings of Internal Audit, that the Groups executive compensation independence or objectivity.
The external managements plans to respond to those arrangements do not prejudice robust Auditor is permitted to undertake some findings, and the progression of those plans.
nonaudit services, providing it has the skill, In addition to the Committee members, competence and integrity to carry out the the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, work in the best interests of the Group, on, Audit tender process and outcome the Group Finance Director, representatives for example, advisory services and due In June 2013, the Committee discussed from Internal Audit and the Group Financial diligence activities associated with potential the external audit provision and Controller attend parts of these meetings acquisitions and disposals and major considered a tender process for the by invitation.
The Board is satisfied that changes in accounting regulations.
The lead audit partner Jonathan Nicholls and the members of the was not present during the Committees Nonaudit services and fees are reported Audit Committee have both current and discussions.
Deloitte LLP, a leading to the Audit Committee twice a year.
international audit partnership, was first relevant financial experience as set out For guidance, annual nonaudit fees appointed as external Auditor to the Group on page 41. payable to the external Auditor should not companies in 2006.
The lead audit partner rotates every five years and Ian Waller, the exceed 75% of the annual Group audit fee current lead audit partner, has been in without prior formal approval of the post since 2013.
During 2013 14, total nonaudit Although not directly informed by the fees were 40% of the annual Group audit recent changes to the UK Corporate fee 2012 13: 64%.
There has been a Governance Code, the Committee significant reduction from the level of recommended to the Board that a tender nonaudit fees paid in 2012 13, which were for the external audit should be carried impacted by work undertaken in relation out by the halfyear end.
When developing the shortlist to the acquisition of SCA Packaging.
for the tender, we took into account the In addition, 6 million was paid to other need for each firm to have international accounting firms for nonaudit work, strengths and capabilities relevant to our including 1 million for work relating to business and the markets in which we Internal Audit.
operate, and with technical specialists dedicated to our audit.
The process met the recommendations in the associated guidance to conduct an open and fair process.
Following the tender process, Deloitte LLP was reappointed.
In making this decision, the Group considered a number of factors including industry and current experience, professional expertise, quality of audit service and cost effectiveness.
Deloitte were clearly differentiated from the alternative providers under these factors.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance 55 FOCUS ON OUR RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS The Group continues to maintain rigorous procedures for understanding and managing its strategic risks.
This year, given the increased scale and complexity of our businesses since the acquisition of SCA Packaging, the Board increased its focus on risk management resulting in the appointment of a Group Risk Officer GRO.
The GROs first task was to undertake an evaluation of the current risk management processes and present recommendations for strengthening them to fully support the Groups divisional structure and growth ambitions.
A revised risk management process is now fully embedded within our corporate planning process and structured to ensure the Board has improved visibility of the Groups key risks and greater opportunity to regularly review the adequacy and effectiveness of the mitigating controls and strategies.
This new process provides the Board with the assurance that the Group has the scale, scope and capabilities to lower the impact of risks overall, is in a better position than previously to manage key risks, and is able to hold a strong position to absorb the financial impact should those risks materialise.
The risk evaluation cycle The Board annually reviews the Groups key risks and approves the risk management policy.
The Audit Committee annually reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management process in relation to the key risks and uncertainties that the Group faces.
Every six months the Audit Committee reviews a summary of the Groups key risks and the Groups performance against these areas.
Risk Committee We have chosen to use our GMT comprising the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, Group Human Resources Director, Chief Procurement Officer and Divisional Chief Executives as the Groups Risk Committee so that the GMT fully understands what risks could impact the delivery of the Corporate Plan.
The GMT is responsible for identifying, reviewing, evaluating and determining the actions necessary to manage the principal threats and opportunities to Group objectives.
These risks and their management are then considered by the Board.
The responsibility for effective risk management is delegated to the management of each division.
The divisions and regions identify, assess, prioritise and manage risks on a daily basis as a source of sustainable business opportunity and competitive advantage.
The divisional and regional management teams apply their judgement in determining what risks are considered acceptable when assessing the consequences of those risks materialising: and in identifying and ensuring the costs of operating particular controls are proportionate to the benefit provided.
Each division presents its risk management plans and resources to the GMT annually for critique and challenge.
Clear accountability for risk management is provided through Group policies and procedures.
Risk management forms part of all decisionmaking processes, with appropriate assessments conducted for all planning investment decisions.
Board risk tolerance During the year the Board has reviewed and approved its internal statement of risk appetite and tolerance.
This describes both the current and desired levels of acceptable risk, supported by high level qualitative risk statements, ensuring that risks are proactively managed to the level desired by the Board.
The Board has also approved a number of new monitoring processes for controlling and reviewing our system of risk management and the reporting of any significant failing or weaknesses together with details of corrective action.
