56 Governance Nomination Committee Report DEAR SHAREHOLDERS The Nomination Committee has an important role to play in ensuring the Board has the right balance of experience and skills to support our strategy.
The Committee keeps under review and evaluates the composition of the Board and its Committees to maintain the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, experience and independence to ensure their continued effectiveness.
Appropriate succession plans for the nonExecutive Directors, Executive Directors and the Groups senior management are also kept under review.
The Board has continued to follow the important debate on gender diversity.
The Board believes that a diverse workforce and management team improve the culture of the organisation and add value to the business as a whole.
With the appointment of Louise Smalley, female representation on the Board has risen to 25%.
The Committee will continue to consider gender diversity when recommending any future Board appointments.
Final appointments will always be made on merit.
Key responsibilities The Committee ensures that a rigorous process is in place for the appointment of new Directors, using the services of external recruitment consultants followed by meetings Reinforcing the cultural and with the Committee and then with the Board.
During the year under review the Committee expertise diversity in the Boards used the services of Spencer Stuart and The Inzito Partnership who have no other composition, new Board connection with the Company.
The Committee also takes into account the Companys opportunities and maintaining strategy as part of the succession planning process and, as a consequence, identifies ongoing succession plans.
areas of knowledge and experience required in the senior management team that will Considering ways to improve assist the Company in strategic development and delivery.
diversity in the pipeline for senior management roles.
Further strengthening of the senior management team.
Reviewing the Groups talent Gareth Davis management process.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committees Terms of Reference can be found at www.
com investors NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP corporategovernance committees Chairman of the Committee Members 1 2 3 Gareth Davis Chris Britton, Chris Bunker, Ian Griffiths, Philippe Mellier, Jonathan Nicholls, Kathleen ODonovan, Miles Roberts, 2 Louise Smalley 1 C hris Bunker resigned from the Board with effect from 3 September 2013.
2 Ian Griffiths and Louise Smalley joined the Board on 23 June 2014.
3 P hilippe Mellier resigned from the Board with effect from 11 February 2014.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance 57 Key activities in 2013 14 Key priorities in 2014 15 Candidates for appointment as Group Finance Director and nonExecutive Directors Maintain ongoing succession plans.
Succession were reviewed and nominations were made, based on merit against objective criteria planning with diversity, as set out below, an important consideration, for the Boards approval.
The process of appointing Adrian Marsh, our new Group Finance Director, was completed.
Diversity is an important part of the considerations for any appointment.
Different Further reinforcing the cultural and expertise Diversity aspects, including professional background and experience, geographic cultural diversity in the Boards composition.
diversity and gender diversity, were taken into consideration in relation to the Board Considering ways to improve diversity in nominations during the year.
the pipeline for senior management roles.
Louise Smalley was appointed as a nonExecutive Director on 23 June 2014.
Ian Griffiths was appointed as a nonExecutive Director on 23 June 2014.
Further information about the Boards approach to diversity can be found on page 44.
The Groups strategy is taken into consideration as part of the succession planning Further strengthening of the senior Strategy process.
The senior management team was reviewed and areas of knowledge and management team.
experience identified that would assist the Group in strategic development and delivery.
Reviewing the Groups talent management process.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board performance Annual evaluation of the Committee in the first Governance evaluation process described on pages 44 to 45. quarter of 2015 with an external evaluator.
THE COMMITTEE ADDRESSED THE FOLLOWING MAIN MATTERS DURING THE YEAR: June 2013 October 2013 December 2013 April 2014 Key agenda items Key agenda items Key agenda items Key agenda items The Committee reviewed the The Committee agreed that, to The Committee reviewed the The Committee finalised the appointment of Adrian Marsh, reflect the change in the size nonExecutive Director recruitment process for two the new Group Finance Director.
and complexity of the Group, recruitment process and new nonExecutive Directors the Committee should commence considered the shortlist.
and recommended that they The Committee received an the recruitment of two new appoint Ian Griffiths and update on the structure of the nonExecutive Directors.
senior management team and promote diversity of skills at the succession planning.
Board level, candidates would be sought from a finance operations background, and an international HR experience background.
