40 Governance Board of Directors and Company Secretary Delivering experience and leadership.
1 2 3 4 Board tenure and background 13 years 46 years 5 6 7 Engineer Finance International sales, marketing & general management HR International operations 8 9 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance 41 1 GARETH DAVIS 4 CHRIS BRITTON 7 KATHLEEN ODONOVAN Chairman NonExecutive Director NonExecutive Director N R N R A N R A Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 1 June Appointed to the Board on 6 March Appointed to the Board as a nonExecutive 2010 as a nonExecutive Director.
She was He became Chairman of the Board appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Skills and experience on 4 January 2012 and is Chairman Committee in September 2013.
He is a nonExecutive Director of Alliance of the Nomination Committee.
Boots GmbH and manages B&B Investment Skills and experience Skills and experience Partners LLP, a specialist investment fund.
She is currently Senior Independent He is Chairman of both William Hill PLC He was previously CEO of the Findus Group, Director of ARM Holdings plc and chairs and Wolseley plc.
He was previously a privately owned frozen and chilled food the Audit Committee.
She was previously Group Chief Executive of Imperial company, having previously been an a nonExecutive Director of Prudential plc, Tobacco Group PLC.
Age 64 executive Board member and President of EMI Group plc, O2 plc and Trinity Mirror plc, the Baby Division of Royal Numico until its and Senior Independent Director of Great 2 MILES ROBERTS acquisition by Danone in November 2007.
She has served as a Group Chief Executive Before that he worked for Diageo for 20 Director on the Court of the Bank of England N G years in various marketing and general from 1998 to 2004 and was Chief Financial management positions, including his final Officer of BTR plc and Invensys plc from Appointment role as global marketing director 1991 to 2002.
Age 57 Appointed to the Board on 4 May 2010 of Diageo.
Age 56 as Group Chief Executive.
8 LOUISE SMALLEY Skills and experience 5 IAN GRIFFITHS NonExecutive Director He was previously Chief Executive of NonExecutive Director N R A McBride plc from July 2005 until April N R A Appointment 2010 having originally joined as its Group Appointment Appointed to the Board on 23 June 2014 Finance Director in January 2002.
He was Appointed to the Board on 23 June 2014 as a nonExecutive Director.
a nonExecutive Director of Care UK plc as a nonExecutive Director.
Age 50 Skills and experience Skills and experience She is Group Human Resources Director 3 ADRIAN MARSH He is Group Finance Director of ITV plc.
She is a trustee of Group Finance Director was at Emap plc for 8 years in various senior People 1st.
She previously worked in the G finance positions including as Group Finance oil industry, with BP and Esso Petroleum.
Prior to that he Age 46 Appointment was at Ernst & Young, where he worked in Appointed to the Board on 24 September 9 MATT JOWETT the corporate finance team.
Age 47 2013 as Group Finance Director.
Group General Counsel and Skills and experience 6 JONATHAN NICHOLLS Company Secretary He was previously Group Director of Tax, Senior Independent Director Appointment Treasury and Corporate Finance at Tesco N R A Appointed Group General Counsel and PLC.
Prior to this he was European CFO at Appointment Company Secretary on 21 June 2011.
AstraZeneca plc and CFO Global Building Appointed to the Board on 1 December Products at Pilkington plc.
Age 47 Skills and experience 2009 as a nonExecutive Director.
He is He was previously Group General Counsel the Senior Independent Director and is and Company Secretary of VT Group plc KEY the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
and prior to that he was Group General Skills and experience Counsel of RMC Group plc.
He began his N Nomination Committee He was previously Group Finance Director career at law firm Linklaters.
Age 46 R Remuneration Committee of Hanson Plc and, most recently, Group Finance Director of Old Mutual Plc.
He is G General Purposes Committee a nonExecutive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committees of Great Portland A Audit Committee Estates plc and SIG plc and was a non Executive Director of Man Group Plc.
