Strategic report Governance Financials LETTER FROM THE CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Marion Sears Chair of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder, We have not made any changes to the structure of executive remuneration in recent years and we aim to maintain the same structure for the foreseeable future.
Although we have appointed a new Chief Executive since the year end, the Remuneration Policy which is being put to a shareholder vote this year under the new rules is the same as shareholders have voted on in previous years.
Other than for Will Adderley, who is a significant shareholder, the majority of the executive remuneration opportunity continues to be performance-based.
During the year base salary for all Directors increased by 2%, the same percentage as for all colleagues.
The market has been challenging, we have invested strongly in the business and reported EPS was marginally behind budget.
Accordingly the bonus award to executives is 22.5% of base salary.
By contrast, the 2011-2014 LTIP produced a CAGR in EPS of 14.3%.
This was a strong performance, being 11.4% in excess of RPI over the period and, as a result, 77.5% of the conditional shares awarded in 2011 will vest in November.
Looking forward we have not changed the performance conditions for either the bonus or the LTIP although, as introduced last year, we now use non-financial KPIs to inform our judgement on the annual bonus award.
We are not disclosing the details of these KPIs as the formula, based on EPS, prevails this year, and there is no formulaic link.
Since the year end Nick Wharton has stepped down as Chief Executive and Will Adderley has been appointed to this position.
Nick has created significant shareholder value during his tenure and is a good leaver.
His severance remuneration reflects this but also conforms to our Policy which becomes binding this year.
Will Adderley has been appointed as Chief Executive on a median base salary with a bonus opportunity of 100%.
However he will not participate in the LTIP scheme as Chief Executive given his significant shareholding.
I hope shareholders appreciate the efforts made to keep things simple in all areas of Dunelm, including remuneration.
A similar structure is mirrored below the Board and the Committee provides oversight on senior managements bonus and LTIP awards, as well as shareholding requirements.
I have chaired the Remuneration Committee since 2004 when we began preparing for IPO and, having served 10 years since appointment, I am happy to hand the responsibility to Matt Davies who I know will continue to keep things appropriate, simple and fair for all stakeholders.
Yours sincerely, Marion Sears Chair of the Remuneration Committee 11 September 2014 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47
