AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT 2013 14 Summary Principal activities Tender of statutory audit led to appointment of  in January 2014 Policy to tender statutory audit at least every five years Formal risk appetite statement adopted First reports received from the formalised internal audit programme This report provides details of the role of the Audit and Risk Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The purpose of the Committee is to oversee the integrity of the Groups financial statements and public announcements relating to financial performance, to oversee the audit process, monitor the effectiveness of financial controls and the process for identifying and managing risk throughout the Group.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found via the Groups website, www.
The Committee has approved a policy which allows employees to raise legitimate concerns in confidence without fear of discrimination, including access to an independent whistleblowing helpline.
A copy of our policy is available on our corporate website.
During the year we have agreed that the Committee will receive a report annually detailing the calls made to the helpline.
The following Directors served on the Committee during the year: Member Period from: To: Matt Davies Chair 8 February 2012 To date Marion Sears 18 January 2005 To date Simon Emeny 25 June 2007 To date Liz Doherty 1 May 2013 To date 1 Andy Harrison 1 September 2014 To date 1 Andy Harrison joined the Board after the financial year end.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Finance Director and the Chairman of the Board usually attend meetings by invitation, along with a representative from the external auditors.
The Board considers that I have recent and relevant financial experience by virtue of my professional qualification and my executive role as Chief Executive of Halfords Group plc.
Committee activities in 2013 14 Two meetings were held in the year and members attendance was as shown in the table below.
Member Meetings attended: Matt Davies 2 Marion Sears 2 Simon Emeny 2 Liz Doherty 2 1 Andy Harrison 0 1 Andy Harrison joined the Board after the financial year end.
During the year the activities of the Committee included: Routine items Approval of the full year results issued in September 2013 and the half year results issued in February 2014. Review of the process for identifying and managing risk within the business in September 2013, including a review of the risk register, and a mid year update of these in February 2014.
Verification of the independence of the auditor and approval of the scope of the audit plan and the audit fee.
Review and confirmation of the Groups policy for use of the auditors for non-audit work see below.
Review of fraud and Bribery Act controls and cyber security are standing agenda items for each meeting.
Receipt of internal audit reports.
44 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Specific topics Following a tender of the statutory audit, a new firm was appointed for the 2013 14 audit see below.
A policy on future tender of the audit was agreed see below.
The schedule of risk topics to be considered in-depth at Board meetings was updated: in the period these included cyber security, disaster planning, Competition Law compliance and Data Protection Act compliance.
We reviewed a formal statement of our risk appetite.
Significant areas of judgement Within its terms of reference, the Committee monitors the integrity of the annual and half-year results and interim management statements, including a review of the significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in them.
At its meeting in September 2014, the Committee reviewed a comprehensive paper prepared by the Finance Director, which analysed the Groups results for the financial year: highlighted matters arising in the preparation of the Group financial statements: and provided forecasts to support the Directors going concern statement.
The Committee also considered a paper prepared by the external auditors, which included significant reporting and accounting matters.
The major accounting issue discussed by the Committee concerned the Groups approach to writing down the value of obsolete inventory.
The Committee noted the basis of calculation, which was in accordance with the Groups accounting policy, and concluded that the overall inventory valuation included in the Groups financial statements was fair and reasonable.
The Committee confirmed that it was satisfied that the judgements made by management are reasonable and that appropriate disclosures have been made in the accounts.
The Committee also confirmed to the Board that it considered the annual report and accounts as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable.
External auditor As mentioned in last years report, the Committee decided to tender the statutory audit for 2013 4 as KPMG had been the Groups auditor since 2003.
A formal tender process was conducted, including KPMG and a non big four firm.
The tender was led by myself, with support from David Stead, the Finance Director, and other members of his team.
 offered the best combination of quality and price and as a result the Committee recommended that they be appointed, which the Board accepted.
As a result KPMG resigned and  were appointed by the Board in January 2014.
As part of the appointment process, the Committee considered the independence and objectivity of the new auditors and concluded that the safeguards in place are satisfactory.
One of the primary responsibilities of the Audit and Risk Committee is to assess the effectiveness of the external audit process and make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors.
The committee took a number of factors into account in its assessment including but not limited to: The quality and scope of the planning of the audit.
In February 2014, the external auditors presented their strategy for 2013 14 to the Committee.
The Committee reviewed and agreed with the external auditors assessment of risks.
The Committee also reviewed the audit approach and the approach to assessing materiality for the Group.
The quality of reports provided to the Committee and the Board and the quality of advice given: The level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups businesses and the retail sector: The objectivity of the external auditors views on the controls around the Group and the robustness of challenge and findings on areas which required management judgment: The key messages highlighted in the Public Report on the 2012 13 inspection of  by the FRCs Audit Quality Review Team AQRT and the findings highlighted for audit committees in the AQRTs Annual Report for 2012 13.
The fee paid to  for the statutory audit of the Group and Company financial statements and the audit of Group subsidiaries pursuant to legislation was 69,900.
A breakdown of fees paid to both  and KPMG during the financial year is set out on page 46.
 have conducted the statutory audit for 2013 14 and they attended the Committee meetings in February and September 2014.
The Committee had the opportunity to meet privately with them during the period.
Resolutions to reappoint  as auditor and to authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
Use of auditors for non-audit work The Committee is aware that the use of audit firms for non-audit work is a sensitive issue for investors and corporate governance analysts, as it could potentially give rise to a conflict of interest.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT continued Our policy is simple we will only use auditors for non-audit work if: they offer demonstrably better capability or lower cost than alternative providers: and there is no potential conflict with the independence of the audit.
We have a relatively flat management structure and all work commissioned by our auditor is required to be sanctioned by the Finance Director, who consults with the Committee Chair if the fee involved is significant or if there are any issues regarding independence.
Therefore we do not consider that any more complex guidelines are needed.
We decided to retain the services of KPMG for tax advice following the appointment of  as auditor.
As much of the advisory work that we outsource is tax related, this is expected to result in a reduction in the level of advisory fees paid to our statutory auditor.
No fees were paid to  for non-audit work during the year.
However, in connection with our internal audit programme, we asked them to conduct a review of compliance with pension auto-enrolment obligations.
Whilst this assignment was agreed prior to the appointment of  as auditors, the work was not carried out until after the year end.
The fee relating to this is 17,500.
KPMG resigned as auditor in January 2014 and did not audit either the half year or full year financial statements.
No fees were paid to KPMG during the financial period for audit work, and fees for non-audit work principally tax advice and tax related projects were 97,833.
Auditor rotation The regulatory requirements on mandatory audit tendering and rotation are continuing to evolve and the Committee will monitor developments in this area.
However we have decided to adopt a policy that we will tender the statutory audit at least every five years going forward.
This means that the next tender will be for the 2018 19 audit at the latest.
We will also invite at least one firm outside the big four to participate in the tender process.
Internal audit The Committee initiated a formalised internal audit programme in 2013 in view of the continuing growth of the Groups business In terms of both scale and complexity.
Prior to that it had considered that an internal audit function was not required in view of the adequacy of financial controls in place and the relatively low level of complexity in the business.
The internal audit programme is conducted either by an internal team that is independent of the activity under review, or by an external party, decided on a case by case basis.
In either case, the review is conducted on behalf of the Committee and will report back to them.
Topics reviewed in the year are set out below: Review topic Reviewed by Ability to comply with mandatory carbon reporting requirements External auditors KPMG as part of the 2012 13 audit Adequacy of disaster planning and business continuity plans and Specialist external business continuity consultants procedures Payment controls External advisors KPMG Compliance with pensions auto-enrolment regulations External advisors PwC Reports were discussed by the Committee and the Board and a number of actions agreed to improve controls.
The Committee also discussed and agreed that this approach to internal audit remains satisfactory.
Change of responsibilities As noted in the Corporate Governance Report, as Marion Sears will be retiring as Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 12 September 2014, I have agreed to chair that committee.
Liz Doherty will take my place as Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Committee on 11 September 2014.
Matt Davies Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee 11 September 2014 46 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
