NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT 2013 14 Summary Principal activities Non-Executive Director search Update of Board succession plan Board evaluation by the Chairman of the Board Chief Executive role assessment and search Since the year end: Appointment of Will Adderley as Chief Executive Resignation of Nick Wharton as Chief Executive Appointment of Andy Harrison as Non-Executive Director This report provides details of the role of the Nominations Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board by keeping the composition of the Board under review and conducting a rigorous and transparent process when new appointments to the Board are made.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the Companys website.
The following Directors served on the Committee during the year: Member Period from: To: Marion Sears Chair 18 January 2005 To date Geoff Cooper 18 January 2005 To date Simon Emeny 25 June 2007 To date Will Adderley 17 February 2011 To date Matt Davies 8 February 2012 To date Liz Doherty 1 May 2013 To date Andy Harrison 1 September 2014 To date The NED search process, and succession planning as part of this, was discussed by the whole Board at every Board meeting with an update paper provided by myself.
In addition there were six formal Committee meetings held in the year and members attendance was as shown in the table below.
I also act as Secretary to the Committee.
Member Meetings attended: Marion Sears Chair 6 Geoff Cooper 6 Simon Emeny 6 Will Adderley 6 Matt Davies 6 Liz Doherty 6 1 Andy Harrison 0 1 Andy Harrison joined the Board after the financial year end.
General succession planning The Committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the Board as a whole and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of the Directors.
On at least an annual basis each Directors intentions are discussed with regard to serving on the Board and their succession is considered in the context of the shape of the overall Board and the corporate governance guidance on Non-Executive Director tenure.
This transparency amongst a small and collegiate Board allows for an open discussion about succession for each individual, both for short-term emergency purposes as well as longer-term plans.
While all Board appointment processes and succession discussions are led by the Nominations Committee these are viewed as important whole-Board topics and no appointment will be made to the Board without agreement of all Directors.
70 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Committee activities in 2013 14 NED search Focus has continued on Board succession and the need to refresh membership over the coming years.
The Committee has continued to lead the search for a new Non-Executive Director.
Following our annual review of the skills and balance on the Board, the tenure of our Non-Executive Directors and our likely needs in the context of our strategy going forward, we drew up a role and person specification for which the main requirements were: Relevant experience in retail or similar business, including multi-channel.
Familiarity with the current challenges of operating management, including multi-channel and international.
Understanding of branding and marketing.
In accordance with our policy, we also had regard to the requirement to achieve a diversity of characters, backgrounds and experiences amongst Board members and we met an approximately equal number of male and female candidates.
In a different approach to our last appointment, with this search we used a recruitment consultancy to assist us.
We engaged Russell Reynolds to map senior retail talent in the industry internationally in order to help us search widely.
We also maintained contacts with a variety of intermediaries and discussed our process with our advisers and our shareholders at the Corporate Governance presentation in January.
Therefore we continued to apply the requirements of best practice for open advertising by talking to a large number of contacts who know Dunelm and who understand our culture and ambitions.
0n 17 July 2014 we were pleased to announce the appointment of Andy Harrison as an additional Non-Executive Director, with effect from 1 September 2014.
Andy was identified by Russell Reynolds in our mapping exercise.
Dunelm has no other relationship with Russell Reynolds.
Andy is currently Chief Executive of Whitbread plc: prior to that he was Chief Executive of EasyJet plc and RAC plc His skills and experience are an excellent fit with our specification: and having met all Board members at least once during the appointment process we are sure that he will work well with the Board and provide new challenge and perspective.
Chief Executive search During the year the Committee reviewed the skills needed for the leadership of Dunelm in the next chapter of its growth.
It concluded that, as planned at the time of his appointment, Nick Wharton has introduced processes and operational focus which have created a robust infrastructure and he has built a high quality operational management team.
This is the base needed to enable continuing business growth over the medium term.
However the Committee concluded that this is the appropriate moment to hand over to a different leader with fresh perspectives.
The main requirements in the candidate brief for a new Chief Executive were: Cultural fit.
Demonstrable track record of leadership.
We used CT Partners to conduct a search and we interviewed a shortlist comprising a number of strong candidates including an approximately equal number of men and women.
The Committee was unanimous in its determination and ambition to find the highest quality individual to lead Dunelm.
Ultimately the Committee concluded that Will Adderley is the best person to lead the Group.
He is an outstanding retailer who knows Dunelm, and the world of homewares, better than anyone else.
He is excited about this new stage for developing the business and will strengthen the senior leadership team further to support his plans.
Although Will Adderley is a member of the Nominations Committee he did not participate in the discussions or decision relating to the final candidate selection.
The Chairman of the Board and I led the Committee meeting, from which Will Adderley was absent, to discuss Wills suitability for the role.
The Committee was unanimous in concluding that Will Adderley should be appointed Chief Executive and we are confident that his long term perspective and focus on growth will reward all stakeholders.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT continued Board succession As stated last year, we have a formal plan for how Board membership should develop over the coming years.
This is a long-range plan and we will continue to take actions to implement this.
Skills balance and Directors performance evaluation The Nominations Committee reviews Board composition and the balance of skills provided by the Directors in a whole Board session each year, in the light of the most recent strategy discussions.
This has also been addressed in our Board evaluation which is described in the Corporate Governance Report.
The outcome of this has been incorporated into our Board succession plan.
In addition to the external Board evaluation, the performance of all of the Directors has been assessed individually.
The Chairman of the Board led a process of collecting feedback on each Directors performance and provided them with a one-to-one evaluation and discussion of training needs.
As Senior Independent Director I collected feedback about the Chairman and provided him with an evaluation of his performance.
Diversity In 2011 we set out the Boards policy on diversity which we believe remains appropriate for Dunelm.
It can be summarised as follows: Whilst confirming that our overriding concern is to ensure the Board comprises outstanding individuals who can lead the Group, we also believe the Groups best interests are served by ensuring that these individuals represent a range of skills, experiences, backgrounds and perspectives, including gender.
Accordingly, it is our policy that the Board should always be of mixed gender.
Quotas are not appropriate as a target for female representation on company Boards, since they are likely to lead to compromised decisions on Board membership, quality and size.
We will seek to ensure that specific effort is made to bring forward female candidates for Board appointments.
We will monitor the Groups approach to people development to ensure that it continues to enable talented individuals, both male and female, to enjoy career progression activities within Dunelm.
Details of the gender balance within the Group are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 22.
The Committee is pleased that whilst as one might expect as a retailer the majority of colleagues are female, there is also good representation at Board and senior management level 25% and 29% respectively.
Tenure and re-election of Directors In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will seek re-election at the 2014 AGM, and as now required by the Listing Rules the Non-Executives will be subject to an additional vote by shareholders independent of the Adderley family.
Given that Geoff Cooper and I have been Board members since 2004, we have each served ten years on the Board, seven of these following the Companys flotation in 2006.
In accordance with best practice, in 2014, our contracts were renewed for a one year term, subject to earlier termination by notice and reappointment at the AGM.
Simon Emeny has entered a third term as Non-Executive Director which takes his tenure to 2016, and Matt Davies, Liz Doherty and Andy Harrison all remain within their first term.
Our main priority during this succession phase is to balance the changes with a period of time in between each appointment and departure and, at the same time, achieve a continuous refreshment of skill and experience.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 11 September 2014.
Marion Sears Chair of the Nominations Committee 11 September 2014 72 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
