Strategic report Governance Financials CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Overview Our approach to governance can be summarised as follows: We believe that good governance leads to stronger value creation and lower risks for shareholders.
We support corporate governance guidelines and seek to apply them in a way that is meaningful to our business and consistent with our culture and values.
If we decide that the interests of the Company and its shareholders can be better served by doing things in a different way, we will explain the reasons why.
We believe that the Boards governance role includes instilling and maintaining a culture of honesty, integrity and transparency throughout the business, through our policies, communications and by the way in which we act.
2013 14 Summary Principal activities Full compliance with the Corporate Governance Code during the period.
New auditors appointed following competitive tender.
Corporate Governance presentation to investors held in January 2014.
All Directors submitted for reappointment at the AGM: NEDs to be subject to an additional independent vote.
Rule 9 waiver approved to enable share buybacks: further approval sought at this years AGM.
Since the year end: Will Adderley reappointed as Chief Executive from 11 September 2014.
Andy Harrison appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Director on 1 September 2014.
Change of Non-Executive Director responsibilities from September 2014.
For more information please see the copy of the presentations that we made to our major institutional investors and shareholder representatives in January 2012, 2013 and 2014, available in the Reports and Presentations section of our corporate website.
Code compliance This report explains how we have applied the principles of good governance and code of best practice set out in the Corporate Governance Code published in September 2012 the Corporate Governance Code.
At the end of the financial year, the Board considers that it is fully compliant with the Corporate Governance Code.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Board role and composition The role of the Board is to set the strategy that will secure the continued growth of the Group over the long term in the interests of its shareholders, whilst preserving and enhancing our culture.
In doing so we take account of our responsibilities to colleagues, customers, the community in which we operate and the interests of our other stakeholders.
Within this context, the Board has overall responsibility for controlling the Group, making decisions relating to the Groups strategic direction and measuring progress towards strategic goals.
Board balance and committee membership is fully compliant with the requirements of the Corporate Governance Code.
The names and roles of each of the Directors during the period are set out in the table below.
Andy Harrison was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2014.
Board Structure at date of this report Geoff Cooper Chair Independent Executives NonExecutives Will Adderley Marion Sears Chief Executive SID, Chair of Nominations and Remuneration Committees David Stead Finance Director Matt Davies Chair of Audit and Risk Committee Simon Emeny Liz Doherty Andy Harrison Nick Wharton was Chief Executive during the financial period and up until 10 September 2014.
Independence of Non-Executive Directors The Board considers that Geoff Cooper was independent on appointment and that Marion Sears, Simon Emeny, Matt Davies, Liz Doherty and Andy Harrison are independent.
Two directors, Geoff Cooper and Marion Sears, have served nine years on the Board during the 2013 14 financial year seven years since flotation of the Company.
As required by the Corporate Governance Code and the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority, in September 2014 the Board considered whether all Non-Executive Directors continue to exhibit independence of character and judgement, and confirmed that they do.
However the Board is aware that certain investor representatives and proxy advisers apply their own criteria for independence, and automatically treat Non-Executive Directors as non-independent once they have nine years service, regardless of the Boards determination.
Notwithstanding Marion Sears tenure, the Board retains the required balance of Executive and Independent NonExecutive Directors that is required by the Code.
Nevertheless, as we announced on 17 July 2014, some changes will be made to the responsibilities of our Non-Executive Directors with effect from 12 September 2014, and these are outlined below.
As noted in the report of the Nominations Committee, Board refreshment is a continued area of focus and the tenure of all Directors is being considered as we manage succession over the next few years.
Our policy on Board diversity is explained in the Nominations report.
34 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Change of Non-Executive Director responsibilities To address the concerns of certain investor bodies and proxy agencies who do not regard Marion Sears as independent in view of her tenure, Marion will retire from her positions as Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee, and the following changes will take effect from 12 September 2014: With effect from 12 September Current 2014 Senior Independent Director Marion Sears Simon Emeny Audit and Risk Committee Chair Matt Davies Liz Doherty Remuneration Committee Chair Marion Sears Matt Davies Nominations Committee Chair Marion Sears Marion Sears Marion Sears will remain as a member of the Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees and will continue to chair the Nominations Committee for a further period, in order to ensure continuity of approach during the next stage of Board succession.
It is anticipated that the chair of the Nominations Committee will pass to a new chairman of the Board following chairman succession in the future.
The revised Board structure is shown below: Revised Board Structure from 12 September 2014 Geoff Cooper Chair Independent Executives NonExecutives Will Adderley Simon Emeny Chief Executive Senior Independent Director David Stead Matt Davies Finance Director Chair of Remuneration Committee Liz Doherty Chair of Audit and Risk Committee Marion Sears Chair of Nominations Committee Andy Harrison Non-Executive Director Executive Director responsibilites The Board has adopted written statements setting out the respective responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief Executive: these are available on the Groups website or from the Company Secretary.
In general terms, the Chairman is responsible for running the Board and the Chief Executive is responsible for running the Groups business.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Board attendance The Board held eight meetings in the course of the year, one of which was dedicated to a formal review of strategy.
Attendance at meetings was as follows: Meetings Director Role attended: Geoff Cooper Non-Executive Chairman 8 Marion Sears Senior Independent Director and Chair of Remuneration and Nominations Committees 8 2 Will Adderley Executive Deputy Chairman 8 Simon Emeny Independent Non-Executive Director 8 2 Nick Wharton Chief Executive 8 David Stead Finance Director 8 Matt Davies Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of Audit and Risk Committee 8 Liz Doherty Independent Non-Executive Director 8 1 Andy Harrison Independent Non-Executive Director 0 1 Andy Harrison was appointed after the end of the financial year.
2 Nick Wharton was Chief Executive during the period and until 10 September 2014.
Will Adderley was Executive Deputy Chairman during the period and became Chief Executive on 11 September 2014.
Board activities There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision or approval, which is available on the Groups website or from the Company Secretary.
Examples of such matters include Group strategy and budget, Group capital structure, approval of financial results and report and accounts, significant capital or contractual commitments, maintaining internal control and risk management and approval of significant Group-wide policies.
At each meeting, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director report on operational performance including health and safety and the Finance Director reports on financial performance.
There is a rolling agenda of other operational, strategic and risk topics which is regularly refreshed to reflect the most up to date strategy and live issues in the business.
The principal topics discussed by the Board in 2013 14 were: Strategic Risk Strategy Risk review Board independence, composition and diversity Health and safety Board and senior management succession Bribery Act Budget Ethical sourcing Dividend policy and return of cash to shareholders IT security and cyber security Logistics strategy Treasury policy Competition Law Data Protection Operational Assurance Competitor activity Corporate Governance presentation Multi-channel development Investor meetings Brand awareness Investor feedback via advisers Customer First training programme AGM voting and feedback Customer survey and mystery shop Colleague engagement survey Range development Direct sourcing Following our Board evaluation in 2014, we measured the time spent on strategy, governance and operational performance at each meeting.
Over the year, the majority of our time was spent on strategy, followed by governance and operational performance, which the Board considers to be appropriate.
Minutes of all Board and Committee meetings are taken by the Company Secretary and committee secretary respectively and circulated for approval.
Any unresolved concerns raised by a Director are recorded in the minutes.
36 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Non-Executive Director Meetings The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors met twice during the year without Executive Directors being present and regularly have informal individual meetings with the Executive Directors and other senior managers in the business, usually at a store location.
In addition the Non-Executive Directors met without the Chairman present as part of the Board effectiveness review process, which includes a formal review of the Chairmans performance.
Board committees The Board has appointed three committees, an Audit and Risk Committee, a Nominations Committee and a Remuneration Committee.
The terms of reference of each of these committees can be found on the Groups website and are available from the Company Secretary.
Details of the membership of the committees and of their activities during the past financial year can be found in the reports from the Chair of each of the committees on pages 43 to 72.
Training and induction Upon joining the Board, any new Director is offered a comprehensive and tailored induction programme with visits to key sites and meetings with senior managers and other colleagues.
This might include, for example, access to recent Board and Committee papers, including strategy documentation: meetings with each of the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary and other members of senior management: store visits.
As part of the annual Board evaluation, any additional training or development needs are addressed by the Chairman with each Director.
Please see the Directors biographies on pages 30 and 31 for details of the specific skills and experience of each Director.
Throughout the year all Directors have visited stores both informally and together with members of the senior management team.
Feedback is given at the following Board meeting.
One Board meeting was also held near a store Lincoln and was followed by a store tour.
The Company Secretary reports to the Board at each meeting on new legal, regulatory and governance developments that affect the Group and actions are agreed where needed.
Directors attend seminars and tutorials provided by independent organisations which cover the whole range of governance topics.
Evaluation Each of the Directors receives a formal evaluation of their performance during the year.
The Board and Committees are also formally evaluated as a whole.
In 2013 we held an externally co-ordinated evaluation by Condign Board Consulting Limited.
Actions implemented during the period, as a result of our 2013 evaluation, included: Continued focus on Board succession planning, progress considered at each Board meeting: Risk appetite considered: Board agenda structure was revised to distinguish between strategic, operational and governance items to help ensure that an appropriate balance is struck between them: Contacts between NEDs and between NEDs and Executive Directors Executive Board members, timetabled formally: The agenda planner was formally reviewed by the whole Board.
In 2014 we held an internal review led by the Chairman.
The evaluation confirmed that: The Board is operating effectively and is closely aligned to the culture of the business: Board members are appropriately qualified and experienced for their roles as Directors, and take steps to remain well informed about the Groups activities and operations: In board discussions, an appropriate balance is being achieved between governance, strategic and operational matters: NED succession planning is still an important area of focus: and The increased level of contact occurring over the recent period between directors outside formal board activities has contributed significantly to discussions about strategic topics, including succession.
Agreed actions planned as a result of the evaluation include: The Board succession plan will remain a regular Board agenda item alongside formal Nominations Committee meetings.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Investor relations and understanding shareholder views We formalised our Investor Relations Strategy in 2013 and it is available on our corporate website.
The main elements are: Event Company attendees Results presentation Presented by Chief Executive and Finance Director Twice a year Attended by other Directors Meetings with institutional investors roadshow Chief Executive and Finance Director Twice a year Chairman and NonExecutive Directors attend a selection of meetings Adderley family dinner All Directors and Company Secretary Once a year AGM All Directors and Company Secretary Once a year Corporate governance presentation Chairman, NonExecutive Directors and Usually once a year Will Adderley Analyst and shareholder presentation at store Chief Executive and Finance Director Every two or three years Other senior managers The Chief Executive and the Finance Director report back to the Board after the investor roadshows.
The Groups brokers also provide a written feedback report after the full and half year results announcements and investor roadshows to inform the Board about investor views.
The Corporate Governance presentation was hosted by Geoff Cooper, the Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors in January 2014, with Will Adderley representing the Adderley family shareholding.
14 institutional investors and investor representatives attended.
The presentation covered our approach to corporate governance, Board succession, risk, audit, remuneration, corporate social responsibility, changes since last year and live issues.
We find this a useful way to communicate and exchange views, and it has been well received by attendees.
Our corporate website contains useful shareholder information, copies of presentations and policies in relation to governance and corporate social responsibility.
All Directors will be available at the Annual General Meeting to meet with shareholders and answer their questions.
Rule 9 waiver We will be requesting authority to buy back up to 5 million shares 2.5% of our share capital at the AGM.
As our Chief Executive, Will Adderley, has a beneficial interest in 30.7% of our share capital, in order to exercise this right we have to ask shareholders to approve a waiver of Rule 9 of the Takeover Code, which would otherwise require him to make an offer to buy all of the shares in the Company.
We understand that a number of shareholders have concerns about Rule 9 waivers in general, as they can lead to major shareholders gaining creeping control: as a result they automatically vote against the resolution.
We would like to reassure shareholders that: Shares bought back by the Company would be held in treasury and used only to satisfy share option entitlements, and not cancelled.
From 2012, Will Adderley no longer participates in the Long Term Incentive Plan and therefore his shareholding will not increase through that mechanism after the vesting in November 2014.
Since flotation of the Company in 2006, the Adderley family has reduced its holding from 67% to 55% currently.
There has been a Relationship Agreement in place since flotation which provides safeguards to other shareholders for details please see the Directors Report on page 73.
We therefore request that shareholders take into account our specific circumstances when making their voting decision in relation to the waiver resolution and we hope that shareholder will support the Boards recommendation.
Significant shareholders The Groups significant shareholders are listed in the Directors report on page 74 and voting rights are stated on page 73.
38 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Conflicts of interest The Companies Act 2006 allows the Board of a public company to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest of individual Directors where the Articles of Association contain a provision to that effect.
The Companys Articles of Association give the Board this authority subject to the following safeguards: Directors who have an interest in matters under discussion at a Board meeting must declare that interest and abstain from voting.
Only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to approve a conflict of interest and, in taking that decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the Company.
The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they feel this is appropriate.
All Directors are required to disclose any actual or potential conflicts to the Board and the following existing conflicts have been considered and approved: Will Adderley is a major shareholder and connected to other major shareholders.
Authorised on the basis that Will continues to abide by the terms of the Relationship Agreement entered into between himself, other major shareholders and the Company on flotation of the Company in 2006.
Until 6 March 2014, Geoff Cooper was a Director of Travis Perkins plc which potentially competes with the Company for retail property.
Authorised on the basis that Geoff was not involved in day to day decisions in relation to the property portfolio in either Company.
On 14 November 2013, Nick Wharton was appointed a Director of Mothercare plc which potentially competes with the Company for retail property.
Authorised on the basis that Nick is not involved in day to day decisions in relation to the property portfolio in Mothercare plc.
There were no other matters disclosed that are considered by the Board to give rise to a potential conflict of interest.
Any conflicts are considered by the Board and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and reviewed annually by the Board.
The Board considers that its procedures to approve conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
Appointment and removal of Directors The Articles of Association of the Company provide that a Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the Companys shareholders in general meeting, or by the Board so long as the Director stands down and offers him or herself for election at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Articles also provide that each Director must stand down and offer him or herself for re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting at least every three years.
The Board has decided to adopt the requirement of the Corporate Governance Code, that all Directors should stand down and offer themselves for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
Directors may be removed by a special resolution of shareholders, or by an ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Articles also provide that the office of a Director shall be vacated if he is prohibited by law from being a Director, or is bankrupt: and that the Board may resolve that his or her office be vacated if he or she is of unsound mind or is absent from Board meetings without consent for six months or more.
A Director may also resign from the Board.
The Nominations Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment and removal of Directors.
In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will retire from the Board and offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Non-Executive Directors will also be subject to a separate vote by shareholders independent of the Adderley family as required by the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Powers of Directors The business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all of the powers of the Company, subject to the requirements of the Companies Act, the Articles of Association of the Company and any special resolution of the Company.
As stated above, the Board has adopted internal delegations of authority in accordance with the Code and these set out matters which are reserved to the Board or committees and the powers and duties of the Chairman and the Chief Executive respectively.
At the Annual General Meetings of the Company from 2007 onwards, the Board has sought and been given authority to issue shares and to buy back and reissue shares.
Similar resolutions are being tabled at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, together with a waiver of any obligation of Will Adderley under the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers to make an offer for all of the shares of the Company if the authority to buy back shares is used.
Any shares bought back would be held in treasury for reissue to employees who exercise options under one of the Groups share incentive schemes.
For further details see the Notice of Annual General Meeting which accompanies this report.
Advice and insurance All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
In addition Directors may seek legal advice at the Groups cost if they consider it necessary in connection with their duties.
The Group purchases Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover for its Directors.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution of shareholders.
Governance and risk Risk is a whole Board matter for Dunelm.
Given the size of our Board and the relative lack of complexity in our business we do not have a separate Risk Committee, our Audit and Risk Committee oversees risk as part of its activities.
We believe that risk is best managed by a combination of the following: Formal risk management processes as described in this report.
The Board and senior management leading by example.
Embedding our culture and ethics.
Throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report there has been in place an established, on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The process has been reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board and is in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control for Directors.
The diagram below sets out how responsibility for risk management is allocated.
Board Collective responsibility Formal consideration of risk appetite for managing risk Formal risk review twice annually Consideration of what keeps us awake at night Standard agenda items Regular timetabled presentations Regular Deep Dive reviews Monitor KPIs through Board reports Executive members have line responsibility for managing specific risks Audit and Risk Oversees risk Formal risk review twice annually Committee management process Selects topics for Deep Dive reviews Executive Board Members have line Periodic review of risk register responsibility for Regular consideration of what keeps us awake at night and mitigating managing specific actions risk areas Participate in annual risk review process 40 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Risk management is a collective Board responsibility.
The Board as a whole sets the risk appetite, in the context of which major decisions are taken, including our approach to risk management.
Risks are reviewed formally twice a year and separately management consider the main risks that keep us awake at night.
Important risk topics are covered in-depth either by regular timetabled presentations e. g. health and safety, by Deep Dive discussions e. g. competition law, cyber security, or regularly as a standard agenda item e. g. competitor activity.
The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for overseeing the risk management framework.
Risks are reviewed by the Committee formally twice a year.
Risk topics selected by the Audit and Risk Committee are considered in-depth at Board meetings, supported by a paper prepared by the relevant executive.
In the period topics covered included Competition Law compliance, Data Protection, cyber security and food safety.
A register of major strategic and operational risks is maintained.
Each risk is documented, together with the mitigating factors and controls in place to manage it.
Risks are assessed in terms of impact and likelihood and the highest priority risks are identified for specific focus.
A member of the Executive Board is allocated responsibility for management of each risk.
The Executive Board reviews the risk register periodically throughout the year.
It is presented twice per annum to the Audit and Risk Committee and key risks and mitigating actions are taken on to the Board agenda for monitoring as appropriate.
Internal control and internal audit The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The diagram below summarises the Groups system.
Board Audit and Risk Executive Internal Audit Operational Committee Board Programme Audit Team Collective Oversees Responsible for Reviews specific Reviews compliance responsibility for effectiveness of operating within the matters selected by with certain internal internal control internal control control framework the Audit and Risk procedures in stores Formal list of matters Receives reports from Reviews and Committee and at other locations reserved for decision external auditors monitors compliance by the Board Approves internal with policies and Control framework audit programme procedures setting out Receives reports Recommends responsibilities generated through changes to controls Approval of key the internal audit policies where needed policies and programme Monitors performance procedures Monitors performance The system of internal control comprises: A list of matters specifically reserved for Board approval, for example significant capital expenditure.
A well-established control framework comprising clear structures and accountabilities for colleagues, well understood policies and procedures and budgeting and review processes.
Each Head of Department and store manager has clear responsibilities and operates within defined policies and procedures covering such areas as financial targets, human resources management, customer service, health and safety.
The Executive Directors and Executive Board monitor compliance with these policies and procedures in the course of regular reviews.
In addition there is a rolling programme of review of store compliance by the operational audit team.
The Audit and Risk Committee has oversight of the system of internal controls and of the internal audit programme see below and receives the report of the external auditor following the annual statutory audit.
The Audit and Risk Committee considers that a permanent internal audit function is not required in view of the adequacy of internal and risk management controls and reporting in place, the relatively low level of complexity in the business and the close involvement of the Executive Directors in the operation of the business.
There is however a programme of internal audit activities carried out either by external or internal teams, reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The topics reviewed in 2013 14 were readiness for greenhouse gas reporting, business continuity planning, payment controls and certain aspects of compliance with pensions auto-enrolment regulations.
The Committee confirmed in February 2014 that this method of internal audit remains satisfactory.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Please note that internal control systems such as this are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute, assurance against material loss or accounting misstatement.
The Board confirms that where any significant failures or weaknesses have been identified from the risk management review or the internal control procedures, actions have been taken to remedy these.
Bribery Act 2010 Following the coming into force of the Bribery Act in July 2011, we have reviewed the procedures in place to ensure that we are able to comply with its requirements.
Actions taken include: Anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy implemented.
The policy on acceptance of gifts and other privileges has been updated and a formal procedure has been implemented for signing off and logging hospitality.
Executive Board members and Heads of Department have received training and also signed a declaration of compliance, which is an annual process.
All members of the Buying, Merchandising and Quality departments are required to attend a Bribery Act training session.
Standard terms and conditions for suppliers include a Bribery Act clause.
The Whistleblowing Policy refers specifically to the Bribery Act.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 11 September 2014.
Geoff Cooper Chairman 11 September 2014 42 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
