Strategic report Governance Financials LETTER FROM THE CHAIR OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Marion Sears Chair of Nominations Committee Dear Shareholder, We have continued to focus on Board composition and refreshment during the year with the aim of creating the right diversity of skills and mix of tenure.
With regard to Non Executives, in 2012 and 2013 we appointed Matt Davies and Liz Doherty respectively to the Board and in 2014 we have appointed Andy Harrison to the Board.
This means that we now have the majority of NEDs in the first term of their tenure and the Board benefits from fresh insights, skills and experience arising from this new mix.
In every recruitment process significant work and effort has gone into networking with a large number of contacts in order to ensure we have met a range of potential candidates.
We are always looking for better and we take our time to find individuals who fit Dunelms culture and can bring an additional perspective.
With regard to Executives, the Nominations Committee has focused for some time now on the future executive needs for the next chapter of Dunelms growth.
As a result of this we conducted a search for a new Chief Executive who would have the skills for this next phase and we interviewed a number of external candidates.
Ultimately we concluded that Will Adderley is the best person to lead Dunelm in this next phase and we look forward to building on our position as the UKs leading homewares retailer under his direction.
We congratulate Nick Wharton for the shareholder value he has created over the last four years.
We are fully compliant in terms of Board balance between Executives and Independent Directors.
We think continually about the future needs of the business and about how the Board can help to preserve our culture throughout the organisation, whilst at the same time ensuring the calibre of Board necessary to support our ambitions for growth.
Looking forward, we will continue to work on Board composition and Chairman succession, with the aim of achieving smooth succession of Directors over the next few years.
Yours sincerely, Marion Sears Chair of the Nominations Committee 11 September 2014 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69
