Corporate governance report BOARD COMMITTEES SAFETY COMMITTEE The Committee reports that follow set out, amongst other things, the responsibilities and activities of the Committees in the past financial year.
The terms of reference of each Committee are documented and agreed by the Board.
The full text of the Committees terms of reference are available Professor Rigas Doganis in the governance section of easyJets corporate website: Chair of the Safety Committee http: corporate.
com The Chair of each Board Committee formally reports back The Safety Committee is now in its second year and to the Board.
continues to make a difference to the effective safety oversight of the Board.
Details of Directors attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings is set out on page 67.
Membership as at 30 September 2014 two independent Non-Executive Directors, one independent safety expert, and one The Board of easyJet plc Executive Director Chairman: John Barton Professor Rigas Doganis Chair Keith Hamill Safety Committee See pages Carolyn McCall Executive Director 58 to 59 Chair: Professor Rigas Doganis appointed to Committee on 1 July 2014 Geoff Want independent safety expert See pages Remuneration Committee Meetings held in the 2014 Chair: Charles Gurassa 59 and 71 to 88 4 financial year: Audit Committee See pages Key responsibilities Chair: Adle Anderson 60 to 63 To assess the Companys oversight of safety systems, processes, operations and resources, and to review and monitor the implementation of the Companys annual Nominations Committee See page safety plan.
Chair: Charles Gurassa 64 The Committee also examines specific safety issues as requested by the Board.
Where appropriate, the See page Finance Committee Committee reviews relevant reports published by the Chair: Adle Anderson 65 UK Air Accident Investigation Branch, major incidents that have affected other operators, as well as other external reports on matters relevant to safety and security.
IT Governance and Oversight See page Committee As was the case prior to the establishment of this 65 Chair: John Browett Committee, independent safety reports from the Director of Safety and Security are presented at every Board meeting.
The Committee ensures that both internal and Fleet Oversight and See page relevant external events are fully investigated and that Governance Committee 66 appropriate actions have been taken where necessary.
Chair: Charles Gurassa The Director of Safety and Security has a direct reporting The Fleet Oversight and Governance Committee was line to the Chairman which reinforces the independence dissolved in June 2014. of safety oversight.
In addition, the independent safety expert has reported to the Board twice-yearly with his own assessment of safety management within the airline.
Further information on the Safety Management System is provided on page 37.
Highlights of the 2014 financial year A range of safety-related matters have been reviewed by the Committee during the 2014 financial year.
Some of these followed requests from the Board to carry out detailed reviews of specific operational incidents following the regular safety reports provided to the Board: others were reports of safety actions taken by easyJet operational departments.
This included a review of the processes, identification and use of pattern recognition for safety purposes, and also a review of the cyber security threats to easyJets operations and the mitigations in place to counter such threats.
58 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Moving forward Key responsibilities After eight years as easyJets Director of Safety and To assess and make recommendations to the Board on Security, Dave Prior decided to step down from this the policies for remuneration for each of the Executive role at the end of October 2014.
He will, however, Directors and the Chairman, as well as the level and continue in a new safety role as Head of Safety Assurance structure of remuneration for senior management.
Geoff Want, who was the Safety Highlights of the 2014 financial year Committees independent safety expert, joined easyJet The Committee reviewed and will be putting forward a in October 2014 as the new Director of Safety and Security.
revised Long Term Incentive Plan for shareholder approval Dr. Andreas Bierwirth was appointed to the Committee at the Companys 2015 Annual General Meeting as part on 13 November, and the Committee will benefit from his of the remuneration policy.
extensive experience in the European airline industry.
The Committee reviewed other share scheme matters, including the share purchase monetary limits for the HMRC-approved all-employee Save As You Earn and Buy As You Earn plans, and the share schemes for Swiss employees.
Professor Rigas Doganis A detailed report to the shareholders from the Committee On behalf of the Safety Committee on behalf of the Board which, amongst other things, includes a description of the main activities of the Committee during the year, is contained in the Directors remuneration report on pages 71 to 88.
REMUNERATION Additional disclosures under the UK Corporate COMMITTEE Governance Code Hewitt New Bridge Street NBS an AON Company Charles Gurassa has been appointed as easyJets remuneration Chair of the consultants.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Remuneration Committee Consultants Group and complies with its code of conduct.
NBS has no other connection with the Company.
However, a sister company in the AON Group The Remuneration Committees focus during the provides pension and flexible benefits administration year has been on putting forward a revised Long services to the Company following the acquisition of Term Incentive Plan in its remuneration policy for our existing provider, Lorica Consulting Holdings Limited, shareholder approval at the Companys 2015 Annual by AON in June 2014.
The remuneration policy has been designed to be straightforward and transparent, in Shareholders are required to approve all new long-term alignment with the Companys principle of having incentive plans and significant changes to existing plans.
Consequently, the Company will be seeking shareholder approval for the proposed Long Term Incentive Plan at Membership as at 30 September 2014 all members the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Further details can be are independent Non-Executive Directors found in the Directors remuneration report.
Charles Gurassa Chair David Bennett stepped down from Committee on 1 October 2014 John Browett appointed to Committee on 1 July 2014 Charles Gurassa Franois Rubichon appointed to Committee on On behalf of the Remuneration Committee 22 July 2014 Professor Rigas Doganis stepping down from Committee on 1 December 2014 Andy Martin stepped down from the Committee on 1 July 2014.
Meetings held in the 2014 financial year: 3 www.
com 59 Corporate governance report continued AUDIT COMMITTEE Adle Anderson Chair of the Audit Committee I succeeded David Bennett as Chair of the Committee Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, in June.
On behalf of the Committee I would like to published in September 2014.
These changes will apply thank David for his effective chairmanship over the last to the Company from its 2015 financial year and allow nine years.
I would also like to welcome Andy Martin, the Committee to further strengthen its role as a key who brings a further wealth of recent and relevant independent oversight committee adding value to financial experience to the Committee.
The key Code changes with respect to the Committee, regarding the robust assessment of principal During the year, the Audit Committee has continued risks and how they are being managed and mitigated, to devote significant time to the scrutiny of the and carrying out an effectiveness review of the risk appropriateness of the Groups system of risk management and internal control systems in place, management and internal controls, the integrity of are already, and will continue to be, focus areas for the the Groups financial reporting, together with the Committee.
The Committee will increase its number of robustness of the internal and external audit processes.
meetings from three to four for the forthcoming financial year, in order to continue to discharge its set of Looking ahead to next year, the Committee welcomes the responsibilities effectively.
changes to the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, and the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Membership as at 30 September 2014 Director of Abbey National plc, and prior to that the Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director of Alliance all members are independent Non-Executive Directors and Leicester plc.
Keith Hamill has had considerable Adle Anderson appointed as Chair on 12 June 2014 experience as a director of listed companies and was David Bennett stepped down from Committee on Finance Director of WHSmith, Forte and United Distillers 1 October and stepped down as Chair on 12 June 2014 and a partner in Price Waterhouse from 1986 to 1988.
Keith Hamill Andy Martin was Group Finance Director of Compass Andy Martin appointed to Committee on 1 July 2014 Group plc between 2004 and 2012, and prior to this held other senior financial positions with First Choice Holidays The Committee members have been selected to provide plc now TUI Travel plc, Forte plc and Granada Group the wide range of financial and commercial expertise plc.
The Board considers the Committee members necessary to fulfil the Committees duties and financial experience to be recent and relevant for the responsibilities.
Adle Anderson was a partner in KPMG purposes of the Code.
until July 2011 and held roles including Chief Financial Officer of KPMG UK, Chief Executive Officer of KPMGs captive insurer and Chief Financial Officer of KPMG Meetings held in the 2014 financial year: 3 Europe.
David Bennett was previously an Executive 60 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Main activities and responsibilities of the Committee during the financial year Please refer to the Audit Committee terms of reference for further details on the Committees duties and responsibilities, available in the governance section of easyJets corporate website: http: corporate.
com Responsibilities How the Committee has discharged its responsibilities To monitor and review: The integrity of the financial statements and related Review of the financial statements and announcements formal announcements, and the significant financial relating to the financial performance and governance reporting issues and judgements which they contain of the Group at year end and half year.
The Committee also considered the material areas in which significant judgements have been applied based on reports from both the Groups management and the external auditors.
Further information is provided in the Financial reporting and significant financial issues section.
The Groups risk management systems and internal control Review of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups ongoing risk management systems and processes, through risk and assurance plans and reports, including: risk assessments: information security and business continuity: control themes: and internal financial control assessments.
Further information is provided in the Risk management and internal control section.
The effectiveness of the Companys Internal Audit The Committee undertook an assessment of the function and its activities effectiveness and independence of the Internal Audit function, which included consideration of: key Internal Audit reports: stakeholder feedback on the quality of Internal Audit activity: Internal Audits compliance with prevailing professional standards: and closure of Internal Audit recommendations.
Further information is provided in the Internal audit section.
The Companys relationship with the external The Committee considered the re-appointment of auditors, including: the external auditors, confirming and assessing their independence, objectivity and effectiveness.
their independence and objectivity: Further information on: the effectiveness of the external audit process: how the effectiveness, independence and objectivity recommending the appointment, re-appointment of the external audit process were assessed is provided or removal of the external auditors: in the External auditors and effectiveness of external audit process section below: and approving their remuneration and terms of engagement: and the external auditors non-audit services, and audit tendering, is provided in the Non-audit services and the policy regarding the supply of non-audit services.
the Audit tendering sections, respectively.
com 61 Corporate governance report continued Main activities and responsibilities of the Committee during the financial year continued: Responsibilities How the Committee has discharged its responsibilities The adequacy and security of the Groups arrangements During the year, the Committee reviewed: for its employees and contractors to raise concerns, whistleblower reports: in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters reports on anti-bribery and corruption procedures: reports on procedures on fraud and loss prevention: and The Groups systems and controls for the prevention reports on revenue protection.
of bribery and detection of fraud, including receiving reports on non-compliance The Committee updated its terms of reference and Other duties of the Committee include: considered potential conflicts of interests of the Directors updating their terms of reference: during the year.
assessing potential conflicts of interest of Directors Further information on the Committees role on providing on behalf of the Board: and advice on whether the Annual report and accounts is fair, balanced and understandable, is provided in the Financial as requested by the Board, providing advice on reporting and significant financial issues section below.
whether the Annual report and accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
Other items which the Committee looked at during The Committee considered whether the carrying value the financial year in addition to its core responsibilities of goodwill and landing rights held by easyJet should be included reviewing: impaired.
The judgement in relation to impairment largely relates to the assumptions underlying the calculation of the management of change initiatives in the business: the value in use of the business being tested for impairment: primarily whether the strategic plan is information security policies and procedures, including achievable and the overall macroeconomic assumptions mitigations around cyber attacks and incidents: which underlie the valuation process.
The Committee the delegation of authorities within the Group and the addressed these matters using reports received from business: and management outlining the basis for assumptions used.
The strategic plan used in the calculation was approved payroll processes.
Financial reporting and significant financial issues The Committee considered the key treasury transactions The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting and balances, and the application of hedge accounting.
policies have been adopted and whether management easyJet hedges forward, on a rolling basis, between 65% has made appropriate estimates and judgements.
The and 85% of the next 12 months anticipated fuel and Committee reviews accounting papers prepared by currency requirements and between 45% and 65% of the management which provide details on the main financial following 12 months anticipated requirements, and does reporting judgements.
The Committee also reviews reports not operate any other significant derivative financial by the external auditors on the full year and half year instruments.
However, this area remains significant due results which highlight any issues with respect to the to the quantity of fuel price and exchange rate hedges.
work undertaken on the audit.
The Committee reviewed the level and calculation of key The Committee reviews financial issues through accruals which are judgemental in nature for example discussion with management and the external auditors customer claims in respect of flight delays, cancellations and comparison to other organisations.
The number of and Air Passenger Duty.
such issues currently considered as significant are, however, limited given easyJets relatively simple business model The Committee is satisfied that the judgements made and group structure, which are unencumbered with legacy by management are reasonable, and that appropriate issues.
The significant issues considered in relation to the disclosures have been included in the accounts.
accounts are detailed below: At the request of the Board, the Committee also The Committee reviewed the maintenance provision at considered whether the Annual report and accounts was the year end.
A number of judgements are used in the fair, balanced and understandable and whether it provided calculation of the provision, primarily pricing, utilisation the necessary information for shareholders to assess the of aircraft and timing of maintenance checks.
The Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee addressed these matters using reports Committee is satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual received from management which underlie the basis of report and accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee also discussed with In reaching this conclusion, the Committee considered the the external auditors their review of the assumptions overall review and confirmation process around the Annual underlying the estimates used.
report and accounts, including: 62 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance the input of subject matter experts, the Executive conducting a post year end review of the audit process Management Team and other senior management, involving input from the Chief Financial Officer, senior and where applicable, the Board and its Committees: management in the finance department, and their respective teams: the processes and controls which underpin the overall review and confirmation process, including the holding a feedback session between the Group Financial verification process being carried out by an internal Controller and the Senior Statutory Auditor and audit financial controls specialist independent of the finance director following the post year end review: and function : and maintaining regular dialogue between the external auditors and the Chief Financial Officer, the Group internal audit providing assurance over the audit trail for material data points relating to the non-financial Financial Controller and Internal Audit.
statement aspects of the Annual report and accounts, The Audit Committee also assesses the effectiveness, and external audit providing assurance over the accounts.
independence and objectivity of the external auditors by, The Committee was provided with, and commented on, amongst other things: a draft copy of the Annual Report and accounts.
considering all key external auditor plans and reports: In carrying out the above processes, key considerations having regular engagement with the external auditors included ensuring that there was consistency between the during Committee meetings and ad hoc meetings accounts and the narrative provided in the front half of when required, including meetings without any member the annual report, and that the programme of corporate of management being present: reporting reviews focused on the balance between the reporting of weaknesses, difficulties and challenges, as well the Committee Chair having discussions with the as successes, in an open and honest manner.
Senior Statutory Auditor ahead of each Committee meeting: and Risk management and internal control The Board, as a whole, including the Audit Committee following the end of the financial year, each Committee members, considers the nature and extent of easyJets member completing an auditor effectiveness review risk management framework and the risk profile that is questionnaire.
acceptable in order to achieve the Companys strategic The auditors are also asked on an annual basis to articulate objectives.
As a result, it is considered that the Board has the steps they have taken to ensure objectivity and fulfilled its obligations under the Code.
independence, in relation to the audit and the provision easyJets system of internal controls, along with their of non-audit services.
As a result, the Committee receives design and operating effectiveness is subject to review reports on the auditors independence and internal quality by the Audit Committee, through reports received from control procedures and considers their annual audit quality management, along with those from both internal and and transparency report.
No significant deficiencies were noted Non-audit services in the review.
Further details of risk management and In the 2014 financial year, easyJet did not incur any costs internal control are provided on page 70. with  LLP in respect of non-audit Internal audit services 2013: 0.3 million.
In order to preserve objectivity The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing and independence, the external auditors are not asked to the work of the Internal Audit function.
It reviews and provide consulting services unless this is in the best interests approves the scope of the internal audit annual plan and of the Company, in accordance with easyJets non-audit assesses the quality of Internal Audit reports, along with services policy which is available in the governance section managements actions relating to findings and the closure of easyJets corporate website: http: corporate.
The Audit Committee also considers stakeholder feedback on the quality of Internal Audit tendering Audits work.
Further information on the Internal Audit The Companys external audit was last tendered in function is provided on page 70.
In order to safeguard the 2005, resulting in a change of external auditors in 2006 independence of the Internal Audit function, the Head of to  LLP.
Since 2006, there have Internal Audit is given the opportunity to meet privately been two different Senior Statutory Auditors in line with with the Audit Committee without any members of rotation requirements.
The Audit Committee intends management present.
to carry out a re-tendering process during 2015 as the current Senior Statutory Auditors last audit will be the 2015 External auditors and effectiveness of external financial year audit.
There are no contractual obligations audit process that restrict the choice of external auditors.
 LLP were re-appointed auditors of the Company at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Senior management monitors the auditors performance, behaviour and effectiveness during the exercise of their duties, which informs the Audit Committees decision to Adle Anderson recommend re-appointment on an annual basis.
On behalf of the Audit Committee The assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors includes: www.
com 63 Corporate governance report continued In appointing Non-Executive Directors, the Boards NOMINATIONS practice is to use external recruitment consultants.
Following a selection process, terms were negotiated with COMMITTEE Egon Zehnder to act as easyJets recruitment consultants for these Board appointments.
Other than providing Charles Gurassa recruitment consultancy services, Egon Zehnder has no Chair of the connection with the Company.
Egon Zehnder was provided Nominations Committee with a detailed brief of the desired candidate profile based on merit and against objective criteria including an assessment of the time commitment expected and During the year, the focus and attention of the their services were used to conduct a thorough search to Committee was on Board succession and the key skills identify suitable candidates.
The Nominations Committee and experience required for future recruits, undertaking considered a list of potential candidates and the balance a search process for two new Non-Executive of skills, knowledge, independence, diversity including Directors, and reviewing the composition of the Board gender and experience on the Board to ensure that a Committees.
Effective from 1 December, John Barton suitable balance was maintained.
Those shortlisted were will be taking over as Chair of the Committee.
I will interviewed by the Nominations Committee and other remain on the Committee as a member.
Following this process, Dr. Andreas Membership as at 30 September 2014 Bierwirth and Franois Rubichon were invited to join the members are independent Non-Executive Directors Board as Non-Executive Directors.
The new Directors and the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board other significant commitments were disclosed to the Board before their appointment and are provided on Charles Gurassa Chair pages 54 to 55.
John Barton appointed to Committee on Diversity 1 July 2014 The Board recognises the benefits of having diversity David Bennett stepped down from Committee across all areas of the Group and believes that this adds to on 1 October 2014 easyJets continued success and advantage.
In considering the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors this year, Professor Rigas Doganis stepping down from focus was placed on increasing the diversity of European Committee on 1 December 2014 aviation knowledge and experience.
When considering the optimum make-up of the Board, the benefits of diversity of Franois Rubichon appointed to Committee on the Board are appropriately reviewed and balanced where 22 July 2014 in place of Andy Martin possible, including in terms of differences in skills, industry experience, business model experiences, gender, race, Meetings held in the 2014 disability, age, nationality, background and other contributions 3 financial year: that individuals may make.
The Committee continues to focus on encouraging diversity of business skills and experience, recognising that Directors with diverse skill sets, capabilities Key responsibilities and experience gained from different geographic and cultural Keeping under review the composition, structure and size backgrounds enhance the Board.
In identifying suitable of, and succession to, the Board and its Committees.
candidates the Committee will seek candidates from a range of backgrounds, with the final decision being based on merit Succession planning for senior executives and the Board.
Identifying and nominating, for the approval of the The Company has two female Directors on its Board, one Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when being the Chief Executive.
Following the appointment of the they arise.
two new Non-Executive Directors on 22 July 2014 and the Evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge, experience stepping down of the two outgoing Non-Executive Directors and diversity on the Board.
on 1 October and 1 December 2014, the Board will retain its 20% female Board representation from last year.
This is a Highlights of the 2014 financial year percentage which easyJet aspires to retain in the future.
Reviewing the composition of the Board and the balance of skills, experience and knowledge.
The Companys policy on diversity applies across all levels of the organisation, not just the Board, further details of Overseeing the appointments process and subsequent which can be found in the Corporate responsibility section appointments of two new Non-Executive Directors.
This year, for example, the number of Consideration of the appointments to the Board women on the Executive Management Team increased Committees following the change in Board composition.
from three to four out of 11 positions.
Board appointments process The Committee adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
The Nominations Committee led a succession planning process on behalf of the Board to search for Charles Gurassa new Non-Executive Directors.
On behalf of the Nominations Committee 64 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance FINANCE COMMITTEE IT GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE John Browett Adle Anderson Chair of the IT Governance Chair of the Finance Committee and Oversight Committee The Finance Committee continues to provide effective The IT Governance and Oversight Committee oversight of the Groups treasury and funding policies was constituted in April 2014 to provide governance and activities, ensuring that activities undertaken will not oversight, and give independent validation and subject the Group to undesired levels of risk, and that challenge, to one of the Companys key business areas.
treasury activities are appropriately aligned with Group Membership as at 30 September 2014 strategy and support Group financial performance.
Next all members are independent Non-Executive Directors year, the Committee will assist the Board in providing an improved and broader assessment of the Groups John Browett Chair long-term solvency and liquidity in light of the revised Adle Anderson UK Corporate Governance Code which requires on-going viability disclosures by the Company.
The revised Code Keith Hamill was published in September 2014 and will apply to the Companys 2015 financial year.
Meetings held in the 2014 3 financial year: Membership as at 30 September 2014 all members are independent Non-Executive Directors Adle Anderson appointed as Chair on 1 July 2014 Key responsibilities David Bennett stepped down from Committee on To provide independent oversight over the governance 1 October 2014 and controls relating to the IT business area, in particular covering the required resilience and change.
In particular Keith Hamill appointed to Committee on 1 July the Committee: 2014 and stepping down from the Committee on 13 November 2014 monitors IT resources and capability to ensure appropriate internal leadership, management calibre Andy Martin and structure: Charles Gurassa has also been appointed to the reviews prioritisation of IT needs to ensure management Committee, effective from 13 November 2014. focuses on the right issues, with appropriate allocation of resource: and Meetings held in the 2014 financial year: 4 oversees development of IT strategy to ensure it supports easyJets long-term goals within the ambit of its strategic framework.
Key responsibilities Highlights of the 2014 financial year To review and monitor the Groups treasury policies and The Committee has given guidance on the risk treasury and funding activities, and the related risks.
framework surrounding the IT resilience and change.
Highlights of the 2014 financial year The Committee undertook: a treasury policy review: a jet fuel hedging review: John Browett a review of the requirements of IFRS 13 Fair Value On behalf of the IT Governance and Oversight Committee Measurement which applies for the first time to the 2014 financial year: and a review and approval of a proposal to simplify the Groups intercompany loan structure.
Adle Anderson On behalf of the Finance Committee www.
com 65 Corporate governance report continued COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK FLEET OVERSIGHT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE AND GOVERNANCE The Company has, throughout the 2014 financial year, COMMITTEE complied without exception with the provisions of the September 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the Charles Gurassa Code, which is the version of the Code which applies Chair of the Fleet Oversight to its 2014 financial year.
and Governance Committee The section below details how the Company has complied with the Code, available at www.
uk The following disclosures are ordered into the sections as they appear The Fleet Oversight and Governance Committee was in the Code.
constituted in October 2012 to oversee the governance and controls relating to easyJets 2013 fleet order, and A.
Leadership the subsequent engine selection process this year, and A.
1 Role of the Board has given the Board assurance in its detailed scrutiny The Board is responsible for providing effective leadership of these orders.
The Committee has been dissolved to the Group to deliver long-term growth and performance following the completion of its duties.
and setting and delivering the Groups strategic objectives, establishing a balanced approach to risk within the Membership prior to dissolution of the Committee framework of established controls.
The Board has a formal all members are independent Non-Executive Directors schedule of matters reserved for its decision which is Charles Gurassa Chair available in the governance section of easyJets corporate website: http: corporate.
com Adle Anderson Day-to-day management responsibility rests with the Andy Martin Executive Management Team, listed on pages 56 to 57.
These 11 individuals are also the Executive Directors and Meetings held in the 2014 Company Secretary of the principal operating company, 5 financial year: easyJet Airline Company Limited.
The Board meets regularly, with eight scheduled meetings having been held during the year ended 30 September 2014.
Key responsibilities The Directors attendance records at those meetings and During the 2013 financial year, the Committee provided Board Committee meetings held during the 2014 financial independent oversight over the governance and controls year are shown in the table on page 67.
Attendance is relating to easyJets fleet order which was approved by expressed as the number of meetings that each Director shareholders in July 2013.
During the 2014 financial year, attended out of the number that they were eligible to attend the Committee provided oversight of the procurement e. g. where a Director has been appointed to a Committee process in relation to the selection of the engine supplier in the middle of the financial year, they will have been eligible for the new generation aircraft order, which was to attend only a proportion of the meetings held during the announced in June 2014. year.
In addition to those scheduled meetings, five ad hoc Highlights of the 2014 financial year Board meetings were also arranged to deal with matters In relation to the engine selection process: between scheduled meetings as appropriate.
Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to communicate directly with reviewing the risk register: Executive Directors and senior management between formal considering the financial models, technical review Board meetings.
reports and technical verification audits: and Keith Hamill missed a Board meeting due to the rearrangement of the meeting date when he had preconsidering the overall governance arrangements.
He also missed an IT Governance and Oversight Committee meeting due to his flight from the US being delayed.
Adle Anderson missed a Fleet Oversight and Governance Committee meeting due to rearrangement of the meeting date at short notice.
2 Division of responsibilities On behalf of the Fleet Oversight and The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, Governance Committee set out in writing, clearly defined, and approved by the Board.
They are available on easyJets corporate website.
The Chairmans role is to lead the Board and ensure that it operates effectively.
The Chief Executives role is the day-to-day running of the Groups businesses and the development and implementation of strategy.
66 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Dr. Andreas Bierwirth, John Browett, Professor Rigas A.
3 The Chairman The Chairman, John Barton, sets the Boards agenda and Doganis, Charles Gurassa, Keith Hamill, Andy Martin and Franois Rubichon to be Non-Executive Directors who are ensures that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues.
independent in character and judgement.
David Bennett and Professor Rigas Doganis are approaching nine years of On his appointment in May 2013, the Board considered service on the Board: however, they will be stepping down John Barton to be independent in character and on 1 October and 1 December 2014 respectively, which for judgement in accordance with the Code.
each of them is nine years from their date of appointment.
2 Appointments to the Board Charles Gurassa is Senior Independent Director and For information on the procedure for the appointment Deputy Chairman.
In this role, Charles provides advice of new directors to the Board, and the role of the and additional support and experience to the Chairman Nominations Committee in this process, please refer as required, and is available to act as an intermediary for to the Nominations Committee report on page 64. the other Directors if necessary.
Charles is also available to address shareholders concerns that have not been B.
3 Commitment resolved through the normal channels of communication Following the Board evaluation process, detailed on page with the Chairman, Chief Executive or other Executive 68, the Board is satisfied that each of the Directors is able Directors, and leads the appraisal of the Chairmans to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge performance annually in discussion with the other their responsibilities effectively.
Non-Executive Directors in a meeting without the Chairman Contracts and letters of appointment with Directors being present.
The Non-Executive Directors, together are made available at the Annual General Meeting or with the Chairman, have also met without any Executive on request.
The standard terms and conditions of the Directors present during the year.
appointment of Non-Executive Directors are also available in the governance section of easyJets corporate website: During the year, there were no unresolved concerns regarding the running of the Company.
Effectiveness Executive Directors are encouraged to take up nonexecutive positions in other companies or organisations.
1 Composition of the Board As at 30 September 2014, the Board comprised 10 During the year, Carolyn McCall, the Chief Executive accepted an appointment as Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman and two Executive Directors.
The number of Non-Executive at Burberry Group plc starting in September 2014.
Appointment to such positions is subject to the approval Directors decreased to nine when David Bennett stepped down on 1 October 2014 and will decrease to eight when of the Board which considers, amongst other things, the time commitment required.
The Executive Directors and Professor Rigas Doganis steps down from the Board on 1 December 2014. members of the Executive Management Team are only allowed to hold one non-executive directorship position After giving thorough consideration to the matter, each, outside of the Company.
the Board considers Adle Anderson, David Bennett, Fleet Oversight IT and Governance Audit Remuneration Finance Safety Nominations Governance and Oversight Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee maximum 8 maximum 3 maximum 3 maximum 4 maximum 4 maximum 3 maximum 5 maximum 3 Executive Directors Carolyn McCall OBE 8 3 1 2 2 and 1 1 2 2 3 Chris Kennedy 8 3 n a 4 n a n a 4 3 Non-Executive Directors John Barton 8 8 2 2 1 1 3 1 n a Charles Gurassa 8 8 n a 3 3 n a n a 3 3 5 5 n a Adle Anderson 8 8 3 3 n a 4 4 n a 1 4 5 3 3 David Bennett 8 8 3 3 3 3 4 4 n a 3 3 n a n a Dr. Andreas Bierwirth 2 2 n a n a n a n a n a n a n a John Browett 8 8 n a 1 1 n a n a 1 n a 3 3 Professor Rigas Doganis 8 8 n a 2 3 n a 4 4 3 3 n a n a Keith Hamill OBE 7 8 3 3 n a 1 1 4 4 1 n a 2 3 Andy Martin 8 8 1 2 2 4 4 n a 3 3 5 5 n a Franois Rubichon 2 2 n a 1 1 n a n a n a n a n a Not a member of the Committee attendance at meeting by invitation.
Geoff Want the independent safety expert attended four out of four Safety Committee meetings.
com 67 Corporate governance report continued The evaluation process took place in the summer and B.
4 Development On joining the Board, new members receive a full and involved each Director completing four detailed questionnaires relating to the performance of the Board, tailored induction, organised by the Company Secretary, which covers amongst other things: the Chairman, the Committees and their own individual performance.
Dr. Andreas Bierwirth and Franois Rubichon the business of the Group: did not participate due to their appointments starting on 22 July.
The questionnaires gathered views and feedback their legal and regulatory responsibilities as Directors: on a number of key areas including Board and Committee briefings and presentations from relevant executives: and composition, dynamics, time management, support, strategic oversight, risk management, succession planning opportunities to visit and experience easyJets and priorities for change.
Parts of the questionnaires were business operations.
consistent with previous years so as to measure any To update the Directors skills, knowledge and familiarity perceived improvement or decline in Board and Committee with the Group, visits to bases are organised for the performance.
Questions tailored to reflect the activities of Board periodically, to assist its understanding of the the Board and its Committees during the 2014 financial year operational issues that the business faces.
The Board were also included.
Lintstock produced reports based on the held one of its meetings at Gatwick and the Directors had results of the questionnaires with feedback anonymised.
the opportunity to experience flying an A320 simulator Charles Gurassa, as Senior Independent Director, led at easyJets training facilities.
a review of the Chairmans performance in his first full A briefing paper is provided to Board members to update year, using a bespoke questionnaire prepared with the them on relevant developments in law, regulation and best assistance of Lintstock and held a private meeting of the practice, usually two to four times per year.
Directors are Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present given the opportunity to highlight specific areas where to discuss the Chairmans performance.
The Executive they feel their skills or knowledge would benefit from Directors and the Non-Executive Directors also reviewed development as part of the annual Board evaluation and were satisfied with the Chairmans time commitment process.
The Board is confident that all its members have to the Board and the business.
the knowledge, ability and experience to perform the The Chairman conducted a process of evaluating the functions required of a director of a listed company.
performance and contribution of each Director which B.
5 Information and Support included a one-to-one performance evaluation and All members of the Board are supplied with appropriate, feedback discussion with each of them, as well as referring clear and accurate information in a timely manner covering to an individual performance review questionnaire matters which are to be considered at forthcoming Board completed by each Director.
The results of the evaluation from the questionnaire as Should Directors judge it necessary to seek independent well as the Chairman and the Senior Independent Directors legal advice about the performance of their duties with own findings were discussed by the Board at its September the Company, they are entitled to do so at the Companys Board meeting.
Directors also have access to the advice and The Board has already started to crystallise the necessary services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for actions in order to focus on the perceived areas of advising the Board on all governance matters and ensuring improvement, and will continue to review its procedures, its that Board procedures are complied with.
effectiveness and development in the financial year ahead.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary The Board considers that the performance review shows is a matter requiring Board approval.
that each Director continues to contribute effectively B.
6 Evaluation and demonstrate commitment to the role including As in 2013, a performance review of the Board, its commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings Committees and Directors was undertaken with the and any other duties.
assistance of an external facilitator, Lintstock Limited.
7 Re-election Lintstock has no connection with the Company beyond The Companys Articles of Association require the Directors evaluating the Board, other than providing the Company to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at with software to monitor insider lists and Directors least once every three years.
However, the Board has shareholdings.
easyJet has used Lintstock in assisting with decided that, as has been the case for the past three the preparation of questionnaires for Directors, and the years, all Directors will stand for re-election or election at production of anonymised reports regarding the Board, each Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Code.
its Committees, the Chairman and individual performance following completion of those questionnaires.
It is intended to hold externally facilitated face-to-face interviews next year as was done two years ago.
68 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance During the course of the year the Chief Executive and C. Accountability C. 1 Financial and Business Reporting Chief Financial Officer have both met with representatives of easyGroup Holdings Limited, the Companys largest Please refer to: shareholder, to discuss relevant matters.
The Chief Financial page 92 for the Boards statement on the Annual report Officer has also met separately with representatives and accounts being fair, balanced and understandable: of easyGroup IP Licensing Limited an affiliate of easyGroup Holdings Limited to discuss matters relating page 26 for the statement on the status of the Company to the management and protection of the easyJet and and the Group as a going concern: and easy brands.
the Strategic report for an explanation of the Companys E. 2 Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting business model and the strategy for delivering the The Annual General Meeting gives all shareholders the objectives of the Company.
opportunity to communicate directly with the Board and C. 2 Risk Management and Internal Control encourages their participation.
Shareholders are given the The overall responsibility for easyJets systems of internal opportunity to raise issues formally at the Annual General control and for reviewing their effectiveness rests with the Meeting or informally with Directors after the meeting.
The Board has conducted an annual review of the Directors normally attend the Annual General Meeting and effectiveness of the systems of internal control during the the Chairs of the Committees are available to answer year, under the auspices of the Audit Committee.
Please questions at the Annual General Meeting.
refer to page 70 for further information on the Companys risk management and internal control systems.
C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors For further information on the Companys compliance with the Code provisions relating to the Audit Committee and auditors, please refer to the Audit Committee report on pages 60 to 63.
D. Remuneration For further information on the Companys compliance with the Code provisions relating to remuneration, please refer to: the Directors remuneration report for the level and components of remuneration D. 1 : and page 59 the Remuneration Committee report for the procedure relating to remuneration D. 2.
E. Relations with shareholders E. 1 Dialogue with Shareholders The Company actively engages with investors and solicits their feedback.
The Chairman and Deputy Chairman also being the Senior Independent Director have both met with shareholders to help maintain a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
They have both updated the Board on the opinions of investors.
The views of shareholders and market perceptions are also regularly communicated to the Board via a formal monthly report and regular verbal briefings.
In addition, an investor perception audit was carried out by an independent third party.
easyJet has an investor relations department which runs an active programme to facilitate engagement with investors based around the financial reporting calendar.
This year the programme has included one-to-one meetings with institutional investors, road shows, conferences and an Investor Day in September.
There is also regular communication with institutional investors on key business issues.
com 69 Corporate governance report continued Internal control RISK MANAGEMENT AND The responsibility for establishing and operating detailed INTERNAL CONTROL control procedures lies with the Chief Executive.
The The Board has overall responsibility for easyJets risk internal control systems are designed to manage, rather management and systems of internal control.
than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
By their nature, they can only provide Risk management reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material easyJet has a detailed risk management process to ensure misstatement or loss.
that significant risks are identified and mitigated where possible.
For further details of the risk management The Board has conducted an annual review of the process, the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the effectiveness of the systems of internal control during Group and the associated mitigating actions, please refer the year, under the auspices of the Audit Committee.
This included reviews of systems and controls relating to financial reporting processes and the preparation of In order that risks are managed effectively, a number the accounts.
The internal financial control monitoring of activities are undertaken: programme, administered by internal audit, has continued ongoing risk management and assurance is provided to enhance the review process.
No material failings or weaknesses were identified during the course of through the various monitoring reviews and reporting mechanisms that are embedded into the business this review.
operations: The internal control regime is supported by the operation of a whistleblower reporting function.
The system is regular operational including safety, commercial, financial and IT functional meetings are held to review operated by a specialist external third-party service provider and allows employees to report concerns performance and to consider key risks and issues: please refer to page 58 for details of the Safety anonymously and in confidence.
The Audit Committee has approved the processes and reporting structure for Committee : and the function, and receives regular reports on its operation.
the Executive Management Team meets regularly to consider significant risks and overall business performance.
Internal audit The Internal Audit functions key objectives are to provide To mitigate any significant risks identified, the Directors review independent and objective assurance on risks and controls the effectiveness of internal controls, including operating, to the Board, Audit Committee and senior management, financial and compliance controls, by the following: and to assist the Board in meeting its corporate governance and regulatory responsibilities.
Its work is review by management of controls, which mitigate summarised in a risk-based audit plan, which is approved or minimise high-level risks, to ensure that they are in by the Board and the Audit Committee and updated on operation.
The results of this review are reported to a rolling basis.
the Audit Committee and the Board which considers whether these high-level risks are being effectively Internal Audit reviews the extent to which systems of controlled: and internal control: discussions with senior personnel throughout the are designed and operating effectively: Company.
This ensures key issues are escalated through the management team and, as appropriate, ultimately to are adequate to manage easyJets key risks: and the Board.
The Audit Committee undertakes an annual review of the The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Head of Risk and appropriateness of the risk management processes to Tax and has direct access to the Chief Executive and the ensure that they are sufficiently robust to meet the needs Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Head of Internal of the Group please refer to pages 61 to 63 for details of Audit is invited to, and attends, Audit Committee meetings the Audit Committees responsibilities.
throughout the year and reports regularly on Internal Audit reviews at the Executive Management Team meetings.
During the year, the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function was assessed by the Head of Internal Audit and the Audit Committee: this followed a formal external effectiveness review completed in 2011.
The role of the Internal Audit function and the scope of its work both continue to evolve to take account of changes within the business and emerging best practice.
A formal audit charter is in place.
70 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014
