GOVERNANCE CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Introduction by Robert MacLeod, Audit Committee Chairman The Audit Committee is currently made up of four independent Non-executive Directors.
I have been Chairman of the Committee since December 2008: I am a chartered accountant and, until my appointment as Chief Executive of Johnson Matthey in June 2014, I served as Johnson Mattheys Group Finance Director for five years.
The members of the Committee, together with my experience, bring an appropriate balance of financial and accounting experience with a deep understanding of Aggrekos business and markets.
Diana Layfield, Ian Marchant and I are the members of the Audit Committee identified with recent and relevant financial experience.
Robert MacLeod At our scheduled meetings we also invite the Chairman, Audit Committee Chairman ChiefExecutive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to attend, together with the Group Financial Controller, Director of Internal The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor and Audit and theExternal Audit Partner.
review the integrity of the Groups financial statements to determine whether the judgements taken by In 2014, the Committee held three scheduled meetingsand management are appropriate.
We also monitor the one ad hoc meeting.
The ad hoc meeting washeld in February independence and effectiveness of the external auditor to approve the engagement of PwC fornon-audit services in and oversee the Groups systems for internal control relation to the return of capital to Shareholders.
The scheduled and risk management.
meetings are aligned to the Groups financial reporting timetable and allow sufficient time for full discussion of key topics and to enable early identification and resolution of risks 2014 Key achievements and issues.
Implemented a process to oversee the fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Annual Report To the left there is a summary of the key actions of the Oversaw the implementation of a process for the new reporting Committee in 2014 and intended areas of focus in 2015. requirements and disclosure of key accounting judgements for the Annual Report Further detail on our actions in 2014 are included in the full Monitored the new audit tender and rotation requirements and agreed Audit Committee report detailed over the next few pages.
astrategy for the future Provided oversight on the Groups risk management processes,  from the Regional Finance Directors for Americas Role of Audit Committee and EMEA on managing financial risk and the Chief Information Officer Monitor the integrity of the financial statements, including onour cyber governance framework reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements alongside the findings of the external auditor.
Members in 2014 Advise the Board on the effectiveness of the fair, balanced Scheduled meetings attended and understandable review of the Annual Report.
Robert MacLeod Committee Chairman Oversee the relationship with the external auditor, external 1 audit process, nature and scope of the external audit, David Hamill Non-executive Director including their appointment, effectiveness, independence 2 Russell King Senior Independent Director and fees.
Monitor and review the effectiveness of internal audit, Diana Layfield Non-executive Director ensuring co-ordination with the activities of the external auditor.
Ian Marchant Non-executive Director Review the effectiveness of the Groups systems for internal 1 David Hamill retired from the Board on 24 April 2014 financial control, financial reporting and risk management.
2 Russell King was appointed asSenior Independent Director on 24April2014 Areas of focus for 2015 Review new UK Corporate Governance Code requirements for going concern and a longer-term viability statement Oversee the external auditor tender process Monitor implementation by management of recommendations identified through the internal auditor effectiveness review Continue risk management oversight with presentations scheduled from Audit Committee terms of reference: APAC on managing financial risks, Group Tax and Group Treasury www.
pdf 84 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 andinformation presented by management on the process Main Activities of the Audit Committee underpinning the fair, balanced and understandable assessment during the year and confirmation made by the Board on page 81.
Financial reporting The external auditor carried out their work using an overall materiality of 14 million, as stated in their report on page 126, During the course of the year, the Committee met with the and confirmed to the Committee that there were no material external auditors and management as part of the 2014 Annual unadjusted misstatements.
We also agreed with the external and Interim Report approval process.
We reviewed thedraft auditor that they would inform us of any unadjusted misstatements financial statements and considered a number of supporting above 1 million, as well as misstatements below that amount papers, including: information presented by management on that warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
None were significant accounting judgements to ensure all issues raised reported to the Committee.
have been properly dealtwith: key points of disclosure and presentation toensure adequacy, clarity and completeness: Following completion of the above steps, we agreed to external audit reports: reviewed documentation prepared to recommend the approval of the 2014 Annual and Interim Reports support the going concern statement given on page 122: to the Board.
The primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the 2014 Annual Report were: Significant financial judgements for 2014 Contract provisions Direct and indirect tax provisions One of the biggest risks facing the Group is non-payment The Groups tax strategy is to manage all taxes, both direct bycustomers under some of the larger contracts in our and indirect, such that we pay the appropriate amount of PowerProjects business see Principal Risks and Uncertainties taxineach country where we operate whilst ensuring that Failure to collect payments or to recover assets on page 30. werespect the applicable tax legislation and utilise where Identified as an area of judgement in ourreport last year, appropriate any legislative reliefs available.
However, given contract receivables and associated provisions within Power thevaried, complex and often uncertain nature of tax rules Projects is a key risk for the Group, and one of the areas of incertain countries, in particular in those in which we have particular external audit focus.
The Group policy is to consider ourPower Projects business, we recognise that it makes each debtor and customer individually, within the relevant sense to carry an appropriate level of provision for both environment to which it relates, taking into account a number directand indirect taxes.
The tax team monitors the status of factors, in accordance with accounting standards.
oftax risksmonthly and in detail at the half and full year.
This monitoringprocess together with consideration of anyrelevant legislative change is then used to determine theappropriate level of provisions.
How the Audit Committee addressed those judgements theprincipal risks section on page 28 and the financial review Contract provisions on page 50.
The Committee addressed contract provisions by consideringan accounting judgements paper at the July 2014 Direct and indirect tax provisions and March2015 meetings, which was tabled by the Chief The Committee addressed tax provisions by considering Financial Officer.
This detailed the latest position of debtors anaccounting judgements paper at both the July 2014 and outstanding at the half year and year end and gave an March 2015 meetings, which was tabled by the Chief Financial assessment of the likelihood of collecting future payments.
PwC reported on these provisions at the July 2014 It was against this assessment that the Audit Committee meeting in the context of the half year review, and at both assessed the adequacy of the provisions.
PwC reported on theDecember 2014 and March 2015 meetings in the context these contract provisions at both the July 2014 and March of the year end audit.
We have monitored and assessed the 2015 meetings in the context of the half year review and the Groups processes for calculating and regularly monitoring year end audit respectively.
In addition the Committee is aware taxprovisions.
More information on Aggrekos tax strategy thatthe Board receives a report on contract exposures andpayments in2014 can be found inthe financial review eachmonth and has assessed the Groups processes for onpage50.
calculating and regularly monitoring contract risk provisions.
Read about PwCs areas of focus More information on how Aggreko manages contract provisions and the level of those provisions can be found in Page 126 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 85 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Non-audit fees are monitored by the Committee and this year External auditor we were satisfied that all non-audit work undertaken was The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to inlinewith our policy and did not detract from the objectivity the Board in relation to the appointment ofour external auditor, andindependence of the external auditor.
We also approve the audit plan, terms of engagement, non-audit work carried out by PwC during the year related to fees and assess the effectiveness of PwC.
tax and minor local compliance services.
We also engaged PwC to advise on the 2014 return of capital to Shareholders, Audit plan taking into account theirsignificant experience of the Group and expertise in transactions of this nature, the relatively PwC presented their audit plan at the July2014 meeting, smallsize of the fee forthis assignment and the fees of other setting out the scope and objectives of theaudit together with non-audit services in comparison to the total audit fee, the an overview of the planned approach, an assessment of the Committee approved the engagement.
As a percentage of Groups risks and controls and proposedareas of audit focus.
theoverall audit fee for the year, other assurance services and In setting the audit plan, PwC work with Internal Audit and non-audit fees are 26% 2013: 20%.
Further details of the management at a Group and Regional level to identify risk feespaid to the external auditor are set out in Note 6 to the areas for the audit to determine where audit effort should accounts on page 145. be focused.
Effectiveness Reappointment and tender of external audit The Committee believes that the independence, objectivity and  have been the Companys external effectiveness of PwC andtheir processes is safeguarded and auditor since 1997 when Aggreko plc was incorporated, remains strong.
This isdisplayed through their robust internal following the fide-merger from the Salvesen Group.
We last processes, their continuing challenge, focused reporting engaged in a competitive tender process in 2006, following andtheir discussions with management and the Committee.
which  were reappointed During 2014, the Committee met with PwC without external auditor.
management present and the Committee Chairman also The Committee has closely followed the legislative maintained regular contact with the audit partner throughout developments on audit tendering and rotation from the EU the year.
We assess PwC through the quality of their audit andthe Competition & Markets Authority and at our December findings and management responses.
We also use an internal 2014 meeting we discussed the new requirements, noting the questionnaire sent to Committee members, theRegional transitional arrangements, which require our first external Finance Directors and Group Functional Heads inDecember auditor rotation by 2023.
Despite the flexibility offered by the 2014: respondents are asked torate PwC effectiveness in a transitional arrangements to delay a rotation until 2023, we number of areas, including robustness of the audit process, recognise that now is the time to consider putting the external quality of delivery and quality of people and services.
We have chosen to do this in 2015 given Results were collated and presented at the March therecent changes in management and to fit in with the timing 2015 meeting of the Committee for discussion.
of the next rotation of the current audit partner, scheduled for The results confirmed that both PwC andits audit processes 2016.
Following the Annual General Meeting in 2015, we will were considered to be effective andthat a good working goout to tender in 2015 with a view to appointing a new relationship was supplemented byasufficient amount external auditor for the year ending 31 December 2016. of challenge.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, Robert MacLeod will leadthe tender process on behalf of the Board with support Non-audit services from Carole Cran, as Chief Financial Officer and senior members of Caroles financial management team.
Once we To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external have made a decision regarding the appointment of the auditor from becoming compromised, the Committee hasa external auditor, we shall make an appropriate announcement formal policy governing the engagement of the external auditor to the market.
Non-audit services are normally limited to assignments that are closely related to the annual The Committee has recommended to the Board that a audit or where the work is of such a nature that a detailed proposal be put to shareholders at the 2015 Annual General understanding of the Group is necessary.
Any proposal to use Meeting for the reappointment of  the external auditor for non-audit work requires prior approval asexternal auditor for the year ending 31 December 2015. of the Chief Financial Officer and depending on thenature of There are no contractual restrictions on the Companys the service and fee involved, authorisation may alsoberequired choiceof external auditor.
from the Committee Chairman or the Committee.
The non-audit services policy is available on our website at: www.
com pdf Non audit service policy.
pdf 86 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the internal audit Internal controls and risk management function by reviewing their reports, progress against the 2014 Aggrekos objective is to have a strong and regularly monitored plan and meeting with the Director of Internal Audit without control environment that minimises financial risk and, as part management being present.
In 2014 we also introduced an ofour responsibilities, we review the effectiveness of systems internal questionnaire, completed on an anonymous basis by for internal financial control, financial reporting and risk financial and operational managers, covering aspects of the management.
We aim to ensure that the same high standards internal audit delivery during 2014.
Results were collated and are applied throughout the business with the framework set reported to the Committee at the March 2015 meeting for atGroup level.
Across the Group, there is a strong focus on discussion.
The results confirmed that Internal Audit was training and development and this helps to underline the considered to be effective, with good working relationships standards that we require.
We then monitor this process across the Group.
Minor improvements were suggested in through regular financial control reviews and a financial control relation to sharing best practice and integrated assurance, checklist.
This also enables us to set targets and identify and bothwill be implemented during 2015. monitor areas for improvement.
In line with the Institute of Internal Auditors guidance, we plan We agreed financial control deliverables for 2014, as proposed toundertake an external evaluation of Internal Audit in 2016, by the Chief Financial Officer, including addressing countries withinternal evaluations in the intervening years: our last with lower financial control checklist scores and ensuring external evaluation was undertaken in 2011. sufficient support at Group or regional level for our less mature businesses.
At the end of the year, we reviewed progress for Speaking up 2014 and agreed proposed priorities for 2015.
Our financial control priorities for 2015 have been set after going through The Group Ethics Policy, supported by a separate Speaking Up thefollowing process: Policy, encourages all employees to report any potential Setting out the key challenges for financial control and then improprieties in ethical standards via our international reviewing the control environment and risk mitigation in place whistle-blowing hotline.
Run by an external and independent to help address these challenges: third party, the hotline is available to all employees, in all of the Reviewing the 2014 financial control checklist scores for all of languages used throughout the Group, and callers can remain locations globally, both Local and Power Projects, and cross anonymous ifthey wish.
All matters reported are investigated referring them against the 2014 internal audit reports: and where appropriate, we ask Internal Audit to investigate the The Global Financial Leadership team reviewed the above issue and report to us on the outcome.
We also receive reports data and analysis to set clear priorities for 2015: and on hotline call volumes and the general nature and location of The Chief Financial Officer then proposed these priorities to matters reported.
We review these processes each year, and the Audit Committee and we have agreed with the approach.
can confirm that they are appropriate for the size and scale of the Group.
The key priorities for 2015 cover further developing the financial control checklist with particular focus on its effectiveness in Review of the effectiveness of the ourPower Projects business, a review of key areas within the purchase to pay process, delivery of a new financial reporting Audit Committee system and again as in the prior year addressing countries The Committee completed reviews of the effectiveness of the withlower financial control checklist scores and ensuring external auditor, internal audit function and the Committee itself.
sufficient support at Group or regional level for our less The process followed for the Committee evaluation is set out mature businesses.
on page 78: findings and priorities for 2015 are included on page 80.
Internal audit Internal Audit undertakes financial, operational and strategic audits across the Aggreko Group using a risk based methodology and in accordance with the changing risk profile of the Company.
The Committee reviewed and agreed the programme of 2014 internal audit work, including the proposed approach, coverage, and allocation of resources andreviewed progress during the year through reports at eachmeeting.
During 2014, 130 audits were completed across information technology, financial, operational and compliance functions.
Results are graded and where audits are given a low grading, Internal Audit agree appropriate remedial actions and report to us on progress.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 87
