GOVERNANCE CONTINUED AN INTERVIEW WITH OUR CHAIRMAN Ken Hanna Chairman Angus Cockburn hadserved alongside Rupert Soames for 11years and had the support of an extremely able interim Q ChiefFinancial Officer in Carole Cran, which allowed theBoard to focus on identifying apermanent Chief Executive Officer.
What were the Boards main priorities Carole Cran was officially promoted to Chief Financial Officer during the year?
and appointed to the Board on 1 June 2014.
When we announced Chris Weston as our new Chief Executive A Officer, Angus Cockburn had also indicated that he wished to step down from his interim role and he left Aggreko at the end 2014 has been a transitional year for Aggrekos Board.
This left us with a short period of time Our focus in 2014 has been on successfully handling the between Angus Cockburns departure and Chris Westons change insenior management, whilst not losing sight of our startdate.
In order to facilitate an orderly handover and goals and delivering a solid trading performance.
An important ensurecontinuity of leadership, I was appointed as Executive part of this process was ensuring good leadership and robust Chairman.
I would like to pay tribute to all of the employees governance arrangements as a number of different people held ofAggreko, and in particular the Executive Committee, for the office ofChief Executive through the year.
The chart on the maintaining the momentum of the business throughout this opposite page summarises the timeline of events.
In addition period of transition.
The performance of the Group in 2014 tomanaging these changes, the Nomination Committee led isatestament to the strength and depth of the team and the therecruitment process for our new Chief Executive Officer, resilience of the Aggreko culture.
regularly reporting back to the Board on progress as they cameto a final short list.
At this point all of the Non-executive Directors became involved in the process, interviewing the short list and coming to the unanimous view that Chris Weston was the preferred candidate for the role.
We were delighted thatChris was able to join the Board on 2 January 2015.
Q Q How was stability of leadership maintained as the composition TRANSPARENT REPORTING oftheBoard changed?
On page 5, I state our commitment totransparent and high quality reporting.
The key features ofthis approach in the corporate A governance report include: Enhanced integration and linkage to the strategic report and Throughout the year and at the point of each change in the information on our website.
position of Chief Executive Officer we carefully considered our Detailed disclosure around the decision making process for our options, ensuring that the Board and executive management annual Board evaluation.
Quick read sections for each of the Board Committees, could provide the correct level of support and revising our highlighting key achievements in 2014 and areas of focus for 2015. governance arrangements in line with this.
We had a robust Greater clarity in our Remuneration Committee report.
succession plan in place to assist us on the departure ofa key An in-depth report from our Nomination Committee on the role, so we were fortunate that Angus Cockburn, thenChief processto select and recommend Chris Westons appointment asChief Executive Officer.
Financial Officer, agreed to assume the interim ChiefExecutive Officer role when Rupert Soames tendered his resignation.
68 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Carole brings continuity of the finance leadership team at Aggreko.
Although new to the Board, Carole has 11 years Q offinance experience at Aggreko and is an able successor toAngus Cockburn, having worked closely with Angus and How would you describe the theBoard for many years as Group Financial Controller and decision making culture of the Board?
We have continued to add new skills to the Board in 2015, A appointing Uwe Krueger as a Non-executive Director on 1 February 2015.
Uwes experience in the engineering and My role as Chairman is to ensure that Aggreko has a Board services sector, combined with his understanding of renewable which works effectively and where everyone is encouraged to energy, will bring further expertise to the Aggreko Board.
I aim for flexibility in my approach to foster a culture ofopenness and debate on the Board, setting the agenda to We were pleased to be recognised by the Department for takefull account of the issues and concerns of the Directors.
Business Innovation and Skills in the UK as one of the most Formal Board meetings are supplemented with regular informal improved companies in relation to women on boards between meetings between myself and all Board Members.
We have always been aware of the benefits of greater diversity and we have made good progress at Board The culture of the Board will undoubtedly go through a period level.
We will continue to keep diversity under close review of change as we welcome a new Chief Financial Officer, Chief whilst ensuring we appoint the most qualified candidates for Executive Officer and Non-executive Director.
For this reason our available positions.
we decided to delay our externally facilitated evaluation of the Board for one year until Autumn 2015.
We carefully considered our position and have explained the rationale indetail on page78 of this report.
We anticipate that the 2015 evaluation Q will provide valuable insights into the dynamics of theBoard and how the new team is settling down and working.
We will What are the Boards key objectives report on the results of the externally facilitated evaluation in forthe coming year?
A Q In the early part of 2015, the Board will monitor and oversee Chris Westons induction to ensure he has a thorough What would you say the new Directors understanding of our business, our operations, the markets weoperate in and our people.
Following this induction process, have brought to the Aggreko Board?
we will support a business review, led by Chris, to establish ourkey priorities for driving continued growth over thenext A fewyears.
We will report on this in further detail around thetimeof our interim results in August 2015.
Our policy is to recruit Board members with a broad range ofskills, background and experience.
Chris brings proven Another key priority for the coming year is to review our leadership skills and a good knowledge of the energy sector: succession plans for all of our Board and senior management he has consistently succeeded in driving performance and roles.
This review will be led by the Nomination Committee growth in his career and we believe he has the skills and forthe Board and senior management and will be supported visionto continue Aggrekos growth and lead the Group bythe Group HR Director.
WHO HELD THE OFFICE OF CEO DURING 2014 January February March April May June July August September October November December Angus Cockburn steps Rupert Soames announces Rupert Soames steps down Announced appointment Announced 2 January 2015 down as interim CEO and he will step down after and Angus Cockburn takes of Chris Weston as CEO, as Chris Westons Ken Hanna serves as 11 years with Aggreko over as interim CEO start date to be confirmed start date as CEO Executive Chairman Rupert Soames Angus Cockburn Ken Hanna Chief Executive Interim Chief Executive Executive Chairman Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 69 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED OVERVIEW LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS Your Board rigorously challenge Your Board continuously evaluates the strategy, performance, responsibility balance of skills, experience, knowledge and accountability to ensure that and independence of the Directors.
everydecision we make isofthe Weensure that all new Directors highestquality.
receivea tailored induction programme and we scrutinise our performance in In this section you will find information anannual effectiveness review.
on how we divide up our responsibilities amongst the Directors, the structure In this section you will find androle of our Committees, the informationon the induction of our Boardsactivities in 2014 and areas newDirectors, approach to our Board offocus for 2015. evaluation in 2014, progress against findings and action points.
Read more about our leadership Read more about our effectiveness Page 74 Page 78 ACCOUNTABILITY RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS All of our decisions are discussed Maintaining strong relationships with withinthe context of the risks involved.
ourShareholders, both private and Effective risk management is central institutional, is crucial to achieving toachieving our strategic objectives.
We hold events throughout the year to maintain an open dialogue In this section you will find information with our investors.
on our approach to risk management, internal controls and the processes In this section you will find information underpinning fair, balanced and on Shareholder engagements in understandable reporting at Aggreko.
2014and the different ways investors can access useful information aboutAggreko.
Read more about our relations with Shareholders Read more about our accountability Page 82 Page 81 REMUNERATION Having a formal and transparent In this section you will find information procedurefor developing policy on onour proposed remuneration policy remuneration forExecutive Directors forShareholder approval and how we iscrucial.
Our remuneration policy aims implemented our current remuneration toattract, retainand motivate by linking policy in 2014. reward to performance.
Read more about our remuneration Page 92 70 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Our approach to corporate governance ROLE OF THE BOARD Aggreko is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance: it is the way we do business and it is Our Board remains focused on atthe core of everything we do.
Summarised on the opposite Driving the Groups long-term objectives.
page and explained in detail throughout this report we have Oversight of our operations to ensure we have described the key elements which we believe are essential for competent and prudent management.
We have also used case studies Sound planning and internal control.
headed governance in action to bring to life our approach.
Developing leadership and succession plans.
We follow the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, Protecting our reputation and the relationships we aspublished by the Financial Reporting Council in September havewith customers, suppliers and employees.
2012 and except as referred to below, Aggreko has complied with all relevant provisions of the Code throughout the year.
Read our schedule of matters reserved for the Board www.
com pdf matters reserved for the board.
pdf Our explanations for non-compliance For three months of 2014, we did not comply with part of Code provision A.
2.1 whichstates that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer should not be exercised by the same individual.
Between 1 October 2014, when Angus Cockburn, our Interim Chief Executive left the Company, and 2 January 2015, when Chris Weston took up the permanent role of ChiefExecutive Officer, Ken Hanna exercised the role of Executive Chairman.
This was a temporary measure whilstwewaited for Chris Weston to join the Company.
Recognising the importance of robust governance arrangements in this circumstance, we revised our framework of delegated authorities during this interim period to ensure that no one individual had unfettered powers of decision making.
The Board believes that our overall approach to the separate roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is consistent with the main principle of the Code, which requires a clear division ofroles, set out in writing and agreed by the Board: we are fullycompliant with this provision from 2 January 2015.
We have not complied with Code provision B.
6.2 which states that the evaluation of the Board should be externally facilitated at least every three years.
For 2014 the Board decided toconduct an internal evaluation of its own performance, notwithstanding that the last external evaluation took place in2011.
We provide a detailed explanation of the reasons behind this decision and the evaluation process for 2014 on pages 78 and 80.
The Boards intention remains to undertake an externally facilitated evaluation at least every three years withinternal reviews undertaken in the intervening years.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 71 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED KEY TO COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP OUR BOARD Audit Ethics Nomination Remuneration Ken Hanna Chris Weston Carole Cran Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed: Non-executive Director in October2010 Appointed: January 2015.
Appointed: June 2014. and Chairman in April 2012.
Experience: Chris has experience at a senior Experience: Carole has corporate finance and Experience: Ken has international experience, levelin the energy industry, proven leadership skills accounting experience acquired over a number bringing financial and leadership expertise to in a large international business and has consistently ofyears in senior financial roles with considerable Aggreko.
He possesses knowledge of many succeeded in driving performance and growth in exposure to emerging markets.
Carole was different business sectors and is an experienced hiscareer.
appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer senior executive and leader, promoting robust on1 June 2014, following her appointment as Prior to his appointment in January 2015, Chriswas debate and a culture of openness in the Boardroom.
Interim Chief Financial Officer on 24 April 2014.
Managing Director, International Downstream at Having joined Aggreko in 2004, previous roles Ken is also currently Chairman of Inchcape Plc, Centrica plc, where he was the Executive Director include Group Financial Controller and Director of Non-executive Director and Audit Committee responsible for the Groups largest division.
A key member of the senior management Chairman of Tesco Plc and Chairman of Shooting role Chris was operationally responsible for both team, Carole has worked to align financial strategies Star CHASE Charity.
Until 2009, Ken spent five British Gas in the UK and Direct Energy in the USA.
with thestrategic direction of the business.
years as Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury Plc.
He joined Centrica in 2001 after a successful Hehas also held positions as Operating Partner careerin the telecoms industry, working for Prior to joining Aggreko, Carole spent seven years forCompass Partners, Group Chief Executive bothCable & Wireless and One.
Before that, atBAE Systems, in a range of senior financial atDalgety Plc, Group Finance Director of Chrisserved in the Royal Artillery.
He has a BSc positions, including four years in Australia.
Carole UnitedDistillers Plc and Group Finance Director inApplied Science, aswell as an MBA and PhD isalso a chartered accountant, having trained ofAvis Europe Plc.
atKPMG whilst working in their audit divisions intheUK and Australia.
Debajit Das Asterios Satrazemis David Taylor-Smith Regional Director Regional Director MBE APAC The Americas Regional Director EMEA Appointed: January 2013.
Experience: Debajit brings experience of the Experience: Asterios has international experience Experience: David has international experience, energy sector, particularly in the Asia Pacific in the equipment rental and services sectors with aproven ability in building and managing large market.
Debajit joined Aggreko in 2006 following arecord of sustainable growth across a global businesses and a thorough understanding of how themergerwith GE Rentals, where he held a variety business.
He joined Aggreko in 2008 and has tooperate successfully in Europe, Asia, Africa, ofleadership positions in their energy business for acquired considerable experience from senior theAmericas and the Middle East.
10years, including small power generation sales, leadership positions across the Group: initially Prior to his appointment in March 2013, David spent energy services, Six Sigma and major events.
asVice-President of Aggreko North Americas 14 years at G4S Plc in a number of senior leadership northern business unit: in 2010, he relocated to Debajit has held several key senior management roles culminating as the Group Chief Operating Australia to take up the position of Managing positions at Aggreko: he was initially appointed Officer and Regional Chief Executive Officer for the Director for Australia Pacific: and was most recently tolead our Major Events business before being UK, Ireland and Africa.
Before joining G4S Plc David appointed as Regional Director for theAmericas in appointed as the Managing Director of the Asia held a number of senior management roleswith January 2013. business unit in 2009.
In January 2013, Debajit Securicor Plc and Jardine Matheson inHong Kong.
added the Australia Pacific business to his Prior to Aggreko, Asterios spent 10 years at David also served as a British ArmyOfficer and responsibilities and was appointed as Regional UnitedRentals, in a range of senior roles including hassat on the boards of a number of high profile Director for Asia Pacific.
operations and mergers and acquisitions.
charities: he is currently an Ambassador for the World Wide Fund for Nature WWF.
72 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 COMPANY SECRETARY OTHER DIRECTORS WHO SERVED DURING 2014 Peter Kennerley Rupert Soames Appointed: October 2008 Chief Executive until 24 April 2014 Peter is our Group Legal Director and Company Secretary.
Angus Cockburn Healsohas responsibility for our compliance and commercial Chief Financial Officer until 24 April 2014 and Interim Chief Executive until 30 September 2014 function and is a member of the Executive Committee.
David Hamill Senior Independent Director until 24 April 2014 Russell King Uwe Krueger Diana Layfield Senior Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Director Appointed: Non-executive Director in February Appointed: February 2015.
2009 and Senior Independent Director in April 2014.
Experience: Uwe brings expertise of the Experience: Diana brings extensive international Experience: Russell brings international engineering, services and renewable energy experience and detailed understanding of how experience, acquired across a number of sectors sectors.
He is a physicist with a PhD and an tooperate successfully across emerging markets, including mining and chemicals, together with honorary professorship from the University of particularly in Africa and Asia.
She also brings strong experience in strategy.
Frankfurt and an honorary PhD from Heriot-Watt experience in sales, technology and strategy.
Most of his career has been spent An experienced Non-executive Director, Russell Diana is currently Chief Executive, Africa Region leading engineering and consulting organisations.
currently sits on the Board of Spectris Plc and is forStandard Chartered Plc.
Previous positions Chairman of Hummingbird Resources plc.
He has Uwe is currently Chief Executive Officer of WS heldover 11 years at Standard Chartered include: recently been appointed a Non-executive Director Atkins plc.
Healso sits on the boards of SUSI Chief Operating Officer for the Wholesale Bank: ofSepura plc and Interserve plc.
He is also a senior Partners AG andOntex S. A. and lectures at the Group Head of Strategy & Corporate Development: adviser to Heidrick & Struggles.
Prior to this, University of Frankfurt on renewable energy.
Before and Global Head of Corporate Clients.
Prior to Russellspent eight years at Anglo American Plc, joining WSAtkins plc, Uwe was Chief Executive Standard Chartered, Diana was Chief Executive latterly as Chief Strategy Officer.
Priorto this, Office ofOerlikon, Senior Advisor at Texas Pacific Officer of Finexia Ltd, a technology firm, and spent hespent 20years in senior roles at ICI.
Group, President of Cleantech Switzerland, and held five years with McKinsey & Co, an international various senior leadership positions at Hochtief AG.
Diana has a BA from theUniversity of Oxford and a Masters degree in International Economics and Public Administration from HarvardUniversity.
Robert MacLeod Ian Marchant Rebecca McDonald Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed: September 2007.
Experience: Robert has corporate finance and Experience: Ian brings knowledge of the domestic Experience: Rebecca has knowledge of accounting experience acquired over a number and international energy markets, along with a theinternational energy markets and brings ofyears in senior financial roles across the substantial understanding of associated strategic, businessdevelopment expertise, with a strong international engineering and chemicals sectors: financial and regulatory issues.
Until his retirement customer focus.
healso has a detailed understanding of strategy inJune 2013, Ian spent 21 years at SSE Plc, most An experienced Non-executive Director, Rebecca and business development.
recently as Chief Executive, and prior to that as currently sits on the board of Veresen Inc, Granite Finance Director.
Robert was appointed as Chief Executive of Construction Inc and ITT Corporation.
Rebecca Johnson Matthey Plc in June 2014, having served Ian is an experienced Non-executive Director, hasheld a variety of senior executive roles across as Group Finance Director for five years.
Prior to currently serving as Chairman of John Wood anumber of relevant industries, most recently this, Robert served five years as Group Finance GroupPlc and as Chairman of Infinis Energy Plc.
asChief Executive Officer of Laurus Energy Inc. Director for WS Atkins Plc and one year as Group Heis also Chairman of Scotlands 2020 Climate Otherpast appointments include President Gas Financial Controller, having previously worked in a Group, President of the UKs Energy Institute, andPower for BHP Billiton Plc, Chairman and variety of senior financial roles at Enterprise Oil Plc.
Chairman of Maggies Cancer Charity and ChiefExecutive Officer for EnronGlobal Assets Robert is also a chartered accountant, having aMember of the Princes Council of the andChief Executive Officer forAmoco Energy trained at KPMG.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 73 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED LEADERSHIP Diversity and experience metrics as at 31 December 2014 Executive Directors Independent Non-executive Directors Non-executive tenure 1.
69 years 17% 1 1 2 As required by Code provision B.
1.2, this calculation excludes the 2 Chairman when looking at the independent Non-executive composition of the Board Gender split Experience 1.
Female 30% 2 Rental 30% 1 Finance 50% International 100% How we divide up our responsibilities Chairman Responsible for leading the Board, its effectiveness and governance.
Setting the agenda to take full account of the issues and concerns of the Directors and ensuring the links between theShareholders, Board and management are strong.
Chief Executive Officer Responsible for the day-to-day leadership, management and control of the Group, for recommending the Group strategy to the Board and ensuring that the strategy and decisions oftheBoard are implemented.
Chief Financial Officer Supports the Chief Executive Officer in devising and implementing strategy in relation to the financial and operational performance of the Group.
Senior Independent Director Provides a sounding board for the Chairman, acts as an intermediary for the other Directors whennecessary and is available to meet with Shareholders.
Independent Non-executive Constructively challenge the Directors and monitor the delivery of the Group strategy within Directors theriskand control environment set by the Board.
Regional Executive Supports the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer in relation to devising and Directors implementing strategy in relation to their specific region.
Company Secretary Supports the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and is available to all Directors for advice and support.
Informs the Board and Committees on governance matters and responsible fordevelopment of corporate governance policies.
74 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Board Committees Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Monitors and reviews the Determines the remuneration composition and balance for Executive Directors ofthe Board and its andthe Executive Committees to ensure Committee members and Aggreko has the right overseas Aggrekos overall structure, skills and diversity remuneration policy, strategy of experience in place for and implementation.
theeffective management Committee report ofthe Group.
Page 92 Committee report Page 90 BOARD Ethics Committee Audit Committee Monitors compliance and Monitors and reviews oversees the effectiveness theintegrity of Aggrekos ofour ethical policies and financial statements, as well procedures to ensure as monitoring the relationship thatAggreko conducts its with the external auditor and business with integrity and oversight of our systems for honesty and inaccordance internal control and risk with the law.
Committee report Committee report Page 88 Page 84 CEO Disclosure Committee Finance Committee Allotment Committee Executive Committee Supports the Board in Responsible for funding Responsible for decisions Responsible for supporting approving the final form andtreasury decisions.
regarding the allotment the Chief Executive Officer ofany announcement or ofshares.
inall aspects of his role.
It is statement relating to the made up of the Executive performance of theGroup.
Directors and the heads of the Group functions.
KEY TO COMMITTEES Board Non-Board Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 75 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Board attendance in 2014 What the Board achieved during 2014 Board Percentage Oversaw a period of transition for the role of Chief Meetings attended Executive Officer, appointing an Interim Chief Executive Name of Director A B and Executive Chairman whilst recruiting Chris Weston Ken Hanna 6 6 100% tothe permanent role of Chief Executive Officer.
1 Continuously updated our framework of delegated Carole Cran 4 4 100% authorities to ensure good governance during this Debajit Das 6 6 100% transition period.
Asterios Satrazemis 6 6 100% Successful use of our succession plan to appoint David Taylor-Smith 6 6 100% CaroleCran as Chief Financial Officer.
2 Angus Cockburn 4 4 100% Appointed Russell King as Senior Independent Director.
3 Rupert Soames 2 2 100% Oversaw Shareholder consultation and engagement with Russell King 6 6 100% governance bodies for our new incentive arrangements.
Diana Layfield 6 6 100% Reviewed and updated Committee terms of reference Robert MacLeod 6 5 83% andschedule of matters reserved for the Board.
Ian Marchant 6 6 100% Strengthened our ethical policies.
Established a robust process to assess the Fair, Balanced Rebecca McDonald 6 6 100% 4 and Understandable requirement of the Code for the 2013 David Hamill 2 2 100% Annual Report, using it again for our 2014 Annual Report.
Returned approximately 200 million to Shareholders.
A maximum number of meetings Director could have attended B actual number of meetings Director attended Visited the Power Projects operations and technology centre in Dubai.
1 Carole Cran joined the Board on 1 June 2014 Undertook post investment reviews of the Poit Energia 2 Angus Cockburn retired from the Board on 30 September 2014 3 Rupert Soames retired from the Board on 24 April 2014 acquisition in 2012 and depot openings in 2013.
4 David Hamill retired from the Board on 24 April 2014 Key priorities for 2015 GOVERNANCE IN ACTION: BOARD MEETING IN DUBAI, JUNE 2014 Induction of Chris Weston, further detail can be found Site visits give the Board key insights into the business: at least inthe case study on page 79. one meeting each year is held at a Group location outside Undertake a business review to establish key priorities London or Glasgow to give the Directors an opportunity for2015, ensuring all actions are assigned following the toreview operations and meet local management.
In June 2014, theBoard visited Dubai, a key location for Focus on senior management succession planning to Group Operations and Technology O&T and the EMEA ensure our new senior management structure is fully region.
During their visit the Board received presentations supported.
from the EMEA region, including an in-depth review of the Appointment and induction of Uwe Krueger as a EMEA business units in Africa and the Middle East: each was Non-executive Director.
presented by the relevant Managing Director with support Complete the return of capital to Shareholders from the EMEA Business Development Director.
O&T also bymakingasecond offer to purchase B Shares, presented to the Board on how they support the regions with subjecttoShareholder approval at our 2015 AGM.
project design, logistics, mobilisation, fleet, product design, development and healthand safety.
Review our risk management processes to ensure compliance with the new corporate governance code The Board received a guided tour of the facility at Jebel Ali, requirements to monitor and assess the risk learning more about our supply chain and our training facility.
The trip concluded with a dinner hosted by the Board and attended by the management teams based in Dubai to give Plan a Board visit to Singapore in June 2015 to review the Board the opportunity to engage with individuals working theAPACbusiness and engage with localemployees, for the EMEA region and O&T.
wewill report on this in our 2015AnnualReport.
Meetings of the Board, Ethics, Nomination and Remuneration Undertake an externally facilitated Board evaluation in Committees were held and the Non-executive Directors Autumn 2015. alsoheld aprivate meeting without members of managementpresent.
76 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Board meetings Jan 14 Feb 14 Mar 14 Apr 14 May 14 Jun 14 Jul 14 Aug 14 Sep 14 Oct 14 Nov 14 Dec 14 Matters considered at all Board meetings Board meetings In 2014, the Board held six scheduled meetings, thekeyareas of focus were: Report on strategic and business developments from theChiefExecutive Report on the financial performance of the regions andbusiness overall, including forecasts from the ChiefFinancial Officer Health, safety and environmental status report from theChief Executive Considered through the year Financial Draft results and presentations to analysts Annual results and final dividend Interim results and interim dividend Fleet review Budget updates and approval of budget Regular treasury reports Tax report Strategy HFO development Temperature control strategy Group strategy update Post investment reviews and lessons learnt Risk Management Monitor the Group risk register Updates on contract risk management Monitor status of legal claims Executive Updates Detailed annual presentations on performance in: Americas region APAC region EMEA region Sales and marketing Operations, technology and manufacturing Information technology Human resources Leadership and employees Appointment of Chief Executive Officer and  People development and succession plans Reappointment of Directors Shareholders Regular investor relations updates with analyst and investorfeedback Return of capital AGM briefing Dividend reinvestment programme Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 77 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED EFFECTIVENESS Induction, development and support This years Board evaluation exercise We make sure that all new Directors receive a full, formal and In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, it is the tailored induction on joining the Board, as we explain in more Boards policy to undertake a formal and rigorous annual detail below.
We also plan our Board calendar to ensure that evaluation of our own performance and that of our Committees Directors are able to visit different business locations and and Directors each year.
The evaluation is required to be arebriefed on a wide range of topics throughout the year.
externally facilitated at least every three years.
Aggrekos last These topics range from those with particular relevance for externally facilitated evaluation took place in 2011, and so we ourbusiness, such as world energy demand, to more general were due another one in 2014.
At the beginning of the year we matters such as developments in corporate governance.
had aimed to do this in Autumn 2014, however, we agreed that We recognise that our Directors have a diverse range of we would review whether this was appropriate in view of the experience, and so we encourage them to attend external change of Chief Executive Officer.
seminars and briefings that will assist them individually.
After careful consideration, the Board agreed to postpone theexternally facilitated evaluation until Autumn 2015 for the Typical induction programme following reasons: We had already conducted a thorough review of the foraNon-executive Director executive composition of the Board, particularly in relation Our induction programme aims to give new Non-executive tothe posts of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Directors a thorough grounding in Aggrekos business and Officer.
In this exercise the Board received detailed external aclear understanding of their roles and responsibilities.
Whilst recognising that this Every newly appointed Director will spend time with the exercise did not comprise a full evaluation of the work of Company Secretary to ensure an understanding of directors theBoard, it was agreed that there would not be much to duties, conflicts of interest, corporate governance, Board begained and that it would be inappropriate to engage an procedures, Group policies and the use of our electronic additional external adviser on similar grounds at this stage.
Chris Weston had yet to start work with Aggreko.
Whilst we do take into account the Directors background The dynamics of the Board were bound to change once he andexperience, the induction programme will include a broad was in post: it was agreed that any in-depth evaluation would introduction to our business, on a Group and Regional basis, quickly become out-dated and moreover would not have the and areas of significant risk.
Key elements include meeting benefit of Chris views.
theExecutive Directors, senior management in the Group By waiting until Autumn 2015, the external evaluation should andRegional functions and visiting our main sites for provide valuable insights on how the new team is settling briefingson Group strategy and the regional businesses.
We also arrange for new Non-executive Directors to meet The Board agreed the following approach for 2014: theExternalAudit Partner.
Formal reviews for each individual Director would be retained.
As part of his induction, Uwe Krueger will visit our The Chairmans review was conducted by the Non-executive manufacturing facility at Dumbarton in April 2015 to learn Directors in April 2014. aboutour products and work on research and development.
The action points identified from the 2013 Board evaluation would be followed up to ensure they were fully addressed.
A full review of the Terms of Reference of the Board Committees and matters reserved for the Board was undertaken in Autumn 2014.
The review focused on updates in best practice and new versions were approved bythe Board.
A formal Disclosure Committee was also established to support the Board in approving the final form of any announcement or statement relating to the financial performance of the Group.
The Committee Chairmen would hold one to one meetings with Committee Members to identify areas of improvement within the Committees, using a questionnaire prepared bythe Company Secretary as the basis for discussion.
The result of this process confirmed that overall the Board operated effectively and that the Board should continue tofocus on the issues identified in the previous evaluation.
On page 80 we set out the progress we have made during 2014 and priorities for 2015.
We also set out specific action points we have identified for each of the Board Committees.
78 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Chris visiting a Local business customer site in Dubai, February 2015 GOVERNANCE IN ACTION: CHRIS WESTONS INDUCTION Chris Westons two-month induction programme Time was spent with the EMEA management team was designed tohelp him understand our business, inEurope and Africa, visiting a depot in the UK, our operations, the markets we operate in, meet theproject site at Ressano Garcia inMozambique, ourcustomers and meet the people that make the Southern Africa business and meeting some up Aggreko.
ofour larger EMEA customers in Africa.
To kick start his induction, Chris visited our For the APAC region, Chris joined the APAC HeadOffice in Scotland, spending time with executive team in Melbourne and Singapore, theGroup functions, his new direct reports visitinga project site in Bangladesh.
Whilst in Scotland, Finally, Chris spent time in Dubai at our Power Chris was accompanied by Ken Hanna on a visit Projects operations, technology centre, technical toour manufacturing facility in Dumbarton, where training centre andwith our Middle East operations.
theyreceived a site tour and spent time meeting ourmanufacturing apprentices.
Chris also took the time to speak to our largest Shareholders, toanalysts, to the banks that support Chris then moved on to the Americas region, us and to our key suppliers inorder to hear their attending the Americas executive team meeting views of Aggreko.
inHouston and visiting the depot in Louisiana, beforeflying to Panama to visit acustomer site andtake a tour of the Panama hub.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 79 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED The table below follows up on the action points identified from the 2013 review and includes feedback from the 2014 review: Board Strategy and Board Composition Succession Competition Meetings 2013 Findings 2013 Findings 2013 Findings 2013 Findings The Board has a good mixture The Executive appointments A number of topics were Board meetings are chaired of skills covering all main areas tothe Board in 2013 had identified during the evaluation effectively, timekeeping is well and the balance between gonewell, with good levels as items on which the Board managed and the level and Executive and Non-executive ofconfidence and interaction would welcome deeper debate.
quality of information provided was effective.
However, we between the Executives.
In Topics included key strategic to the Board is generally good.
recognised that we need to order to build on this success, issues and the competitive Some suggestions were made keep the areas of expertise the Board agreed to increase landscape, on a regional and to improve the running order under review as the business their focus on succession in international level.
ofmeetings, the provision of develops.
2014 and improve access to information and the level and Non-executive Directors for detail of financial reports.
Progress in 2014 Progress in 2014 Progress in 2014 Progress in 2014 Revised financial reports have Appointment of new CEO and Internal appointment of CFO Annual Board planner expanded CFO announced in May 2014. announced in May 2014. to includeitems on key improved quality of information.
strategicissues and the External consultants engaged Appointment of new Group New investor relations report competitive landscape.
tosearch for an additional HRDirector in June 2014. established.
Board visit to Dubai gave opportunity to engage with EMEA and O&T management teams.
Action points for 2015 Action points for 2015 Action points for 2015 Action points for 2015 Appointment of new NonIn-depth review of succession Chris Weston to lead a business Review quality and consistency executive Director in February plans following new Board review in H1 2015 to establish of Board paper submissions to 2015. appointments.
Externally facilitated review of Continue with programme the Board scheduled for Autumn toimprove access to 2015 to focus on dynamics of Non-executive Directors for new team.
executives below Board level byintroducing a mentoring scheme.
Audit Ethics Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee 2014 Findings 2014 Findings 2014 Findings 2014 Findings All committees continue to work effectively, with balanced meetings, good levels of participation and blend of experience amongst members.
Action points for 2015 Action points for 2015 Action points for 2015 Action points for 2015 Continue with presentations on Continue participation in ethics Recommend appointment of all Schedule regular updates on managing financial risks from training for all Board members.
Non-executive Directors as evolving best practice from our the Regional Finance Directors members of the Nomination remuneration advisers.
Review our compliance and technical specialists.
Committee to reflect current framework to reflect developing best practice.
80 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 ACCOUNTABILITY The Board has an ongoing process to identify, evaluate and Risk management and internal control manage significant risks faced by the Group, details of which The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal can be found in the risk section of the Strategic Report.
control, including financial control, and we have worked This process has been in place for the period under review and hardtoembed these controls into the culture of the Group.
up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The process is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, In addition, the Board reviews annually the effectiveness of the and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance risk management and internal control systems.
No significant against material misstatement or loss.
The Boards approach failings or weaknesses were identified.
Further detail on torisk management is supported by an oversight structure thisprocess can be found in the AuditCommittee Report.
thatincludes the Audit Committee, details of which can be Read more in our Audit Committee report found in the Audit Committee Report.
Page 84 Read more about our risks Page 28 GOVERNANCE IN ACTION: FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE REPORTING The Board recognises its responsibility to present For the 2014Annual Report, thisprocess included: afair, balanced andunderstandable assessment Comprehensive management and statutory ofAggreko in all of our reporting obligations.
accounts processes, with written confirmations This responsibility covers the Annual Report and provided bythe regional senior management extendsto the interim report and other regulatory teams on the health of the financial announcements.
The Directors consider this control environment.
AnnualReport, taken as a whole, tobefair, Detailed reviews of the Annual Report and balancedand understandable, providing the Accounts undertaken atdifferent levels of the information necessary for Shareholders to Group and by the senior management teamthat assesstheCompanys performance, business model aim to ensure consistency and overall balance.
In arriving at this position, theBoard askedthe Audit Committee to review andconfirm A verification process, involving our internal audit theprocess we have in place to support this team, dealing with the factual content of the assessment.
The Audit Committee confirmed that Annual Report.
wehave a robust approach in place to support the A key accounting judgements paper covering fair, balanced and understandable assessment.
contract and taxprovisions, along with a summary ofany changes in our accounting policies for 2014.
Both the Audit Committee and Board received an early draft oftheAnnual Report to enable time for review and comment.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 81 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CALENDAR 2014 2014 March April May June Roadshows in the UK, USA, Conference calls and JP Morgan Cazenove Analyst and Shareholder Canada andEurope following meetings with investors Business Services sitevisit to our operations thepreliminary results following the first quarter IMS Conference inthe Americas announcement Analyst and investor site visit Barclays Select Series 2014: Analyst and investor site visit Citi Business to Dumbarton UK Stockholm Conference to Dumbarton Services Conference The Chairman met a number Introductory roadshows in the Goldman Sachs Business of our major Shareholders to US and Asia Services conference discuss CEO succession HOW OUR INVESTORS CAN FIND US Online 2014 Report Our Group website Download the IR app www.
com investors SELL-SIDE ANALYST AND SHAREHOLDER VISITTO THE US AND PANAMA In June 2014, we took a group of around 20 sell-side analysts andShareholders to visit our Americas business.
The two-day visitincluded presentations from each of the Americas business unitmanagers and site visits to our facilities in Houston and our PowerProject site in Panama.
The site visit was well received withallthose attending gaining a greater appreciation for the LocalBusiness in particular, but also the strength and depth ofthemanagement team.
82 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 KEY TO ACTIVITIES SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CALENDAR 2014 Half year Full year IMS results results Investor AGM Site visit meetings August September October November December Roadshow in the USA Roadshows in the UK and The Chairman met a number Conference calls and Credit Suisse European following the interim France following the interim of our major Shareholders to meetings with investors BusinessServices and results announcement results announcement discuss CEO transition following the thirdquarter IMS Transport Conference arrangements Analyst and investor site visit Analyst and investor site visit to Dumbarton Introductory roadshow in to Dumbarton the US Understanding what analysts and investors think about us is a The Group has an office in London, where the Head of key part of driving our business forward and we actively seek InvestorRelations is based, and maintains ongoing relations dialogue with the market.
This provides us with the opportunity with analysts and investors through telephone callsand to communicate with analysts and investors and to understand meetings.
Throughout 2014, we have continued to maintain their views on the Companys strategy and performance.
open and transparent communication with analysts and The Board receives regular updates on the views of investors through meetings, presentations, conferences and Shareholders through briefings and reports from those that site visits, including a visit in June to our Americas business.
have had Shareholder interaction over the year, including the During the year, the Head of Investor Relations and Senior Head of Investor Relations, Directors, Makinson Cowell our Management conducted over 460 meetings, met or spoke retained advisers and the Company brokers.
In addition, toover 400 institutions and participated in five conferences.
ourSenior Independent Director, Russell King, is available to Meetings are conducted by atleast one of the Chairman, meet Shareholders if they wish to raise any issues separately.
ChiefExecutive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Head of Investor Relations and these meetings occurred in a number of Results and other news releases such as contract wins different locations around the world toreflect the global nature arepublished via the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory of our Shareholder base: during the year Senior Management NewService RNS.
Any announcement published via RNS travelled to meet investors in the UK, USA, Canada, Germany, isalso available on the Groups Investor Relations website at France, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Belgium, Italy, Sweden, www.
com investors: a subscription service is available Hong Kong and Japan.
We have alsocommitted to include the for interested parties to receive these updates by email.
Regional Directors in investor meetings throughout the year, We continually seek to enhance our communications, including toallow investors to gain abroader perspective of management online communications, and during the year implemented and the business.
During the year, the Chairman of the changes to the Investor Relations website, including improved Remuneration Committee held a number of consultations with functionality and greater disclosure of information.
We had Shareholders around the development of the new Long-Term over260,000 unique visitors to the corporate website in 2014.
Incentive Plan and general performance of the business.
In early 2015 we launched an Investor Relations and Media App Read more about our remuneration policy that can be downloaded to tablet and smartphone devices: thisenables a wider audience to view results, announcements, Page 92 presentations, videos, webcasts and images on the move.
We also enjoy meeting and engaging in discussion with our private Shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM.
The 2015 AGM will be held in Glasgow on Wednesday 29 April 2015.
Further details of the meeting are set out onpage 119.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 83
