GOVERNANCE CONTINUED NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Introduction by Ken Hanna, NominationCommittee Chairman The Nomination Committee is currently made up of three independent Non-executive Directors in addition to me as Chairman.
I have been Chairman of the Committee since myappointment as Chairman of Aggreko in April 2012, although I would not chair the Committee when itisdealing with succession to the chairmanship of Aggreko.
The main element of focus for the Committee in 2014 was, naturally, the changes in Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
You will see from the table on the left that the Committee met formally on only two occasions: whilst strictly correct, this figure masks the many informal meetings and conversations we had with our other Non-executive colleagues, Ken Hanna Nomination Committee Chairman search consultants and candidates as part of the process ofappointing two new Executive Directors, which I have The Nomination Committees role is to monitor described in more detail below.
andreview the composition and balance of the To the left there is a summary of the key actions of the Boardandits committees on a regular basis to Committee in 2014 and intended areas of focus in 2015. ensureAggreko has the right structure, skills and Further detail on our actions in 2014 are included below.
diversity of experience in place for the effective management of the Group.
Role of Nomination Committee Review the structure, size and composition including skills, 2014 Key achievements knowledge, experience, diversity and balance of Executive and Non-executive of the Board and its Committees and make Selected and recommended appointment of Chris Weston as ChiefExecutive Officer recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
Promoted Carole Cran to Chief Financial Officer Consider succession planning for Directors and other Reviewed Committee memberships and recommended changes seniorexecutives following a number of changes in 2014.
Appointed a new Group HR Director Identify and nominate for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies.
Keep under review the time commitment expected from Members in 2014 theChairman and the Non-executive Directors.
Scheduled meetings attended Ken Hanna Nomination Committee Chairman Main activities of the Nomination 1 David Hamill Non-executive Director Committee during the year 2 Russell King Senior Independent Director Appointment of Chief Executive Officer 3 At the end of February 2014, Rupert Soames tendered his Diana Layfield Non-executive Director resignation as Chief Executive.
He subsequently left the Robert MacLeod Non-executive Director Groupat the end of April 2014.
We were fortunate in that AngusCockburn, then Chief Financial Officer, was well placed 4 Rupert Soames Chief Executive to assume an interim role to lead the executive management 1 David Hamill retired from the Board on 24 April 2014 ofthe Group, with Carole Cran, then Director ofFinance, 2 Russell King was appointed Senior Independent Director on 24 April 2014 inturnable to take on Anguss former role as an interim step.
3 Diana Layfield was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 24 April 2014 4 Rupert Soames retired from the Board on 24 April 2014 Having consulted all other directors, we therefore recommended the appointment of Angus as Interim ChiefExecutive and Carole as Interim Chief Financial Officer.
Areas of focus for 2015 This enabled us to agree a reasonably swift leaving date for Chris Westons induction Rupert, so ensuring continuity and minimising disruption to Appointment and induction of Uwe Krueger as a Non-executive Director thebusiness.
Meanwhile, it was agreed that Ken Hanna, as Review succession plans for the Board and key senior management roles Chairman of the Board and Nomination Committee, and Russell King, asChairman of the Remuneration Committee and later, SeniorIndependent Director, should lead the process forsecuring permanent appointments, and as a Nomination Committee terms of reference: firststep we selected Russell Reynolds Associates as search www.
Russell Reynolds are a leading executive research of-ref-oct-2014.
pdf 90 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 practice, with whom we have worked on senior placements visibility which comes from having these executives as part of inthe past, but otherwise they provide no other services to the Board adds real value.
While we will continue to ensure that Aggreko, and we regard them as independent.
During a series we appoint the best people for the relevant roles, we recognise of meetings with Russell Reynolds, we developed a position the benefits of greater diversity and will continue to take specification, which was shared with and approved by allNonaccount of this when considering any particular appointment, executive Directors.
We then agreed a long list of candidates although we do not set any particular targets.
which, following meetings between some potential candidates As in previous years, as part of the Companys annual evaluation and Ken Hanna and or Russell King, was distilled toa short list of Board performance, all Directors were consulted on the of four both male and female.
We also had discussions with composition of the Board, as to size, the appropriate range potential internal candidates.
All Non-executive Directors ofskills and balance between Executive and Non-executive wereinvolved during this process.
The final phase involved Directors.
Following the appointments made in 2014 and 2015, interviewing two external candidates alongside the internal we believe we have the right composition.
candidates, with Non-Executive directors interviewing in pairs.
We were of theunanimous view that ChrisWeston was the Senior Independent Director preferred candidate, and at a formal jointmeeting of the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee On 24 April 2014 our existing Senior Independent Director, wesettled the terms of his offer.
David Hamill, retired from the Board and we recommended theappointment of Russell King as Senior Independent Meanwhile, Angus Cockburn had indicated that he wished to Director.
Russell joined the Board in 2009, and has step down from the role of Interim Chief Executive and leave  Committee for over four years.
theCompany at the end of September 2014.
During the short His experience with other listed companies, both in executive period of time from Angus Cockburns departure to Chris and non-executive roles, and his knowledge of Aggreko, Westons start date, the Board agreed toappoint KenHanna meanthat he is well qualified for the role.
as Executive Chairman to facilitate an orderly handover.
Further detail on the Executive Chairman appointment can Committee appointments befound on page 71 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Following David Hamills retirement from the Board and associated Committees in April 2014, we recommended Succession to the role of twocommittee appointments with effect from April 2014.
 Diana Layfield was appointed as a member of the Nomination Following the appointment of Angus Cockburn as Interim Committee and Ian Marchant was appointed as a member ChiefExecutive and subsequent departure from the Company, ofthe Ethics Committee.
Following the Committee evaluation, we had to consider who should succeed Angus as Chief we recommended the appointment of Uwe Krueger, Ian Marchant Financial Officer.
Carole Cran had already been identified in and Rebecca McDonald to the Committee with effect from oursuccession plan as the preferred successor to the Chief 3 March 2015.
Financial Officer role and had been appointed as Interim ChiefFinancial Officer in April 2014.
The Committee unanimously Reappointment of Directors agreed that she should join the Board and her appointment Since the Committees last report, we have agreed to extend was confirmed on a permanent basis on 1 June 2014. the terms of appointment of two Non-executive Directors.
Each had served for more than six years, and so we reviewed Appointment of Non-executive Director the extensions with particular care.
First, Robert MacLeod performs a vital role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Committee aims continually to refresh the balance of skills Secondly, Russell King, as Chairman of the Remuneration and experience of Non-executive members of the Board, and Committee, as well as Senior Independent Director has we were particularly keen to strengthen the engineering and, principal responsibility for overseeing the design, approval ideally, renewables experience amongst our Non-executive andimplementation of Aggrekos new remuneration policy, Directors.
So in mid-2014 we started a search for a further which we see as a key element of our strategy.
Moreover, the Non-executive director, appointing Lygon Group, an independent Committee believes that the experience and continuity brought search firm.
We were delighted to announce in January2015 by Robert and Russell will be invaluable at a time of transition.
that Uwe Krueger had agreed to join the Board.
Uwe brings We were satisfied that their length of tenure had not expertise inengineering, services and renewable energy compromised their independence in any way, and therefore sectors: his full biography is set out on page 73. werecommended to the Board that their terms of appointment should be extended for a further year from September 2014 Board composition and February 2015 respectively.
Our policy is to have a broad range of skills, background The Committee unanimously recommends the election of our andexperience.
Operationally Aggreko is organised into three newly appointed Directors: Chris Weston: Carole Cran and regions, and we believe that the ability to hold to account the UweKrueger: and the re-election of each of our remaining line managers who run the business on a daily basis, to get Directors at our 2015 Annual General Meeting.
their input into decision making, and to get the additional Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 91
