ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 48 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CHAIRMANS LETTER Corporate Governance Report Dear fellow shareholder As a UK listed company, we are required to explain how we have applied the main principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code Code and whether the relevant provisions have been complied with throughout the financial year.
The following report sets out how we have applied the Code and confirms our compliance.
The Company and the Group are committed to high standards of corporate governance and the Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders and actively engages in two-way communication with them.
During the year we held numerous face-to-face meetings, hosted site visits and invited them to presentations on both the Groups financial results and elements of its strategy.
We are mindful of the need to We are mindful of the need to meet the ever-changing meet the ever-changing demands demands of the business environment, whilst at the same time ensuring that our various stakeholders are all given of the business environment, whilst appropriate consideration.
This has been a challenge that our at the same time ensuring that our Board continues to take very seriously.
various stakeholders are all given Our two new Non-Executive Directors, Karen Guerra and John appropriate consideration Pattullo have now settled in well with the Board and bring a fresh new perspective with their international backgrounds in marketing and supply chain management respectively.
For the first time this year we have conducted an externally facilitated board evaluation.
This proved highly effective and resulted in a number of recommendations which are discussed in detail later in this report.
Executive remuneration has been a topic of considerable interest again over the year with the new regulations coming into play for the first time.
The Directors Remuneration Report on page 67 sets out in detail the Companys approach.
Peter Johnson Chairman 22 May 2014 Corporate Website Further details on the roles and responsibilities of each of the committees of the Board are available on our website.
com Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 49 Shareholders Board of Directors Chairman, two Executive Directors, five Non-Executive Directors and Company Secretary and General Counsel.
Group Executive Audit Committee Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee t Financial Reporting t Develop Strategy t Chairman and t Board Structure t External Audit Executive Director Pay t Execute Strategy t Board Appointments t Risk Management and Operational and t Senior Executive Pay t t Board Succession Internal Controls t Share Incentive Plans Financial Performance including Internal t Financial Performance Audit Plans Monitoring Strategic t Whistleblowing, and Forecasting Fraud and Anti-bribery Processes Investment Proposals t t Develop Risk See page 58 for the See page 67 for the See page 65 for the Management Processes Audit Committee Directors Nomination Report Remuneration Committee Report t Employee Development Report and Engagement BOARD COMPOSITION BOARD TENURE Executive 03 years 25% 25% Non-Executive 3-6 years 75% 25% Male 6 years and over 87.5% 50% Female INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE 12.5% Percentage of Directors with international experience gained outside the Group Europe 100% Americas 100% See page 52 for information on Board role, effectiveness and composition ROW 100% E e l c e n c t a r n o r c e o v m o G p o s n t n e ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 50 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board Activity The Company and the Group are committed to high standards of corporate governance and the Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders and actively engages in two-way communication BOARD DISCUSSION See page 52 for information on Board role, effectiveness and composition e n t n s o p G o m v o e c r o n r a t c n e c l e E Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 51 Strategy The Board began the year with reviews of the Companys Business Planning processes, and scoped its programme of strategic implementation reviews.
Over the year it has received detailed updates on the seven strategic priorities, culminating in a strategy away day in January during which it had a review of the Groups customers and competitors, an update on the progress made in the year on implementing the Groups strategy and agreed the strategic implementation plan for the following year.
On an ongoing basis it tracks progress against the strategic KPIs and approves strategic investment proposals, such as the roll-out of SAP in Asia Pacific.
It also received reviews of previous strategic investment proposals considering whether they delivered their anticipated benefits and shared any learnings from the relevant projects.
Financial reporting The Board reviewed and signed off on the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and the Half-year financial report for the following half year, including discussion and approval of the relevant final and interim dividends.
The Board receives monthly updates on the financial performance of the Group, approves the annual budget, the strategic five year plan and the reforecasts during the year.
In December, the Board approved a refresh of the overall tax strategy for the Group, which is carried out on a biannual basis, and has reviewed the ongoing bank financing programme.
Shareholder relations The Board engaged with smaller shareholders at the 2013 AGM held in July, and during the year the Executive Directors held around 70 meetings and conference calls with institutional shareholders in the United Kingdom, North America and Europe.
The Board regularly reviews reports that contain investor feedback from institutional investors, compiled by the Companys brokers.
In July the Board, with support from the Companys brokers, conducted an in-depth review of the existing investor relations programme and strategy.
This included a detailed review of investor feedback and perceptions, a review of the shape of the existing shareholder register and plans to attract new investors to the Companys investment case.
Governance The Board undertook an externally facilitated evaluation of its own effectiveness and that of its committees and individual members during the year.
It considered updates on a number of areas including competition policy and anti-bribery training, and reviewed the Groups whistleblowing procedures.
The Board also considered its position on corporate responsibility.
On a quarterly basis the Board considers Group health and safety and receives reports on any grievances raised across the Group together with a summary of the themes arising from the whistleblowing process Speak Up.
Risk management During the year the Board has undertaken its annual full Group Risk Review, and has also considered more specific and detailed risk reviews of the Nuneaton and Bad Hersfeld warehouses.
Directors have undertaken training on defence of a takeover bid.
The Board has considered and approved an investment proposal for updated disaster recovery arrangements in its North American business, and has been updated on the ever changing nature of cyber risk.
Looking forward, the Board has agreed a register of inherent Group Major Risks for ongoing review.
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 52 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT t The approval of the Groups dividend policy, the payment of UK Corporate Governance Code interim dividends and the recommendation of final dividends During the year ended 31 March 2014, the Company has been subject to the provisions of the Code published in September t Ensuring and maintaining the Groups systems of risk 2012.
The Code is publicly available at www.
There management, internal control and corporate governance are five main principles of the Code covering: t Reviewing health and safety policy and its performance t Discussing and agreeing strategic plans t Leadership t Evaluating Group and subsidiary performance and reviewing t Effectiveness forecasts t Relations with shareholders Other day-to-day operational decisions are delegated by the t Accountability Board to the Group Executive Committee GEC.
Information t Remuneration and agenda items are recommended to the Board by the The sections within this Directors Report explain how the GEC and by the Company Secretary after discussion with the above principles have been applied.
The information required Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
by the Code on Directors accountability, our process for the The Board is fully committed to diversity of gender, race and appointment of Directors including diversity and our report on nationality and ensures it considers candidates from all such Directors remuneration, can be found in the following sections: backgrounds when appointing new Board members.
Further t Audit Committee Report on page 58: details of diversity in relation to appointments at Board level can t Nomination Committee Report on page 65: and be found in the Nomination Committee Report on page 65. t Directors Remuneration Report on page 67.
Committees During the year ended 31 March 2014, the Directors consider The Board has a number of standing committees consisting that the Company complied throughout the accounting period of certain Directors and, in the case of the GEC and with all the relevant provisions set out in the Code.
Treasury Committee, certain senior managers to which specic responsibilities have been delegated and for which The Board written terms of reference have been agreed.
These terms Role, effectiveness and composition of reference are available for inspection on the Companys The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the website.
Board members receive minutes of meetings of all long-term success of the Company.
The Board has carefully the Boards Committees and can request presentations or considered the guidance criteria regarding the composition reports on areas of interest.
of the Board under the Code.
In the opinion of the Board, the Chairman and all the Non-Executive Directors bring The performance of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration independence of judgement and character, a wealth of Committees are assessed annually as part of the evaluation experience and knowledge, the appropriate balance of skills, process described below.
and assign sufficient time to enable them to effectively carry out their responsibilities and duties to the Board and to the Further details of the work, composition, role and committees on which they sit.
They are sufciently independent responsibilities of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration of management and are free from any other circumstances Committees are provided in separate reports on pages or relationships that could interfere with the exercise of their 58 to 87. judgement.
Group Executive Committee Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report Composition are set out on pages 42 to 44.
These set out their skills and The Committee consists of the Executive Directors and the experience, together with details of their membership of Board Group Chief Executives direct reports and is chaired by the Committees.
Details of the Boards composition, tenure and Group Chief Executive.
The Committee has met ten times international experience are given on page 49. during the year ended 31 March 2014 and manages the day-today activities of the Group.
The Company Secretary acts as The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its secretary to the Committee.
approval which includes responsibility for: Role t The approval of the Group strategy and its budgetary and business plans The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the GEC the development and recommendation of strategic t The review and approval of major investment proposals and plans for consideration by the Board, the monitoring of the capital expenditure operating and financial results against plans and forecasts and t The approval of annual and half-year results, interim the development of risk management and control procedures.
management statements and trading statements Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 53 Treasury Committee seminars and briengs, through participation at meetings Composition and through visits to operating units, both in the UK and overseas, as well as by receiving presentations from senior The Committee consists of the Group Chief Executive, the management.
This is in addition to the access that every Group Finance Director, the Group Treasurer, the Assistant Director has to the Company Secretary, who is responsible Group Treasurer, the Group Financial Controller, the Company to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied Secretary and the Group Tax Manager.
The Committee meets with and advising the Board, through the Chairman, on new quarterly.
The Assistant Group Treasurer acts as secretary to legislation and corporate governance matters.
Secretary is also in regular contact with the Board with suggestions of training that may be of particular relevance.
A Role record is kept of any training undertaken.
The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the Treasury Committee day-to-day nancing and administrative Board Committees and Directors are given access to matters and setting and monitoring detailed treasury policy for independent professional advice at the Groups expense if the Group within an overall policy framework established by they deem it necessary in order for them to carry out their the Board.
Specific training provided to the Board during the year included Defence Training provided by Citigroup.
Information and development Training and induction A tailored induction programme is provided for each new Directors are encouraged to update and refresh their skills, Director.
Overall, the aim of the induction programme is knowledge and familiarity with the Group by attending external to introduce new Directors to the Groups business, its DIVISION OF BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES Effective division of responsibilities and Board operation The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held by different individuals.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Group Chief Executive has been clearly established: their responsibilities are set out in writing and have been agreed by the Board.
Chairman Group Chief Executive Non-Executive Directors Responsible for leadership of the Direct charge of the Company on a Constructively challenge Board and ensuring its effectiveness day-to-day basis.
Accountable to the regarding strategy, performance across all aspects of its role, setting Board for the operational performance of management and also satisfy its agenda to ensure adequate of the Group.
Responsible for the themselves on the integrity of discussion of all items of business development of strategy and its financial information and controls and and promoting openness and debate.
presentation to the Board, the systems of risk management.
The Chairman facilitates constructive implementation of the agreed Group relations between Non-Executive strategy and the achievement of and Executive Directors and holds its agreed objectives, strategic meetings with Non-Executive direction of the Group, and its Senior Independent Director Directors without Executives being communication within the business Responsible for chairing the meeting present.
The Chairman also ensures and with shareholders and the of Non-Executive Directors for all Directors receive accurate, investment community.
Executive the purpose of evaluating the timely and clear information management including leadership of Chairmans performance.
The Senior and is responsible for effective the executive team, ensuring robust Independent Director also provides communication between the Board management succession plans are in an alternative communication channel and its shareholders.
place and discussed with the Board for shareholders, and other Directors and championing health and safety, if required, as well as providing a risk, corporate responsibility and sounding board for the Chairman.
See page 42 for information on Board of Directors ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT operations and its governance arrangements.
Also included Board evaluation are meetings with senior management, sales visits to The main purpose of the Board is to ensure the Group develops customers, presentations of key business areas, and tours of a clear and stretching strategy that is fully implemented and to our UK warehouses, as well as receiving technical training on support the Group in fullling its potential.
legal and governance issues and relevant documentation.
The actions resulting from last years evaluation, noted below, Board meetings have been followed up: Directors receive a pack of relevant and timely information on t Strategy: more visibility of progress against targets by the matters to be discussed at each meeting.
The Board has tracking agreed Key Performance Indicators at Board now moved to using a third party Board portal.
This enables meetings faster and more secure distribution of information and reduces t Financial performance: more time to be spent on financial our effect on the environment.
performance for the year to date, with increased focus on At each Board meeting the Group Chief Executive presents regional and functional performance a comprehensive update on the business issues across the t Succession planning: following changes to the Groups Group and the Group Finance Director presents a detailed operating model, the existing succession plans were analysis of the financial performance, as well as reports on reviewed and updated investor relations and feedback from investors.
GEC members and other senior managers also attend relevant parts of We noted in last years report that we would be undertaking an Board meetings in order to make presentations on their external evaluation and we appointed Constal Limited to carry areas of responsibility, providing updates on developments out this exercise for us.
Constal work with companies to help and changes to the business.
Between Board meetings, identify ways to improve the performance of their boards: they Directors also meet with GEC members and are provided have no other connection to the Company and therefore there with information in a timely manner on matters affecting the are no issues around independence.
business as and when relevant.
The Board recognises the benefit of an external evaluation The Boards annual schedule of meetings normally includes which it believes provides fresh insight and objectivity to its a visit to one of our operating companies and this year the committees and Directors, enabling it to improve its leadership, Board visited our North American operation Allied.
visit provided the Directors with the opportunity to tour its Further details of this years external evaluation process can warehouse, review operations, meet with the management of be found on page 56.
Allied and also included visits to a local branch and a supplier.
This gave the Board a better insight into their strategic issues.
Meeting attendance The table below sets out the number of meetings of the Board and of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees during the year and individual attendance by the relevant members at these meetings, demonstrating commitment to their role as Directors of the Company.
The Board normally meets seven times per year and supplementary meetings of the Board are held as and when necessary.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination scheduled Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held during the year 7455 Peter Johnson 7 7 5 Ian Mason 7 7 Simon Boddie 7 7 Adrian Auer 7 7 4 4 5 5 5 5 Karen Guerra 7 7 4 4 5 5 5 5 1 Paul Hollingworth 7 7 4 4 5 5 4 5 John Pattullo 7 7 4 4 4 5 4 5 Rupert Soames 7 7 4 4 5 5 5 5 The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each Director could attend is shown in brackets 1.
Paul Hollingworth was not present at a meeting of the Nomination Committee as the matter under discussion was his re-appointment for a further three-year term.
Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 55 Director re-election Going concern The Companys Articles of Association state that each Director In its review of the financial statements for the year ended must retire from ofce every three years.
The Code goes 31 March 2014, the Audit Committee also considered analysis beyond this, requiring all Directors to retire and stand for to support the going concern judgement.
re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
The Company The Groups activities, strategy and performance are complies with the Code requirement in this respect.
discussed in the Group Chief Executives review on page 14.
Paul Hollingworths second term of appointment as a NonFurther details on the financial performance, financial position Executive Director expired in May 2014.
The Nomination and cash ows of the Group are discussed in the Business Committee, following a review of his contribution to the and Financial Review on page 22.
Board, recommended that his appointment should be extended for a further three-year term.
This recommendation Note 21 on page 123 of the consolidated financial statements was agreed by the Board.
provides details of the Groups debt maturity prole, capital management policy, hedging activities and financial The Board has a broad range of skills and experience and instruments and its exposures to interest rate and foreign works together effectively as evidenced throughout this currency risks.
The Board, following its evaluation process, also considers that the performance of all the Directors The Group is cash generative, as evidenced by its cash ow continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to performance, with free cash ow representing 80.7% of profit their role and therefore recommends their re-election.
after tax for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Management reviews its actual and forecast cash ows each month to Further details of each Director standing for re-election are ensure that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the provided on pages 42 to 44 and details of their attendance at Groups requirements.
Board and Committee meetings are given in the Corporate Governance Report on page 54.
At 31 March 2014, the Groups net debt was 143.6 million with total committed debt and loan facilities of 296.9 million Internal control and risk management and undrawn committed facilities of 169.1 million.
The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, which has been designed and The Groups main sources of finance are a syndicated implemented to meet the particular requirements of the multi-currency facility from seven banks for US$75 million, Group and the risks to which it is exposed.
The Group has an 120million and 50 million maturing in November 2015 and established and ongoing process of risk management and US$150 million of Private Placement notes, split US$65 million internal control which has continued throughout the year maturing June 2015 and US$85 million maturing June 2017. under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
During 2014 a new standardised risk Compliance with the Groups banking covenants is monitored assessment and reporting procedure was introduced across monthly and sensitivity analyses are periodically applied to the business.
forecasts to assess their impact on covenants and net debt.
At 31 March 2014 there was significant headroom between In accordance with the requirements of the Code and the the Groups financial position and its banking covenants: it is recommendations of the Turnbull Review Group on internal expected that such covenants will continue to be complied control, the Audit Committee has regularly reviewed the with for the foreseeable future.
effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management and reported the results to the Board.
The Group has sufficient financial resources, a large and These reviews covered material controls, including financial, geographically spread customer base and strong supplier operational and compliance controls and risk management relationships.
Therefore, the Directors believe that the Group systems.
Further details of this process are given in the Audit is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
Committee Report on page 61 and the Strategic Report on page 28.
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate The Groups internal control system can provide reasonable resources to continue in operational existence for the but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or foreseeable future.
For this reason the Directors believe that it loss.
is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups accounts.
The Directors confirm that this statement has been prepared in accordance with Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance of UK Companies 2009, published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
E F P F I E H C S T I R V ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board and Committee evaluation process Analysis of responses.
Reporting and recommendations to the Board and its Committees November Online Actions questionnaires agreed circulated November September Meetings with One-to-one Chairman, discussions the Company between Chairman Secretary and Directors and Constal January-March July-August Initial discussions between Constal, the Chairman and the The results of this years evaluation were positive and it Group Company Secretary were held to discuss the design of was noted that the Board members work well together in a the questionnaire and what the Board was seeking to achieve constructive manner and bring a broad range of experience.
Constal was also available to answer any was also acknowledged that there had been a few changes to questions from other members of the Board.
responsibilities and Board members over the last two years and that the Board needed time to settle down as a team.
The aim of the questionnaire sent to Board members was to gain views on certain key corporate governance areas and The Board supported the conclusions of the evaluation and a to give members an opportunity to say candidly what they number of themes were identified for action which included: thought: what was being done well and what needed to t Strategy milestones and tracking: approach agreed as to be improved.
Views were also sought on the Chairman and the tracking of progress against the strategic priorities Senior Independent Director SID and also the workings of t Focus on drivers of strategy: a rolling schedule of the Committees of the Board.
updates on the strategic priorities The questionnaire included issues such as: t More information on competitors: update scheduled for the forthcoming strategy day, as well as ongoing updates t Balance of skills and experience t Cultural diversity at the Board and throughout the t Effectiveness of meetings and team dynamics organisation: review of the approach to diversity and t Development and performance against strategy inclusion throughout the organisation t Succession planning t Organisational capability: review of the capability of t Risk management the organisation to deliver the Groups strategy with a t Training and development particular focus on change capability t Succession planning: ongoing item for discussion at the The responses to the questionnaires were collated Nomination Committee independently by Constal who prepared reports for the Chairman and the Chairman of each Committee.
These The Chairman also held one-to-one meetings with each of reports were then reviewed and discussed by the Board and the Directors individually covering the themes outlined above, each of the Committees as appropriate.
the dynamics of the Board, and the training and development needs of the Directors, as well as any other areas of concern.
The Chairman and the SID met to discuss the feedback It was agreed that the Company Secretary will also continue on their own respective roles and a summary of this to seek regular feedback from the individual Directors.
conversation was fed back to the Board.
E D E N A E E S L S Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 57 Relations with shareholders The Company encourages two-way communication with both institutional and private investors.
The Annual Report and Accounts is sent to all shareholders who wish to receive a copy.
It is also available on the Companys website www.
com, which additionally contains up-to-date information on the Groups activities and published financial results and presentations.
Executive Directors have frequent discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance, which include meetings following the announcements of the annual and interim results.
At these meetings the Executive Directors meet with major shareholders to discuss performance, strategy and governance.
The Chairman, SID and Non-Executive Directors are available for discussions with shareholders if required.
During the year around 70 face-to-face meetings and telephone conference calls have been held with institutional shareholders in the United Kingdom, the United States and Europe, covering over 75% of the shareholder base.
The Company has hosted visits to its operating facilities for institutional shareholders during the year and from time to time it hosts briengs for analysts and investors on specic topics related to business strategy and operations.
In November 2013 the GEC member responsible for the Global IT function held one such brieng for over 20 analysts and institutional shareholders on how the Groups systems strategy will enable growth.
The presentations used for this briefing and investor meetings during the year are available to download from the Companys website.
The Group Finance Director regularly reports to the Board on investor relations, including reports compiled by the Companys brokers and containing feedback from institutional shareholders, ensuring that the views of the shareholders are communicated to the Board through these reports.
The Board ensures that regular and useful dialogue is maintained with shareholders and the Annual General Meeting is used as an additional opportunity for the Chairman and other Board members to meet with shareholders and investors and give them the opportunity to ask questions.
Final voting results are published through a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website following the meeting.
