Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER Nomination Committee Report Dear fellow shareholder As Chairman of the Nomination Committee, I would like to present our report detailing the role and responsibilities of the Committee and its activities during the year.
The Committee meets as required and has responsibility for matters relating to Board succession planning and makes recommendations to the Board where appropriate.
Succession planning for the GEC is also reviewed.
The Committee periodically assesses what new skills, knowledge and experience are required on the Board and, if necessary, the balance of independence.
During the period under review the Committee met five times.
Minutes of each Committee meeting are circulated to Board members.
The Board is fully committed to showing leadership in fostering Committee members: Peter Johnson Chairman diversity of gender, race and Adrian Auer nationality throughout all levels Karen Guerra Paul Hollingworth of the business John Pattullo Rupert Soames Details of the skills and experience of the Committee members are given in their biographies on pages 42 to 44.
Specific objectives achieved during the year: The Committee reviewed the emergency, interim and longterm succession plans for the Executive Directors.
In addition it considered the extension of the terms of appointment of the Chairman as well as reviewing and recommending to the Board the renewal of Paul Hollingworths appointment for a further three-year term.
Our first external evaluation took place during the year and it was noted that going forward the Committee would focus on succession planning and its strategic role by taking a much longer term view of the needs of the Board.
Specific objectives for the coming year: The Committee will be considering closely the long-term succession plans for both the Executive and Non-Executive Directors on a more strategic level.
Corporate Website Further details on the roles and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are available on our website.
com ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 66 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Appointment of Directors No directors have been appointed during the year.
Currently, where a new director is to be appointed, a candidate prole is recommended which is then used to brief external recruitment consultants appointed by the Committee to undertake the selection process.
Initial meetings are held generally by the Company Chairman and the Group Chief Executive with prospective candidates and a shortlist of individuals is then selected to meet with other Committee members.
The Committee then meets and decides which candidate, if any, will be recommended to join the Board.
Letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors will set out expected time commitments.
Such time commitments can involve peaks of activity at particular times.
The NonExecutive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at our AGM.
Any future appointments to the Board will receive an induction in respect of their directorship similar to that employed for the appointments we made in January 2013.
This will typically include meetings with senior management, sales visits to customers, presentations from key business areas, and tours of our UK warehouses, as well as technical training on legal and governance issues.
Diversity The Committee has a Policy Statement which emphasises its adherence to the Group Diversity Policy in considering succession planning and recruitment at Board level, and undertakes that any recruitment consultants or other advisers it appoints to help with these tasks are made aware of the Group Diversity Policy.
The Committee states that it is in the best interests of the Company to ensure balance and diversity at Board level, and will encourage recruitment consultants to widen search parameters so that a diverse range of candidates may be considered, where appropriate.
Peter Johnson Chairman of the Nomination Committee 22 May 2014
