ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER Audit Committee Report more of a role to play in reviewing the processes for monitoring Group performance against strategic targets and milestones.
A new risk management approach was introduced in 2014, which has implemented a new standardised risk assessment and reporting procedure across the business.
Further details of our risk management approach can be found in the Strategic Report on page 28.
Specific objectives for the coming year: For the forthcoming year, we will be focused on establishing a close working relationship with our proposed new Auditors, PwC.
We have commenced the transition process and intend to work closely with PwC to achieve a high quality audit for Dear fellow shareholder the year ending 31 March 2015.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I would like to present As a result of the external evaluation, noted above, the our report detailing the role and responsibilities of the Committee will be more involved in reviewing the processes Committee and its activities during the year.
for monitoring Group performance against strategic targets and milestones.
The Committee aims to protect the interests of The Committee considers internal control to be of paramount shareholders by: importance for the Company and its shareholders and will t Assisting the Board in ensuring the integrity of the financial continue to remain focused on maintaining standards at a high and corporate reporting and auditing processes level going forward.
t Ensuring effective internal control and risk management On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank everyone systems are in place for their hard work over the year, including KPMG as our t Approving the remit of the Internal Audit function and Auditors, and the Internal Audit and Group Finance teams, as reviewing its effectiveness and findings well as others within the Group who have contributed.
t Ensuring that an appropriate relationship is maintained between the Group and its Auditors including the recommendation to approve the Auditors appointment and Paul Hollingworth fees Chairman of the Audit Committee t Reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the external 22 May 2014 audit process t Reviewing whistleblowing, anti-bribery and fraud procedures Specific objectives achieved during the year: During the year, one of our main objectives was to conduct an external audit tender.
The Committee, including myself, along with the Group Finance Director, worked with the Group Finance team to agree the process and success criteria for selecting our auditors.
As a consequence we are proposing the appointment of  PwC with effect from the date of our Annual General Meeting AGM.
We would like to thank KPMG for their professional and valued contribution as our auditors.
Further details of the exercise are given on page 63.
Corporate Website Further details on the roles and responsibilities of the Audit We also carried out our first external evaluation, which found Committee are available on our website.
that there were no major issues raised in relation to the Read more online at working of the Committee, although it was agreed that it had www.
com Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 59 MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014 May July November January t Review of Financial t Review of Financial t Review of Financial t Review of Financial Statements: Statements: Statements: Statements: Draft Preliminary Interim Management Draft 2014 Half-year Interim Management Statement and Statement financial report Statement Report and Accounts Auditors highlights Accounting Group Finance memorandum Standards, issues t Risk & Internal procedures, and year-end Going Concern Control: disclosures and reporting review Risk Review management Accounting update Group Finance representation letter Review of Internal procedures, Auditors Report and Audit Performance Going Concern disclosures and Audit Committee without Internal review management Report Audit Auditors highlights representation letter Internal Audit report memorandum Impacts of changes t Risk & Internal in accounting on the Control: Half-year financial t External Auditors: t Risk & Internal Internal Audit plan for results.
Control: Audit Tender Update 2015 Business continuity Review of Auditors Internal Audit report update t Risk & Internal Performance and Control: Compliance Internal Audit report t External Auditors: Review of Auditors Observations on Audit Strategy Internal Audit Audit Tender update t External Auditors: Review of non-audit Meeting with Head Review of non-audit Review of non-audit fees of Internal Audit fees fees without executive management t Compliance: Internal Audit report t Compliance: Review of Audit Committee whistleblowing terms of reference t External Auditors: procedures Bribery Act gifts Audit tender update Annual fraud report and hospitality Review of audit fees update for 2014 Review of Review of non-audit whistleblowing fees procedures Meeting with KPMG without Executive t Compliance: Management Audit Committee evaluation Audit Committee timetable At specific meetings ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Committee members: The Board is satisfied that the Chairman Meetings are scheduled in accordance Paul Hollingworth Chairman of the Committee has the current with the financial and reporting cycles Adrian Auer and relevant financial and accounting of the Company.
Karen Guerra experience required by the provisions Members and their attendance at John Pattullo of the Code and that the other meetings during the year are set out in Rupert Soames members of the Committee have a the Corporate Governance section on sufficiently wide range of business page 54.
Other regular attendees: experience and expertise such that Company Chairman the Committee can effectively fulfil its The Committee has independent Group Chief Executive responsibilities.
Details of the skills and access to the Internal Audit team and to Group Finance Director experience of the Committee members the Auditors.
The Head of Internal Audit Group Company Secretary are given in their biographies on pages and the Auditors have direct access to Group Financial Controller 42 to 44. the Chairman of the Committee outside Head of Internal Audit formal Committee meetings.
Attendance of others is at the invitation Group Risk Manager of the Committee Chairman only and Auditors Minutes of each Committee meeting does not restrict the Committees are circulated to Board members.
t Inventory valuation: Inventory represents a material Activities during the year proportion of the Groups net assets.
At 31 March 2014, Financial reporting the Group had 258.8 million 2013: 261.9 million of In its financial reporting to shareholders and other key inventory on the balance sheet.
The Group estimates the interested parties, the Board aims to present a fair, balanced net realisable value of inventory in order to determine the and understandable assessment of the Groups position and value of any provision required and key judgements relate prospects, providing necessary information for shareholders to the duration of product lifecycles, amount of anticipated to assess the Companys business model, strategy and sales over this lifecycle and the value recoverable from any performance.
Details of the Groups KPIs are shown on page excess stock.
The Committee reviews reports from the 20 of the Strategic Report.
Internal Audit team on inventory valuation procedures as part of their annual programme, with a particular focus this The Committee reviews and advises the Board on the Groups year on inventory valuation in the UK.
Annual and Half-year financial reports, interim management statements and other periodic statements.
t Pension valuation: The Group has a significant defined benefit pension scheme in the UK and smaller schemes To support its review, regular reports are also received from in Ireland and Germany.
At 31 March 2014, the total the Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller.
deficit in relation to defined benefit pension schemes The Auditors also report on the outcomes of its half-year was 40.9 million 2013: 19.0 million.
Small changes to review and annual audit.
the assumptions used to value the UK retirement benefit obligation can have a significant impact on the financial Significant accounting issues and areas of judgement position and results of the Group.
The Group is currently The Committee focuses in particular on key accounting finalising the outcome of the funding valuation as at policies and practices adopted by the Group and any 31 March 2013 with the Pension Scheme Trustees.
The significant areas of judgement that may materially impact Committee reviews the assumptions put forward by the reported results as well as the clarity of disclosures, actuaries and the Group Pension Manager.
compliance with financial reporting standards and the relevant t Goodwill: There is 156.8 million of goodwill on the requirements around financial and governance reporting.
balance sheet at 31 March 2014 2013: 172.2 million, Details on accounting policies and areas of judgement can be which principally relates to the acquisition of Allied Inc. in found in Note 1 on page 101.
The value of goodwill is reviewed regularly for impairment using a value in use model using cash flow Significant accounting issues and areas of judgement and discount rates as set out in Note 12 on page 116.
The considered by the Committee during the year, and how these Committee reviews these impairment tests every year, were addressed, are set out below.
Further details in each of confirming that significant headroom is in place and no these areas are detailed in the summary of key estimates and impairment provision is required.
judgements in Note 1 on page 101: Membership and meetings Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 61 t Taxation: The Groups taxation provision requires The main financial control elements are described below.
accounting estimates regarding tax liabilities accruing Clear terms of reference set out the duties of the Board across our multiple geographies and the recoverability of and the Board Committees, with delegation of operating losses.
This year the Board reviewed and endorsed the responsibility through the Board Committees to management Groups tax strategy.
The Committee reviews the effective in all locations.
Group Finance and Group Treasury manuals tax rate and the balance sheet provision at the half-year are in place to outline the accounting policies and controls and the full-year, and discusses the position with senior necessary in identied areas of financial risk.
management as well as the Auditors.
Financial reporting systems are comprehensive and include In its review of the financial statements for the year ended weekly, monthly and annual reporting cycles.
An annual budget 31 March 2014 the Committee also considered analysis to is set across the Group and approved by the GEC and the support the Companys going concern statement.
This is then updated through quarterly reforecasts, and tracked through monthly reporting of actual against both Internal control and risk management budget, forecast and prior year.
Variances are reviewed by both The Boards responsibilities for internal control are set out in the GEC and the Board.
In each market local leadership teams the Corporate Governance Report on page 55. review variances and key performance indicators.
These are then reviewed at regional and global levels by cross functional The Committee receives quarterly reports from the Head of teams, and by global functional leadership teams.
Specic Internal Audit on the performance of the system of internal reporting systems cover treasury operations, major investment control, and on its effectiveness in managing material risks projects and legal and insurance activities, which are reviewed and in identifying control failings or weaknesses.
by the Board and its Committees on a regular basis.
The Committee annually reviews the Groups risk management process with the outcome of the review being Internal audit reported to the Board.
This, together with the provision of The Committee annually reviews and approves the scope and regular updates to the Board on the material risks, allows the resourcing of the internal audit programme with the Groups Board to make the assessment on the systems of internal internal auditors.
The scope is decided upon by reference control and the residual risk for the purposes of making its to the perceived geographic, functional and operating risks public statement.
Further information regarding principal risks around the business.
These risks are identified from previous and uncertainties to the business is given on page 28 of the audit experience and input from the senior management Strategic Report.
The Committee reviews: Where weaknesses in the internal control system have been identied through the monitoring processes outlined above, t The level and skills of resources allocated to the Internal plans for strengthening them are put in place and action plans Audit function to conduct this programme of work regularly monitored until complete.
During the period under t The summary of the results of each audit and the review there were no control failings or weaknesses that resolution of any control issues identied resulted in unforeseen material losses.
t The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function The Boards report on the systems of internal control and their effectiveness, together with the going concern statement, can The Head of Internal Audit has regular contact with the be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 55.
Chairman of the Committee, in the form of telephone calls and face-to-face meetings.
These discussions are around Internal financial controls audit planning and matters noted during internal audit Internal financial controls are the systems employed assignments.
The Company Chairman and other members of by the Group to enable the Directors to discharge their the Committee are also available if required.
Those responsibilities are On an annual basis the Committee meets with the Head of noted on page 90.
Internal Audit without the presence of the Executive Directors.
During the year, there were discussions around the control environment across the Group and in particular to ensure that, following the global realignment, appropriate authorisation levels and processes are in place.
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Auditors engagement letter and the scope of the years Auditors annual audit cycle is discussed in advance by the Committee, The Committee and the Board put great emphasis on the ensuring that any changes in circumstances arising since the objectivity of the Groups Auditors, KPMG, in their reporting previous year are taken into account.
To ensure full and open communication, the between local finance teams and the local KPMG ofces and Group Audit Engagement Director from KPMG was present at a review by Group management, audit and non-audit fees are all of the Committee meetings.
reviewed by the Committee and are then recommended to The performance and effectiveness of the auditors is reviewed the Board for approval.
Details of audit and non-audit fees are annually by the Committee, and covers qualication, expertise, given in Note 4 on page 106. resources and re-appointment as well as assurance that there are no issues which could adversely affect the auditors A formal statement of independence from the Auditors is independence and objectivity taking into account the relevant received each year.
The Group will not engage the Auditors to standards.
As part of risk evaluation planning the Committee undertake any work that could threaten their independence.
considers the risk of its current auditors withdrawing from the The Group has a policy on employment of former employees market.
This requires that any such employment is considered on a case by case basis and takes into account Feedback is collated from senior management around the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards on such the Group, which is given to KPMG to help them improve appointments.
Any appointment requires approval by their processes.
This forms part of KPMGs own system a combination of the Group Finance Director, the Audit of quality control.
The Committee also met with KPMG, Committee and the Board, depending on the seniority of the without management being present, to review the adequacy appointment.
of controls and any significant areas where management judgement has been applied.
The Company considers the annual appointment of the Auditors by the shareholders at the AGM to be a fundamental safeguard.
Non-audit assignments undertaken by the Auditors The Company has a policy to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair the Auditors independence or objectivity.
In determining the policy, the Committee has taken into account possible threats to auditor independence and objectivity.
Policy on non-audit services: t When considering the use of the Auditors to undertake non-audit work, the Group Finance Director should at all times give consideration to the provisions of the Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Audit Committees with regard to the preservation of independence and objectivity t The Auditors must certify that they are acting independently t In providing a non-audit service, the Auditors should not: audit their own work make management decisions for the Company create a mutuality of interest nd themselves in the role of advocate for the Company t Before commissioning non-audit services, the Committee or the Group Finance Director, as appropriate, must ensure that the Auditors are satisfied that there are no issues as regards independence and objectivity t The Group Finance Director has authority to commission the Auditors to undertake non-audit work where there is a specic project with a cost that is not expected to exceed 50,000.
This work has to be reported to the Committee at its next meeting.
If the cost is expected to exceed 50,000, the agreement of the Committee is required before the work is commissioned.
In either case, other potential providers must be adequately considered t The Group Finance Director monitors all work done by the Auditors or other providers of accountancy services anywhere in the Group in excess of 10,000 Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 63 External audit tender As anticipated in last years Report we have, during the year under review, carried out an external audit tender process.
This is in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Audit Committees and the Code, both published September 2012, which stipulated that FTSE 350 companies should put their external audit services contract out to tender at least once every ten years.
There are no contractual obligations that will restrict the Committees choice of external auditors.
KPMG have been in place as the Groups Auditors since 1984, with no tender having been undertaken during this period.
This year the Group Audit Engagement Director was due to be rotated in line with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards.
The last rotation took place in July 2009.
This, along with the changing regulatory landscape, provided an opportunity to undertake an external tender.
The audit tender process was managed by an internal team, including the Chairman of the Committee and the Group Finance Director.
A shortlist of six firms used by FTSE 250 companies was drawn up and the firms were invited to take part in a two stage process, which had been discussed and agreed with the Committee beforehand.
Initially, all firms were invited to make a short presentation covering their relevant industry and customer experience, global reach and proposed team credentials.
They were also asked to highlight ways in which they could add value to the Group through the audit process, and to confirm their independence to act as the Groups auditors.
These firms were ranked by the internal team and the Group Finance Director, and the Committee approved a list of three to be invited back to present formal proposals, including fee quotes.
Presentations were made to the internal team, the Group Finance Director and the Chairman of the Committee in early January and were assessed using a number of criteria including: t The nature and scope of the firms international presence, including global quality and assurance of the audit process and deliverables t The quality and experience of the proposed audit partner and team, and the continuity of the proposed audit team t Relevant experience of providing audit services to publicly quoted groups t The ability to provide the full range of services required, including audit and specialist technical accounting advice t The suitability of the audit approach and transition plan, including the use of systems technology t Approach to project management, including the central coordination of timelines, planning, costs and resourcing t Approach to managing audit independence and other governance requirements and the ability to maintain audit independence, particularly in respect of the provision of non-audit services t Value for money, particularly the added value that the audit process will bring to the organisation t Approach to innovation and continuous improvement of audit processes Based on the above process and criteria the Committee has recommended that the Board propose to shareholders that  PwC are appointed as the Groups Auditors for the 2015 audit at the forthcoming AGM.
The Committee would like to thank KPMG for their professional and valued contribution as our Auditors over many years and we look forward to working with PwC going forward.
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Committee evaluation The activities of the Committee were reviewed as part of the external Board evaluation process performed during the year under review.
Details of the evaluation process can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 56.
Fraud The Committee reviews the procedures for prevention and detection of fraud in the Group.
Suspected cases of fraud must be reported to the Group Company Secretary within 48 hours and investigated by operational management or Internal Audit, as appropriate.
The outcome of any investigation is reported to the Group Company Secretary.
A register of all suspected fraudulent activity and the outcome of any investigation is kept, which is circulated to the Committee on a regular basis.
During the year in question, very few frauds were reported, none of which were of a material nature.
Anti-bribery An anti-bribery policy applies throughout the global business.
This policy is implemented by means of a global compliance programme which focuses on the risk areas identified.
All managers across the Group are required to sign and accept the policy on an annual basis, and managers and all staff in risk areas have access to an online training module.
A gift and hospitality register has been introduced to ensure transparency.
Whistleblowing In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Committee is responsible for reviewing the arrangements whereby staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters and ensuring that these concerns are investigated and escalated as appropriate.
This is run by an external third party.
Whistleblowing is referred to as Speak Up internally and is available to all employees in the Group.
The Committee receives aggregated reports on matters raised through these services and monitors their use throughout the Group.
