Audit Committee report The members of the Audit Committee the Committee are shown on page 26, together with their biographical information.
As well as being Chairman, I am the Committee member with recent and relevant financial experience required under governance rules.
All Committee members wereconsidered to be independent throughout 2014.
There were 4 meetings held and the attendance records of Committee members are shown on page29.
It is the Committees policy that both executive directors and the external auditor KPMG are invited to attend all of its meetings, except when the discussion concerns KPMG or when it is a meeting without management present, and other finance staff are invited to attend where appropriate.
The internal audit service providers PwC report formally twice a year to the Committee and therefore attended 2 meetings last year.
A copy of the Committees terms of reference is available on the Companys website and the following is a summary of its responsibilities: Monitor the integrity of Group financial statements, financial reporting and related statements, as well as the clarity and completeness of disclosures including narrative reports and governance statements accompanying financial and related statements.
Ensure the appropriateness of accounting policies, any changes to them and any significant estimates and judgements made.
Review the effectiveness of internal control, compliance and risk management systems including whistleblowing arrangements.
Oversee all aspects of the relationship with the internal and external auditors, such as their terms of appointment, the scope, manner and programme of work, resourcing, performance and effectiveness, independence and objectivity and making recommendations for their dismissal or changes.
The following is a description of the work of the Committee to show how it has discharged its responsibilities in 2014: February Reviewed in combination with KPMGs audit report the 2013 Annual Report and associated press release accompanying the preliminary results statement, management representation letter to the auditors, internal control and going concern statements, litigation and compliance reports including whistleblowing and the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the auditors: considered the year end tax report: approved the description of the work of Committee in the Annual Report and recommended to the Board the approval of the Annual Report as well as the reappointment of KPMG: met KPMG without management present: and considered a proposal from management on non-audit services without KPMG being present.
June Reviewed the half year report from PwC including reporting arrangements and a benchmarking study on the internal audit function: discussed and confirmed that PwC had access to the Chairmen of the Committee and Board, and meets the former without management present at least twice a year: considered the Committees activities, the resources available to it and also training needs of and undertaken by Committee members: considered the FRCs consultation on going concern and risk management statements: and received and discussed KPMGs audit strategy and plan for 2014.
July Reviewed in combination with KPMGs H1 review report the 2014 interim results announcement incorporating a management report and condensed financial statements and notes, management representation letter to the auditors and the half year litigation, compliance and tax reports, as well as the half year going concern statement: reviewed KPMGs amended letter of engagement and proposed fees and delegated their approval to the Finance Director: discussed an update on the Companys anti-bribery and corruption programme: confirmed that KPMG did not require a meeting without management present: and considered and approved a policy for the recruitment of audit staff.
December Reviewed update report from KPMG on their audit plan: discussed EU rules on audit rotation and restrictions on non-audit services, as well as UK audit tender rules: considered and approved amendments to the Committees terms of reference: periodic review of the Groups treasury policies and delegated authority limits: carried out an annual review of the internal audit programme: received PwCs H2 report: approved the re-appointment of PwC as internal auditors and agreed fees and a programme of work for 2015: and held a meeting without management being present.
32 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Significant accounting issues Audit rotation tender, reappointment, objectivity and independence The primary areas of accounting judgement considered by the Committee Financial Reporting Council guidelines a year ago suggested that the in relation to the 2014 financial statements are listed below: Committee would not need to undertake an audit tender process before 2018 being within 5 years of the last partner rotation.
However, that Provisions position has been revised by the Competition and Markets Authority The Committee reviewed the latest estimates for future spending Order which, under transitional rules, requires the Committee to complete relating to the Groups environmental provisions recorded in the a tender before 17 June 2016.
The EU also introduced new laws last year Consolidated balance sheet.
These included some adjustments when on mandatory audit rotation which suggests that our auditor must be compared to estimates used at the previous year end, based on a rotated by 17 June 2016, although national governments may be able report from a third party adviser.
The Committee also reviewed the to modify the rotation requirement to one of a compulsory tender.
The discount rate used in calculating the provision balances and concluded Committee discussed these issues in December and decided that it that the rate should be reduced from the previous years rate due would be carrying out a tender process before June 2016. to a decline in US borrowing rates.
Following the review of KPMGs effectiveness, the Committee is A ssumptions used to value pension scheme liabilities recommending to the Board that KPMG be re-appointed as the The Committee reviewed the assumptions used to value the Companys auditors at the AGM.
liabilities of the UK, US and Dutch defined benefit pension schemes, as well as the US post retirement medical plan, which the Groups The Committee considers the auditors objectivity and independence actuarial advisers for each plan considered to be appropriate given at least twice a year.
It receives reports from KPMG on its internal quality the characteristics of each plan.
They noted that, as a result of control and independence rules, and keeps under review the level of a change in pension provider in the Netherlands, the Dutch plan non-audit services KPMG provides.
would be accounted for under IAS 19 as a defined contribution plan going forward.
The Committee is of the view that the auditors are objective and independent notwithstanding the level of non-audit services provided.
Exceptional items The Companys policy on non-audit services is more fully set out below.
The Committee reviewed a number of items recorded in the Consolidated income statement which it considered should be Non-audit services separately disclosed because of their size, nature and incidence, In 2014, non-audit services of $0.6 million from KPMG were approved by thereby providing the reader with a better understanding of the the Committee 2013: $0.6 million.
These services consisted mainly of tax financial information presented.
It concluded that these items should advisory services in relation to the US, UK, Netherlands, Germany, China, be shown separately in the Consolidated income statement under Taiwan and Brazil.
KPMGs knowledge of the business meant it could a column headed Exceptional items.
Further details of these items provide these services cost effectively and the safeguards explained are included in Note5 to the Consolidated financial statements.
previously mean the Committee does not consider the provision of these services to affect the auditors independence and objectivity.
Taxation The Committee reviewed the underlying assumptions to the Groups The Companys policy on non-audit services contains guidance on the 2014 tax rate and, in particular, noted the exceptional tax credit relating types of non-audit work that the external auditors may be considered for.
to legacy UK advance corporation tax and the related deferred tax This guidance is in addition to other specified factors that must be taken assets.
The Committee noted that the basis for recognising these into consideration, such as the expertise and resources of the firm, whether credits arose from an increase in the level of UK profitability and a the services could risk jeopardising audit independence and the fee relative consequent improvement in the likelihood that these legacy credits to the audit fee.
Examples of services that the external auditors may and would be utilised in the foreseeable future.
may not be allowed to perform under the policy can be found on the Companys website: www.
Audit effectiveness As Chairman of the Committee I meet with the audit partner frequently, Under our policy, the Finance Director may approve individual engagements including for both audit planning and review meetings.
The Committee where the fee is up to 15 per cent of the Groups audit fee for the previous meets the audit partner and the senior manager at all four of its formal year, provided that the total non-audit fees in the year do not exceed meetings but it is the Finance Director and finance teams who have most 50 per cent of that Group audit fee.
Decisions above these thresholds exposure to the audit team.
must be referred to the Committee for determination.
To help the Committee carry out a formal review of KPMGs performance, a questionnaire based evaluation is undertaken towards the end of each year end audit cycle by members of our finance team globally.
The questionnaire used is the template produced by KPMGs Audit Committee Institute which considers comprehensively different aspects of the audit process.
Another way in which audit effectiveness can be monitored by the Committee is Audit Quality Inspection reports published by the FRC.
The Committee considers the auditors performance to be satisfactory and that the audit is effective as measured against their letter of engagement and the scope of services agreed.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 33 Audit Committee report continued Internal control and risk management system Internal audit programme The Committees formal remit includes reviewing the effectiveness of the An internal audit programme is proposed by PwC in consultation with internal control, compliance and risk management systems.
During 2014, the Finance Director and approved by the Audit Committee each year, this formal review was undertaken by the Board who retain ultimate setting out a programme of audits over the course of the next 12 months.
responsibility for risk management see Risk management report for The programme covers the monitoring of the effectiveness of internal further details.
The focus of the Committees work when it reviews internal controls and the design of processes to test the effectiveness of controls.
audit reports is mainly on financial, operational and compliance risks.
PwC, who provides an outsourced internal audit function, plays a significant role Controls assurance in the Groups internal control process.
The controls assurance framework at Elementis is threefold: The Committees priorities are to monitor and keep under review our Board leadership supported by an open and transparent culture internal control and risk management system which is designed for the of no surprises, good governance and compliance.
This means purposes of preventing material financial loss and fraud, safeguarding the knowing and understanding the businesses, quality interactions value of assets including reputation and ensuring compliance with laws, between the Board, management and business leadership teams regulations and Group policies.
including a regular programme of presentations and reports to the Board, as well as operational site visits.
The Groups internal control and risk management system is only designed Internal and external audit programme, regular litigation and to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business compliance reviews with the General Counsel and a programme objectives and therefore the Board can only provide reasonable, and not of compliance audits, regulatory inspections, environmental absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Board is of reviews and property surveys by external specialists.
the view that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing Code of Business Conduct and Ethics in which all employees are significant risks faced by the Group was in place throughout the financial given training on and are required to self-certify compliance with, year under review and up to the date that this Annual Report was approved.
supplemented by an online compliance training programme, No significant internal control failings or weaknesses were reported last year an anti-bribery and corruption policy, which contractors are so none is disclosed here.
also required to sign up to, whistleblowing arrangements and an anti-retaliation policy.
Set out below is a summary of the key features of the Groups internal control system.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Board and Committee understand the governance requirements Control environment for the Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and The Group has policies and procedures that set out the responsibilities understandable, and that fair should mean reasonable and impartial, of business and site management, including authority levels, reporting balanced should mean even handed in terms of being positive and disciplines and responsibility for risk management and internal control.
negative and understandable should mean simple, clear and free In addition, annual compliance statements on internal control are from jargon or unnecessary clutter.
certified by each operating division.
The Board and Committee consider the Annual Report for 2014, taken Risk identification and review as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable, with appropriate A formal risk review process exists for the identification, evaluation signposting and emphasis being made, throughout the various sections, and monitoring of risks.
See separate Risk management report.
to assist shareholders understand the information and disclosures contained within them.
Financial reporting The Group operates a comprehensive financial reporting system including forecasts, consolidation and monthly reporting.
Board reports include full management accounts, comprising monthly and year to date profit and loss statements, cash flow statements and balance sheet, with Anne Hyland segmental and individual business performance analyses, as well as Chairman, Audit Committee relevant performance indicators.
Actual monthly results are monitored 24 February 2015 against budget, forecasts and the previous years results.
Any significant variances are investigated and acted upon as appropriate.
As well as monthly management accounts, each operating division prepares an annual and a 3 year operating plan which is approved by the Board.
Thereafter a formal re-forecasting exercise is undertaken 3 times a year.
Investment appraisal There are clearly defined investment guidelines for capital expenditure.
All investment expenditure is subject to formal authorisation procedures, with major proposals being considered by the Board.
34 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014
