Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Nomination Committee report The Chairman and members of the Nomination Committee the Met in September to: discuss the preferred candidates in both Committee are shown on page 26, together with their biographical recruitment processes: consider the balance of skills, experience, information.
6 meetings were held during 2014 and the attendance independence, knowledge and diversity of the Board against the records of Committee members are shown on page 29.
It is the different combination of final candidates, as well as the refreshment Committees policy that the Chief Executive is invited to attend all of its of membership of Board committees: recommend to the Board the meetings, except when the discussion concerns the Chief Executive appointments of Steve Good and Nick Salmon to the non-executive or when it is a meeting of non-executives only, and other executives director and SID roles: and review and approve draft letters are invited to attend where appropriate.
of appointment and indemnity letters, as well as an induction programme.
The annual Board evaluation process which is usually A copy of the Committees terms of reference is available on the carried out by the Committee on behalf of the Board was undertaken Companys website and the following is a summary of its responsibilities: by the Board last year and a description of this is given in the Corporate governance report on the opposite page.
Reviewing the size and composition of the Board, together with Met in December to: consider and approve revisions to the the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of its members Committees terms of reference: and review the Chairmans and making recommendations for change as necessary.
performance last item was chaired by the SID with the Chairman Carrying out an annual performance evaluation of the Board, absent from the discussions and both executive directors its committees and individual members.
Keeping succession planning for the Board and senior executive team under review.
Shareholders may find the biographical information provided on page 26 useful to help them understand how a directors background or The following is a description of the work of the Committee to show experience influences the contribution he or she makes to the operation how it has discharged its responsibilities in 2014: and effectiveness of the Board.
This will also assist shareholders in assessing the skills and experience of the Board, as a whole, when Met in February to discuss how the induction programme for determining how to vote on certain resolutions at the AGM.
The Andrew Duff, Chairman-Designate, was progressing.
information should also be read in conjunction with the Notice of Met in April to: appoint Andrew Duff as the Chairman of the Committee Meeting accompanying this Annual Report proposing the election following his appointment as Chairman of the Board: confirm that re-election of all directors at the 2015 AGM.
Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann Korn Ferry would be retained to assist the Committee in the recruitment of a replacement for Kevin Matthews: In connection with the retention of Korn Ferry during 2014, the Board approve a candidate role specification: discuss the new Chairmans confirms it has no other relationship with the Company other than as governance roadshow planned for June: and recommend to the Board recruitment adviser.
the re-appointment of Ian Brindle as the Senior Independent Director for another year.
Met in June to: discuss progress on recruitment, review a shortlist of candidates the long list having been reviewed and discussed by email and extend the process to include the Senior Independent Andrew Duff Director SID role: approve a SID role specification: and consider Chairman general management succession planning matters.
24 February 2015 Met in July to: discuss progress on both recruitment processes the SID long list having been reviewed and discussed by email, and recommend to the Board the re-appointment of Andrew Christie for another 3 year term subject to annual re-election by shareholders and effectiveness reviews.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 31
