Audit Committee Report Composition The Committee was chaired during the year by myself as the Board considers that, by virtue of my former executive and current non-executive director positions full details of which are set out on page 31, I have current and relevant financial experience.
The other non-executive directors, being Susan Murray until her retirement from the Board on 6 February 2014, Peter Baguley and Adam Fowle from his appointment on 6 February 2014, form the rest of the Committee and the Board considers that the entire Committee is independent.
Roles and responsibilities The Committee has been assigned with advising the Board in respect of its responsibility for ensuring the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Dear Shareholders, shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, I am pleased to report on the activities of the Audit business model and strategy.
Committee during the 2014 financial year, and to be The Committee is also responsible for: able to confirm, on behalf of the Board, that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced ensuring that the interests of shareholders are protected and understandable.
in relation to financial reporting and internal control by monitoring the integrity of the annual and interim financial In this report I have detailed what the Committee statements, monitoring any formal announcements has done during the year in relation to the three key relating to the Companys financial performance and responsibilities set out in the UK Corporate Governance reviewing and challenging as necessary the judgements Code, being to: and actions of management in relation to the financial address any significant financial statement reporting statements: issues: ensuring a sufficiently robust and effective external audit.
assess the effectiveness of the external audit: and Specifically, the Committee considers the appointment appoint the external auditor and oversee the and reappointment of the external auditor, its reports safeguards on non-audit services.
to the Committee and its independence.
To monitor its In order for us to develop greater awareness of the day to independence, the Committee annually reviews the day challenges that the business faces and the potential scope and effectiveness of the external audit as well as consequences of such challenges, the members of the remuneration, terms of engagement and objectivity the Committee have continued to spend time with the of the external auditor, including its appropriateness to operations and property teams in the field and have undertake non-audit work: and also participated in key discussions on areas of financial reviewing the internal audit programme, ensuring judgement: such as the valuation meetings between the management follow-up on issues raised, and concluding external auditor and professional valuers.
These actions on the effectiveness of the Groups controls.
This is have enabled us to better understand the risks and achieved by reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of challenges faced by the business.
We have used these the Groups internal control and risk management systems, experiences to ensure that all significant risks are being including the internal audit function, reviewing the Groups controlled by the business and that the internal audit systems and controls for preventing and detecting fraud programme is appropriately formulated to confirm that and bribery and reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness those controls are effective.
of the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise Set out below are details on the processes we have in concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting place to safeguard the independence and objectivity of or other matters.
our relationship with the external auditor and the role played by internal audit to ensure we have effective control and risk management processes.
David Maloney Chairman, Audit Committee Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 37 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Audit Committee Report The Committee reports to the Board on how we have considered and agreed the annual internal audit plan and discharged our responsibilities.
The full terms of reference the findings of the review into the effectiveness of the are available on the Companys website, or on request from internal audit function: the Company Secretary.
considered the review of material business risks, including reviewing internal control processes used to identify and What the Committee did in 2014 monitor principal risks and uncertainties: We met three times during the year, during which time we: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing reviewed the interim and year end results and preliminary policy: announcements: reviewed the Committees composition and confirmed received and considered, as part of the review of the that there is sufficient expertise and resource for us to interim and annual financial statements, reports from the fulfil our responsibilities effectively: external auditor in respect of the auditors review of the interim results, the audit plan for the year and the results reviewed the Committees terms of reference: and of the annual audit.
These reports included the scope of carried out an annual review of the Committees the interim review and annual audit, the approach to be performance.
adopted by the auditor to address and conclude upon key estimates and other key audit areas, the basis on which Significant issues considered in relation the auditor assesses materiality, the terms of engagement to the financial statements for the auditor and an on-going assessment of the impact During the year the Committee, management and the of future accounting developments on the Group: external auditor considered and concluded on what the considered the interim and year end results and preliminary significant risks and issues were in relation to the financial announcements in the context of fair, balanced and statements and how these would be addressed.
understandable, by reviewing papers prepared by Valuation of the estate management with regard to this principle in relation to the The Group has a policy of accounting for its licensed estate at 2014 interim results and the Annual Report and Accounts.
fair value based on an annual revaluation exercise performed This provided us with sufficient confidence to report to the by two independent valuation firms and an internal team of Board that the Annual Report and Accounts when taken as a RICS qualified chartered surveyors.
The value of property, whole was fair, balanced and understandable.
This included plant and equipment is the largest number on the Balance reviewing the documents to ensure that the description of Sheet and the resultant movements following the annual the business agrees with our own understanding, the risks revaluation are also significant.
The valuation of the pub reflect the issues that concern us, appropriate weight has estate, including assets held for sale, against the backdrop of been given to the good and bad news, the discussion of continued difficult economic conditions is a key consideration, performance properly reflects the story of the relevant especially with the adoption of IFRS 13 during the year.
The period and that there is a clear and well-articulated link Committee therefore focuses attention on understanding between all areas of disclosure: and challenging the valuation and the appropriate accounting considered the effectiveness and independence of approach and disclosures.
the external audit and recommended to the Board the I again attended the meeting held between the external reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP EY as external auditor and each of the external independent professional auditor: valuers and the internal professional valuers.
In discussions received reports from management concerning various at the meeting and subsequently with the external auditor historical taxation and pension issues: we were assisted in our review by detailed analysis prepared reviewed the technical accounting paper from by both management and EY to understand the underlying management, outlining the key requirements of IFRS 13 basis of, and conclusions reached in respect of, the annual Fair Value Measurement IFRS 13 and its impact on the valuation of the Groups pub assets further details of which annual valuation exercise and the disclosures in the 2014 are set out in note 17 to the accounts on pages 91 to 97.
Annual Report and Accounts: 38 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 The Committee also reviewed and approved the summary reviewed the arrangements and treatment of the associated accounting paper on the adoption of IFRS 13 and its costs to ensure that they were accounted for properly and in implications on the annual valuation and the additional the correct period.
In addition, the requisite disclosures for disclosures in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
the Annual Report and Accounts were reviewed to ensure they were sensible and in line with requirements.
Going concern The Group has to comply with a number of financial covenants Assessment of effectiveness of that relate to the financing structure of the Group as set out external audit in note 24 on pages 100 to 108 of the accounts.
Reaching The Committee reviewed the external auditors performance a conclusion on the reliability of the budgets prepared by and ongoing independence, taking into account input from management is considered important to the Committee to management, consideration of responses to questions ensure that covenants will not be breached and the Group from the Committee and the audit findings reported to the will remain a going concern.
As part of the process, the Committee reviewed the auditors performance against criteria consistent with The Committee therefore reviewed, challenged and that adopted in the prior year.
concluded upon the Groups going concern review including giving due consideration to the appropriateness of key Based on all of this information the Committee concluded judgements, assumptions and estimates underlying the that the external audit process was operating effectively and budgets that underpin the review and a review of compliance EY continued to prove effective in its role as external auditor.
This also facilitated the Committees approval of the Groups impairment review in Approach to appointing the external respect of its tangible and intangible fixed assets.
Included in auditor and how objectivity and the key assumptions underlying the impairment review was independence are safeguarded the discount rate utilised in such calculations in relation to relative to non-audit services last year and those used by other companies in the industry The Company has adopted a policy on the independence see note 15 on page 89 of the accounts.
The Committee of auditors which is consistent with the ethical standards concluded it would not be appropriate to change the rate at published by the Audit Practices Board.
A key issue for the current time.
the Committee that may impair auditor independence, Deferred tax and the auditors objective opinion on the Groups financial The provisioning for deferred tax remains a complex area statements, is the engagement of the external auditor for the requiring the Group to reflect the interaction between multiple provision of non-audit services.
elements of tax legislation and the specific requirements of The Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement of IFRS.
The application of these requirements to a pub estate external auditors for the provision of non-audit services and comprising in excess of 5,000 individual assets, introduces reviews this annually.
The policy is designed to ensure that further risks which are addressed through the use of detailed such engagements do not result in the creation of a mutuality tax models against information held on an asset by asset of interest between the auditor and the Group, that a basis.
transparent process and reporting structure is established to The Committee ensures that adequate resource is dedicated enable the Committee to monitor policy compliance and that to the ongoing maintenance of these tax models, that the unnecessary restrictions on the engagement of the auditor output of these models is subject to robust and rigorous for non-audit services are avoided where the provision of internal review and that, where necessary, management advice is commercially sensible and is more cost effective have validated the manner in which tax legislation and or than other providers.
IFRS should be applied with external advisers, including the The policy specifies: external auditor where appropriate.
services that are specifically not permitted this includes Financing work relating to accounting records that will ultimately be The Group completed a refinancing exercise in respect of bank subject to external audit, valuation services, remuneration and bond borrowings on 7 October 2014.
Given the timing advice for key management and the provision of strategic of the exercise in relation to the year end, the Committee advisory or consultancy services: Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 39 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Audit Committee Report services that are permitted with prior approval of the CFO Independence assessment by the Committee this includes accounting advice and reviews of accounting The Committee is satisfied that the independence of the standards and advice, due diligence matters as required external auditor is not impaired due to the fact that the audit by debt prospectuses, assurance work in respect of tax engagement partner rotation policy has been complied with: matters including tax compliance, routine tax planning and the level and nature of the fees paid for non-audit services tax advisory services: and was of a level that does not present any on-going threat to their independence and separate external firms are appointed services that are permitted with prior approval of the for taxation advisory services.
Committee this includes any new engagement for an individual service or specific project other than defined In addition to the above, I, on behalf of the Committee, met within the above two categories.
with the external auditor and with the Head of Internal Audit without the presence of management during the year and I The CFO reports to the Committee annually outlining all have had regular contact with the audit engagement partner proposals considered during the year and the decisions during the year.
Robert Walker also had two private meetings taken, any proposals which the Committee is or has been with the audit engagement partner during the year.
requested to approve and the current level of expenditure for non-audit fees.
Reappointment of the external auditor The reappointment of EY as the Groups external auditor The total fees paid to the external auditor during the year incumbent since the Company started trading in 1991 was under review amounted to 357,000.
Of this amount, reviewed during the year.
The audit was put out to tender 156,000 related to non-audit services, of which 82,000 during 2012, with EY chosen to continue with the audit related to work that would normally be expected to only be services and KPMG appointed for taxation services, and the performed by the external auditor.
The majority of the nonGroup will be required to tender the audit for the year ended audit fees related to work associated with our financing 30 September 2021 in accordance with recent EU regulations.
activities that only they could reasonably perform as it required confirmations to third parties, such as Trustees, as The Committee has assessed the performance and to the correct extraction of data from our accounting records.
independence of the external auditor which underpins its This included data required for the issue of the convertible recommendation to the Board to propose to shareholders bond and confirmations to the Trustees and other parties in the reappointment of EY as auditor until the conclusion of the relation to the security packages on the corporate bonds and AGM in 2016.
Full details are set out in the Notice convening the repayment of the 60 million debenture.
Full details are the AGM on pages 129 to 131. set out in note 24 to the accounts on pages 100 to 108.
There are no contractual restrictions over choice of auditor.
Independence safeguards Role of internal audit In accordance with best practice and professional standards, Internal audit has a Group-wide remit and is independent of its the external auditor is required to adhere to a rotation policy business operations.
It undertakes an on-going programme to whereby the audit engagement partner is rotated after five provide assurance on the adequacy of internal control and risk years.
The current audit engagement partner was appointed management processes across the Groups operations.
The external auditor is also required to periodically responsible for reviewing and reporting on the effectiveness assess whether, in their professional opinion, they are of internal controls and risk management systems to the independent and those views are shared with the Committee.
Committee and, ultimately, the Board.
The Head of Internal The Committee has authority to take independent advice as Audit attends Committee meetings to present the findings it determines necessary in order to resolve issues on auditor of such reviews at regular intervals throughout the year and independence.
No such advice was required during the year.
40 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 reports on internal audits performance against the agreed documented policies and procedures: annual internal audit plan, such plan being agreed during the regular review by the Board of financial budgets, forecasts year by the Committee.
and covenants with performance reported to the Board monthly: and Effective internal control and risk management a detailed investment process for major projects, including The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal capital investment coupled with a post-investment controls for the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness.
carries out such a review at least annually, covering all material In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal controls including financial, operational and compliance control the Committee has: controls and risk management systems.
received six-monthly self-assurance statements The system of internal controls is designed to manage completed by key senior managers confirming that rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business controls and risk management processes in their business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute units have operated satisfactorily.
These returns are assurance against material misstatement or loss.
reviewed in detail and challenged where appropriate by the Head of Internal Audit, the Company Secretary and Operating policies and controls are in place, and have been the Group Financial Controller, who together compile and in place throughout the year under review, and cover a update a risk register to monitor all of the risks facing the wide range of issues including financial reporting, capital business.
The key risks are then summarised for review expenditure, information technology, business continuity and approval by the Committee for use in the Annual and management of employees.
Detailed policies ensure Report and Accounts: the accuracy and reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements including the regularly reviewed the financial and accounting controls: consolidation process.
The key elements of the Groups reviewed the internal audit reports: ongoing processes for the provision of effective internal control and risk management systems, in place throughout monitored managements responsiveness to the findings the year and at the date of this Report, include: and recommendations of the Head of Internal Audit: regular Board meetings to consider matters reserved for met once with the Head of Internal Audit, without directors consideration: management being present to discuss their remit and any issues arising from internal audits carried out: and regular management reporting, providing a balanced assessment of key risks and controls: during the year, commissioned an external review of the effectiveness of internal audit, performed by Deloitte, who an annual Board review of corporate strategy, including a concluded that internal audit was appropriately independent review of material business risks and uncertainties facing and effective.
Improvement recommendations were the business: reviewed and implemented where considered appropriate.
established organisational structure with clearly defined In respect of Group financial reporting, the finance lines of responsibility and levels of authority: department is responsible for preparing the Group financial an internal audit function which implements the annual statements using a well-established consolidation process internal audit plan and provides independent assurance and ensuring that accounting policies are in accordance to executive management, the Committee and the with IFRS.
All financial information published by the Group is Board on the effectiveness of internal controls and risk subject to approval by the Committee.
management: Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 41 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Audit Committee Report There have been no changes in the Companys internal control Whistleblowing over financial reporting during the year under review that has The Group has in place a whistleblowing policy which materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, encourages employees to report any malpractice or illegal the Companys control over financial reporting.
acts or omissions or matters of similar concern whether in the UK or elsewhere by other employees or former The Board, with advice from the Committee, is satisfied that employees, contractors, publicans, suppliers or advisers an effective system of internal controls and risk management using internal mechanisms for reporting.
The policy acts as a processes are in place which enable the Company to identify, mechanism to report any ethical wrongdoing or malpractice evaluate and manage key risks and which accord with the or suspicion which may amount to ethical wrongdoing or guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control malpractice.
Examples of ethical wrongdoing or malpractice updated by the FRC in 2005.
These processes have been in include bribery, corruption, fraud, dishonesty and illegal place since the start of the financial year and up to the date of practices which may endanger employees or other parties.
Further details of risk management There have been no material instances of whistleblowing frameworks and specific material risks and uncertainties during the year under review.
facing the business can be found on pages 21 to 25.
Accountability Anti-bribery and corruption code The Board is required to present a fair, balanced and of conduct understandable assessment of the Companys financial The risks of bribery, corruption, fraud or theft exist in every position and prospects.
The responsibilities of the directors company.
The Group is committed to conducting its business and external auditor are set out on pages 67 and 122 with the highest degree of integrity.
As set out in the Directors Report, the directors includes a zero tolerance approach towards all forms of consider the Companys business is a going concern.
bribery, corruption, fraud and theft and procedures within the Company have been designed to minimise these risks.
D O Maloney The Group has in place an anti-bribery and corruption code Chairman, Audit Committee of conduct which has been formally approved by the Board 17 November 2014 and extends to all of the Groups business dealings and transactions involving its directors, officers, employees or third parties including, but not limited to, agents, advisers, contractors, publicans or suppliers engaged in business with the Group.
Engaging in fraud, bribery or corruption is unlawful and any employee, director or officer found to have breached the code of conduct will be liable to disciplinary action which may result in dismissal or other serious sanctions.
Breaches of the code of conduct by third parties may result in immediate termination of all contracts with the Group.
A copy of the code of conduct is available on the Companys website.
There have been no recorded instances of bribery or corruption during the period under review.
42 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8
