Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Relation to the Group and Company Financial Statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys and the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the Directors Report including the Governance Report, Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable regulations, including the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are disclosed on page 31, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and result of the Group: and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Board considers the report and accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
On behalf of the Board W S T ownsend Chief Executive Officer 17 November 2014 N R Smith Chief Financial Officer 17 November 2014 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 67 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report
