Governance Report Compliance with the UK Corporate Dear Shareholders, Governance Code 2012 Having announced Simon Townsends appointment The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 Code sets out as Chief Executive Officer in November last year, the guidance in the form of main principles and specific provisions Boards main focus has been to ensure that the transition on how companies should be directed and controlled to follow was properly implemented.
I am pleased to report that good governance practice.
The rules of the Financial Conduct the handover was handled seamlessly, with Ted Tuppens Authority FCA require listed companies incorporated in the support, and the new team was fully effective from UK to disclose, in relation to the Code, how they have applied February this year.
The addition to the Board of Adam those principles and whether they have complied with the Fowle has also brought considerable experience in the provisions throughout the financial year.
As you can read from the section below covering the Boards internal evaluation, we consider the Board is The Company reviews its compliance with the Code regularly performing very effectively.
and considers that it has fully complied with the provisions of the Code that are applicable to it for the whole of the year The Boards initiative of nominating individual nonended 30 September 2014. executive directors including the Chairman to mentor key executives below Board level that started two years The Audit Committee Report on pages 37 to 42, the ago, has been continued and is proving highly successful.
Nomination Committee Report on page 43 and the A further initiative this year was for the Board to go on Directors Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 66 are also the road for half of the Boards regular meetings.
Pub incorporated into this Report by reference.
For further details locations were chosen within each of the three operating on the Companys compliance with the Code and the terms sectors North, Midlands and South so that in addition of reference for each of its Committees, see the Companys to the Board meetings themselves, Board members had website www.
the opportunity to meet with local publicans and review Leadership commercial programmes and investment schemes.
This Role of the Board initiative was also judged successful and we plan to The Board has a collective responsibility to promote the longextend it in the current year by holding Board meetings term success of the Company for its shareholders.
Its role at the locations of our key suppliers.
includes reviewing and approving key policies and decisions Robert Walker of the Company, particularly in relation to Group strategy Chairman and operating plans, governance and compliance with laws and regulations, business development including major investments and disposals and, through its Committees, financial reporting and risk management.
The Board has established a schedule of matters reserved for Board decision.
This schedule details key aspects of the affairs of the Company which the Board does not delegate, including key strategic, operational and financial issues.
A copy of the schedule of matters reserved can be found on the Companys website.
The Board delegates to management the day-to-day operation of the business, subject to appropriate risk parameters.
Board meetings are scheduled to coincide with key events in the Companys financial calendar, including interim and final results and the AGM.
Other meetings during the year will review the Companys strategy and budgets for the next financial year and the Companys key risks as well as reviewing each of the main operating functions financial, commercial, operational and property.
32 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Board Committees written responsibilities of the Company Secretary have been Subject to those matters reserved for its decision, the Board agreed by the Board, are set out in writing and are available has delegated to its Audit, Nomination and Remuneration on the Companys website.
The terms of reference for Independence of directors each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees The Board has a strong independent element and at the are published on the Companys website.
Separate reports date of this report currently comprises, in addition to the for each of these Committees are included in this Annual Chairman, two executive directors and three non-executive Report and Accounts from page 37. directors.
The Chairman and all of the non-executive directors throughout the year are considered to be independent in Role of the Chairman character and judgement: they satisfied the criteria in the Robert Walker is the Chairman and is responsible for the Code on appointment and continue to satisfy the criteria.
The leadership and effectiveness of the Board, taking into non-executives have a wide range of skills and experience: account the interests of stakeholders and promoting they constructively challenge management: help develop the the highest standards of governance.
A summary of the Companys strategy and have satisfied themselves as to the Chairmans responsibilities has been agreed by the Board, integrity of the Groups financial information, controls and is set out in writing and is available on the Companys risk management strategy.
Further information about how website.
In accordance with the Code, the Chairman met they have achieved this can be found in the Audit Committee with the non-executive directors six times during the year, Report on pages 37 to 42 and the Directors Remuneration without the executive directors being present, to discuss Report on pages 44 to 66. in detail matters which they believed to be relevant for the purposes of the strategic business review, including key All directors may take independent professional advice at operational and financial issues, performance of the CEO and the Companys expense.
There is a formal written procedure, overall feedback arising from the internal board performance available on the Companys website, concerning independent evaluation process.
professional advice and setting out clear guidelines which have been agreed by the Board.
Role of the Senior Independent Director SID David Maloney is the SID.
He is available to shareholders, At the date of this report David Maloney has been on the provides a sounding board to the Chairman and serves as an Board for over six years and his reappointment is subject intermediary for the other directors if necessary.
The SIDs to a rigorous review.
Peter Baguley has been on the board role includes responsibility for the Chairmans appraisal and for two years and his reappointment is also subject to succession.
A summary of the responsibilities of the SID has rigorous review.
Adam Fowle was appointed to the Board on been agreed by the Board, is set out in writing and is available 6 February 2014 and is, therefore, subject to reappointment on the Companys website.
In compliance with the Code, at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board believes that David the SID met with the other non-executive directors during Maloney, Peter Baguley and Adam Fowle continue to display the year in a forum that did not include the Chairman or the all of the qualities of independence as set out in the Code.
Effectiveness Role of the Chief Executive Officer Meetings and attendance Simon Townsend is the CEO, having been appointed on The Board held six scheduled meetings in the year under 6 February 2014.
The CEO is responsible for the preparation, review.
In addition, a strategic business review was held evaluation and implementation of the Companys strategic off site at which high level strategic issues, such as goals and in leading the senior management team.
The role future business direction and its financial and operational is distinct and separate to that of the Chairman and clear implications, were reviewed and debated.
The Board has divisions of accountability and responsibility have been an agreed approach for dealing with conflicts of interest agreed by the Board, are set out in writing and are available in relation to matters which are scheduled for Board on the Companys website.
consideration, although no such conflicts arose during the Role of the Company Secretary year under review.
If directors are unable to attend meetings Loretta Togher is the Company Secretary.
The role of the in person then they are consulted prior to the meeting and Company Secretary is to develop, implement and sustain their views made known to the other directors and or they good governance practices.
This includes supporting may attend the meeting or part thereof by telephone or other the Chairman and non-executive directors as necessary, conference facility.
managing Board and Committee meetings, facilitating the induction of new directors, ensuring appropriate directors and officers insurance is in place and that the Group is compliant with statutory and regulatory governance requirements.
The Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 33 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Governance Report A monthly board pack is prepared at the end of each financial period which includes an update on key performance targets, trading performance against budget and includes detailed financial data and analysis including a review of applicable financial covenants.
Board papers are generally circulated seven days prior to meetings to ensure directors have sufficient time to review papers ahead of the meeting.
Attendance at scheduled meetings is set out below: Attendance at Board and Committee Scheduled meetings during year ended Board Nomination Remuneration 30 September 2014 meetings Audit i, vi i Number of meetings held 6 3 5 5 Robert Walker 6 3 ii 5 5 iii Simon Townsend 6 3 ii 5 4 iii Neil Smith 6 3 ii 5 1 iii David Maloney 6 3 5 5 Peter Baguley 6 3 3 5 Adam Fowle iv 5 2 3 4 Ted Tuppen v 2 1 ii 2 1 iii Susan Murray v 1 1 2 1 i Additional meetings of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees were held outside those scheduled meetings referred to above to deal with matters arising as required, and were attended by all members of the Committees.
ii Robert Walker, Simon Townsend, Neil Smith and Ted Tuppen until 6 February 2014 attended meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation.
iii Robert Walker, Ted Tuppen until 6 February 2014, Simon Townsend from 6 February 2014 and Neil Smith when requested attended meetings of the Remuneration Committee by invitation.
After 6 February 2014 Robert Walker was a member of the Committee.
iv Adam Fowle was appointed as a director on 6 February 2014 and therefore did not attend any meetings held before that date.
v Ted Tuppen and Susan Murray both retired as directors on 6 February 2014 and therefore did not attend any meetings after that date.
vi The executive directors have attended meetings of the Nomination Committee by invitation.
Training and development Business mentoring by non-executives The Companys directors have a wide range of expertise As mentioned briefly in the introduction, the Board started as well as significant experience in strategic, financial and a new initiative some two years ago by allocating operating operational matters.
All new directors receive a personalised sectors and central functions to non-executive directors, induction programme designed to develop their knowledge including the Chairman.
Effectively, putting the Board to and understanding of the Group, its culture and operations.
Each year a non-executive director will be allocated On his appointment, Adam Fowle undertook such an an operating sector and or central functions such as property induction, which included meetings with senior management and commercial or HR.
The non-executive director is then across the Group and third party advisers such as the encouraged, on his own initiative, to organise a series of Companys stockbrokers and legal advisers as well as visiting regular contacts, meetings and visits throughout the year pubs and meeting publicans with regional management.
We then rotate these Simon Townsend also underwent an intensive process of assignments every year.
development prior to his appointment to CEO during the year.
This initiative has proved highly successful: in effect New directors all participate in the mentoring programme integrating the Board more closely with the business and its described above.
All directors have access to management and to the advice Board evaluation of the Company Secretary, who regularly updates the Board Evaluation of the boards of FTSE 350 companies should be on material governance and compliance issues.
externally facilitated at least every three years.
The Company The training and development needs of directors are reviewed became a constituent of the FTSE 350 in December 2012 and and assessed by the Chairman as part of the annual Board expects to commission and conduct an external evaluation performance evaluation process.
In line with the Code the Board conducted an internal Board evaluation during the year under review.
This process was led by the Chairman and each director completed an in-depth questionnaire which covered: 34 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 performance of the Board including consideration of how Election of directors the Board works together as a unit : The directors comply with the requirements of the Code and submit themselves for re-election every year, if they wish processes which underpin the Boards effectiveness to continue serving and are considered by the Board to be including consideration of the balance of skills, eligible.
Accordingly, the whole Board will be proposed for experience, independence and knowledge of the persons re-election or, in the case of Adam Fowle, reappointment at on the Board : this years AGM.
strategy: Service agreements performance of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration The service agreements of the executive directors and Committees: and copies of the letters of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection during business hours individual performance giving consideration to whether on any weekday excluding public holidays at the registered each director continues to contribute effectively and show office of the Company and will be available for inspection for commitment.
fifteen minutes prior to, and during, the AGM.
The completed questionnaires were returned to the External appointments Company Secretary, who then consolidated them unedited The executive directors may accept outside appointments and distributed the consolidated replies to each other provided that such appointments do not in any way prejudice Board member.
In effect each Board member had sight of their ability to perform their duties as executive directors of anonymously every reply.
The Chairman then held individual the Company.
None of the executive directors currently hold discussions with each director.
The results of the review any such outside appointments.
including progress against the previous years recommended actions were summarised by the Chairman and considered The role of non-executive director requires a time commitment in detail by the Board.
This years review found that the prior in the order of 15 days per annum plus additional time as years actions had been fully implemented: that performance necessary to properly discharge their duties.
There is no of the Board and its Committees continued to be effective in restriction on outside appointments provided that they do not dealing with both day-to-day and on-going strategic issues: prevent the directors from discharging their responsibilities and that the Board and Committee structure ensured that the effectively.
governance requirements of the business were met, and the internal processes were efficient and effective.
Accountability The Board should present a fair, balanced and understandable The CEO is responsible for regularly reviewing other assessment of the Companys position and prospects, executive directors performance against objectives and maintain sound risk management and internal control the CEOs performance is assessed by the Chairman in systems and manage an appropriate relationship with the consultation with the non-executive directors.
the Remuneration Committee regularly reviews executive director performance in connection with their performance Further information about how these principles have objectives.
The Chairmans performance is appraised by been applied is detailed in the Audit Committee Report on the SID in consultation with the non-executive directors, pages 37 to 42. taking into account the views of the executive directors, Remuneration and the non-executive directors performance is reviewed by Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, retain the Chairman.
As a result of these individual reviews, it is and motivate directors of the quality required to run the considered that the performance of each director continues Company successfully, whilst avoiding paying more than is to be effective and that each director demonstrates sufficient necessary for this purpose, and there should be a formal and commitment to their role.
Consequently, the Chairman transparent procedure for developing policy on executive can confirm that each director is suitable for re-election or remuneration.
reappointment at the forthcoming AGM.
Further information about how these principles have been The Nomination Committee is responsible for proactively applied is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on reviewing and refreshing the Boards composition and pages 44 to 66. further information about the roles and responsibilities of this Committee can be found on page 43.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 35 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Governance Report The Company ensures that any price-sensitive information is Relations with shareholders released to all shareholders at the same time in accordance We are committed to, and place a great deal of importance with regulatory requirements.
All major presentations are on, having an active dialogue with our investor base.
The available to shareholders through the Companys website.
Company maintains constructive engagement with its key stakeholders including institutional shareholders.
During the Shareholders may choose to receive the Annual Report year, our CEO and Chief Financial Officer CFO met with either in paper form or electronically.
This report, along with a number of our leading shareholders to discuss issues a wide range of shareholder information including the interim relating to the performance of the Group, strategy and new report, is also available on the Companys website.
In addition, the Chairman engaged with the information for shareholders can be found on page128.
majority of our top ten shareholders on a range of governance matters.
The SID and the other non-executive directors are AGM available to shareholders to discuss any matter they wish to Shareholders receive at least 20 working days notice of the raise.
As part of significant changes planned for remuneration AGM.
The AGM offers the opportunity for the Board, including arrangements, during the year major shareholders were the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration informed in advance and had the opportunity to discuss Committees, to communicate the Companys progress these with the Company.
The Board aims to ensure that all members of the Board, including in particular the Chairmen As regards governance issues, the Chairman aims to meet of the Board committees, are available to answer questions with most of our major shareholders shortly after each at the AGM.
To encourage shareholders to participate in the AGM.
These meetings with shareholders are timed early in AGM process, the Company offers electronic proxy voting the process and quite deliberately, so that the Board has through the CREST service and all resolutions are proposed enough time to consider, and respond to, any shareholder and voted on at the meeting on an individual basis by concerns well in advance of the next years Annual Report.
Voting results are announced The Chairman normally contacts as many major shareholders on the same day as the meeting through RNS and made as possible, and not simply the very largest, to ensure the available on the Companys website.
widest consultation possible particularly given current market volatility and also to ensure that the views of a Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to be shareholder who has substantially increased its stake during held on 5 February 2015 can be found in the Notice convening the year, have been fully taken into account.
Following the announcement of results, an investor relations By order of the Board report is produced for the Board which summarises feedback R M Walker from shareholders and ensures the Board has a balanced Chairman view from our major investors.
In addition, the Board receives 17 November 2014 a monthly updated analysis of the shareholder register and material movements in holdings.
36 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8
