DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of Directors meeting The Companys governance structure, at a senior level in the management attendance based on the leadership principles of the of activities broadly similar to those carried Board Chairman: Jeff Harris Code, were reviewed during the year and, out by Essentra and the material issues in seeking to continuously improve this likely to arise for the Group.
structure, reviewed and updated its Membership and attendance Compliance Framework within which The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Jeff Harris 6 6 the Group shall now operate.
Executive are separately held and are so Colin Day 6 6 defined as to ensure a clear separation The Board is collectively responsible for the of responsibilities.
Details are available on Terry Twigger 6 6 long-term success of the Company, and its the Company website www.
Matthew Gregory 6 6 role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership The Chairman leads the Board and ensures Peter Hill 5 6 within a framework of prudent and its effectiveness, and the Chief Executive is effective controls, which enables risk to responsible for the executive management Lorraine Trainer 6 6 be assessed and managed in the pursuit and performance of Essentras operations.
Paul Drechsler 6 6 of the Companys strategic objectives.
Together with the primary responsibilities Figures in brackets denote the maximum of the Senior Independent Non-Executive number of meetings that could have The Essentra Board is accountable to Director, the other Non-Executive Directors been attended.
all the Companys stakeholders for the and the clear definition of reserved matters standards of governance which are and delegated authorities, there is a system Peter Hill was unable to attend one maintained across Essentras diverse which exists of checks and balances in of the Board meetings due to a long range of global businesses.
which no individual has unfettered decisionstanding commitment existing prior making power.
Board composition and independence As at the date of this report the Board Board roles The Essentra Board is accountable to has seven members, comprising a The Senior Independent Non-Executive all the Companys stakeholders for the Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Director, currently Terry Twigger, can be standards of governance which are Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
contacted via the Companys registered maintained across Essentras diverse The names of the Directors serving at the office.
In that role he is available to range of global businesses.
end of 2014 and their biographical details shareholders to discuss and develop an are set out on pages 46 to 47.
All Directors understanding of their issues and any During the year, Essentra was and served throughout the year.
Paul Drechsler concerns which cannot be resolved by continues to be subject to the UK stepped down as Senior Independent SI discussions with the Chairman, the Chief Corporate Governance Code the Code Non-Executive Director and Chairman Executive or Group Finance Director, published by the Financial Reporting of the Remuneration Committee at the or where such contact is inappropriate.
Council, a copy of which can be found on end of the 2014 Annual General Meeting their website www.
The edition AGM, and will retire from the Board Chairman of the Code published in September 2012 at the end of the 2015 AGM.
Leads the Board applied throughout the year ended 31 Ensures effective communication December 2014.
The Board believes that it and its with shareholders Committees have the appropriate Essentra confirms that the Company composition to discharge their respective Ensures effective communication complied with the Code throughout duties effectively with the appropriate level flows between Directors the year.
of challenge and level of independence, Facilitates the effective and that the members of the Board in communication of all Directors The Company applies the Codes principles conjunction with the senior executive teams of openness, integrity and accountability are well equipped to drive, and are capable through its own behaviour, corporate of delivering, the Companys Drive for governance best practice and by adopting, 2020 strategic objectives.
The Board is of as appropriate and proportionate for a the view that it has a highly competent company of the size and nature of Chairman who, together with each of Essentra, recommendations of relevant the other Non-Executive Directors, has professional bodies.
considerable international experience 51 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Chief Executive Jeff Harris is currently appointed to the The conduct of Board matters Implements strategy board of Synergy Health plc as a NonIn managing the affairs of the Company, Executive Director and as the Senior the Board has adopted a schedule of Develops manageable goals Independent Director.
The Board reserved matters which are to be reviewed and priorities considers that despite this appointment, annually including: Leads and motivates the the Chairman of the Board continues to Strategy and resources management teams be able to allocate sufficient time to Annual plan the Company and to discharge his Develops proposals to present to responsibilities effectively.
Treasury policies the Board on all areas reserved for its judgement Major capital and operating The letters of appointment for Nonexpenditure proposals While the Board maintains that for Executive Directors are available for the year ended 31 December 2014 review at the Companys registered Major acquisitions and disposals the Non-Executive Directors were office and prior to the AGM.
Debt facilities each considered to be independent of management, under the Code The Companys Articles of Association Key Group policies Paul Drechsler is no longer considered require that all new Directors seek election Appointments to the Board to be independent.
to the Board at the AGM following their appointment.
In addition, the Board has Systems of internal control In assessing independence, the Board agreed that, in compliance with the Code, Dividend payments considers that the Chairman and all eligible Directors will put themselves Non-Executive Directors are independent forward for re-election on an annual Categories of public announcements of management and free from business basis.
Following the Board performance The detailed implementation of all and other relationships which could evaluation undertaken during the financial these, and general operational matters, interfere with the exercise of independent year, the Board is satisfied that each are the responsibility of executive senior judgement now and in the future.
The Board of the Directors being put forward for management and regular formal believes that any shareholdings of the re-election at the AGM continues to management reports are provided Chairman and Non-Executive Directors be effective and that their ongoing to the Board.
serve to align their interests with those commitment to the role is undiminished.
During 2014, the Board was closely engaged in the detailed monitoring of The Board considers that the Non-Executive performance and the actions necessary to Directors provide an independent view in maintain the balanced, profitable growth Board discussions and in the development of the Company in accordance with its of the Companys strategy.
It also remained Directors also ensure a sound basis for good focused on the longer-term strategic corporate governance for the Company, objectives which it has defined, and the challenging managements performance appropriate management of particular and, in conjunction with the Executive risks impacting the Group within the risk Directors, ensuring that rigorous financial attitude parameters which were defined controls and systems of risk management by the Board during the year.
The Board are maintained as appropriate to the needs spent considerable time reviewing and of the businesses within Essentra.
discussing the new Drive for 2020 strategic objectives and is confident of attaining The Board is content that the Non-Executive these new deliverables, details of which Directors devote sufficient time to the can be found on the Companys website business of Essentra.
52 DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM Boards and Committees Chairman of the Audit Committee reports The Chief Executive will continue to During the year there were six scheduled on the matters which have been reviewed.
be supported by the GMC which will Board meetings.
In addition to the consist of senior executive management, scheduled formal meetings, the Board Other specific responsibilities are and the regional and SBU heads.
The GMC met on a number of other occasions as delegated to the Nomination and will continue to have delegated authority required and, in particular, reviewed in Remuneration Committees.
These limits in accordance with clearly defined detail the further development and Committees report as appropriate to the internal controls established by the Board.
delivery of the Groups strategy, and Board.
Each of the Committees has terms undertook a specific review of risk in of reference approved by the Board, copies Engagement with management consultation with an external consultant.
of which are available on the Companys The Board receives detailed reports at website or on request from the Company each scheduled Board meeting on the The Chairman and Chief Executive Secretary & General Counsel.
operational and financial performance maintain regular contact with the of the businesses from the Chief Executive Directors, and the Chairman also holds as Operational matters and the responsibility and the Group Finance Director, together appropriate, from time to time, informal for the day-to-day management of the with regular updates on any material discussions with Non-Executive Directors businesses are delegated to the Chief issues which may impact the Group.
individually or collectively without any of Executive, supported by members of senior the Executive Directors being present, to executive management and the respective The Board received detailed presentations review performance, discuss succession Regional Managing Directors or Presidents from senior management across a range issues, to monitor corporate control as appropriate, within delegated authority of businesses within the Company during mechanisms and to discuss any other limits and in accordance with clearly the course of the year, in addition to material matters relevant to the Board.
defined systems of internal control.
reviewing strategic plans and budgets across the Company.
The Board also The Chairman, in conjunction with the During 2014 Essentra transitioned to a more considers reports from senior functional Company Secretary & General Counsel, matrix organisational structure, with the management about matters of material sets the programme for the Board during establishment of three geographical regions importance to the Company which arise the year.
The Board considers reports from to supplement the existing divisional from time to time.
the Chief Executive and the Group Finance structure.
The role of the regions is to drive Director covering operational, financial in-market execution, with the newly created There is a programme of meetings, both performance and other significant SBUs taking responsibility for those activities formal and informal, with members of business issues.
Board meetings are of a longer-term more strategic nature.
the senior executive management and the structured to allow open discussion, and Board has the opportunity to engage with all Directors participate in determining The Board was supported during the year local management during site visits.
The the Groups strategy and regularly by the GMC, which ensures a strong link Board derives a better understanding of reviewing the trading and financial between Essentras overall corporate the Companys operations and business performance of the Company.
strategy and its implementation within model as a result of such contact.
an effective internal control environment.
Committees are a valuable part of the Companys corporate governance The GMC provides general executive structure, and the Board looks to the Audit management of the Company within Committee in particular to undertake the agreed delegated authority limits majority of the work involved in monitoring determined by the Board.
and seeking assurance as to compliance with the controls within this framework.
However, the Board as a whole maintains oversight of such important matters and after each Committee meeting, the 53 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Applying Essentras Corporate Information and professional All Board members were then requested Responsibility principles development to complete the questionnaire, which The Chief Executive is the Director The Chairman, supported by the addressed the performance of the Board with primary responsibility for the Company Secretary & General Counsel, and its Committees, the Chairman and implementation and integration of takes responsibility for ensuring that the individual Directors.
The anonymity of all Essentras Corporate Responsibility Directors receive accurate, timely and respondents was ensured throughout the principles across the Company.
process in order to promote an open 2014 the Group Operations Director, exchange of views.
supported by the Company Secretary & On appointment an induction programme General Counsel, was responsible for tailored to their individual needs is available Lintstock subsequently produced a report co-ordinating the operation of detailed to Directors, and is designed to assist them which addressed the following core areas policies on health and safety, ethics in their understanding of Essentra and of Board performance: and the environment which support its operations.
Throughout a Directors Reviewing and continuing the Essentras commitment to its Corporate tenure they are encouraged to develop evolution of the composition of the Responsibility principles.
Further details of their knowledge of the Group through Board and its Committees, to match these policies can be viewed via the meetings with senior management and the growth of the Company and the Corporate Responsibility page on the site visits.
Directors are also provided development of its strategic objectives Companys website at www.
with updates, as appropriate, on matters Ensuring the consistent delivery of a such as fiduciary duties, Companies Act clear tone from the top to drive the Conflict of interest requirements, share dealing restrictions development of Company culture Directors have a statutory duty to avoid and corporate governance matters.
actual or potential conflicts of interest.
Developing constructive and effective The Companys Articles of Association All Directors have access to the advice relationships in the Boardroom and permit the Board to consider and, if it sees and services of the Company Secretary with the senior management team, fit, to authorise situations where a Director & General Counsel, who is responsible to with appropriate levels of challenge has an interest that conflicts, or may the Chairman for ensuring that Board Continuing the testing and possibly conflict, with the interests of the procedures are complied with and that development of the Companys Company.
In addition, the Company has applicable rules and regulations are strategy a Conflict of Interest policy governing the followed.
During the year under review responsibilities of Directors in such the Company Secretary & General Managing risk effectively situations.
The decision to authorise a Counsels advice was sought in relation to Planning for senior management conflict of interest can only be made by share dealings.
In the furtherance of their succession, with appropriate talent non-conflicted Directors those who have duties, there are agreed procedures for the development and performance no interest in the matter being considered Directors to take independent professional evaluation programmes and in making such a decision the advice, if necessary, at the Companys Directors must act honestly and in good expense.
No Director took independent Focusing the Board agenda on key faith when giving authorisation where professional advice during the year.
reviews and discussion, supported by they think this is appropriate, and will be the provision of high quality most likely to promote the Companys Board Evaluation 2014 information and the availability of success.
The Company Secretary & General Following the Board review in 2013, high quality resource and advice Counsel maintains a register of Directors Essentra retained the services of Lintstock In addition to these core topics, Lintstock interests so that any potential concerns to undertake a follow-up evaluation of the also addressed a number of particular are addressed before any material performance of the Board in 2014. case study areas relating to Essentras concerns may arise.
During the course of strategy, including the development the year, there were no material conflicts The first stage of the review involved of the commercial footprint of the of interest impacting on the conduct of Lintstock engaging with the Chairman Company, the effectiveness with which the Boards activities.
and the Company Secretary to set the the Company reinvests in innovation context for the evaluation, and to tailor and technical capability and the challenges the questionnaires used to the specific associated with the transition to a matrix circumstances of Essentra.
picked up on themes identified in the 2013 exercise, especially concerning the key strategic issues facing the Company.
54 DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM The Lintstock review concluded that the analysts and institutional shareholders Services Authority.
This provides a general high level of Board performance continued were held during the year and meetings description of the financial position and to improve, but identified a number of were also held with key institutional performance of the Company and the particular actions for the Boards investors to discuss strategy, financial Group during the relevant period.
consideration in response to the challenges performance and investment activities.
arising from the growth objectives set out Slide presentations are made immediately In November 2014, the Financial Conduct in the Drive for 2020 strategy.
In particular, available after the fulland half-year Authority announced that it was removing the Board is to further review its existing results, and are also available on the the requirement for companies to publish processes and practices, and the nature Companys website to view and download.
As and extent of its interaction with the a result, the Company will not continue senior management team in seeking to All shareholders have the opportunity to with the previous process of publishing maximise the value of its contribution to meet any of the Directors of the Company such statements.
the delivery of the Companys strategic should they so wish.
Increasing the focus on its meetings with shareholders is provided to Directors and Officers insurance oversight of succession planning and the the Board so they are aware of any issues or In accordance with the Companys Articles development of talent is a key activity for concerns.
Additionally, the Board uses the of Association, and to the extent permitted the Board in 2015 and beyond.
AGM as an occasion to communicate with by the laws of England and Wales, the all shareholders, including private investors, Directors are granted an indemnity from It is envisaged that Lintstock will conduct who are provided with the opportunity to the Company in respect of those liabilities an interview-driven evaluation next year, question the Directors.
At the AGM the level incurred as a result of their office.
In respect including input from the senior of proxy votes lodged on each resolution of those matters for which the Directors management team, in order to follow up will be made available, both at the meeting may not be indemnified, the Company on the issues raised in this years process in and subsequently on the Companys maintained a Directors and Officers greater depth.
The review content for each website.
Each substantially separate issue is Liability Insurance Policy throughout the subsequent evaluation is designed to build presented as a separate resolution and the year.
It is anticipated this policy will be upon learning gained in the previous year, Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and renewed.
Neither the Companys indemnity to ensure that the recommendations Remuneration Committees are available nor the insurance provides cover to the agreed in the review are implemented and to answer questions from shareholders.
extent that the Director is proven to have that year-on-year progress is measured.
The Notice of the AGM and related papers Shareholder communications will be posted to shareholders more than Internal controls The Board recognises the importance 20 working days before the AGM.
In accordance with the Code, the Board of effective communication, and seeks acknowledges its overall responsibility to to maintain open and transparent Financial reporting shareholders to ensure that an adequate relationships with its shareholders and The Directors have acknowledged, in the system of risk management and internal other stakeholders, including providers Statement of Directors Responsibilities control is in place.
This is essential for of finance, customers and suppliers.
set out on page 91, their responsibility for reliable financial reporting and also for This is achieved by regular updates through preparing the financial statements of the the effective management of the Group.
press announcements, the corporate Company and the Group.
The Directors website and other published material.
are responsible for preparing the Annual Monitoring the effectiveness of the Report and Accounts, and they consider system has been delegated to the Audit The Company also communicates that the Annual Report and Accounts Committee, which assesses the quality of regularly with its major institutional taken as a whole are fair, balanced and the control environment when monitoring shareholders and ensures that all the understandable.
The external auditor and reviewing the integrity of the Groups Directors, including the Non-Executive has included, in the Independent Auditors financial statements and any significant Directors, have an understanding of the Report set out on pages 142 to 146, judgements that were made in their views and concerns of major shareholders, a statement about their reporting preparation.
Essentras internal controls and are able to explain business responsibilities.
are designed to safeguard the Companys developments and financial results as assets, and to ensure the integrity and appropriate.
The Chief Executive, Group The Directors are also responsible for reliability of information used both Finance Director and Corporate Affairs the publication of Half Year Results, within the businesses and for public Director have primary responsibility for as required by the Disclosure and announcements.
The Board has overall investor relations.
Presentations for Transparency Rules of the Financial responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and risk management 55 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT and for reviewing the effectiveness of this Policies and procedures, which are In continuing to enhance and improve system.
Such a system can only be designed subject to ongoing review and updated the risk management activities within to mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk as required in response to strategic, the Company, from January 2014 the of failure to achieve business objectives operational, business, legal or regulatory Board endorsed the formation of a new and can therefore only provide reasonable, developments, with the approval of the Operational Risk Management Committee and not absolute, assurance against Board or its respective Committees which reports to the Audit Committee material misstatement or loss.
as appropriate, are communicated across through the Group Head of Assurance, the Group.
Essentras internal controls and an Executive Risk Committee which The following procedures are in place are designed to ensure significant risks, reports to the Board through the which enable the Board to review the investment decisions and management Chief Executive.
effectiveness of the system of internal issues are identified, considered and control: escalated as necessary at the earliest The respective risk committees meet The Audit Committee meets opportunity.
Regional Managing Directors on a regular basis during the year and regularly and reviews the effectiveness and Presidents are responsible for ensuring report to the Board or Audit Committee, of the internal control environment the communication of and compliance as appropriate, on the Companys of the Group with Essentras internal controls across identification and mitigation of risk within their respective regions.
the parameters established by the Board.
The Audit Committee is supported by the Group Assurance function which Control of significant risks The Board is of the view that a rigorous undertakes extensive internal audit The Boards responsibility for risk and risk ongoing process for identifying, evaluating responsibilities across the Group management in Essentra encompasses: and managing significant risks faced by Risk management reports are Determining the Companys approach the Company was in place throughout presented which detail an analysis to risk 2014 and up to the date of approval of the of the key risks at a Group level, 2014 Annual Report.
This process has been Setting and instilling the right culture summarise developments potentially reviewed by the Audit Committee and will throughout the Company impacting the Group from a risk, be reviewed routinely, to ensure that the governance or compliance perspective Identifying the risks inherent in system of internal control and risk and propose actions for the Company the Companys business model management remains fit for purpose.
in response to such developments and strategy, including risks from external factors The risk attitude established by the The Board has the opportunity Board provides clarity on those areas to review the internal control Monitoring the Companys exposure where the Board wishes to take little or environment at local sites when to risk and the key risks that could no risk, and those where the Board would Board meetings are held away from undermine its strategy, reputation be comfortable adopting a greater level the Companys head office or long-term viability of risk taking.
It is intended that this Every month each division submits Providing an effective oversight assessment will be used to support the detailed operating and financial of the risk management processes Boards ongoing decision making and reports covering all aspects of in the Company underpin the risk management processes performance.
These are reviewed across the Company.
Ensuring the Company has effective within the Groups central finance crisis management systems function, and summary reports Risk attitude will change over time to reflect are communicated to the GMC A Group risk framework is in place which changes in the economic environment, and the Board supports the Board in fulfilling these strategy and performance of the Company, responsibilities and serves to reinforce the and it is the intention of the Board to Certificates are required from the risk review processes embedded within review this at least on an annual basis in businesses to confirm compliance with the businesses.
conjunction with its strategic and financial the Groups policies and procedures planning processes.
Self-certification is required from all The Audit Committee enhances the businesses and divisions at both the quality of the Boards oversight of the risk half year and year end to confirm management process within Essentra but compliance with Group financial does not determine the Companys attitude policies and procedures and tolerance for risk.
56 DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM The Company has an established process The Company Secretary & General The successful applicants needed to for the development of risk practices.
Counsel acts as Secretary to the exhibit independence of mind, integrity Further to the setting of the risk attitude by Nomination Committee.
and courage to challenge constructively the Board there is a more formal method of when appropriate.
An external resource, defining acceptable levels of risk within the At the end of the year the Nomination JCA Group, was engaged to assess the organisation.
The risk process has evolved Committee comprised Jeff Harris, who applicants and make a proposal to the and is validated through the preparation chairs the Committee, Peter Hill, Lorraine Nomination Committee during 2015. of risk registers which are used to assess risk Trainer and Terry Twigger, the skills and tolerance, and the registers are reviewed experience of whom can be found on pages There is no related party connection with and discussed by senior management 46 to 47.
The Chief Executive, Paul Drechsler JCA Group, other than the work carried prior to being put forward to the Audit and Group Human Resources Director out on an arms length basis.
attended by invitation as appropriate.
The Nomination Committee, and the With the continued development of The Nomination Committee meets as Board as a whole, supports the spirit the Group Assurance function, further required, and during 2014 it met four of the recommendations set out in the controls have been introduced to improve times.
Lord Davies Report Women on Boards.
effectiveness, reduce costs and support Securing the right combination of skills, business performance.
The Nomination Committee is responsible experience and expertise allows the Board for selecting and recommending to effectively lead the sustainable growth The risk management technology candidates for appointment as and success of the Company for the benefit platform introduced in the prior year Executive and Non-Executive Directors of all stakeholders.
The fundamental has enhanced the reporting tools currently of the Company.
In furtherance of these objective must be to ensure that the best being used and allows the Company to duties and when considering succession people are appointed to do the best job for improve risk management, develop risk planning, the Nomination Committee Essentra, taking into consideration other strategies into risk mitigation and looks at the balance, structure and factors such as market and international eliminate any lack of coverage.
The composition of the Board and takes experience and diversity of thought and platform allows real time reporting of into account the future challenges and background.
Appointing people on merit risks from the operational businesses opportunities facing the Company.
without any form of discrimination is a key to the executive management.
component of Essentra policies across all Nomination Committee 2014 its international operations at all levels.
Nomination Committee key activities Committee Chairman: Jeff Harris Reviewed the succession planning for the Board and senior executives, and in doing so considered diversity, Membership as at 31 December 2014 experience, knowledge and skills and attendance Reviewed the composition and Jeff Harris 4 4 structure of the Companys Board and Non-Executive Chairman the Committees Terry Twigger 4 4 SI Non-Executive Director Reviewed the Group Conflict of Interests policy and register and was Peter Hill 4 4 satisfied that there were no material Non-Executive Director issues of conflict Lorraine Trainer 4 4 Non-Executive Director Considerations included the appointment Figures in brackets denote the maximum of a new Non-Executive Director whose number of meetings that could have skills and experience would favourably been attended.
