DIRECTORS REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Audit Committee The Audit Committee supports the Board During the year the Audit Committee Committee Chairman: Terry Twigger and reports to it on a regular basis, reviewed the Companys policies and certainly no less frequently than at every procedures associated with the valuation Board meeting following a meeting of the of receivables, particularly in relation to Membership as at 31 December 2014 Audit Committee.
the process for the acceptance of credit and attendance risk and its management, and challenged Terry Twigger 4 4 There is an annual cycle of items that are the Group Finance Director on the SI Non-Executive Director to be considered by the Audit Committee.
appropriateness of provisions held by the Peter Hill The timetable of these items is scheduled Company against such risk.
4 4 Non-Executive Director in accordance with the requirements of the annual audit cycle and any other As a result of the processes and reporting in Lorraine Trainer 4 4 Non-Executive Director requirements of the Audit Committee.
The place, the Audit Committee is satisfied that responsibilities of the Audit Committee are management is giving its full attention to Figures in brackets denote the maximum defined in its terms of reference, which are all material outstanding receivables.
number of meetings that could have reviewed annually, copies of which are been attended.
Tax contingencies The Group is subject to a number of tax The Company Secretary & General Counsel Significant financial judgements assessments which might represent acts as Secretary to the Audit Committee.
for 2014 potential future tax exposures, which arise in the ordinary course of business from tax Other attendees Valuation of accounts receivable authorities in a number of the jurisdictions The external auditor, Chairman of The Group continues to have a large in which the Group operates.
The Group the Board, Group Finance Director, number of customers which, in aggregate, assesses all such exposures in the context Paul Drechsler, Group Head of Assurance have significant outstanding balances.
of the tax laws of the countries in which it and members of the GMC attended Some of these customers operate in operates and, where applicable, makes meetings by invitation, as appropriate.
countries facing more difficult economic provisions for any settlements which it During the year, the Audit Committee circumstances which may expose the Group considers appropriate.
met the external auditor, KPMG LLP, to additional risks.
Consequently the and the Group Head of Assurance without Audit Committee is required to review at The Audit Committee reviewed the central the Executive Directors being present.
least twice-yearly the valuation of such tax provisions created during the year and receivables and ensure the appropriateness the effective tax rate, together with their Governance of provisions held against the carrying corresponding assumptions.
The Audit All the Audit Committee members are value of accounts receivable, having Committee questioned and challenged independent Non-Executive Directors, regards to the age of creditworthiness the Group Finance Director as to the and have financial and or related business of the customer.
Companys risk attitude in this area.
experience gained in senior positions in other large diverse organisations.
There is a clear process and policy in place Having considered the explanations and for the valuation of accounts receivable rationale provided by the Company, and Terry Twigger has been the Chairman of which is communicated to all Group finance taking this into consideration along with the Audit Committee since 2009, and the teams.
Along with the Group Assurance the conclusion of the external auditor, Board is satisfied that Terry has recent function, the Group Finance Director and the Audit Committee concluded that and relevant financial experience, further Chief Executive review quarterly all the contingencies were appropriate given details of which can be found on page 46. receivable balances and provisions with the the nature of the activity undertaken heads of the three regions.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Exceptional costs Taking into consideration the accounting Audit Committee 2014 key activities The presentation of certain items as policy of the Company, the explanations exceptional requires judgement, and given by the Group Finance Director and Financial statements and reports therefore each item under consideration the views and conclusion of the external Examined the 31 December 2013 must be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
auditor, the Audit Committee remains Annual Report and Accounts and the There are no specific rules on the definition comfortable with classification of these 30 June 2014 Half Year Report.
This and presentation of exceptional items.
involved reviewing, challenging and The Essentra Group has issued to its finance recommending for approval the going teams a policy detailing the treatment of Valuation of warranty provision concern basis of preparation, the such items which should be based on size, The Group produces a wide range of accounting policies and disclosures, incidence and the intention to enable a products and operates manufacturing the financial reporting issues and the proper understanding of the Companys facilities in a number of countries.
This assumptions and judgements made financial information and performance.
could lead to quality issues arising, and Reviewed in detail the key judgements so the Group needs to make a provision of the Financial Statements and levels The Audit Committee considered, on a for returns under warranty.
of disclosure regular basis, the value and treatment of the exceptional items, and the This area was considered as a key source Reviewed the effectiveness of assumptions underlying this value.
of audit focus, and the external auditor the Groups internal controls and addressed the potential issue with the disclosures made in the Annual The Company provided detailed analysis Audit Committee during the planning Report and financial statements as to the reasons why these costs should of the external audit process and scope.
Reviewed the judgements and be classified as exceptional and that The external auditor provided a detailed assumptions used for segmental they related to acquisitions, integrations, report to the Audit Committee outlining reporting following the adoption restructuring costs and other significant the assumptions made and other bases of the new organisational structure non-routine items, further details of of calculation for the valuation of the which can be found in note 3 on page 115. warranty provision.
The Audit Committee Implemented a recruitment policy The Audit Committee challenged the evaluated the report of the external auditor, with regard to persons previously appropriateness of this classification to having regard also to the information and employed by external auditors ensure the costs were truly exceptional explanations provided by the Group Finance and could not be considered to be recurring.
Director in the valuation of the provisions.
The Audit Committee also challenged the Group Finance Director as to whether The Audit Committee concluded that it the amounts involved were sufficiently was satisfied with the assumptions made material to be considered exceptional.
60 D DIIR RE EC CT TO OR RS S R RE EP PO OR RT T || REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM External auditor and non-audit work The Audit Committee takes responsibility Risk management and internal audit Reviewed and agreed the scope of for reviewing the Groups internal controls Reviewed and considered reports the audit work to be undertaken by through its engagement with the Group from the Group Head of Assurance, the external auditor Assurance function.
The Group Head including any issues relating to of Assurance is responsible for providing internal controls and the status of Agreed the terms of engagement and assurances as to the adequacy of internal actions taken in response to any fees to be paid to the external auditor controls function throughout the identified concerns for their audit of the 31 December 2014 Company, and attends each Audit financial statements Oversaw the development of risk Committee meeting.
Prior to the start of management practices through Considered and planned with the each year the Audit Committee agrees the Group Assurance function external auditor transitional the annual internal audit plan, which arrangements for the new audit is drawn up on a risk-based approach Assessed the areas of focus for partner to be introduced during 2015 across a broad section of the Companys internal audit and the adequacy activities.
Any significant findings from of coverage, having regard to the Received a report from the external internal control audits undertaken potential risks impacting the Group auditor on its independence and during the year have been appropriately objectivity including quality control Reviewed the output from the Group investigated, and necessary action taken procedures processes used to identify, evaluate to address and rectify any weaknesses and mitigate risk, and considered the Reviewed the qualifications, expertise, that may have been identified.
key risks arising from the Companys resources and independence of the activities and the response of senior external auditor, and assessed their With the strong growth and acquisition management to those challenges performance activity undertaken by the Company, and the expansion into new markets Assessed the Companys response Reviewed proposals for the and geographies, the Audit Committee to cyber security and information engagement of the external has sought assurance that the internal technology risks auditor for non-audit services, and controls, together with risk management confirmed that their independence Reviewed the adequacy of the and compliance activities, have continued was safeguarded Companys resources in relation to to develop in accordance with all relevant financial reporting, tax and treasury requirements, and that appropriate The internal procedures implemented management requirements resource is being made available to by the Company to ensure the Board respond to those demands.
Oversaw compliance activities while maintains overall control for all material monitoring the regulatory environment, strategic, financial, operational and During the year the Audit Committee and assessing mitigating any impact compliance matters affecting the continued to review the Companys to the business Company are included within the cyber security and received a presentation internal control section of this Report.
Reviewed the Companys whistleblowing from the newly appointed Chief processes and reports made during the Information Officer.
The Board establishes the standards year under its Right to Speak policy and values that govern the Group and agrees the structure of the Groups internal controls.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Engagement of the external auditor KPMG has been in place as the Companys Non-audit services policy Although the external auditor has been external auditor since inception of the The importance of maintaining the in place since the Companys public listing business in 2005.
Under EU transitional objectivity and independence of the in 2005, the external auditor periodically arrangements, the current intention is to external auditor, by minimising its changes the audit partners at a Group, initiate an audit re-tender no later than involvement in projects of a non-audit divisional and country level in accordance 2017.
The Audit Committee will keep this nature, is of fundamental concern to with professional and regulatory standards, tendering timeframe under review, and will the Audit Committee.
It is, however, also in order to protect independence and use its regular reviews of external auditor acknowledged that, due to its detailed objectivity and provide fresh challenge to effectiveness to assess whether an earlier understanding of the Companys business, the business.
Such changes are carefully date for tender would be appropriate.
it may sometimes be necessary to involve planned to ensure that the Group benefits the external auditor in non-audit related from staff continuity without incurring There are no contractual obligations work, principally comprising further undue risk of inefficiency.
restricting the Audit Committees choice assurance services relating to due diligence of external auditor.
and other duties carried out in respect of The external auditor provides the Audit acquisitions, disposals and tax services.
Committee with relevant reports, To fulfil its responsibility regarding the The Audit Committee has adopted a reviews, information and advice independence of the external auditor, policy in relation to the engagement of throughout the year as set out in the Audit Committee reviewed: the external auditor to supply non-audit the terms of their engagement.
Their Changes in senior audit personnel services, with defined parameters and performance was formally assessed by in the audit plan for the current year approval requirements in relation to any the Audit Committee in conjunction with such appointments.
A report from the external auditor the executive management team, and describing their arrangements to the Audit Committee is satisfied that The majority of the non-audit work carried identify, report and manage any they continue to be effective and provide out by the external auditor during the year conflicts of interest appropriate independent challenge of the relates to tax compliance services and Companys management.
In making its The extent of non-audit services acquisition-related activity in overseas assessment of the external auditor, the provided by the external auditor jurisdictions, and the Audit Committee Audit Committee had due regard to their believes that given their experience the expertise, resourcing and independence.
To assess the effectiveness of the external external auditor was the most appropriate auditor, the Audit Committee reviewed: suppliers of this work.
As such, the Audit Committee has not The external auditors fulfilment of considered it necessary this year to conduct the agreed audit plan and variations Details of the fees paid to KPMG during a tender process for the appointment of from it, and reports highlighting the the year can be found in note 3 to the its external auditor.
Having carried out the major issues that arose during the financial statements on page 115. review described above and having satisfied course of the audit itself that the external auditor remains Feedback from the businesses independent and effective, the Audit evaluating the performance of Committee has recommended to the Board each audit team that the external auditor be reappointed at the 2015 AGM.
The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the financial statements.
The Audit Committee has been kept The audit includes the review and test up-to-date with the development of new of the system of internal financial control EU-wide regulations concerning audit and the data contained in the financial tenure and the longevity of audit firm statements to the extent necessary for relationships with companies they audit.
expressing an audit opinion on the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
