38 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Corporate Governance The Financial Reporting Councils 2012 UK The board meets every two months and there Nominations committee Corporate Governance Code the Code is is frequent contact between meetings.
Board The nominations committee is responsible part of the Listing Rules the Rules of the meetings take place in London, New York, for proposing candidates for appointment Financial Conduct Authority.
The paragraphs Montreal and Hong Kong, and occasionally in to the board having regard to the balance of below and in the Directors Remuneration other locations where the group has operations.
skills, structure and composition of the board Report on pages 46 to 66 set out how the The board has delegated certain aspects of the and ensuring the appointees have sufficient company has applied the principles laid groups affairs to standing committees, each time available to devote to the role.
The company continues of which operates within defined terms of committee comprises PR Ensor chairman substantially to comply with the Code, save reference.
Details of these are set out below.
of the committee, CHC Fordham and four for the exceptions disclosed in the Directors However, to ensure its overall control of the non-executive directors, being Sir Patrick Compliance Statement on page 45. groups affairs, the board has reserved certain Sergeant, The Viscount Rothermere, MWH matters to itself for decision.
Board meetings Morgan and JC Botts.
The committees terms Directors are held to set and monitor strategy, identify, of reference are available on the companys The board and its role evaluate and manage material risks, to review website at: www.
com reports Details of directors who served during the year trading performance, ensure adequate funding, Nominationcommittee.
In February 2014 DC examine major acquisition possibilities and Cohen indicated his intention to resign as an The committee meets when required and approve reports to shareholders.
Procedures executive director with effect from September this year met three times as well as informal are established to ensure that appropriate 30 2014.
Following this change the board discussions held at other times during the information is communicated to the board in comprised the chairman, managing director, year.
The main purpose of the meetings was a timely manner to enable it to fulfil its duties.
five other executive directors and seven nonto discuss potential non-executive candidates executive directors.
Four of the seven nonCommittees and the succession planning for PR Ensor who executive directors are not independent, one is Executive committee retires as the companys chairman at the end of the founder and ex-chairman of the company, The executive committee meets each month financial year 2015. two are directors of Daily Mail and General Trust to discuss strategy, results and forecasts, risks, plc DMGT, an intermediate parent company, possible acquisitions and disposals, costs, staff The groups gender diversity information is set and one has served on the board for more than numbers, recruitment and training, and other out in the Strategic Report on page 30. the recommended term of nine years under the management issues.
It also discusses corporate Remuneration committee Code.
and social responsibility including the groups The remuneration committee meets twice a year various charity initiatives.
It is not empowered and additionally as required.
It is responsible for There are clear divisions of responsibility to make decisions except those that can be determining the contract terms, remuneration within the board such that no one individual made by the members in their individual and other benefits of executive directors, has unfettered powers of decision.
The board, capacities as executives with powers approved including performance-related incentives.
This although larger than average, does not by the board of the company.
It is chaired committee also recommends and monitors the consider itself to be unwieldy and believes it by the group chairman and comprises all level of remuneration for senior management is beneficial to have representatives from key executive directors plus the following divisional and overall, including group-wide share areas of the business at board meetings.
There directors: RP Daswani Metal Bulletin : RCM option schemes.
The composition of the is a procedure for all directors in the furtherance Garnett Euromoney Conferences : L Gibson committee, details of directors remuneration of their duties to take independent professional Euromoney Seminars and Metal Bulletin and interests in share options and information advice, at the companys expense.
They also Events : RG Irving SRP and TelCap : BR Jones on directors service contracts are set out in have access to the advice and services of the CTO : JG Orchard Capital Markets Group : the Directors Remuneration Report on pages company secretary.
In accordance with best AB Shale Asia : DRJ Williams Specialist 46 to 66.
The committees terms of reference corporate governance practice under the 2012 Finance : A Parente CEIC : and A Marone are available on the companys website at: UK Corporate Governance Code all directors Chief Development Officer.
com reports will submit themselves for annual re-election.
of the committee are summarised by the group .
Newly appointed directors are submitted for chairman and reported to each board meeting, election at the first available opportunity after together with recommendations on matters their appointment.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Governance Corporate Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 At least once a year the companys chairman The Viscount Rothermere and MWH Morgan Audit committee meets the non-executive directors without are also executive directors of DMGT, an Details of the members and role of the audit the other executive directors being present.
However, the committee are set out on page 42.
The The non-executive directors meet without the company is run as a separate, distinct and committees terms of reference are available companys chairman present at least annually decentralised subsidiary of DMGT and these on the companys website at: http: www.
to appraise the chairmans performance and on directors have no involvement in the dayeuromoneyplc.
to-day management of the company.
they bring valuable experience and advice to Tax and treasury committee The board considers DP Pritchard, ART Ballingal the company, and the board does not believe The groups tax and treasury committee and TP Hillgarth to be independent nonthese non-executive directors are able to exert normally meets twice a year and is responsible executive directors.
JC Botts has been on the undue influence on decisions taken by the for recommending policy to the board.
The board for more than the recommended term board, nor does it consider their independence committee members are the chairman, of nine years under the Code and the board to be impaired by their positions with DMGT.
managing director and finance director of the believes that his length of service enhances his However, their relationship with DMGT means company, and the finance director and deputy role as a non-executive director.
However, due they do not meet the Codes definition of finance director of DMGT.
The chairman of to his length of service, JC Botts does not meet independence.
the audit committee is also invited to attend the Codes definition of independence.
tax and treasury committee meetings.
The Sir Patrick Sergeant has served on the board groups treasury policies are directed to giving in various roles since founding the company greater certainty of future costs and revenues in 1969 and has been a non-executive director and ensuring that the group has adequate since 1992.
As founder and president of the liquidity for working capital and debt capacity company, the board believes his insight and for funding acquisitions.
However, Details of the tax and treasury policies are set due to his length of service, Sir Patrick Sergeant out in the Strategic Report on pages 27 and 28. does not meet the Codes definition of independence.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors bring both The Viscount Rothermere has a significant independent views and the views of the shareholding in the company through his companys major shareholder to the board.
The beneficial holding in DMGT and because of this non-executive directors who served during the he is not considered independent.
year were The Viscount Rothermere, Sir Patrick Sergeant, JC Botts, MWH Morgan, DP Pritchard independent, ART Ballingal independent and TP Hillgarth independent.
Their biographies can be found on page 34 of the accounts.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 40 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Corporate Governance continued Board and committee meetings The following table sets out the number of board and committee meetings attended by the directors during the year to September 30 2014: Tax & Executive Remuneration Nominations Audit treasury Board committee committee committee committee committee Number of meetings held during year 6 11 2 3 3 2 Executive directors PR Ensor chairman 6 11 3 2 CHC Fordham managing director 6 11 1 NF Osborn 6 11 DC Cohen resigned September 30 2014 4 10 CR Jones finance director 6 11 2 fide Alfano 6 10 JL Wilkinson 6 11 B AL-Rehany 6 11 Non-executive directors The Viscount Rothermere 6 3 Sir Patrick Sergeant 2 1 JC Botts 6 2 3 3 MWH Morgan 6 2 3 DP Pritchard 5 2 3 2 ART Ballingal 6 TP Hillgarth 6 3 Board and committee effectiveness Each year the performance of the board and its committees is evaluated.
The Code requires an externally facilitated evaluation of the board to be concluded every three years.
This year an external performance evaluation was conducted by a company independent to the group.
A questionnaire was sent to each of the directors seeking views on a broad range of subjects: the boards mandate and effectiveness: composition and diversity: corporate strategy and priorities: training: evaluation of individual performance: and committee effectiveness and communication to the board.
This was followed up with more detailed reviews with the directors to discuss areas identified for improvement.
The outcome of the evaluation was reported to the board.
As part of the performance evaluation the board is asked to assess the chairmans performance.
The results of the assessment are provided to the non-executive directors for review in the absence of the group having a senior independent director.
In light of the review, the board considers the performance of each director to be effective and has concluded that the board and its committees provide the effective leadership and control required.
The board will continue to review its procedures, its effectiveness and development in the year ahead.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Governance Corporate Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41 During the year and up to the approval of Executive management of risk is provided by Communication with shareholders this annual report and accounts the board a risk committee comprising the chairman, The companys chairman, together with the has not identified nor been advised of any managing director and finance director, which board, encourages regular dialogue with failings or weaknesses in the groups system of reports to the board at each board meeting and shareholders.
Meetings with shareholders are internal control which it has determined to be is responsible for managing and addressing risk held, both in the UK and in the US, to discuss significant.
In addition, the group annual and interim results and highlight employs an information security manager, Key procedures which the directors have significant acquisitions or disposals, or at the a data protection manager and a risk and established with a view to providing effective request of institutional shareholders.
Private compliance officer as well as having the ability internal control, and which have been in place shareholders are encouraged to participate to draw on the resources of DMGTs risk and throughout the year and up to the date of this in the AGM.
In line with best practice all assurance function should it be considered report, are as follows: shareholders have at least 20 working days necessary.
notice of the AGM at which the executive The board of directors Investment appraisal directors, non-executive directors and the board normally meets six times a year to The managing director, finance director and committee chairs are available for questioning.
consider group strategy, risk management, business group managers consider proposals financial performance, acquisitions, for acquisitions and new business investments.
The companys chairman and finance director business development and management Proposals beyond specified limits are put to report to fellow board members matters raised issues: the board for approval and are subject to due by shareholders and analysts to ensure members the board has overall responsibility for the diligence by the groups finance team and, if of the board, develop an understanding of the group and there is a formal schedule of necessary, independent advisors.
For capital investors and potential investors views of the matters specifically reserved for decision by expenditure above specified levels, detailed company.
the board: written proposals must be submitted to the Internal control and risk each executive director has been given board and reviews are carried out to monitor management responsibility for specific aspects of the progress against business plan.
The board as a whole is responsible for the groups affairs: oversight of risk, the groups system of internal Accounting and computer systems the board reviews and assesses the groups controls and procedures control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
principal risks and uncertainties at least Accounting controls and procedures are Such a system is designed to manage rather annually: regularly reviewed and communicated than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the board seeks assurance that effective throughout the group.
Particular attention is business objectives, and can only provide control is being maintained through regular paid to authorisation levels and segregation of reasonable and not absolute assurance reports from business group management, duties.
The groups tax, financing and foreign against material misstatement or loss.
The the audit committee and various exchange positions are overseen by the tax and board has implemented a continuing process independent monitoring functions: and treasury committee.
Controls and procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing the the board approves the annual forecast over the security of data and disaster recovery material risks faced by the group.
after performing a review of key risk are periodically reviewed and are subject to factors.
Performance is monitored regularly The board has reviewed the effectiveness of internal audit.
by way of variances and key performance the groups system of internal control and risk indicators to enable relevant action to management systems and has taken account of be taken and forecasts are updated each material developments which have taken place quarter.
The board considers longer-term since September 30 2013.
It has considered the financial projections as part of its regular major business and financial risks, the control discussions on the groups strategy and environment and the results of internal audit.
Steps have been taken to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the group and to deal with areas of improvement which have come to managements and the boards attention.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 42 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Corporate Governance continued Arriving at a position where initially the audit Internal audit Responsibilities committee, and then the board, are satisfied The groups internal audit function is managed The committee meets at least three times each with the overall fairness, balance and clarity of by DMGTs internal audit department, working financial year and is responsible for: the report and accounts is underpinned by the closely with the companys finance director.
monitoring the integrity of the interim following: Internal audit draws on the services of the report, the annual report and accounts and early preparation by management and groups central finance teams to assist in other related formal statements, reviewing review by the committee of key components completing the audit assignments.
Internal audit accounting policies used and judgements of the annual report, particularly those aims to provide an independent assessment applied: reflecting new disclosure and reporting as to whether effective systems and controls reviewing the content of the annual requirements: are in place and being operated to manage report and accounts and advise the board comprehensive reviews undertaken significant operating and financial risks.
It also on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, by management, a sub-committee of aims to support management by providing cost balanced and understandable and provides the directors and the auditor to ensure effective recommendations to mitigate risk and the information necessary for shareholders consistency and overall balance: control weaknesses identified during the audit to assess the companys performance, knowledge sharing by management of process, as well as provide insight into where business model and strategy: key risks and matters likely to affect the cost efficiencies and monetary gains might considering the effectiveness of the groups annual report through attendance by the be made by improving the operations of the internal financial control systems: chairman of the audit committee at the business.
Businesses and central departments considering the appointment or annual internal audit planning meeting and are selected for an internal audit on a riskreappointment of the external auditor tax and treasury committee meetings held focused basis, after taking account of the and to review their remuneration, both for during the year as well as through the audit risks identified as part of the risk management audit and non-audit: committee chairmans regular meetings process, the risk and materiality of each of the monitoring and reviewing the external with management and internal audit: groups businesses, the scope and findings of auditors independence and objectivity and a twice yearly review by the audit committee external audit work, and the departments and the effectiveness of the audit process: of key assumptions and judgements businesses reviewed previously and the findings monitoring and reviewing the resources made by management in preparation of from these reviews.
This approach ensures that and effectiveness of internal audit: the annual and interim reports as well as internal audit focus is placed on the higher reviewing the internal audit programme considering significant issues arising during risk areas of the group, while ensuring an and receiving periodic reports on its the year.
appropriate breadth of audit coverage.
DMGTs findings: internal audit function reports its findings to reviewing the whistle-blowing arrangements management and to the audit committee.
available to staff: reviewing the groups policy on the Accountability and audit employment of former audit staff: and Audit committee reviewing the groups policy on non-audit Committee composition, skill and fees.
experience The audit committee comprises DP Pritchard Content of the annual report chairman, independent, JC Botts, SW Daintith, and accounts fair, balanced and the finance director of DMGT and TPHillgarth understandable independent.
Three of the four members are One of the key governance requirements non-executive directors.
All members of the of a groups financial statements is for the committee have a high level of financial literacy, report and accounts to be fair, balanced and SW Daintith and TP Hillgarth are chartered understandable.
The co-ordination and review accountants and members of the ICAEW, and of the group-wide input to the annual report DP Pritchard has considerable audit committee and accounts is a sizeable exercise performed experience.
within an exacting timeframe which runs alongside the formal audit process undertaken by the external auditor.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Governance Corporate Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43 Financial reporting and significant financial judgements The committee, with input from the external auditor, assessed whether suitable accounting policies had been adopted, whether management had made appropriate estimates and judgements and whether disclosures were balanced and fair.
For the year ended September 30 2014 the committee reviewed the following main issues: Issue Review Accounting for acquisitions and disposals The group acquired Infrastructure Journal and Mining Indaba and The committee discussed the appropriateness of the life of the intangible disposed of MIS Training during the year.
The group also has acquisition asset, and the methodology around and inputs into the calculation of contingent commitments on previous acquisitions.
Goodwill and other intangibles The group has goodwill of 383.9 million and other intangible assets The committee discussed the appropriateness of the life of the intangible of 153.2 million.
There were no impairments recognised in the year.
asset and the methodology around and inputs into the calculation supporting the carrying value.
The committee has also understood the sensitivity analysis used by management in their review of impairment.
Revenue recognition Judgement is exercised in relation to the cut-off for publications and The committee discussed with management the internal controls in events, the deferral of subscription revenues and the treatment of place and the work the auditor had completed on revenue recognition.
voting, best efforts and commission share agreement revenues.
Taxation The group is a multi-national group with tax affairs in many geographical The committee discussed the deferred tax balances with the auditor and locations.
This inherently leads to a higher than usual complexity to the management to establish how they were determined and calculated.
groups tax structure and makes the degree of estimation and judgement The chairman of the audit committee also attends the tax and treasury more challenging.
committee which provides valuable insight into the tax matters, related provisions and helps establish the appropriateness of the recognition of the deferred tax balances.
Share-based payments The groups new long-term incentive schemes, CAP 2014 and CSOP The committee discussed with management the assumptions used in 2014, were granted during the year.
The fair value calculated using calculating the fair value of the CAP 2014 and CSOP 2014 options at an appropriate option pricing model at the grant date is expensed on the date of grant.
a straight-line basis over the expected vesting period, based on the The committee reviewed the estimated number of shares that will estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The final eventually vest based on the latest forecasts.
award is subject to a number of performance tests which may change the number of shares that will vest.
Significant provisions and accruals The group continues to recognise significant provisions and accruals The committee discussed with management and the auditor how the including a provision for the impairment of trade receivables.
provision levels were determined and calculated.
They also discussed matters not provided against to establish if this was appropriate.
Presentation of the financial statements Presentation of the financial statements, in particular the presentation of The committee reviewed the financial statements and discussed with the adjusted performance and the adjusting items.
management and the auditor the appropriateness of the adjusted items including consideration of their consistency and the avoidance of any misleading effect on the financial statements.
The committee is satisfied that all issues have been managed appropriately and in accordance with the relevant accounting standards and principles.
The committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 44 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Corporate Governance continued The committee would like to thank each firm audit committee meeting, a summary of their External auditor that participated in the tender and specifically work and findings, the results of the internal In 2013 given the length of Deloittes tenure thank Deloitte on the boards behalf for their audit teams follow up of completed reviews incumbents since the last audit tender in significant contribution to the group over the and a summary of assurance work completed 1998 and the change to the Code in 2013, past 16 years.
by other audit functions within the business: the committee indicated its intention to put technology audits: circulation audits: polls and the external audit contract out to tender.
The Effectiveness of internal financial awards audits and peer reviews as explained tender process was initiated in May 2014 control systems above.
Internal audit is involved in other risk and concluded in July 2014.
From the 2015 The committee invests time in meeting with assurance projects including fraud investigation, financial year, if approved by shareholders, internal audit to better understand their work the annual fraud and bribery risk assessment,  LLP PwC will replace and its outcome.
At each meeting of the information security and business continuity.
Deloitte LLP as the companys statutory auditor.
committee internal audit present a detailed Internal audit is also subject to an external report covering controls audited since the last As part of its role in ensuring effectiveness, review every five years, the results of which are meeting, matters identified and updates to the committee completed a review during fed back to the committee.
This external review any previous control issues still outstanding.
the tender process which focused on the was last carried out in September 2013.
The committee challenges internal audit and effectiveness, independence and objectivity discusses these audits and matters identified Non-audit work of the external audit.
Internal audit supplement their The audit committee completes an annual confirmed to the committee that it maintained work through a series of peer reviews completed assessment of the type of non-audit work appropriate internal safeguards to ensure its by finance people across the group but permissible and a fide minimis level of nonindependence and objectivity.
The committee independent from the business being audited.
Any non-audit work concluded that Deloitte remained independent The peer reviews audit the operation of key performed outside this remit is assessed and and the audit effective.
internal controls which have been confirmed where appropriate approved by the committee.
External audit tender process by the businesses as in place through an annual Fees paid to Deloitte for audit services, audit A number of firms were approached to tender control standards sign-off.
Internal audit review related services and other non-audit services for the audit.
The list was based upon their the findings of this supplemental work and are set out in note 4.
During 2014 Deloitte did experience, industry skills and knowledge, their present a summary to the committee at each not provide significant non-audit services.
The ability to perform the audit to a high standard audit committee meeting.
This is challenged by groups non-audit fee policy is available on the and any pre-existing business relationships that the committee and discussed as necessary.
com might affect their independence.
Resources available to internal audit held meetings with each firm individually and and its effectiveness Annual Report and Accounts each presentation was followed by an extensive The audit committee monitors the level and skill The directors have responsibility for preparing discussion with the audit firm.
Following base available to the group from internal audit.
the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts and for each meeting, the committee discussed the Although internal audit areas are planned a making certain confirmations concerning it.
In presentation, the views communicated and the year ahead, the amount of time available to the accordance with the Code provision C. 1.1 the perceived strengths and weaknesses of the team.
group from internal audit is not fixed.
Internal board considers that taken, as a whole, it is After reviewing all the proposals, the committee audit is able to scale up resource as required fair, balanced and understandable and provides held a separate meeting to discuss the merits and draws on finance people across the wider the information necessary for shareholders to of each firm and their respective teams.
It DMGT group as well as regularly supplementing assess the companys performance, business considered the views of internal management, its team through the use of specialists.
The board reached this the likely level of disruption as a result of any conclusion after receiving advice from the audit The committee is able to monitor the change, and the cost proposals presented by committee.
effectiveness of internal audit through their each firm.
After extensive debate the committee involvement in its focus, planning, process and agreed to propose to the board that PwC outcome.
The committee approves the internal be appointed as statutory auditor following audit plan and any revision to it during the year.
completion of the 2014 year end process and The chair of the committee is invited to attend that this appointment would be subject to the initial internal audit planning meeting with shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM.
Internal audit presents, at each 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Governance Corporate Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 Statement by the directors on compliance with the Code The UK Listing Rules require the board to report on compliance throughout the accounting year with the applicable principles and provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Since its formation in 1969, the company has had a majority shareholder, Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT.
As majority shareholder, DMGT retains two non-executive positions on the board.
These non-executive directors are not regarded as independent under the Code.
In addition, the companys founder, president and ex-chairman, Sir Patrick Sergeant, remains on the board but is not regarded as an independent director under the Code.
As a result, the company failed to comply throughout the financial year ended September 30 2014 with certain provisions of the Code as set out below.
The company has, however, made significant strides over the past few years to bring its board structure more in line with best practice.
In particular, the number of executive directors has been reduced to seven, compared to 14 in 2009, and two new independent non-executive directors were appointed in 2012.
It is the companys intention over time to get to a position where the majority of its board comprises non-executive directors, even if not all are independent because of their relationship with DMGT.
Provision Code principle Explanation of non-compliance A.
4.1 Composition of the board The board has not identified a senior independent director.
JC Botts, although not independent due to his length of service, acts as senior non-executive director.
1.2 Composition of the board Less than half the board are independent non-executive directors.
However, there are clear divisions of responsibility within the board such that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The board, although large, does not consider itself to be unwieldy and believes it is beneficial to have representatives from key areas of the business at board meetings.
2.1 Composition of the The nominations committee does not comprise a majority of independent non-executive directors.
nominations committee The committee comprises four non-executive and two executive directors, none of whom can be considered independent under the Code.
3.2 Terms and conditions JC Botts, DP Pritchard, ART Ballingal and TP Hillgarth have terms and conditions of appointment.
of appointment of nonHowever, The Viscount Rothermere, MWH Morgan and Sir Patrick Sergeant operate under the terms executive directors of their employment contracts with DMGT and Euromoney respectively.
C. 3.1 Composition of the audit The audit committee does not comprise at least three independent non-executives directors.
The committee committee comprises four members, only two of whom can be considered independent under the Code.
D. 2.1 Composition of the The remuneration committee does not comprise at least three independent non-executives directors.
remuneration committee The committee comprises three non-executive directors, only one of whom can be considered independent under the Code.
On behalf of the board Richard Ensor Chairman November 19 2014 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8
