Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Introduction Board responsibilities and Chairman and Chief Executive EVRAZ plc is a public company limited by performance The Board determines the division of shares incorporated in the United Kingdom.
responsibilities between the Chairman The Board and management of EVRAZ aim The Company is committed to high standards and the Chief Executive Officer.
to pursue objectives in the best interests of corporate governance and control.
of EVRAZ, its shareholders and other The Chairmans principal responsibility is stakeholders, and particularly to create Further information on the Companys the effective running of the Board, ensuring long-term value for shareholders.
Corporate Governance policies and principles that the Board as a whole plays a full and are available on the Companys website: constructive part in the development and The EVRAZ Board is responsible for the www.
The UK Corporate determination of the Groups strategy and following key aspects of governance and Governance Code is available at overall commercial objectives.
is chaired by Alexander Abramov.
Financial and operational performance: The Chief Executive Officer CEO is Compliance with corporate Strategic direction: responsible for leading the Groups operating Major acquisitions and disposals: governance standards performance and day-to-day management O verall risk management: EVRAZs approach to corporate governance of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Capital expenditure and operational is primarily based on the UK Corporate The Companys chief executive is budgeting: Governance Code September 2012 published Alexander Frolov.
Business planning: by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and Approval of internal regulations and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The CEO is supported by the executive team.
The Company complies with the UK Corporate Membership of the executive team is set out Governance Code or, if it does not comply, on page 72.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, explains the reasons for non-compliance.
the Board considered a wide range of matters, including: As of 31 December 2014 EVRAZ complied with all the principles and provisions of the the Companys strategy and key priorities: UK Corporate Governance Code September the performance of key businesses: 2012 with the following exception: consolidated budget and budgets of business units: Contrary to provision C. 3.1 of the UK the interim and full year results and 2013 Corporate Governance Code, Olga Annual Report: Pokrovskaya is a member of the Audit H SE updates: Committee, but does not meet the consideration of a registered initial public independence criteria set out in the UK offering of the North American subsidiary, Corporate Governance Code.
More than EVRAZ North America: 50% of EVRAZ activities and operations a review of investment projects: are based in the Russian Federation, and the consolidation of Raspadskaya and Olga Pokrovskayas technical and regional Yuzhkuzbassugol coal companies: experience and qualification, as a past the potential divestment of EVRAZ senior audit manager at Arthur Andersen Highveld Steel and Vanadium: and as Head of Corporate Finance at corporate governance matters including an Russian oil company Sibneft is of externally facilitated review of the Board particular value to the Committee.
Her and committees: and experience would be extremely difficult to amendments to the Board committees replicate, particularly as EVRAZ is seeking terms of reference.
to strengthen diversity on its Board.
The Company considers that, in light of her involvement with the Group over a number of years and her experience in this area, her membership of the Audit Committee is to the benefit of the Group.
The Audit Committee includes three non-executive directors, all independent, which we believe mitigates any potential risks.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73 Corporate Governance Report continued Members of senior management attended Meetings of the Board, meetings of the Board by invitation.
They Board composition and AGM delivered presentations on the status of EVRAZ plc held 10 scheduled Board meetings projects and performance of the business units.
and 2 ad-hoc meetings held in form of conference calls during 2014.
In 2015, up to The following table sets out the attendance of the date of this reports publication, three each director at scheduled EVRAZ plc Board Board meetings were held.
and Board Committee meetings in 2014: Total meetings Remuneration Nominations Board Committee HSE Committee Audit Committee Committee AGM 1232 1221 Directors participation: Alexander Abramov 12 12 2 2 1 Duncan Baxter 12 12 3 3 12 12 1 Alexander Frolov 12 12 2 2 1 Karl Gruber 11 12 3 3 2 2 1 Alexander Izosimov 12 12 3 3 2 2 1 Sir Michael Peat 12 12 12 12 2 2 1 Olga Pokrovskaya 12 12 2 2 12 12 1 Terry Robinson 12 12 2 2 12 12 2 2 1 Eugene Shvidler 10 12 2 2 1 Eugene Tenenbaum 12 12 1 Board composition and independence as at 31 December 2014 Years of tenure as at 31 December Date of appointment 2014 Non-Executive Independent Directors 5 Duncan Baxter 14 October 2011 4 Karl Gruber 14 October 2011 4 Alexander Izosimov 28 February 2012 3 Sir Michael Peat, Senior Independent Director 14 October 2011 4 Terry Robinson 14 October 2011 4 Non-Executive Directors 4 Alexander Abramov, Chairman 14 October 2011 4 Olga Pokrovskaya 14 October 2011 4 Eugene Shvidler 14 October 2011 4 Eugene Tenenbaum 14 October 2011 4 Executive Director 1 Alexander Frolov, CEO 14 October 2011 4 Total Board size 10 At EVRAZ plc, does not include tenure at Evraz Group S. A.
74 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements Appointments to the Board are made on The Chairman has proposed organising a merit, against objective, appropriately formal, visit by the directors to one or more of the 10% transparent and rigorous criteria.
Companys production sites in 2015, and the directors supported this initiative.
10% In light of the Boards declared stance on diversity and following Terry Robinsons Performance evaluation decision to not seek re-election as a director The Company undertakes an annual 50% of the Company at the 2015 Annual General performance evaluation of the Board Meeting, the Nominations Committee and and committees.
In 2014, in accordance the Board gave considerable thought and with the provisions of the UK Corporate 30% research to finding a successor.
As part of Governance Code, the Board engaged this process, Deborah Gudgeon was Lintstock LLP to undertake an independent, identified as a strong candidate to succeed externally facilitated evaluation of Independent non-executive directors Terry Robinson as an independent noneffectiveness of the Board and Board Non-executive directors executive director and as a member of the Committees.
Lintstock neither had nor Chairman, non-executive Audit Committee.
The Nominations have any connection with the Company.
Executive director CEO Committee and the Board noted that MissGudgeon is a chartered accountant, The first stage of the evaluation involved with extensive corporate and international Lintstock engaging with the Senior The Board currently comprises the experience, including some experience of Independent Director and the Company Chairman, one executive director, and eight mining.
Previously, Olga Pokrovskaya had Secretary to set the context, and to tailor non-executive directors, including a senior been the only female director of the Company the surveys to the specific circumstances independent director.
but with Deborah Gudgeon joining the Board, of the Group.
the level of female board representation will The Board considers that five non-executive rise to 20%.
All Board members were requested to directors Duncan Baxter, Karl Gruber, complete a comprehensive online survey Alexander Izosimov, Sir Michael Peat and With the appointment of Deborah Gudgeon, addressing the performance of the Board, Terry Robinson are independent in character the Company believes that the Board its committees, the Chairman and individual and judgement and free from any business structure provides an appropriate balance directors.
Following completion of the survey, or other relationship which could materially of skills, knowledge and experience.
the members of the Board were invited to interfere with the exercise of their The members comprise a number of different build on their responses and raise any other independent judgement, in compliance nationalities with a wide range of skills, matters concerning the performance of the with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
capabilities and experience from a variety Board at an interview with representatives of business backgrounds.
The anonymity of all The independent non-executive Directors respondents was ensured throughout the comprise the majority on and chair all Board expertise process in order to promote an open and Board Committees.
The Board has determined that as a whole frank exchange of views.
it has the appropriate skills and experience The Board has also satisfied itself that there necessary to discharge its functions.
is no compromise to the independence of, Executive and Non-Executive Directors have or existence of conflicts of interest, for those the experience required to contribute directors who serve together as directors on meaningfully to the Boards deliberations and the boards of outside entities.
Non-Executive Directors assist the board by constructively challenging and Boardroom diversity helping develop strategy proposals.
Most of EVRAZ recognises the importance of diversity the directors have been in post since the date both at Board level and throughout the whole of EVRAZ plc incorporation in October 2011. organisation.
The Company remains committed to increasing diversity across Full details of the skills and experience of the its global operations and we take diversity Board members are provided in the Board of into account during each recruitment and Directors section above on pages 70 to 71. appointment process, working to attract outstanding candidates with diverse Induction and professional backgrounds, skills, ideas and culture.
development The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that When making new appointments, the Boards there is a properly constructed and timely stance on diversity, including gender, is to induction for new directors upon joining the act in good faith towards meeting the Board.
Directors have full access to a regular recommendation contained in Lord Davies supply of financial, operational, strategic and report of achieving 25% female board regulatory information to help them discharge representation while appointing the most their responsibilities.
To this end, female representation on the Board has been a particular area of focus for the Nominations Committee.
See the Nominations Committees report on page 85.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75 Corporate Governance Report continued Lintstock subsequently produced a report which addressed the following areas of Board performance.
Areas Findings and action points The composition of the Board, and the key changes that should be The Boards composition was rated highly, with planned changes made to the Boards profile to match the strategic goals including additional mining expertise and North American knowledge, and increased female representation The Boards understanding of the markets in which the Group The rating was positive operates, and of the views of major investors and shareholders The relationships between the members of the Board and between Board dynamics and relationships with senior management were the Board and management, and the involvement of non-executives rated highly.
The programme of site visits for Board members, and in the affairs of the Company outside Board meetings the discussion of Board and Company matters during these visits, is to be expanded and formalised The management of time at the Board, including the annual cycle of The Board commits considerable time and effort to its monthly work and the Boards agenda meetings and Board effectiveness was rated highly.
Further thought is to be given to managing the time devoted to individual agenda items and to the organisation of papers circulated prior to Board meetings The quality of advisers that support the Board and its committees, Performance was rated as adequate.
Further thought is to be given and directors training needs to the provision of training for directors The data provided to support the Boards analysis of the This was considered to be good.
Information about the Groups performance of the business, and the Boards knowledge of the competitors is to be brought together in a specific presentation performance of the Group relative to its main competitors The Boards testing and development of the Companys strategy, Performance was rated as good, with strategy considered and the involvement of the Board in determining strategic direction specifically by the Board on three occasions during the year.
The linking of annual planning and budgeting to the strategy is to be brought out more clearly The Boards management of the main risks facing the Group, and Performance was rated positively risk appetite The structure of the company at senior levels, and succession The structure of the Group at senior levels was rated positively.
planning for the Chief Executive and other key management The Board, in addition to the Nominations Committee, is to devote more time to considering succession planning The composition and performance of the committees of the Board, The contribution of the Chairman was rated highly and the performance the performance of the Chairman and the individual performance of the Boards subcommittees was considered good, with the Audit of directors Committees contribution commented on particularly favourably While there are areas for improvement, which will be addressed, in overall terms the review was encouraging and useful.
76 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements Board Committees The Board is supported in its work by the following principal committees: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
The table below sets out the role and composition of each committee: Function Name of committee Composition Audit, financial reporting, risk Audit Committee All 4 members are non-executive Link to Audit Committee report management and controls directors, of which 3 are on page 78-84 independent Selection and nomination of Nominations Committee All 5 members are non-executive Link to Nominations Committee Board members directors, 3 are independent report on page 85 Link to Remuneration Committee Remuneration of Board Remuneration Committee All 3 members are independent and Remuneration reports on members and top management directors pages 90-98 HSE issues HSE Committee 3 of 4 members are nonLink to HSE Committee report on executive directors, of which 2 page 87 are independent Each committee has written terms of reference, approved by the Board, summarising its role and responsibilities.
The terms of reference for each committee are available on the Companys website www.
Reports from each committee follow.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77 Corporate Governance Report continued Work of the Committee in 2014 Interim Financial Statements and Audit Committee At the Committees meetings during 2014, Consolidated Financial Statements: Dear Shareholders, we focused on financial reporting, including the Reclassification of Asset Held for I am pleased to present the report of Companys Interim Management Statements, Sale AHFS the Audit Committee for the financial Internal Controls, Internal Audit, External Audit The Groups decision to retain control year to 31 December 2014.
I would and Risk Management, including finance, of EVRAZ Highveld Steel and Vanadium like to thank the Committee members, operations, regulation, fraud and compliance.
Limited EHSV the executive and finance teams of These matters were comprehensively reviewed Note 2 of the ICCFS 2014, and of CFS 2014. the Company, the internal audit group and, when required, formally presented to the EHSV had been classified as a disposal and Ernst & Young EY, our external Committee by the Companys financial and group held for sale as at 31 December 2012 auditors, for the continuing diligence operational management, Internal Audit, the and 2013. and for their valued contributions to the Compliance Officer and legal team, the external discussions and reviews made at the auditors and the external legal advisers.
Subsequent to the interim balance sheet meetings of the Committee.
date, on 12 August 2014, the Group signed Furthermore, during the year the Committee an agreement to sell, subject to certain reviewed its own terms of reference, the pre-conditions, 34 per cent of the issued Terry Robinson internal audit charter, the Groups insurance share capital of EHSV and to retain control Chairman, Audit Committee policy, the effectiveness of the anti-corruption over the remaining 51.1 per cent ownership policy and the development of sanctions risk interest.
On managements advice that the compliance controls and initiated compliance Company intends to retain control of EHSV, steps to address the governance the Committee concurred with managements requirements as detailed in the Financial judgments that EHSV had ceased to be an Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk AHFS at 31 December 2014.
As the Group Management, Internal Control and Related still believes that the EHSV investment will Financial and Business Reporting.
be realised, primarily through sales proceeds even though it does not meet the criteria Financial Reporting for the financial to be classified as AHFS, the market value year 2014 of the shares of the subsidiary as of 31 December 2014 was used as a basis to In addressing our key objective, namely to determine the recoverable amount of this assist the Board in ensuring the integrity of cash generating unit.
As a result, an its financial statements, the Audit Committee, additional impairment US$58million was with assistance from both management and recognised and charged to the 2014 the external auditor, concentrated on: Statement of Operations.
Compliance with financial reporting standards and governance requirements As at 31 December 2013 AHFS included the Accounting areas that require significant Moscow administrative office building.
In the accounting judgment second half of 2014, in view of the Moscow The substance, consistency and fairness property market and related economic of management estimates outlook, the management decided not to sell Whether the Annual Report, taken as a this asset and, consequently, the Moscow whole, is fair, balanced and administrative office building ceased to be understandable, providing the necessary an AHFS at 31 December 2014.
US$14million information for shareholders to assess the of the impairment charged to the Statement of Groups business model, strategy, Operations in the first half of 2014 in respect principal risks and uncertainties and of the Moscow office building was reversed in performance the second half of 2014 on cessation of AHFS classification.
Among other matters, the following were reviewed and challenged by the Audit Upon cessation of classification of EHSV and Committee in respect of the Interim the Moscow administrative office building as Condensed Consolidated Financial AHFS, the Group, in accordance with the Statements ICCFS and the 2014 requirements of IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Consolidated Financial Statements CFS : Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, restated all prior periods as though these Financial reporting standards and subsidiaries were never classified as held for governance requirements sale.
As described in Note 2 of the Financial The Audit Committee has considered the Statements, apart from reclassification of following financial reporting issues which they assets in the Group balance sheet this also determined to be significant.
The full financial led to recognised additional depreciation statements can be found on pages 115-201. expense US$63million, an increase in Gain on disposal groups classified as held for sale, net US$156million, impairment of assets US$117million, and income tax benefit US$45million recognised in the 2013 Statement of Operations.
78 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements Segment reporting Note 3 CFS USD RUB 2014 2013, year-end exchange Depreciation In the second half of 2014, the Groups CEO rates: 56.26 32.73 and average exchange Depreciation, depletion and amortisation proposed a reorganisation of the Groups rates: 38.42 31.85: USD UAH 2014 2013 expense has declined from US$1,114million operating business units.
The revised year-end exchange rates: 15.77 7.99 and to US$833million, primarily as a result of the segments reflect a new emphasis and average exchange rates: 11.9 7.99.
The 17% decline in the average USD RUB approach to resource allocation focused on 30 June 2014 exchange rates average exchange rate.
Steel, including vanadium and the inter-group rates for USD RUB and USD UAH were related iron ore mining, Coal and Operations 33.63 34.98 and 11.82 10.28 respectively.
Site Restoration Provision, note 2 CFS in North America.
Segment reporting for the Following a review by appropriately qualified comparative years 2013 and 2012 has been The significant impact of the foreign exchange executives of site restoration provisions restated accordingly.
movements described above has made the across the Groups operations, encompassing process of challenging the consistency and mines and steel plants, the Audit Committee Going Concern note 2 CFS comparability of balances in the Financial conducted a review of the amounts provided.
The Audit Committee considered a going Statements difficult.
The financial analysis of In particular the Committee discussed concern analysis, prepared by management, areas of significant judgement and estimates whether the amounts so provided had been using the Companys business model.
The provided by management separated out compared with the restoration of mines and presentation included a base case and flexed where possible the foreign exchange impact.
plants elsewhere in Russia and whether the pessimistic case.
The base case utilised The Audit Committee challenged and Groups provisions were comparable.
parameters, USD RUB average exchange recommended improvements to the rates, Budget Capex, product budget costs and explanations of the impact of foreign As a result of this review a US$72million volumes, and product selling budget prices, exchange on the position and the additional liability was determined.
tested against investment bank analysts performance of the group in the Annual indicative forward market prices.
Yuzhny GOK YuGOK note 16 CFS parameters for free cash flow estimates, The Group purchases sinter and scrap from January to June 2016 drew on the Companys Impairment, Goodwill, note 5 CFS, Assets, YuGOK a related party for production of forward strategy operational expectations.
Note 6 CFS pig iron at the Groups Ukraine steel plant.
Before the Audit Committee reviewed the Such purchases are valued by reference to While base case product selling prices are managements Impairment recommendation, USD per tonne but recorded in the books of below average prices for 2014, the Companys the Committee noted that the Net Book Value the Ukrainian subsidiary in the functional going concern consideration remains primarily NBV had been impacted as a result of currency, hryvnia, invoices being issued and sensitive to the forward market prices of Steel currency devaluation by a translation paid in hryvnia.
Over the period 2012 to 2013 products and the forward prices of coal difference of US$3,338million note 9 CFS.
the Group subsidiary had accumulated a concentrate within Russia.
Thus, the carrying values of the primary non-interest bearing account payable of Russian Cash Generating Units CGU to be US$336million invoiced and recorded in the The Audit Committee carefully considered the tested by separate value in use calculations Ukrainian subsidiary as a hryvnia account forward Use and Sources of Funds had suffered significant value reduction on payable.
During this period the USD UAH statement, which included loan repayments, translation and, as a consequence, current exchange rate was stable at 7.99 UAH to new committed funding and free cash flow devalued carrying values are not challenged the USD.
In challenging the by value in use comparisons.
going concern presentation, the Committee During 2014 the USD UAH depreciated to questioned any potential impact from To give some illustrative indication of the 15.77 and YuGOK sought confirmation that, reported issues with regard to Russian banks continuing value in use of the Russian and irrespective of the hryvnia devaluation, EVRAZ obtaining funding for on-lending to commercial Ukrainian Property, Plant and Equipment PPE has recognised that in substance the product borrowers and Western banks constraints on please see the Financial Review page 22, in invoiced to the Group subsidiary was in USD lending to Russian entities as a consequence the Strategic Review section of the Annual and the outstanding payable was a USD of the prevailing sanctions regime.
The Audit Committee has reviewed payable.
The Audit Committee questioned the and discussed the illustrative presentation.
evidence that the substance of the valuation Following the described considerations, the of the payable for the sinter etc.
was a USD Audit Committee resolved to recommend the The goodwill impairment of US$330million payable.
Evidence was given that the going concern basis of preparation for the is driven by declining oil prices, driving lower Company had always shown the liability as a Financial Statements as at 31 December product sales prices and a higher WACC in USD liability and further, from a commercial 2014 to the Companys directors.
North America because of higher risks in the consideration, if the matter had gone to industry, and by the idling of the Italian plant dispute proceedings EVRAZs Ukrainian steel Areas of significant management estimates EVRAZ Palini e Bertoli EPB.
The impairment mill would cease operations without YuGOK Critical considerations made by the Audit charge of US$210million, represents the sinter, thereby incurring a serious cash cost.
Committee included: cash generating unit level and specific PPE and Intangible Assets impairment including The Committee requested management to The Financial Statements from 31 December EHSV PPE impairment, described above, regularise the YuGOK sinter etc.
invoicing with 2013 to 30 June 2014 and as at EPB, also above, various mines at an agreement to the effect that, while 31 December 2014 are materially impacted Yuzgkuzbassugol, relating to costs of site invoicing was in hryvnia as required by a by the devaluation of the Russian rouble and restoration following closure, and other.
Ukrainian entity, each invoice had a fixed to a lesser extent the devaluation of the equivalent USD value.
This agreement was Ukrainian hryvnia.
The Groups presentational duly made in 2014. currency is the US dollar, although a significant part of the Groups operations and net assets have the Russian rouble as a functional currency and a less significant part of operations have the Ukrainian hryvnia as a functional currency.
Note 2, CFS page 28, EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 79 Corporate Governance Report continued On 10 April 2014 the Group paid a hryvnia subsequent meeting reports required to EVRAZs statement should look forward over equivalent of US$311million and at be submitted by the officer or employee a period of five years.
This recommendation 31 December 2014 the outstanding USD authorised to attend a particular meeting.
was made considering the term of the Groups equivalent of the hryvnia account payable annual strategic review and considering the is US$96million.
Sanctions Compliance Controls ageing of the Groups debt profile.
This In response to concerns expressed by the recommendation has been accepted by the In respect of these purchases from YuGOK Board regarding the risk to the Company Board.
Further, the Risk Committee has and the repayment of outstanding payables inadvertently contravening any sanction agreed that it will review a pro forma viability and the balance held for payment there is an constraint or legal requirement as highlighted statement following the Boards consideration exchange rate loss of US$88million.
in the introduction to this report, the Risk of the 2015 Strategy Review.
Following the Committee and subsequently this Committee Risk Committees review it is intended that Fair, balanced and understandable undertook to seek external legal advice and the Audit Committee will consider the The Audit Committee has reviewed the form external legal assistance to perform a elements of the pro forma statement in and content of the Groups 2014 Annual Report sanctions risk assessment.
This was followed preparation for a final statement for the 2015 to shareholders.
Taking into account the up by the implementation of recommended Annual Report.
disclosure implications of the issues discussed processes, procedures and the training of in this report, the Committee reported to the critical officers and employees under the Assessment of the Groups risk profile and Board that it considers the Annual Report, control of the Groups Compliance Officer, control environment taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and whereby the Board can have assurance that Internal Audit undertakes a bi-annual review understandable.
In addition, the Committee the Company is knowledgeable as to all of the Groups risk control environment and recommended approval by the Board of the sanctions that might possibly impact the this is reviewed at the Risk Committee and Groups Consolidated Financial Statements Groups operations and the Groups personnel the Audit Committee following upon which the for the year ended 31 December 2014. and business activities are subject to Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to appropriate compliance controls in order to the Board on the Internal Audits summary avoid the risk of breaching any sanction.
judgment on the risk and control environment.
Other Matters Group Financial Reporting Procedures Full implementation of the recommended An issue identified in 2013 was the manual FRP controls has been prioritised.
assurance that is required to establish stock The Groups administrative and financial values of bulk stock: ore stocks, scrap and functions and personnel during the first Audit Committee self-assessment Vanadium slag.
In 2014, 15 per cent of bulk part of the year were party to a significant A self-assessment of the Audit Committee was stock was measured by independent external rationalisation process and, as a undertaken encompassing its composition, its surveyors with managements commitment to consequence, the Audit Committee asked duties and responsibilities, its access to extend the measurement by independent for a complete review of the Groups financial management and its performance.
valuation to the other bulk stock categories.
and organisational controls to be undertaken and, where appropriate, to amend the FRP In addition, as detailed in the Nomination The Audit Committee continues to receive so that effective and proper controls are Committee report, an externally facilitated monthly updates concerning whistleblowing sustained.
In October 2014, the revised FRP Board assessment was undertaken during events, together with a security report on the was received and reviewed by the Committee.
the year and, as part of that process, a progress of follow-up investigations and any Subsequently, the FRP was tabled at the separate Audit Committee assessment consequent actions in relation to fraud or theft.
Board for the Directors consideration, was undertaken.
consistent with Directors duties to have The Audit Committee reports to the Board responsibility for the effectiveness of the Risk Management and Internal Control all Internal Audit findings on control issues corporates internal controls.
See Risk management and Internal Control that have a risk rating over and above the on pages 82-83.
These matters are UK Bribery Act routinely followed up at the Groups The Audit Committee continues to exert Cyber Risk Management Committee.
regular oversight of the effectiveness of the The Risk Committee has continued to review procedures, controls and record keeping of the Groups risk relating to Cybercrime.
To In August and October 2014 and in March matters subject to the Groups anti-corruption assess the risk to Cybercrime and to review 2015, the Audit Committee reviewed the policy and Code of Conduct.
During the year, the Groups existing IT security protocols and considerations of the Groups Risk the Internal Audit function carried out an procedures, the Group has initiated an external Committee, including the Groups Risk assurance audit of matters raised for assessment of three critical IT function areas: Register and in August 2014 and February improvement and implementation by the the Groups payment systems, IT Information 2015: the Audit Committee reviewed the draft external independent audit undertaken data bases and IT process production controls.
of the proposed Statement of Principal Risks following the adoption of the Groups In view of the numerous and separate IT and Uncertainties for inclusion in the Interim anti-corruption policy.
The Committee has platforms within the Group, it has been Report to shareholders and the Annual requested sight of and has reviewed the evaluated that the risk of Cybercrime is not Report.
The Audit Committee further record of all gifts and entertainment critical.
This external assessment is intended considered the Risk Committees consented to by the Groups Compliance to more accurately define the Groups risk recommendations as to any amendment to Officer over and above the Groups exposure in this area.
The Audit designated threshold for such costs.
Further, Committee tabled all these matters: the Risk and subsequent to the CEOs approval in Long Term Viability Statement Register, the Risk Appetite recommendation November 2014 of the Regulation for In preparation for the requirement in the and Principal Risks and Uncertainties, to the interaction with state authorities the updated UK Corporate Governance Code, Board for its consideration and adoption.
Committee has reviewed the Groups applicable for EVRAZs 2015 year end, to procedures and records for authorising each include a Long Term Viability Statement, A full description of the Companys Principal and every separate meeting by the designated the Audit Committee has considered the Risks and Uncertainties is on pages 18-21. officers and employees with government appropriate timescale and recommended that bodies or persons, and the register of 80 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements an inclusion of an appendix detailing the Non-Audit Services note 31 CFS Internal Audit external auditors response and actions to the Non-audit services are managed in See Risk Management and Internal Control FRCs Quality Inspections report, May 2014. accordance with the Groups policy for section, Internal Audit on pages 82-84.
The Committee particularly discussed the approval of services to be provided by the procedures and actions initiated or previously external auditor: the policy can be found on The Audit Committee has reviewed the internal in existence to ensure audit quality.
audit plans for 2015 and recommended certain revisions to reflect particular risks to the In August 2014, the Audit Committee met to Irrespective of prior approval of the CFO control environment.
In 2014 the Committee review the independence of EY with regard to or the Audit Committee Chairman, all requested Internal Audit to review the risks to their proposed engagement as Reporting non-audit fees are reported to the Committee the control environment following the changes Accountants in connection with the potential for noting and comment.
to the administrative functions following a IPO of EVRAZs North American operations.
Prior to EYs appointment, it was necessary In 2014, non-audit fees totalled US$2.01million for EY to comply with the independence rules of which US$1.92million was in respect of In addition, the Committee considered and standards of the US Public Company expected market engagements relating to the the Internal Audit personnel resource and Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB and of potential IPO in the United States of America of recommended to the Company that some the US Securities and Exchange Commission EVRAZs North American steel operations and additions be made to the Internal Audit SEC.
The EVRAZ entity, a UK subsidiary, the bond offering by EVRAZ North America.
Further, on the appointment of Viscaria Ltd, was the intended potential the Head of Internal Audit to a commercial foreign private issuer Registrant with the SEC.
Reappointment of the external Auditor role in the Company, the Committees The Audit Committee has considered the recommendation as to the new Head of There were two issues which required UK Governance Codes guidance and the Internal Audit was adopted by the Company.
explanation, the first: that EY had provided EU legislation on audit regulation adopted in expert services during the period 2010 2014 requiring companies to put the external The Committee reviewed the Internal Audit to February 2013: and the second: a director audit contract out to tender at least every ten Charter during the year and added a of Viscaria was an ex-employee of EY, a years.
Ernst & Young LLP EY were the responsibility to present an overview of the participant of an EY pension plan and in 2014 auditors to the EVRAZ predecessor group good standing of the Groups internal controls had become an independent trustee of the of companies and the audit was last tendered based on a traffic light assessment of all the relevant pension plan.
The Committee reviewed the key business cycles.
This report will be tabled continuing engagement of EY and resolved for the Boards consideration, in addition to Under the UK Auditing Practices Board Ethical that an early audit tender was not currently the Boards receipt of the biannual review Standards these issues and roles do not appropriate.
The Committee will continue to of the risk control environment, thereby affect EYs independence as EVRAZs monitor the implementation of the EU audit assisting the Directors in their duty to ensure external auditor.
Having considered the regulation by the UK and Luxembourg and that the Group possesses sound risk explanations from EY, their proposed assess whether this has any impact on audit management and internal control systems.
remediation where applicable and legal advice tender timing.
from a prominent international law firm, the The Committee undertakes an annual Audit Committee supported the independence The senior statutory auditor rotates every five assessment of the effectiveness, of EY in connection with its role as reporting years.
Mr Ken Williamson assumed that role independence and quality of the Internal accountants for Viscaria and EYs in respect of the 2011 audit.
Mr Dmitry Audit function by way of a questionnaire to independence as external auditor to the Zhigulin, the lead audit partner in EYs Committee members, management and the EVRAZ group.
Moscow team, rotates out at the conclusion external auditors.
This assessment was most of the 2014 audit.
In addition, the Committee has The Committee reviewed the Interim review initiated an external assessment of the and Year-end Audit reports with particular Following the completion of a questionnaire Internal Audit function, an exercise that the consideration given to the external auditors by members of the Audit Committee and Committee oversees every five years.
reports on areas of significant estimation management, assessing the independence of within the Groups Financial Statements and EY and quality of the audit together with the The Head of Internal Audit also acts as other areas of audit focus.
The Committee review of the FRCs Quality Inspection report secretary to the Committee and prepares also considered in some detail the auditors referred to above, the Audit Committee has the Committees minutes.
These minutes are Representation Letters.
recommended the reappointment of EY as tabled at the Board for consideration and are the Groups and Companys external auditor.
also the subject of a verbal presentation from The Committee, together with the relevant the Chairman of the Committee.
management, considered the external auditors management letter following the External Audit 2013 audit together with managements The Audit Committee reviews and discusses responses as to proposed action or opinion the external audit programme with regard to on issues detailed in the management letter.
the Interim Review and the Year-end audit.
The Committee requested Internal Audit to In particular the Committee reviews the key carry out a follow up audit on all indicated audit risks, audit materiality measures, and management actions which has been challenges the audit scope and independence reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee reviewed and accepted the external auditors The Committee held sessions with the engagement letter.
external auditor without management present and enquired as to the appropriateness of the At the request of the Committee, the external Companys accounting policies and of the auditor also includes in the audit planning audit process.
The external auditor confirmed presentation the audit plans response to the the Companys policies were appropriate.
FRCs Audit Quality Thematic Review guidance to auditors and Audit Committees, and further EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 81 Corporate Governance Report continued To assess and monitor the scope and The Risk Committee reviews the Groups Committee members and attendance effectiveness of internal controls and operations and determines the Groups The majority of the Audit Committees members systems and to report to the Board the principal risks and uncertainties according to are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
overall standing of the Groups internal an impact and probability score, nominating controls the appropriate risk owner and reviewing the As explained in the Corporate Governance To identify and challenge management as actions necessary to mitigate such risks and report page 73, the technical experience to financial and non-financial risks and to their implementation by management at the and regional expertise that Olga Pokrovskaya, present to the Board the Groups Risk Group and Regional levels.
The Group a non-Independent Non-Executive Director, Register and principal risks and examines particularly closely those risks brings to the Committee is of immense value, uncertainties which are considered to be above acceptable particularly given the scale of the Companys To review and propose to the Board the levels and takes mitigating action where Russian operations.
appropriate level of the Groups risk possible to reduce them to levels at which the appetite residual risk becomes acceptable.
The Audit Committee met 12 times in 2014 To review the procedures of detecting, and four times from the beginning of 2015 monitoring and managing the risk of fraud The Audit Committee reviews the Groups until the publication of this Annual Report.
and regulatory compliance major risks and uncertainties prior to the To oversee the relationship with the publication of the Annual Report and the Additional attendees at Committee meetings external auditor and make interim results and presents the major risk comprised: the external auditors, EY, head recommendations to the Board regarding register and risk matrix for the Boards of Group Internal Audit secretary to the the appointment of the external auditor consideration and approval, together with Committee and of the Risk Committee, and To review the scope, resources, a review and recommendations in respect senior members of the Groups financial relationship, results, effectiveness and of the Groups risk appetite.
management action of internal audit and of internal audit recommendations Reviewing the FRC Guidance on Risk The Committee also invited the VPs of To report to the Board on whether the Management, Internal Control and Related Strategy, Projects, Steel, IT, Legal and the Audit Committee considers the Annual Financial and Business Reporting, the Risk Group Compliance Officer and Director of IR.
Report taken as a whole, to be fair, Committee has proposed to the Audit In addition, other members of the EVRAZ balanced and understandable Committee and to the Board that the annual management team and Internal Audit were strategic review be considered by the invited to attend several Committee meetings.
committee together with a pro forma viability Risk management statement.
The first consideration of the pro and internal control Separately, as Audit Committee Chairman, forma viability statement will be reviewed in I held a number of meetings with the September 2015 and recommended to the Groups CEO.
Risk management process Audit Committee for consideration.
In October The Company maintains a comprehensive 2014 the Risk Committee recommended to I have been Chairman of the Audit Committee financial reporting procedures FRP manual the Audit Committee that the appropriate since EVRAZ originally floated on the detailing the Groups financial internal period for the consideration of the longer secondary market in 2005 as Evraz Group controls and risk management systems term viability of the Group should be five S. A. and subsequently since the Groups and activity.
This Manual was last updated years after consideration of the strategic primary listing in 2011.
The Board has overall planning period.
guidance of the UK Corporate Governance responsibility for the Groups processes Code and possible challenges to my of Risk Management and Internal Control, The Group Enterprise Risk Management independence as a director of EVRAZ plc, and for reviewing the effectiveness of these ERM process is designed to identify, given my combined years of office as a processes.
In line with the FRC Guidance quantify, respond to and monitor the non-executive director, I am standing down on Risk Management, Internal Control and consequences of a Risk Committee agreed as a Director at the Companys AGM in June Related Financial and Business Reporting risk register that encompasses both internal 2015.
Sir Michael Peat will assume the chair issued in September 2014, the purpose of and external critical risks.
This process in of the Committee after the AGM and Ms the risk management process is to identify, 2014 was consistent with the UK Corporate Deborah Gudgeon, who has been nominated evaluate and manage significant risks Governance Code issued by the FRC in 2012 an Independent Non-Executive Director and associated with the achievement of the and the Guidance on the Strategic Report approved by the Board, will be joining the Groups objectives.
The Board has delegated issued in June 2014 in respect of the Audit Committee as a member, subject to to the Audit Committee the oversight of the principal risks and uncertainties.
shareholder approval at the AGM.
The chair of the Groups Risk Committee in 2014 was also An important part of the risk management Role of the Audit Committee the chair of the Audit Committee.
process is the determination of appropriate risk To assist the Board in ensuring the integrity appetite at Group management level, thereby The Companys risk management procedures of its Financial Statements.
identifying particular risks and uncertainties are designed to meet the risks to which it is which require specific Board oversight.
Consequently, it can only provide Responsibilities of the Audit reasonable and not absolute assurance against Committee The Groups executive management is a risk being realised and the occurrence of a To review the announcements of the responsible for embedding the agreed Risk material misstatement or loss.
Financial Results, Financial Statements Management related internal controls and and Annual Report and provide assurance mitigating actions throughout the entirety of The Groups Risk Committee undertakes a in respect of all reporting regulations the Groups business and operations and twice yearly review of the Groups risk profile To review the appropriateness of through all levels of management and and the Groups risk register.
The terms of accounting policies and key judgments supervisory personnel.
Such practices serve to reference of the Groups Risk Committee and estimates encourage a risk conscious business culture.
can be found on the Companys web site: www.
82 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ applies the following core principles to Risk management activity in 2014 Controls the identification, monitoring and management In 2014, regional risk committees and The Board has delegated primary oversight of risk throughout the organisation: Business Unit management teams continued of the Groups internal control regime to the Risks are identified, documented, to identify, evaluate and instigate regional risk Audit Committee which has direction as to assessed, monitored, tested and the risk management mitigating actions.
Detailed risk the internal audit function resources and the profile communicated to the relevant risk assessments and risk evaluations were annual audit programme thereby ensuring management team on a regular basis: conducted at plant and mine levels in 2014. that the Groups ongoing internal control Business management and the risk process is adequate and effective.
Further management team are primarily The Groups Risk Committee reviewed the with regard to the Board discharging its responsible for ERM and accountable for Groups risk profile in June and October 2014, duties in respect of its oversight of the all risks assumed in their operations: and finalised the assessment in February Groups internal controls, the Audit The Board is responsible for assessing the 2015.
It was agreed that the Board will review Committee has tabled for the consideration optimum balance of risk risk appetite the relevant principal risks at the time of the of the Directors of EVRAZ the financial through the alignment of business strategy annual consideration of the Groups strategic reporting procedures manual, minutes of and risk tolerance on an enterprise-wide review, in addition to the customary twice the Audit Committee meetings and, where basis, and the Board has oversight of risks annual reviews.
appropriate, major internal control findings above the Groups risk defined appetite in excess of the risk appetite.
and internal control weaknesses measured A separate matrix of compliance risks has in excess of the risk appetite: and been drafted and adopted by the Risk In 2012 the Group adopted regular, semiAll acquired businesses are brought within Committee.
This matrix covers compliance annual management self-assessments of the Groups system of internal control as risks, including, but not limited to: disclosure, the effectiveness of the system of internal soon as practicable.
tax, legal compliance, compliance with controls using the Assurance Framework of corporate governance requirements and EVRAZ plc to ensure the effective operation We also use a bottom up approach to anti-corruption regulations.
of comprehensive controls across the Group.
identify, assess and evaluate risks.
The Groups management rates and certifies The Head of Internal Audit served as the individual components of this framework.
Regional risk committees have been Secretary to the Risk Committee and This process is supervised by the Groups established at our major sites, with the participated in discussions of the Groups internal audit function and the result of this purpose of identifying, evaluating and risk profile and mitigation actions as part self-assessment is regularly reviewed by the establishing management actions for risk of its monitoring process.
Risk Committee and the Audit Committee of mitigation at a regional level and at our major the Group.
Certification of the effectiveness steel and mining operations.
These regional The Audit Committee and Risk Committee of internal control in 2014 was performed in committees are accountable to the Group continued to oversee EVRAZs anti-bribery December 2014 January 2015.
Risk Committee by way of the Group Risk and anti-corruption programme, ensuring Committee membership Vice Presidents recommendations made by an independent Raspadskayas integration into the control of Business Units and functional Vice and external party which reviewed the Groups environment of the entire EVRAZ Group was Presidents.
anti-bribery and anti-corruption processes were completed in 2014. successfully introduced during the year.
The Risk management processes and internal compliance of documents and UK Bribery Act A department of the Company headed by controls operate across our steel plants, compliant procedures relating to anti-bribery Senior Vice President Leonid Kachur has mines, ancillary service operations, capital and anti-corruption was confirmed following a specific responsibility for preventing and projects and administrative functions.
Risk review by Internal Audit.
Meanwhile the Group detecting business fraud and abuse, including management and internal control procedures has a set of established procedures, involving fraudulent behaviour of the Companys are embedded within our business practices senior management, compliance officers and employees, customers and suppliers, which across function areas including finance, HSE, the Groups security operation, aimed at may cause a direct economic loss to the human resources, procurement, IT, legal, preventing corruption and fraud.
Solid internal controls help minimise security, anti-corruption and insurance the risk, and EVRAZs business security management.
There is a detailed assessment department ensures that appropriate of safety risks at all hazardous work places, processes are in place to protect the steel plants and mines, and in respect of Companys interests.
project risks for all major projects which include environmental risk assessments.
The finance and strategic risks of major projects are prepared by the executive and presented to the Board for its consideration and key associated risks are kept under regular review by the Board.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 83 Corporate Governance Report continued Components of the system of internal control Components of the system of internal control Basis for assurance Actions in 2014 Assurance framework principal entity-level Self-assessment by management Certification of the system of internal control controls to prevent and detect error or at all major operations took place in mid-year and at the end of material fraud, ensure effectiveness of Review of the self-assessment by 2014 and was facilitated and reviewed by operations and compliance with principal Internal Audit Internal audit external and internal regulations Investment projects management Monitored by established Procedures were strengthened in regard to management committee and quality control, reporting control, and other sub-committees elements of the investment projects control Reviewed by Internal Audit during the year Operating policies and procedures Implemented, updated and monitored Operating policies and procedures were by management updated as per internal initiatives by Reviewed by Internal Audit operational management and in response to recommendations from Internal Audit Operating budgets Monitored by Controlling Unit Operating budgets were prepared and Reviewed by Internal Audit approved by the Board of Directors Approved by the Board of Directors Accounting policies and procedures as per Developed and updated by Reporting Accounting policies and procedures were the corporate accounting manual department updated as part of the standard annual Reviewed by Internal Audit review process Internal Audit of identification of management concerns Internal audit is an independent appraisal based on the results of previous audits, function established by the Board to evaluate and ends with an internal audit plan which the adequacy and effectiveness of controls, is approved by the Audit Committee.
Audit systems and procedures within EVRAZ, resource is predominantly allocated to areas in order to reduce business risks to an of higher risk and to the extent considered acceptable level in a cost effective manner.
necessary, resource is allocated to the financial and business control and processes The latest version of the Internal Audit Charter with appropriate resource reservation for of EVRAZ plc was approved by the Board on ad hoc and follow-up assignments.
During 2014 internal audit projects covered The Internal Audit Departments role in the the following principal Group risks: Group is to provide an independent, objective, 1.
Cost effectiveness innovative, responsive and effective value- 2.
Health and safety and environmental added internal audit service.
This is achieved 3. Business interruption and equipment through a systematic and disciplined downtime management approach based upon assisting management 4.
Capital projects management in controlling risks, monitoring compliance, 5.
Treasury and working capital management improving the efficiency and effectiveness 6.
Compliance of internal control systems and governance processes.
Internal audit provides a The Companys internal audit is structured on half-yearly opinion of the overall effectiveness a regional basis, reflecting the geographic of the Groups internal controls.
diversity of the Groups operations.
In light of this, the head office internal audit function is In 2014, EVRAZs Head of Internal Audit, in the process of aligning common internal being Secretary to the Audit Committee, audit practices throughout the Group through attended all the Audit Committees meetings its quality assurance and improvement and addressed any reported deficiencies programmes.
in internal control as required by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee continued Further information regarding the Companys to engage with executive management during internal control and risk management the year to monitor the effectiveness of processes can be found on the Companys internal control and accordingly considered website: www.
certain deficiencies that had been identified in internal control together with managements response to such deficiencies.
The internal audit planning process starts with the Groups strategy and includes the formal risk assessment process, and the process 84 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements At its meeting on 11 December 2014 the Committee members and attendance Committee considered the following issues: Nominations Committee The members of the Nominations Committee at 31 December 2014 and throughout the After considerable consideration and year were Sir Michael Peat Chairman, research Deborah Gudgeon was identified Sir Michael Peat Alexander Abramov, Terry Robinson, Alexander as a strong candidate to succeed Terry Chairman, Nominations Committee Izosimov and Eugene Shvidler.
Three of the Robinson as an independent non-executive five members of the Committee were director and as a member of the Audit independent non-executives.
External agents were not used during the search to identify a replacement The Committee met on two occasions during for Mr Robinson and an advertisement was 2014, on 26 August and 11 December.
See not placed because a number of possible the directors attendance on page 74. candidates had previously been identified by Board members.
Members of the The Chief Executive was in attendance at Committee, not including Mr Robinson both meetings and the Company Secretary who had previously worked with her, had acted as the Committees Secretary.
The fact that Miss Gudgeon is a chartered accountant, Matters considered by the with extensive corporate and international Committee during the year experience, including some experience At its meeting on 26 August 2014 the of mining, was noted.
It was agreed that Committee considered the following issues: Miss Gudgeons appointment as an independent non-executive director should The composition of the Board and the age, be discussed by the Board and that, diversity and length of time in office of its subject to the Boards approval in principle members.
It was agreed that the Board and to the various checks and clearances represented a good mix of skills and required, a formal proposal to appoint experience, and that the Company had Miss Gudgeon would be put to the Board benefited from having a stable Board and meeting on 31 March 2015.
The a group of people who interact well.
It was appointment has now been approved and noted that the UK Corporate Governance Miss Gudgeon has been appointed, with Code includes an assumption that a effect from 1 May 2015, as an non-executive director is no longer independent non-executive director.
considered independent once he or she The Committee considered the has served as a director for nine years.
In composition and chairmanship of the view of this, Terry Robinson has said that Board committees.
It was agreed that he will not seek re-election as a director of recommendations should be put to the the Company at the 2015 Annual General Board to: appoint Sir Michael Peat as Meeting.
Mr Robinsons contribution to the chairman of the Audit Committee to Company has been considerable and he succeed Terry Robinson : to appoint Karl will be a great loss to the Board.
The Gruber as a member of the Nominations identification of a successor, as an Committee to succeed Terry Robinson : independent non-executive director and as and to appoint Alexander Izosimov as a member of the Audit Committee, was chairman of the Nominations Committee discussed.
to succeed Sir Michael Peat.
These The appointment of the directors to the recommendations were put to and Companys subsidiary holding company approved by the Board on 31 March 2015. for the Companys North American The appointments are effective from after operations, EVRAZ North America plc, the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee discussed the tendering process for the appointment of consultants to undertake an external, independent evaluation of the Boards performance, in line with the Companys policy to have an external evaluation every three years.
Lintstock LLP were subsequently appointed and a summary of their conclusions is given on page 76.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 85 Corporate Governance Report continued The appointment of directors of EVRAZ Performance of the Chairman 2015 priorities North America plc was discussed again.
and individual directors The Committee will continue to fulfil its It was agreed to recommend to the Board general responsibilities, with particular The Senior Independent Non-executive that EVRAZ North America plc should have emphasis on compliance with the UK Director sought views from all directors nine directors, five of whom would be Corporate Governance Code, development about the performance and contribution independent non-executives, including the and succession planning for senior of the Chairman.
The conclusions of this chairman.
The search to identify the management, providing and encouraging review were considered by the independent independent directors, in particular the training for directors and implementing the non-executive directors at a meeting on chairman, was discussed.
recommendations from the external review 16 October 2014.
It was concluded, as The Committee considered the of the Boards performance.
previously, that the Chairman makes an performance of senior management and important contribution to the Company, senior management development and including his knowledge and experience of, succession planning, with important input and contacts in, the industry.
Prior to the from the Chief Executive.
It was a Nominations Committee meeting on wide-ranging and constructive discussion 11 December 2014, the Chairman of the with changes to the senior management Company and the Chairman of the team noted.
Nominations Committee discussed the Finally, the Committee considered the performance of the individual directors, status of each of the Companys remaining including time available to devote to the independent non-executive directors and Companys business.
agreed that it remained satisfied that each continued to be independent.
It was agreed Diversity Policy that the Committee would confirm its The Boards diversity policy is to have Board conclusions in this respect to the Board.
membership which reflects the international nature of the Groups operations and at least two women 20% as Board members.
The former objective has been achieved and the latter will be achieved when Deborah Gudgeon becomes a director on 1 May 2015.
86 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements Committee members and attendance HSE Performance Assessment Health, Safety and The members of the Health, Safety and of the Group Environment Committee Environmental Committee at 31 December The HSE Committee reviewed HSE 2014 were Karl Gruber Chairman, Alexander performance and progress in implementing Frolov, Terry Robinson and Olga Pokrovskaya.
Karl Gruber The Committee met on two occasions during Chairman, HSE Committee Health & Safety 2014, on 5 March 2014 at EVRAZ Vanady Health & Safety performance includes the Tula, our vanadium processing facility in Tula, following metrics: Russia, and on 7 October 2014 in EVRAZ HQ in Moscow, Russia.
See the directors Fatal incidents attendance on page 74.
Lost Time Injuries LTI Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR Additionally, members of the committee calculated as the number of injuries undertook three site visits: EVRAZ Vanady Tula, resulted in lost time per 1million EVRAZ ZSMK and Raspadskaya.
The Chairman hours worked also visited POSCO sites to see the Cardinal safety rules enforcement implementation of Health and Safety initiatives.
The HSE Committee reviewed the causes Role of the Health, Safety and of all fatalities and serious property damage Environmental Committee incidents within the Group and the follow-up The Health, Safety and Environment actions taken by the management as well as Committee leads the Boards thinking on the information related to the Companys health and safety issues, as well as internal incident investigation system maintaining responsibility for environmental immediate actions root causes systemic and local community matters.
The Committee undertook a benchmark Responsibilities of the Health, Safety analysis of H&S performance and safety and Environment Committee are: initiatives in EVRAZ ore and coal divisions Assessing the performance of the Group compared to global industry leaders.
It was with regard to the impact of health, safety, concluded that the key initiatives and efforts environmental and community relations of EVRAZ to improve H&S performance are decisions and actions upon employees, very similar to those undertaken by POSCO in communities and other third parties and recent periods and the LTIFR of EVRAZ can be on the reputation of the Group: estimated as average in comparison with On behalf of the Board, receiving reports the World Steel Association statistics.
from management concerning all fatalities and serious incidents within the Group and The Committee reconfirmed the need to actions taken by management as a result continue driving a cultural change where of such fatalities or serious incidents: safety is recognised as a core value by every Reviewing the results of any independent employee and contractor alongside a more audits of the Groups performance in proactive approach to instill a risk or hazard regard to environmental, health, safety assessment methodology into the daily and community relations matters, activity of every employee.
The Committee reviewing any strategies and action plans members concluded that the key task is to developed by management in response set standard work requirements on safety to issues raised and, where appropriate, for all management levels.
With that in mind, making recommendations to the Board ensuring regular communications between the concerning the same: and employees and their supervisors in the form Making whatever recommendations it of behaviour safety conversations is a key deems appropriate to the Board on any tool in incident prevention.
Furthermore, area within its remit where action or effective safety training such as hazard improvement is needed.
recognition, safety leadership, energy isolation should be obligatory for managers, The Committee receives a monthly HSE employees and contractors.
summary report and reports directly to the Board of Directors on HSE issues on a quarterly basis.
The following sections summarise how the Committee has fulfilled its duties in 2014.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 87 Corporate Governance Report continued The Committee reviewed the status of the The Committee implemented an HSE audit results review 2012 2014 H&S initiatives and concluded environmental performance benchmark EVRAZ operations are subject to HSE that in most areas the initiatives underway analysis of Russian sites compared to compliance inspections undertaken by have to be further expanded during 2015. existing and expected new Russian regulatory supervisory governmental agencies.
These include: limits such as best available techniques and The consequential risks of violating HSE greenhouse gases as well as reviewing regulations might be regulatory fines, ongoing implementation of the lock mercury emissions at EVRAZ North American penalties or in the worst case scenario out try out LOTO energy isolation sites compared to the requirements of withdrawal of mining or plant environmental programme to establish a zero energy expected US regulation.
state of all equipment before any type of work is commenced and completed, Overall the Companys environmental The Committee members reviewed: especially during maintenance and repair: performance is improving: enforcement of the minimum personal The findings of industrial safety audits protective equipment requirements: Fresh water consumption has fallen due performed by Internal Industrial Audit targeted improvements in railroad, to the implementation of water Department IIAD : and hazardous gas and confined space management programmes as well as The status of external environmental programmes: improved waste processing resulting in inspections carried out by environmental a focused drug testing programme: more efficient fresh water consumption authorities.
a focused H&S improvement plan for and greater recycling of non-mining waste.
Coal Division: Three major legal cases related to Other issues and recommendations implementation and enforcement environmental claims have been resolved The HSE Committee set aside time for safety of a comprehensive contractor safety in favour of EVRAZ.
training for its members and a HSE strategy programme including pre-contract and No significant environmental permits or review conference with senior management pre-job safety review, daily pre-task licences were missing or revoked during of EVRAZ is scheduled for 2015. planning and a focused effort to reduce 2014 period.
the number of contractor companies by signing long term contracts.
However, the Company has seen an increase in key air emissions due to increased sulphur Additionally the Committee recommended content in coal and sinter at EVRAZ ZSMK.
increasing the focus on health issues and related reporting: designing a valid healthThe Committee reviewed environmental related KPI to start tracking progress and initiatives underway to minimise risks developing a health-related action plan for such as air emissions reduction, water the next year.
usage and quality of return discharged water, metallurgical waste recycling and tailing dam overflow or collapse and concluded that Environmental performance in most areas additional work is required.
Environmental performance includes the New environmental initiatives will therefore following metrics: be developed to mitigate newly identified environmental risks and ensure the Non-compliance related environmental Company keeps up with changes to levies taxes and penalties.
Air emissions nitrogen oxides NOx, sulphur oxides SOx, dust and volatile The Committee members agreed to re-base organic compounds.
the Companys fresh water consumption Non-mining waste and by-products target 15% decrease in fresh water generation, recycling and re-use.
consumption within 5 years by excluding Fresh water Intake and water data related to assets which have been management aspects.
disposed of due to their material effect on performance.
See updated chart on page 34.
In 2014, the Committee undertook a review of EVRAZs environmental performance to Further details on HSE performance can be determine the extent to which the Company found in the Corporate Social Responsibility is complying with standards and improving section on pages 30-37. environmental performance.
Key areas reviewed included progress against the 5-year environmental targets set in 2012 and environmental programmes and initiatives at individual facilities.
88 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements Conflicts of interest Relations with shareholders Constructive use of Annual For information on the Shareholder Agreement The Company is committed to communicating General Meeting please refer to Significant contractual its strategy and activities clearly to its The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders arrangements in Directors Report on shareholders and, to that end, maintains an to communicate with the Board and the Board pages99-103.
active dialogue with investors through a wide welcomes their participation.
The next AGM range of investor relations activities and will be held on 18 June 2015.
The Chairman Alexander Abramov is the Chairman of the communication channels including and the respective Chairmen of Committees Company and Alexander Frolov is the CEO.
announcements made via the London Stock will be present at the AGM to answer Ms. Pokrovskaya, Mr. Shvidler, Exchange, the Annual Report and accounts, shareholders questions.
Mr. Tenenbaum, Mr. Abramov and Mr. Frolov the Annual General Meeting the AGM, the have been appointed to the Board of Directors Investor Day and the Companys website Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the of the Company by the major shareholder www.
next AGM can be found in the Notice of AGM at pursuant to the terms of the relationship http: www.
The indirect and direct The Chairman of the Board, the Chief general meeting.
shareholdings of these Directors in the share Executive, senior management and the capital of the Company are set out in the investor relations team regularly engage with The Board has determined that voting on all Directors Report.
No other conflicts of institutional investors through roadshows, resolutions at the AGM will be by way of a interests exist between the private interests group and one-on-one meetings and poll.
Each member present in person or by of the directors or members of senior conference calls to discuss the Companys proxy has one vote for each fully paid ordinary management and their duties to the Company.
operations and a wide range of issues share of which she he is a holder.
More than 300 For completeness, in 2012 the Board individual group meetings, conferences and Geographical distribution of considered an arms length business other public events involving the investment institutional investor share ownership arrangement between one of the Noncommunity took place during 2014.
The by geography as at 26 January 2015 independent directors and the son of Companys top management took an active Sir Michael Peat, the senior Independent part in the meetings giving the investors and Director of the Company, and satisfied itself analysts an opportunity to receive first-hand that this arrangement has no impact on information about Companys operations and 4%1% 2% 3% Sir Michael Peats independence.
The Company also hosted an Investor Day in London on 11 June 2014 13% In addition, in 2013 the Board noted during which Alexander Abramov Chairman, the nomination of Terry Robinson to the Sir Michael Peat Senior Independent Board of OJSC Raspadskaya, a subsidiary Non-Executive Director and Alexander Frolov 41% of the Company, and was satisfied that Chief Executive Officer as well as by this nomination had no impact on members of the senior management team Mr. Robinsons independence.
set out EVRAZs near-term strategic priorities 36% and answered questions on the Companys The Independent non-executive directors performance and financial position.
meet periodically outside of Board and formal United Kingdom Russian Federation Committee meetings to discuss a range of We also held conference calls and a meeting United States Rest of Europe matters including the continued good with socially responsible investors SRI to Norway Rest of World standing of the shareholder relationship discuss operational risks, health and Sweden agreement, dividends where applicable and industrial safety policies, environmental the performance evaluation of the chairman.
As set out in the shareholder relationship agreement, the Independent non-executive The Senior Independent Director, Sir Michael directors have discussed any matters that Peat, has a specific responsibility to be Information pursuant to could be deemed to potentially create a available to shareholders who have concerns the takeovers directive conflict of interest between the Company and that cannot or have not been resolved by The Company has provided the additional the Major Shareholder, including the contact through the normal channels of the information required by DTR 7.2.
7 directors amendments made to the shareholder Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief interests in shares: appointment and relationship agreement in December 2014 Financial Officer or for which such contact replacement of directors: powers of the in order to comply with certain changes to the is inappropriate.
directors: restrictions on voting rights and Listing Rules.
rights regarding control of the Company in the Directors Report on pages 99-103.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 89
