62 Governance Board of directors Board of directors Sir John Peace Don Robert Chris Callero Chairman 65 Chief Executive Officer 54 President and Chief Operating Officer 62 Appointed: Appointed: 6 July 2006 6 July 2006 Appointed: 1 April 2009 Other current roles: Other current roles: Chairman Burberry Group plc, Standard Non-executive director Compass Group PLC.
Other current roles: Chartered PLC Director and trustee National Education and University of California, Irvine Advisory Employer Partnership Taskforce.
Trustee capacity, Paul Merage School of Business.
Previous roles: Sage Hill School, California University of California, Irvine Member, Group Chief Executive Officer and director Chancellors Chief Executive Roundtable.
former GUS plc Previous roles: Segerstrom Center for the Arts Board member Chief Executive Officer Experian North America.
Key skills and experience: Various senior roles The First American Corporation.
Previous roles: Many years experience as a successful board President Credco, Inc.
Chief Executive Officer Experian Americas.
chairman, with this strength frequently mentioned Director former GUS plc.
Past chairman Various senior roles Bank of America 27 years.
An in-depth knowledge of Consumer Data Industry Association Chief Operating Officer Wink Communications Experians business, due to his role in its inception and his time as Group Chief Executive Officer Key skills and experience: Key skills and experience: of GUS plc Record of performance and of increasing shareholder Overall responsibility includes Experian business value and highly regarded by stakeholders.
Has the operations around the globe, and the development right balance of competencies and the necessary and management of growth initiatives to ensure experience to provide Experian with the overall the continued success of the business.
Strong leadership it requires in the next phase of its growth leadership skills, clear strategic vision and an and development in-depth knowledge of the business Brian Cassin Fabiola Arredondo Jan Babiak Chief Financial Officer 46 Non-executive director 47 Non-executive director 56 Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: 30 April 2012 1 January 2007 29 April 2014 Other current roles: Other current roles: Other current roles: None Managing Partner Siempre Holdings.
Non-executive Non-executive director Walgreens, Bank of Montreal.
director Rodale, Inc. the World Wildlife Fund, Council Member Institute of Chartered Accountants Previous roles: Sesame Workshop, NPR National Public Radio in England and Wales Managing Director Greenhill & Co. Senior roles Baring Brothers International, London Previous roles: Previous roles: Stock Exchange Senior operating positions Yahoo!, the BBC, Managing Partner and Executive Board level roles Bertelsmann AG.
Non-executive director Saks, Inc. Ernst & Young.
Non-executive director Logica plc, Key skills and experience: Bankinter S. A. BOC Group plc, Intelsat Corporation Royal Mail plc Exemplary operational performance and contribution to the Board.
A broad range of Key skills and experience: Key skills and experience: operational competencies, including clear Brings directly relevant international strategic and Brings important information technology security leadership and strong, decisive management operational experience in the technology and media and governance, transformation and programme skills, coupled with deep commercial acumen sectors, including a senior role at a pre-eminent management knowledge.
A qualified accountant and a firm grasp of strategic objectives global internet company.
Has extensive leading with an MBA, has excellent non-executive credentials international non-executive directorship experience and has operated globally throughout career and qualifications including an MBA Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee Company Secretary: Charles Brown FCIS Independent Auditors:  LLP, Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor Governance Board of directors 63 Roger Davis Alan Jebson Deirdre Mahlan Sir Alan Rudge Non-executive director 57 Non-executive director 64 Non-executive director 51 Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: 1 January 2007 1 January 2007 1 September 2012 Director 76 Other current roles: Other current roles: Other current roles: Appointed: Chairman Experian plc Chairman Experian plc Audit Chief Financial Officer Diageo plc 6 September 2006 Remuneration Committee.
Non-executive director Previous roles: Other current roles: Chairman Gem Diamonds Vodafone Group plc Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Head Chairman Experian plc Nomination Limited, Sainsburys Bank Previous roles: of Tax and Treasury Diageo plc.
Previous roles: Group Chief Operating Officer, Group Senior Vice President, Chief Financial President The ERA Foundation Limited Chief Executive Officer Barclays UK Chief Information Officer HSBC Officer Diageo North America.
Non-executive director Vice President of Finance Diageo Pro Chancellor Surrey University.
Chairman Cabot Credit MacDonald Dettwiler Guinness USA.
Various senior finance President CELTEL International B. V. Management.
Various roles Flemings roles Joseph Seagram and Sons, Inc. Key skills and experience: Non-executive director S. E. S. A. AG.
and BZW  Information technology, global Special Advisor General Atlantic Key skills and experience: resourcing and an operational Key skills and experience: Partners.
Chairman Board of Over 20 years experience leading background that are invaluable at a A qualified accountant with an MBA, Management of the Royal Commission and managing change at large global large global business like Experian, with many years experience in senior for the Exhibition of 1851, ERA businesses.
Understands what is where issues around server technology finance roles.
Currently a board Technology, WS Atkins.
Deputy Chief required to effectively manage a and information security are of great member at Diageo plc, so understands Executive BT.
Non-executive director large organisation as a result of importance.
A qualified chartered the operational challenges of a global former GUS plc.
Past Chairman extensive executive and nonaccountant, with top-level nonpublic company Engineering and Physical Sciences executive experience executive experience Research Council.
Past President Institution of Electrical Engineers Key skills and experience: Many years experience in general management and technology roles, giving a broad knowledge of operational issues.
Holds a PhD in electrical engineering, has a deep understanding of Experians business and a wealth of experience as a member or chairman of other boards George Rose Judith Sprieser Paul Walker Non-executive director 62 Non-executive director 60 Non-executive director 56 Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: 1 September 2012 1 June 2010 1 June 2010 Other current roles: Other current roles: Other current roles: Non-executive director and audit Vice Chair Royal Ahold N. V. NonNon-executive Chairman Perform committee chairman Genel executive director Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Halma plc, WANdisco Energy plc, Laing ORourke plc.
Group plc, Allstate Corporation, plc.
Chair Newcastle Science City Member Industrial Development InterContinental Exchange, Inc. Partnership.
Director Entrepreneurs Advisory Board Forum Previous roles: Previous roles: President and Chief Executive Officer Previous roles: Group Finance Director, Director of Transora.
Executive Vice President, Chief Executive Officer, Finance Finance and Treasury BAE Systems Food Operations, Chief Financial Director, Financial Controller The plc.
Senior finance positions Leyland Officer Sara Lee Corporation.
Non-executive director DAF plc, Rover Group and finance executive director USG Corporation, Diageo plc, MyTravel Group plc.
NonAdecco SA Ernst & Young executive director National Grid plc, Key skills and experience: Key skills and experience: SAAB AB, Orange plc Relevant experience of providing insight Spent 16 years as chief executive Key skills and experience: into customer decision-making, and officer of a FTSE company, giving a Career has included high-level a wealth of international experience.
great understanding of the challenges finance positions, including at An experienced non-executive director of running a global business.
An board level with BAE Systems plc.
who has chaired both audit and economics graduate with a strong Continues to hold non-executive remuneration committees financial background and high-level positions with leading companies non-executive experience
