64 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report Governance framework Delegated Board Group Operating Committee authority flow committees The committee comprises the most senior Audit Board executives from the Group.
Its remit includes Committee See Board section identifying, debating and achieving consensus which follows.
See Audit on issues involving strategy, growth, people and Committee report.
It also focuses on ensuring strong communication and co-operative working relationships among the top team.
Its meetings tend to be issues-oriented and focus on Principal subsidiaries selected Group issues worthy of debate.
These are Group companies to which the Board has delegated certain decisionStrategic project committees making powers, for example global and regional implementing decisions These committees comprise the most senior Remuneration agreed in principle by global and regional executives.
The committees Committee the Board: executive remit is to oversee a process to ensure that all management of the See strategic projects are appropriately resourced, operations of the Group Remuneration risk-assessed and commercially, financially and within the strategy and Committee report.
Depending on the outcome budget approved by the of the discussions, the committees conclusions are Board: acquisitions and then considered by the relevant Group company for disposals with a value up approval.
to US$20m, and capital expenditure projects.
Risk management committees Nomination executive, regional and global operations and Corporate The Executive Risk Management Committee ERMC Governance Executive comprises senior Group executives, including the Committee executive directors and the Company Secretary.
Its management team See Nomination primary responsibility is to oversee the management and Corporate of global risks.
The regional risk committees oversee Governance the management of regional risks, consistent with Committee Experians risk appetite, strategies and objectives.
Global operational risks, including technology and Operating project risks, are monitored by a global operations risk businesses management committee.
Global Delegated Authorities Matrix Internal Audit This key document pieces together the schedule of Internal Audit conducts a range of independent matters reserved to the Board, the Board committees audit reviews throughout the Group during the terms of reference and the authority levels for the year and is represented at each Audit Committee Groups principal subsidiaries, directors and senior meeting.
Internal Audits plans, results and key executives.
For matters not reserved to the Board, the findings are presented to and discussed with the matrix prescribes the cascade of authorities delegated Audit Committee.
The internal audit programme throughout the Group by respective Group companies, and methodology are aligned to the risk categories together with the monetary limits of these delegations.
and risk assessment parameters established by the The matrix is reviewed and refreshed regularly and the global risk management function.
It also makes use Board monitors the exercise of delegations to the Groups of risk assessment information at a business level, in principal subsidiaries, which are reported to it at each planning and conducting its audits.
Regional matrices are also in place.
Governance Corporate governance report 65 BOARD Attendance at Board and principal committee meetings Composition Nomination and Corporate Governance Remuneration Audit The Board currently comprises the Board Committee Committee Committee Chairman, three executive directors and Sir John Peace 100% 6 6 100% 6 6 n a n a nine independent non-executive directors, Don Robert 100% 6 6 1 83% 5 6 n a n a including a Deputy Chairman.
As explained Chris Callero 100% 6 6 2 n a n a n a in the Chairmans introduction, with effect Brian Cassin 100% 6 6 1 n a n a n a from 16 July 2014, Don Robert has been Fabiola Arredondo 83% 5 6 2 100% 6 6 1 100% 4 4 100% 5 5 appointed as Chairman, Brian Cassin has been appointed as Chief Executive Roger Davis 100% 6 6 100% 6 6 100% 4 4 100% 5 5 Officer, George Rose will succeed Sir Alan Alan Jebson 100% 6 6 1 100% 6 6 1 100% 4 4 100% 5 5 Rudge as Deputy Chairman and Senior Deirdre Mahlan 83% 5 6 83% 5 6 75% 3 4 80% 4 5 Independent Director and Kerry Williams George Rose 100% 6 6 100% 6 6 100% 4 4 100% 5 5 will succeed Chris Callero as Chief Sir Alan Rudge 100% 6 6 1 100% 6 6 1 100% 4 4 100% 5 5 Operating Officer.
Lloyd Pitchford has been Judith Sprieser 83% 5 6 2 100% 6 6 1 100% 4 4 n a appointed as Chief Financial Officer, and Paul Walker 100% 6 6 1 100% 6 6 1 100% 4 4 100% 5 5 will join in September 2014, and Jan Babiak was appointed as a non-executive director Includes, in brackets, attendance at two ad hoc Board meetings and one ad hoc Nomination and Corporate on 29 April 2014.
Governance Committee meeting during the year.
Percentage calculations do not include attendance at the ad hoc meetings.
The Board sets Experians strategic accountable to shareholders for delivering Appointments approval of direction and ensures that we have financial performance and long-term appointments, on the Nomination and the necessary financial and human shareholder value.
To achieve this, the Corporate Governance Committees resources to achieve our goals.
In Board has put in place a framework of recommendation.
January each year, senior management controls, which enables the Group to presents the proposed strategy for the Approval of Group policies appraise and manage risk effectively, following financial year to the Board.
This including, for example, an anti-corruption through clear and robust procedures and allows the Board to critically review the policy, a gifts and hospitality policy, a delegated authorities.
In addition, the proposed strategy with management global code of conduct and a global Board has reserved certain key activities and, at the January Board meeting, compliance policy.
to itself for decision, including: consider the strategy for approval.
The Board meetings budget discussions in March ensure Strategy and management approval that Experian has the right resources to and oversight of Experians long-term The Board meets regularly during the deliver the agreed strategy, and include objectives and commercial strategy, year and on an ad hoc basis when detailed focus on both regional and ensuring that the necessary financial required.
Each scheduled meeting is global business line budgets.
and human resources are in place to normally held over two or three days, with meet the objectives.
Board committee meetings also taking The Board also monitors management place during this time.
This meeting and financial performance against the Management oversight review of structure enhances the effectiveness of Groups goals.
To enable it to do this, operating, financial and risk performance.
the Board and its committees.
the Board receives operational and Regulatory and statutory activity financial updates at every scheduled The Board holds at least one overseas including approval of the Groups Board meeting, and receives financial meeting each year, which allows results, key stakeholder documents updates between meetings.
The Board management across the Group to present and dividends.
also receives post-investment reviews on to the Board and to meet the directors an agreed timeline, for any acquisitions it Finance and treasury approval of the informally.
This year, the September Board has approved.
framework for the Groups finance, banking and committee meetings were held over and capital structure arrangements.
three days in Dallas, Texas.
It is not possible, or correct, for the Board to be involved in managing the Groups day-to-day activities.
However, the Board is 66 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued What did the Board do during the year?
The Boards key activities during the year are set out below.
These include activities related to the Groups strategy, which the Board decided on in the light of its risk appetite and risk management processes.
Investor relations Corporate development Governance and risk Received an investor relations Received an update at each Approved a number of Board and media update at each Board Board meeting on the corporate changes and appointments, on the meeting.
recommendation of the Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee.
Reviewed draft full and half-year Approved the acquisitions of financial results presentations, Passport Health Communications Reviewed risk reports and the for analysts and institutional and The 41st Parameter.
appropriateness of preparing the shareholders.
financial statements on a going Conducted post-investment concern basis.
Engaged with shareholders, through reviews on the 2011 acquisitions the Remuneration Committee, of DP Information, SafetyWeb, Received regular updates on corporate on proposed remuneration Medical Present Value, RiskDisk, responsibility issues, and the annual arrangements for 2013 14.
environmental and health and safety updates.
Engaged with shareholders, through the Deputy Chairman and Senior Reviewed the findings of the 2014 15 Independent Director, on proposed external Board evaluation, approved Board changes and appointments.
amendments to Board committee terms of reference, authorised Board members potential conflicts of interest and approved the annual re-election of Operational and financial Board members.
performance, including monitoring Received details of Board members Received operational and financial share dealings and external updates from the Chief Executive appointments.
Officer and Chief Financial Officer respectively, at each scheduled Board meeting.
Reviewed monthly finance reports, Strategy including details of performance Received presentations from the against budget and the Groups Groups senior leaders at the annual financial position.
strategy day, including consideration Approved the Groups annual report of the Groups operational strategy and and full and half-year financial potential growth opportunities.
results, and made recommendations regarding dividend payments.
Presentations included those covering vertical markets, sales effectiveness, Approved the issue of 400m technology, Consumer Services, 3.5% bonds due 2021, and the Brazil and Credit Services, along with establishment of a US$1.64bn an update on the Heart of Experian commercial paper programme, under Other initiative and financial analysis.
which the Group has issued paper.
Approved the Groups strategy Received the Groups budget for 2014 15. presentation for 2014 15 and received updates on Group insurance and pension arrangements.
Length of tenure of Balance of executive and nonBalance of male and female directors directors at 31 March 2014 executive directors at 31 March 2014 at 31 March 2014 Chairman Executive 05 years Independent Male non-executive Over 5 years Female Company listed in October 2006 Governance Corporate governance report 67 Management succession Board, committee and director effectiveness review Continued development of the talent pool remained a high An external evaluation of Board and committee effectiveness priority for the Group and for the Board.
Board members was carried out during the year by Sheena Crane who has received opportunities to meet with key talent and potential no other connections with the Group to provide the Board future leaders during the year, including on their visit to Dallas, with greater insights into its performance and to identify Texas and at other Board meetings.
opportunities to further increase and improve its overall Board visits effectiveness.
Ms Crane conducted the evaluation in February The Board continued to make visits, and receive presentations, March 2014, and attended the Board meeting in March 2014 to in respect of its key markets, as highlighted elsewhere in this present her conclusions.
These provided the Board with Set out below are details of the progress since the prior years excellent insights into those key markets.
internal evaluation, and the Boards effectiveness objectives Board effectiveness objectives for 2014 15 for the coming year.
The external evaluation process was complemented with separate meetings between each director Strategy and the Chairman.
The evaluation of the Chairman himself was This year the Board will continue to monitor the Groups undertaken by the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent business portfolio and geographies, with a focus on longer term Director, taking account of the input of the Chief Executive direction to help the Board make appropriate strategic choices Officer and the other directors.
and to prioritise investment and resource allocation.
Progress report on Board evaluation priorities Regulatory environment identified in the 2012 13 internal evaluation Given its increasing relevance for the Group, the Board will ensure that the Group remains fully equipped to deal with the Strategy rapidly evolving regulatory environment.
It will monitor, support, The Board continued to focus on their key development role in challenge and recommend ways to remain at the forefront of determining strategic direction, including an increased spotlight embedding best practice.
on an increasingly regulated environment for the Group e. g. the UK Financial Conduct Authority assuming responsibility for Risk management consumer credit regulation with effect from 1 April 2014 and One of the Boards ongoing key requirements is that the Group elevated focus on risk assessment of new opportunities.
has robust processes in place to identify, evaluate and manage their key risks.
In the coming year more time and emphasis Board and committee composition will be placed on evaluating key risk areas including emerging Several key Board changes were considered during the year due market and acquisition risk.
The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee and the Board spent a significant Succession and talent development amount of time focused on this area, including further The Board will continue to provide significant focus on development of the Board succession plan to ensure it remained matching succession and talent development with the strategic robust and fit for purpose taking account of the strategic challenges facing the Group to ensure there are the available direction of the Group.
capabilities and talent to succeed.
This will include the appointment of two new independent non-executive directors to The announcement in January 2014 of the appointment of the further strengthen the Board one was appointed in April 2014.
Chief Executive Officer as Chairman and the Chief Financial Officer as Chief Executive Officer as well as other Board Board development changes was the culmination of a carefully and thoughtfully Overseas visits are a key source of development for individual considered succession process, which was agreed by the Board non-executive directors as well as for the whole Board.
This year and then shared with the investor community.
the Board will continue their programme of key regional market visits, and this will provide them with deeper insights into local issues, risk, culture, talent and related matters.
Experian website The Experian website www.
com contains additional information on our corporate governance.
There you will find: Terms of reference of the principal Board committees.
The schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
The Companys memorandum and articles of association.
Details of AGM proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld.
Schedule of responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
68 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Information security an update led or potential conflicts, which the Board Board support by the Chief Information Security Officer, considers at its September meeting.
The Group Corporate Secretariat, Application Security Director and the In addition, directors are expected to under the leadership of Charles Brown, Director of Investigations, on security advise the Company Secretary of any the Company Secretary, provides issues for Experian, including application actual or potential conflicts as soon as administrative and logistical support to security and incident management.
they arise, so the Board can consider the Board.
The Company Secretary is also Asia Pacific an overview from the them at the next available opportunity.
In responsible for: Chief Executive Officer and the Chief the Boards view, this procedure operated corporate governance, statutory and Operating Officer for the region, which effectively during the year under review.
listing, prospectus, and disclosure included a regional overview and details and transparency rules compliance Chairman and of opportunities, competition, strategy and reporting: Chief Executive Officer and growth areas.
shareholder services: As explained in the introduction to the Conflicts of interest enterprise risk management: and Governance section, Don Robert will The Companys articles of association succeed Sir John Peace as Chairman and corporate responsibility.
allow the Board to authorise actual Brian Cassin will succeed Mr Robert as He is secretary to the Board, its principal or potential conflicts of interest.
The Chief Executive Officer, both with effect committees and the Global Strategic authorisation procedure involves Group from 16 July 2014.
Mr Robert will be Projects Committee, and is a member Corporate Secretariat issuing guidance non-executive Chairman, and the existing of the Group Operating Committee.
and a questionnaire each August, written separation of the roles of the asking directors to identify any conflicts Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer All directors receive financial and operational information each month, to help them discharge their duties.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Board papers are circulated at least a week ahead of each Board meeting, to ensure directors have time to review Chairmans Chief Executive Officers them before meetings.
responsibilities include: responsibilities include: Directors have access to independent Running the Board effectively and Running the Groups business, and professional advice at the Companys ensuring that the Board as a whole developing the Groups strategy and expense, if they consider it appropriate.
plays a full and constructive part overall commercial objectives.
No director obtained any such advice in developing and determining during the year ended 31 March 2014. the Groups strategy and overall Implementing, with the executive Induction and training commercial objectives.
team, the decisions of the Board, its committees and the principal There is an induction programme Promoting the highest standards subsidiaries.
for all new non-executive directors.
of integrity, probity and corporate Directors also receive ongoing training, governance throughout the Group Maintaining a dialogue with the to ensure they can appropriately and particularly at Board level.
Chairman on the important and perform their duties.
During the year, strategic issues facing the Group and the Board received training which Ensuring that the Board receives ensuring that the Chairman is alerted included the following: accurate, timely and clear information to forthcoming complex, contentious on the Groups performance and the Latin America an overview from or sensitive issues.
issues, challenges and opportunities the Managing Director, Spanish Latin facing the Group.
America, which included details of Leading the communication people engagement, results and programme with shareholders.
Ensuring effective communication FY13 performance, the competitive with the Companys shareholders, landscape, growth strategy and including by the Chief Executive opportunities for the future.
Officer, the Chief Financial Officer Verticals a presentation from the and other executive management, Managing Director, UK and Ireland, and ensuring that members of the and the Managing Director, Global Board develop an understanding of Sales Operations, on the Groups the views of the Companys major vertical progress to date, the changing investors.
business landscape and details of growth acceleration planning.
Governance Corporate governance report 69 will remain in force.
This clear separation was not amended in any respect when the Board training Dallas Board resolved to make the appointments.
The schedule of responsibilities of the The Board visited Dallas, Texas, in September 2013 and spent time at the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer Groups National Consumer Assistance Centre and other operational facilities, is available on the Companys website, including a data centre.
The Board also received in-depth training presentations www.
com, and an extract from senior executives, as follows: appears on the previous page.
Review of the regulatory environment including a review of the Groups Senior Independent Director activities, updates on the political and regulatory environment, the risks and opportunities for the Group and appropriate strategies for operating in an The Senior Independent Director is increasingly regulated environment.
the Deputy Chairman, Sir Alan Rudge.
Customer service sessions covering areas such as building the Experian George Rose has been appointed to brand so it becomes the most trusted consumer brand for credit information succeed Sir Alan as Senior Independent and identity protection services, building a world-class consumer experience Director and Deputy Chairman, and this and empowering the consumer.
change will take place with effect from the conclusion of the AGM on 16 July Technology and information technology strategy including details of 2014.
The Senior Independent Director achievements to date, the Technology teams strategic objectives, the key is available to meet shareholders who programmes deployed around the Group and potential innovations.
have concerns that cannot be resolved Vertical markets and channels business reviews the vertical markets and through discussion with the Chairman, channels reviewed were retail, US public sector, automotive, healthcare, affinity the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief and SME small and medium enterprises.
Financial Officer, or where such contact is inappropriate.
Non-executive directors of information already made public.
The Relations with shareholders Appointment announcement of the annual and halfand others Non-executive directors are initially year results and interim management Set out below are a few of the ways appointed for a term of three years which statements provide opportunities for in which the Company interacts with may, subject to satisfactory performance the Company to answer questions from investors and others, and keeps abreast and election or re-election by the analysts covering a wide range of topics.
of their views: shareholders, be extended by mutual Investor roadshows took place during agreement.
Non-executive directors the year in Dublin, London, Edinburgh, Board an investor relations and media normally serve for a maximum of nine Boston, Sydney, Melbourne and Singapore.
report is circulated before every Board years, through three, three-year terms.
meeting, and contains a commentary on Annual general meeting AGM the investment communitys perception of Meetings of non-executive directors this important event provides a valuable the Company, media reports, share price In addition to attending Board and opportunity for the Board to communicate performance and analysis.
committee meetings, the non-executive with shareholders and to meet them directors normally meet without the informally before the main business of Consultation with investors executive directors present at the end the meeting.
All directors are expected this year, the chairmen of both the of each scheduled Board meeting.
Remuneration Committee and the non-executive directors also meet at Nomination and Corporate Governance The 2014 AGM will take place on least once a year without the Chairman Committee consulted major investors Wednesday 16 July 2014.
Shareholders present, and did so a number of times and others.
Roger Davis and Sir Alan are encouraged to attend and to use the during the year.
Rudge respectively discussed future opportunity to ask questions.
However, remuneration arrangements and Independence if it is not practical for shareholders to Board changes.
Sir Alan also held a The Board considers each of the attend, we encourage them to use proxy number of meetings with investors current non-executive directors to be voting on the resolutions put forward, all and representative bodies.
independent in character and judgment of which with the exception of procedural and that there are no relationships resolutions are taken by a poll.
In 2013, Investors and analysts the executive or circumstances that are likely to voting levels at the AGM were 67.6% of team has an ongoing programme of affect or could appear to affect the Companys issued share capital, dialogue and meetings with institutional each directors judgment.
compared with 69% in 2012. investors and analysts, at which they discuss a wide range of issues including strategy, performance, management and governance, within the constraints 70 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Private shareholders the Company managing the significant risks Experian view that the information was sufficient Secretary, Charles Brown, oversees faces, including those risks relating to to enable it to review the effectiveness communication with private shareholders social, ethical and environmental matters.
of the Groups system of internal control and the Company issues a Shareholder This process has been in place for the in accordance with the UK Financial Questions card each year with the AGM financial year and up to the date of Reporting Councils Internal Control: documentation.
Mr Brown ensures that approval of this annual report.
Full details Revised Guidance for Directors the the Company responds to shareholders of the Experian risk management and Turnbull Guidance, and the system has directly, as appropriate, either at or internal control systems can be found no significant failings or weaknesses.
in the Protecting our business section Board committee reports of the annual report.
Website the Companys website is an The principal Board committees are the important channel for communicating As such systems are designed to Nomination and Corporate Governance with shareholders and all material manage rather than eliminate the risk of Committee, the Remuneration information reported to the regulatory failure to achieve business objectives, Committee and the Audit Committee.
news services is published there, they can provide reasonable, but not The committees operate within defined together with copies of annual and halfabsolute, assurance against material terms of reference, which cover the year results announcements and interim financial misstatement or loss.
For authority delegated to them by the management statements.
certain joint arrangements, the Board Board.
The terms of reference are relies on the systems of internal Investor relations app this available on the Experian website at control operating within the partners contains information on our financial www.
com or from the infrastructure and the obligations of performance, together with reports, Company Secretary on request.
The the partners boards, relating to the presentations and news of upcoming Company Secretary is secretary to effectiveness of their own systems.
The UK Corporate Governance Code Risk management Throughout the year, the committee provides that an annual review of the chairmen reported to the Board on the and internal control effectiveness of the risk management issues considered at committee meetings and control systems is performed and, The Board is responsible for establishing, and the minutes of Audit Committee maintaining and reviewing sound risk in the manner displayed below, the Audit meetings were circulated to the Board.
Committee performs this review under management and internal control Reports of the activities of each of the systems, and there is an ongoing process delegated authority from the Board.
Following the review, it is the Boards in place for identifying, evaluating and Risk management and internal control systems review process Internal audit reports Internal audit fraud and whistleblowing reports External auditors report Independent Corporate responsibility independent assurance report assessment Through a Review by relevant regulatory bodies e. g. US Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Evaluation of external auditors combination Evaluation of internal audit of ongoing and annual reviews, the Board is Annual executive certification of compliance with Turnbull Guidance and control adequacy able to review Risk management reports Compliance reports the ongoing Management Information security reports effectiveness Material litigation reports assurance of the Impairment and going concern reviews Groups risk Annual report and half-yearly financial report review management Management representation letters and internal control systems Annual internal audit plan External auditors engagement letter Board Audit External auditors annual audit plan Committee Treasury policy review approved Compliance policy review Global Delegated Authority Matrix, which defines internal approval procedures Governance Corporate governance report 71 NOMINATION AND Primary roles Activities CORPORATE GOVERNANCE To ensure that appropriate The Committee spent a significant COMMITTEE REPORT procedures are in place for amount of time during the year nominating, selecting, training considering Board succession, including and evaluating directors, and Chairman succession, culminating in that adequate succession plans the changes described earlier in the are in place.
To review the Boards structure, size, The Chairman succession process composition and succession needs, began after Sir John Peace announced keeping under consideration at all in May 2013 that he intended to resign times the balance of membership as Chairman.
The Committee agreed and the Boards required balance to conduct an external search and also of skills, experience, independence asked Mr Robert if he was interested and knowledge.
The Committee considered a number of external search partners, Sir Alan Rudge To identify and nominate, for with the Committee Chairman, Sir Alan the Boards approval, suitable Chairman Rudge, interviewing those shortlisted.
The candidates to fill vacancies for Committee approved the appointment non-executive directors and, of Zygos, sought shareholders initial Current members with the Chief Executive Officers feedback on the Chairman role, shortassistance, executive directors.
Board Sir Alan Rudge Chairman listed candidates and assessed their appointments are made on merit and Sir John Peace fit against a Committee-approved role against objective criteria, to ensure Don Robert specification.
Following these actions, the the Board maintains its balance of Fabiola Arredondo Committee confirmed in principle that it skills, experience, independence Jan Babiak supported Don Roberts appointment as and knowledge.
Roger Davis Chairman, subject to further shareholder To review legislative, regulatory and engagement and Board approval.
Deirdre Mahlan corporate governance developments George Rose In terms of the Chief Executive Officer and make recommendations to Alan Jebson role, Spencer Stuart was engaged to the Board, and to ensure that the Judith Sprieser assess the market for external candidates.
Company observes the standards Paul Walker They also undertook a comparative and disclosures recommended by assessment and external benchmarking the UK Corporate Governance Code.
of Experians executive leadership team.
Governance This comprised executive intelligence analysis, competency-based interviews The Committee was in place throughout and 360-degree feedback.
The Committee the year ended 31 March 2014 and reviewed the output of the exercise, met seven times, including one ad hoc then confirmed in principle its support meeting.
The Board considers nine for appointing Brian Cassin as Chief current members of the Committee, Executive Officer, subject to shareholder including the Committee Chairman, to engagement and Board approval.
Spencer be independent non-executive directors, Stuart also began to assess the market in accordance with provision B.
2.1 of the for Chief Financial Officer candidates, UK Corporate Governance Code.
The and the Committee approved the Chief Group Human Resources Director and Financial Officer role specification.
A the Global Talent Director attend certain shortlist of candidates was developed, meetings by invitation.
The new Chief and further refined, and the Committee Executive Officer, Brian Cassin, will not be recommended the appointment of Lloyd a member of the Committee.
Pitchford to the Board, which approved the appointment.
72 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued The Committee also considered the likely During the year, the Committee also Process for Board appointments requirements for appointing a new Deputy approved the process for the 2014 15 The processes for the Chairman, Chief Chairman and Senior Independent Board evaluation: received an AGM Executive Officer and Chief Financial Director to replace Sir Alan Rudge, who briefing from the Company Secretary, Officer appointments are described had announced his intended retirement.
including voting results and shareholder previously.
The Committee also has an feedback: reviewed the Committees established process for appointing nonBefore the Committee made any terms of reference: and, following executive directors, which begins with recommendation on Mr Roberts rigorous review, recommended that the the Committee agreeing the scope of the and Mr Cassins appointments, it Board re-appoint certain directors for role and engaging a specialist search sought shareholder feedback on the further terms.
The appointments and additional safeguards Committee reviews the search companys to ensure sufficient independence, checks The Boards diversity policy shortlist and interviews candidates who, and balances, and challenge on the We respect, value and welcome diversity, if thought suitable, are recommended to Board.
including gender diversity, and seek to the Board for appointment.
In accordance reflect the diversity of our client, investor On the basis of the shareholder feedback with the UK Corporate Governance Code and general employee base in our Board.
and previous Committee discussions, and the Companys articles of association, To this end, we recruit talented and the Committee recommended these any newly appointed director is subject diverse Board members, who have the appointments, and also the appointments to election at the first AGM following the appropriate mix of skills, capabilities and of George Rose as Deputy Chairman appointment, and at every subsequent market knowledge to ensure the Board and Senior Independent Director, an AGM, and an induction programme is is effective.
When recruiting, we look external Chief Financial Officer and a developed for the new appointee.
This across all sectors and non-traditional new independent non-executive director.
process was followed during the year in talent pools, and we require diversity of The Board unanimously approved the respect of the appointment of Jan Babiak, candidates on our shortlists.
Sir John Peace fully and the specialist search company further details regarding diversity below supported the appointment of his used was Lygon who also provide other Board level in the Our people section.
successor, but was not involved in the executive search services, and marketappointment decision.
undertook further engagement with major shareholders and governance bodies after the appointments were announced, including a letter to major shareholders and investor representative bodies, and a number of meetings with such bodies.
Of the two external search consultancies used for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer appointments, Spencer Stuart has an existing connection with the Company: it provides executive search services in respect of other roles around the Group.
Governance Corporate governance report 73 Initiated and reviewed feedback REMUNERATION Governance from a shareholder consultation COMMITTEE REPORT The Remuneration Committee was exercise, concerning the proposed in place throughout the year ended performance measures, targets and 31 March 2014 and met four times.
The operation of the Companys long-term Board considers all of the Committees incentive plans.
members to be independent nonApproved the proposed remuneration executive directors, in accordance with arrangements for Don Robert as provision D. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Chairman, Brian Cassin as Chief Governance Code.
The Chairman and Executive Officer, and Lloyd Pitchford Chief Executive Officer attend meetings as Chief Financial Officer.
They do not attend when their own remuneration is discussed and Received updates on the no director is involved in deciding his or Companys long-term incentive plans, her own remuneration.
Other regular including in respect of performance Roger Davis attendees include the Group Human conditions.
Chairman Resources Director and members of the Agreed: the 2013 bonus outcome: Global Reward team.
The Committee 2014 bonus targets: targets for meets regularly with its independent Current members long-term incentive awards: the advisers.
participants for certain long-term Roger Davis Chairman On first appointment, all Committee incentive plans: and to make share Fabiola Arredondo members received an induction in the plan awards.
Jan Babiak Committees role and the operation of its Alan Jebson Initiated the invitation to employees terms of reference.
Deirdre Mahlan to participate in the 2013 Sharesave Activities plan, and received an update on George Rose participation rates.
Sir Alan Rudge At its meetings during the year, Judith Sprieser the Committee: Reviewed the Committees terms Paul Walker of reference, and recommended Approved the appointment of some changes to the Board for Towers Watson as the Committees Primary roles consideration.
To recommend to the Board senior Reviewed the Chairmans fee and Received and discussed a management remuneration policy the salaries of the Chief Executive presentation from Towers Watson and the Chairmans remuneration.
Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, on current trends in executive the Chief Operating Officer, the remuneration, the UK corporate To determine individual remuneration Company Secretary and a number governance environment and packages for executive directors and of senior executives, taking account considerations for share plan certain senior executives.
In this context, the To communicate with shareholders throughout Experian and relevant Committee also discussed the on remuneration policy.
Groups executive remuneration strategy for the year ended 31 March To review and recommend to the Received an update on the 2014, and considerations for the next Board the design of the Groups Companys response to the UK financial year.
Department for Business Innovation & Skills consultation on revised Received updates on the Companys To oversee the Groups executive reporting regulations for executive voluntary application of the new UK pension arrangements.
regulations covering the content of directors remuneration reports, and The Report on directors remuneration reviewed the 2013 report on directors sets out the way in which the Company remuneration, which included early has applied corporate governance adoption of some elements of the principles to directors remuneration.
74 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Agreeing the 2014 audit plan with AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Governance the external auditors and noting The Audit Committee was in place their risk assessment of the Group, throughout the year ended 31 March 2014. relative to other clients and the It met five times, with meetings held to FTSE 100 generally.
The external coincide with key dates in the financial auditors confirmed their plans to reporting and audit cycle.
The Board improve the alignment of the audit considers all members of the Committee to with the Groups strategic aims.
The be independent non-executive directors, in Committee also noted the auditors compliance with provision C. 3.1 of the UK plans to extend the use of technologyCorporate Governance Code.
enabled audit techniques, the risk The Chairman and the other directors areas to be covered by the audit and the materiality levels to be applied.
Other regular attendees include the General Alan Jebson Receiving updates on the audit Counsel and the Head of Global Chairman process from the external auditors, Internal Audit.
Representatives from which included details of the  LLP, including audits status, key matters arising the lead audit partner, attend Committee Current members from the audit and assessments meetings.
At each meeting, the of managements judgments on Alan Jebson Chairman Committee meets the external auditors them, reviewing the content of Fabiola Arredondo and the Head of Global Internal Audit the independence letter and the Jan Babiak without management present.
management representation letter, as Roger Davis In terms of recent and relevant financial well as engagement terms.
Deirdre Mahlan experience, the Committee includes George Rose Receiving, at each meeting, Deirdre Mahlan, the current Chief Sir Alan Rudge an update from the internal Financial Officer of Diageo plc, and audit function, including work Paul Walker George Rose, former Group Finance performed, progress against Director of BAE Systems plc and the annual plan, staffing and Primary roles chairman of the audit committee of details of actions required by the Genel Energy plc and Laing ORourke plc.
To monitor the integrity of the Committee.
The Committee also The Board considers that the Committee financial statements.
spent time considering specific members collective international operational matters initially raised To review the effectiveness of the experience enables them to act as an by internal audit the Committee system of internal control, including effective committee.
The Committee has agreed appropriate actions with the risk management system.
access to the financial expertise within input from senior management the Group and the external auditors, and To review the effectiveness of and external advisers, and made the Chairman of the Audit Committee is the audit process and the recommendations to the Board.
The in regular contact with key members of independence and objectivity Committee reviewed and approved senior management.
the annual internal audit plan, and reviewed an evaluation of internal Activities To monitor and review the audit in detail.
effectiveness of the internal The ways in which the Committee audit function.
Reviewing a variety of reports on discharged its responsibilities during risk as more fully described in the the year ended 31 March 2014 included: To develop and monitor policy on the Protecting our business section of external auditors providing non-audit Reviewing the 2013 preliminary and the annual report.
2014 half-year results announcements regular material litigation update, and the 2013 annual report and To approve the external with a focus this year on claims financial statements.
The Committee auditors remuneration and received in Brazil, relating to the also reviewed impairment papers, terms of engagement, and disclosure and use of credit scores.
as required by IAS 36, and papers make recommendations about Receiving a fraud and whistleblowing supporting the preparation of relevant their re-appointment.
update, and agreeing to receive these financial statements on a going reports more frequently.
For more information on the matters considered in relation to the going concern assessment, please see the Financial review section.
Governance Corporate governance report 75 Reviewing the effectiveness of The significant issues in relation to the on the tax charge for the year, and the Groups system of risk Group financial statements considered in the exclusion of that impact from management and internal control, respect of the year ended 31 March 2014, the benchmark tax charge, were including financial, operational, and the manner in which these issues considered to be appropriate.
were addressed, can be summarised as Secondly, the Committee considered follows: an update on the claim by the Reviewing and approving the Groups Brazilian tax authorities in respect treasury policy.
The Committee considered of the deduction for tax purposes managements impairment analysis Approving the Committees annual of goodwill amortisation arising and the methodology adopted.
It was meeting schedule and reviewing from the acquisition of the majority noted that the headroom within the the Committees terms of reference.
In the EMEA and Asia Pacific segments Some changes to ensure alignment light of developments during the had declined during the year due to with the UK Corporate Governance year, it concluded that it remained the loss of a significant contract in Code were recommended to the appropriate to regard this claim EMEA, the delay in the launch of the Board and subsequently approved.
Australian credit bureau and the sale Agreeing a process that would enable of a business in Asia Pacific.
External auditors the directors to conclude that the The Committee considered the Tenure and tendering annual report and financial statements accounting treatment of the  LLP have been are fair, balanced and understandable acquisition of Passport Health the Companys auditors since the Group and provide information necessary Communications and The 41st was demerged from the former GUS plc to assess performance, business Parameter.
The next rotation of lead model and strategy, in line with the concluded that their provisional audit engagement partner will take place new requirement in the UK Corporate acquisition balance sheets were following the conclusion of the audit Governance Code.
To received a paper detailing the new date, the Committee has not considered requirement, and the external auditors The Committee considered the it necessary to require the auditors to also briefed the internal management accounting treatment of the sale of tender for the audit work, and there are team responsible for drafting the a number of businesses in the year.
no contractual obligations restricting the annual report.
The Committee The Committee concluded that the Companys choice of external auditor.
considers that it has sufficient recognition of impairment charges opportunity to review the annual on goodwill US$15m and acquisition It remains the current intention that report and financial statements, and intangibles US$9m was appropriate Experian will, in due course, comply that there is sufficient review by senior in determining the assets held for with the UK Corporate Governance management.
It was also confirmed, sale at 30 September 2013 and Codes recommendation that FTSE as part of the process, that the Board subsequently disposed of.
350 companies put the external audit would receive advice annually from out to tender at least every ten years.
The Committee considered the the Committee on reaching the Following its statement in January 2014 litigation against the Group in fair, balanced and understandable that it proposed to remove the reference Brazil relating to the use of credit conclusion.
to tendering from the UK Corporate scores.
The Committee reviewed Governance Code, in April 2014 the UK Receiving an update on the existing managements analysis of the matter Financial Reporting Council FRC UK Corporate Governance Code and agreed with their conclusion stated its intention to defer consideration provision, and proposals from the that the risk of loss was possible.
The of that proposal until 2016.
In addition, UK Competition Commission and Committee considered the disclosure there have been recent developments the European Union, in relation to of the contingent liability and, given from the UK Competition Commission potential requirements to put the the uncertainty surrounding the and the European Union in relation to external audit out to tender or rotate possible outcomes, determined that it tendering and mandatory rotation.
Audit Committee is reviewing all of these Reviewing the Groups position in The Committee considered two developments and the Groups updated relation to the integration plans for specific tax issues.
First, and in the plans will be disclosed in due course.
acquired businesses, noting the light of the further reduction in the In the meantime, the annual process multitude of factors involved, the main rate of UK corporation tax, it of evaluating the effectiveness of the importance of robust processes considered managements analysis external auditors as described on the and that different jurisdictions may of the carrying value of deferred following page will continue.
tax recognised in respect of tax losses.
The treatment of the asset and resultant impact of US$23m 76 Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Effectiveness, independence the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees, the Committee recommended to the and reappointment and concluded that the Group and the Board for shareholder approval that auditors had complied with the guidance.
the external auditors be reappointed.
As part of assessing the effectiveness of the audit process, the Audit Committee Independence is an important element Non-audit services reviews the annual audit plan each of the external audit.
The Committee  LLP provides September.
Then, in March and April monitors this during the year, by reviewing a range of other services to Experian, May, it receives detailed updates on the potential threats to independence and the which include tax compliance and audits progress, which include details associated safeguards.
To ensure auditor of the external auditors actions, such include assessing the relationships objectivity and independence, the as the audit procedures undertaken, the between the external auditors and Company has a policy in relation audits coverage of revenue and EBIT, Experian, having no contingent fee to the provision of such services, the locations visited and the status of arrangements, ensuring that non-audit which includes financial limits any significant findings.
These updates services fall within agreed monetary limits above which the Chairman of the give the Committee an insight into the and that the external auditors consider the Audit Committee must approve any audit process.
potential impact of non-audit services on proposed non-audit services.
Other safeguards are Finally, at the September meeting, The Committee receives half-yearly the Committee receives an evaluation the rotation of the lead audit engagement reports detailing assignments carried partner and the use of separate teams, report on the external auditors.
This out by the external auditors in addition year, this was done by issuing tailored where appropriate.
Experian also has to their normal work, together with a policy in respect of employing former questionnaires to the Committee the related fees.
Non-audit fees paid Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer and employees of the external auditor.
to the Companys auditors are capped The Committee concluded that the the Groups senior finance leadership.
at 100% of the fees for audit and These included questions on the quality of external auditors had maintained their assurance services, except in exceptional independence throughout the year.
the audit process, in terms of its coverage, circumstances.
An analysis of fees paid the quality of delivery and the quality of Based on the outcome of the evaluation to the external auditors for the year the external audit team.
The Committee of the external auditors, the reports on the ended 31 March 2014 is set out in note concluded, based on this feedback and audit process reviewed by the Committee 11 to the Group financial statements.
information it obtained during the course and the conclusion that the external of its other work, that the external auditors auditors and the Group had complied with were performing effectively.
As part of the the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees, evaluation, the Committee also reviewed Policy on the provision of non-audit services This policy has not changed during the year and remains appropriate for the Group.
Provided that the provision of non-audit services does not conflict with the external auditors statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance, they may provide the following types of services: Further assurance services: where the external auditors deep knowledge of the Groups affairs means that they may be best placed to carry out such work.
This may include, but is not restricted to, shareholder and other circulars, regulatory reports and work in connection with acquisitions and divestments.
Tax services: where the external auditors knowledge of the Groups affairs may provide significant advantages which other parties would not have.
Where this is not the case, the work is put out to tender.
General: in other circumstances, the external auditors may provide services provided that proposed assignments are put out to tender and decisions to award work are taken on the basis of demonstrable competence and cost effectiveness.
However, the external auditors are specifically prohibited from performing work related to accounting records and financial statements that will ultimately be subject to external audit: management of or significant involvement in internal audit services: any work that could compromise the external auditors independence: and any other work that is prohibited by UK ethical guidance.
Governance Corporate governance report Governance How Experian helps: Fraud and identity management 77 Fraud and identity management You had a great evening out with your friends.
The following morning, you discover your wallet is missing It contained your ID, your credit cards, everything.
You You wonder what else could happen.
The information immediately call your bank.
To check your identity, they in your wallet included your full name, date of birth ask you some questions that only you can answer.
You decide to call your local the bank cancels your credit cards and orders new ones consumer credit bureau and explain whats happened.
They suggest that you put a flag on your credit report, so that if someone tries to obtain credit under your A couple of weeks later, your favourite department name, extra checks can be run to make sure its a store calls to ask if youve moved house.
It turns out that youd forgotten your department store credit card was in your wallet.
Someone has tried to use it to buy a designer handbag through the stores website, using a mobile phone in another country.
If the store hadnt spotted it, you would have had a very large bill.
They cancel your card and order you a new one.
How Experian helps Our data and analytics help to authenticate your identity when you interact with providers and buy online, so only you can access and use your accounts, or sign up for a new one.
Our identity protection services, such as ProtectMyID, help provide you with identity theft detection and protection features and, should the worst happen, dedicated identity fraud resolution experts.
