Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Corporate Governance Mark Abrahams Chairman High standards of governance engenders that we maintain an open and clear dialogue.
Dear Shareholder effective, entrepreneurial and prudent We feel that these meetings are important and The Board has continued to apply good management and contributes towards the enable major shareholders to gain insight and governance practices throughout the year and long-term success of the Group.
understanding over the corporate governance has adopted the changes to the UK Corporate policies in operation at Fenner and enable Governance Code the Code which came Board independence shareholder views to be conveyed to the into force for financial years beginning on or There are three independent non-executive Board.
The meetings are entirely separate to after 1 October 2012 and which did not apply directors, two executive directors and myself shareholder meetings that the executive to our 2013 financial year.
The principal as non-executive Chairman on the Board and directors undertake.
I am pleased to confirm changes introduced by the 2012 Code, which we are supported by the Group Company that shareholder engagement has proven to have been adopted or expanded upon in this Secretary.
The Board has a good balance of be very positive and that our shareholders Annual Report, are: skilled independent and experienced directors continue to be supportive of the Board, the and meets the Codes provisions on Group and its management team.
Stating the Boards diversity policy pages independence.
Therefore, we can provide 46 to 47 : Board visits assurance to our shareholders that the Board Enhanced disclosures in the Audit is effective and that decisions are taken in the During the year the Board visited Mandals in Committee Report pages 48 to 50 : and Norway: this is the lay-flat and speciality hose long-term interests of the Group, its Confirmation by the Board that they operation that was acquired by the AEP shareholders, employees and wider believe this Annual Report to be fair, stakeholders.
Mandals balanced and understandable page 54. manufactures hoses for use in  changes to the Board critical applications in agriculture, The Board is aware that further revisions to As noted in the Chairmans Statement, we infrastructure, potable water and oil & gas the Code have been formally adopted by the announced on 19 August 2014 that John Pratt markets.
The Board met with the local Financial Reporting Council FRC and the would become the Group Finance Director management team and toured the factory, Board will review the revised Code during when Richard Perry formally steps down from which also makes the circular looms which the year.
the role at the Group Finance Conference in manufacture the woven fabric used in the I believe that the Board as a whole has the January 2015 ahead of his retirement in production of hoses.
right level of engagement with the Group March 2015.
This succession has been The Board view these visits as being an businesses to enable it to lead the Company carefully planned and the details of the essential way of ensuring that they get good with sufficient knowledge and understanding process are more fully explained in the of the Groups strengths, capabilities and exposure to the businesses, products and the Nomination Committee Report on page 46. strategic goals, whilst also understanding the management teams of the Fenner operations John Pratt has been working closely with as this helps to broaden and deepen the unique challenges faced by the Group and its Richard Perry since 1 September 2014 to operations.
The Chief Executive Officer and Boards knowledge and understanding of the ensure that the changeover is as smooth as Group Finance Director, together with the Groups businesses.
members of the Executive Committee, take A visit to the AEP operations in Houston is responsibility for the day-to-day running of There were no changes to the Board in the planned for March 2015. the businesses and act under delegated year.
However, the Board The rest of this report, together with the Governance and compliance visits retains sufficient oversight of all key aspects reports of the Committees of the Board and On behalf of the Board and Remuneration of the Group via regular meetings, reports, the Strategic Report, give more detail about Committee, Alan Wood and myself consulted periodic site visits and contact with the wider the Company and its governance with major shareholders and proxy voting management team.
agencies during the year to discuss the new We continue to maintain high standards of Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors Remuneration Policy and also to consult on governance and a culture of strong business the proposed introduction of a new ethics throughout the Group.
I will repeat the Performance Share Plan PSP to replace Groups core values which are: to do no harm the existing PSP.
These are both discussed in to employees, the environment or corporately: more detail in the Board Remuneration Report to have a strong culture of autonomy with on page 55.
Mark Abrahams accountability and empowerment: to promote honesty, integrity and decency: to deliver It is our intention to continue to offer to meet Chairman excellence: and to adhere to high business with our major shareholders and the proxy 11 November 2014 standards.
voting agencies from time to time to ensure Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 39 Corporate Governance continued strategic goals of the Group.
This also developed and sanctioned by the Board, Initiatives and activities included post-project reviews of major emphasise the expectation that all Group Corporate strategy is a standing item on Board operations should share the same vision, investment projects: agendas for Board consideration and during values and standards of governance as the the year, the Board had an away day to commissioned external surveys to gauge Board, regardless of the type of business or consider the strategy for the AEP division.
This customer opinions and market dynamics: geographical location they operate in.
work resulted in a capital markets day being reviewed divisional strategic and held in June to help the re-positioning of the operational performance: The Board receives regular reports on the AEP division to enhance shareholder performance of the operations.
The considered Group financial performance understanding of that part of the Group.
There management teams are reviewed by the against budget, forecast and market was also a broader corporate strategy review Board via meetings and presentations as well expectations: during the year and consideration of the end as the reports.
The review of strategy, risk and markets for the ECS division in light of the reviewed cyber security: and the management of risk are areas of Board difficult market conditions experienced by ECS.
reviewed and approved Board policies and focus.
Shareholders requirements are also Subsequently, we undertook a restructuring of terms of reference.
managed by the Board and it acts as a conduit certain parts of the ECS business to reflect the between shareholders and operations to Routine matters dealt with the Board annually new market and to align the businesses on a ensure that their interests are aligned.
include: geographical basis into three regions: the Americas, EMEA and APAC.
Role and responsibilities of the Board CEO reports We believe that the Board meets the Code Financial reports The succession planning for the Group Finance requirements of providing entrepreneurial Director role was also undertaken during the Strategy leadership within a framework of prudent and year: the process is more fully explained in the effective controls.
This strong leadership Updates from Group operations Nomination Committee Report on page 46. enables the executive directors to give Acquisitions effective management and oversight to the A new leadership development initiative was Risk management operations to promote the long-term launched during the year called The Fenner Dividend policy objectives and strategy of the Group.
Gateway is are highly competent, professional and designed to identify, train and develop selected Investor relations dedicated management teams in place employees from around the Group who have Governance and compliance around the Group, with robust controls and been identified as future business leaders.
The Board evaluation financial and commercial expertise to ensure Board feel that this is an important initiative the long-term success of the Company.
and one that will help to build the future HSE reports strength and continuing success of the Group.
This report sets out in more detail what we Specific matters are reserved for the Boards have done in the year, how we have applied the consideration under a formal schedule which The changes required to remuneration Principles of the Code, including any areas of is reviewed on an annual basis.
Under that reporting under the BIS proposals were divergence from the Code, and what initiatives schedule the Board: adopted by the Board during the year, as were we are examining.
The report also explains the changes brought in by the 2012 Code.
reviews trading performance and how the Board and its Committees are business strategy: A Group refinancing exercise was undertaken structured.
part way through the year.
This resulted in the approves significant capital expenditure multicurrency revolving club and bilateral Compliance with the provisions of including acquisitions, disposals and facility agreements with the Companys financing agreements: the Code banking syndicate being extended and credit The Board reviewed the requirements of the oversees and approves Group financial lines increasing.
This exercise helped to clarify Code and has complied with the provisions reporting and controls: our thinking on corporate funding strategies and spirit of the Code.
ensures a sound system of internal and leaves the Group well placed to finance control and risk management: growth, whether through acquisitions or This Corporate Governance report should be read in conjunction with the Strategic Report manages relations and communication organic development.
on pages 1 to 29, the Board Remuneration with shareholders: All Board members took part in an online Report on pages 55 to 64, the Nomination considers senior management training exercise as part of the adequate Committee Report on pages 46 to 47, the appointments: and procedures and on-going vigilance in light Audit Committee Report on pages 48 to 50 approves Group policies.
of the UK Bribery Act 2010 the Act : the and Other Statutory Information on pages 51 training covered the Act and concluded with to 53.
The information required under Rule 7 The Board has formal Board meetings a test on anti-bribery measures.
This online of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of throughout the year to deal with prescribed training tool was also rolled out to a much the Financial Conduct Authority is included on matters and to receive the reports of the broader base within the Group and completion pages 51 to 53. executive directors.
Between formal will be an on-going requirement.
meetings, the Chairman and non-executive Leadership In addition to the above, the Board also covered directors have access to the executive Our approach to corporate governance directors and the Group Company Secretary the following: The Group supports a culture of and meet with the members of the Executive received the annual HSE review from the entrepreneurial leadership, encompassing Committee throughout the year.
Day-to-day Group HSE Coordinator as well as an autonomy and accountability.
Such a culture management and operational matters are assurance review of the HSE systems and empowers local management teams and delegated to a duly authorised Executive practices.
The annual review included the helps get the best out of them, promoting the Committee comprising senior executives, updated health and safety Framework success of the Group and its businesses.
This while other specific Board level matters are protocol: devolved autonomous structure requires delegated to sub-committees of the Board.
reviewed and approved, where appropriate, strong levels of governance and controls Details of the composition and purpose of major capital expenditure items and throughout the Group and this is promoted these delegated Committees are set out on considered how they helped towards the from the Board down.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 40 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Responsibilities of the Chairman and The role of the non-executive directors The role of the Committees Vanda Murray is the Senior Independent Chief Executive Officer Remuneration Committee Director and her role, amongst other matters, The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive is to act as a sounding board for the Chairman Officer are separate and distinct and codified The Remuneration Policy of the Company is set out in the Board and serve as an intermediary for the other in a written description of specific Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 64 directors as necessary.
The principal responsibility of Independent Director is available to the Chairman is for the leadership and Responsibilities shareholders and has attended meetings with effectiveness of the Board while the principal The Committee reviews legislation and the corporate governance heads of major responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer guidance and considers shareholders shareholders alongside the Chairman.
These are for the operational performance of the opinions relating to remuneration practices shareholder visits, which are separate to the Group, promoting a strong health and safety and reporting requirements on behalf of the analyst and shareholder meetings that the ethos and communicating the expectations of Board, with input from external advisors, executive directors attend, help to foster the the Board in relation to the Companys relationship between the Company and its where necessary, and the Group Company culture, values and behaviours.
shareholders, help the Company better Secretary.
It is also consulted on the granting The role of the Chairman understand the requirements of its major to certain employees of an executive cash The Chairman is responsible for the shareholders and allow shareholders to have long-term incentive plan with performance leadership of the Board and ensuring its access to the Company to raise concerns or measures aligned with growth in the effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
Mark issues or to confirm that they are happy with underlying earnings per share of the Company Abrahams fulfils the role of a non-executive the performance of the Company and the way over a three year measurement period.
Chairman professionally and properly, in which it is being governed.
These meetings Governance promoting strong and effective governance take place on a regular basis.
Invitations are Terms of reference set out the Committees and, critically, preserving the culture of the extended to the proxy voting agencies as well role and duties.
The Chief Executive Officer, if Company.
The presence of three independent as major shareholders, although not all invited to attend, does not participate in any non-executive directors ensures that no one organisations take up the offer of a meeting.
decision in relation to his own remuneration.
individual has unfettered powers in terms of During the year, the meetings with the decision making or Board direction.
The The Committee has the power to request the governance heads were conducted by the Chairman sets the overall tone and promotes attendance at meetings of any director or chair of the Remuneration Committee and the strong leadership resulting in an effective and Group employee as considered appropriate.
Board Chairman as the main topics for cohesive Board.
He fosters the vision, values, discussion were proposed changes to the The Remuneration Committee received advice governance standards and ethical behaviour Remuneration Policy and PSP.
during the year from AON Hewitt in relation to of the Company and encourages an the PSP.
AON Hewitt has no other connection There have been three independent nonatmosphere of openness and invites robust with the Company.
Deloitte LLP gave advice executive directors on the Board throughout and constructive debate around the Board on salary benchmarking for the Group the year.
The non-executive directors have table.
The Chairman sets the Board agenda, broad and valuable experience, depth of Finance Director role and on remuneration chairs the meetings and ensures that knowledge and complementary skills and are matters more generally.
Deloitte LLP also directors receive timely and clear information.
independent in character and judgment.
acts for the Company in a corporate finance He maintains close contact with Board There are no known relationships or and tax advisory capacity and assist in members and the Group Company Secretary.
circumstances which are likely to affect, or transaction services support.
could appear to affect, their judgment.
Activities The Committee reviewed the new remuneration reporting requirements and Meetings of the Board further details of the Committees work are The attendance of each director at Board, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and set out in the Board Remuneration Report on Nomination Committee meetings is set out below.
Non-executive Audit Committee Audit Remuneration Nomination director Board Committee Committee Committee meetings The work, responsibilities and governance of the Audit Committee Number of meetings during the year 93 7 2 2 are set out on pages 48 to 50 Chairman Nomination Committee M S Abrahams 9 3 7 22 The work, responsibilities and governance Executive directors of the Nomination Committee N M Hobson 9 3 2 2 n a are set out on pages 46 to 47 R J Perry 9 3 1 0 n a Terms of reference of the Committees Non-executive directors of the Board V Murray 93 7 2 2 The terms of reference of the Audit, A J Wood 93 7 2 2 Remuneration and Nomination Committees J N Sheldrick 93 7 2 2 are reviewed at least annually and are By invitation available to view on the Groups website at www.
com or upon request to the Group Company Secretary.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 41 Corporate Governance continued identifying the future leaders of the Board meetings.
The current Board is Role of the Executive Committee business to support the Gateway comprised of five male directors and one The Executive Committee is chaired by the female director.
The Group Company leadership development programme and Chief Executive Officer and consists of the two to act in a mentoring and support role as Secretary is female.
executive directors, the Group Company the leaders of the future develop and Secretary and seven members of the Groups Biographies of the Board, setting out their progress through the Group.
senior management including senior current appointments and experience, are executives from the operations.
The Executive set out in The Board on pages 37 to 38 Effectiveness Committee meets at least six times a year Composition of the Board and deals with the daily management of the The Board comprises the non-executive Group through powers delegated to it by the Board Independence Chairman, three independent non-executive Board.
directors, the Chief Executive Officer and The Committee is responsible for: Group Finance Director and it is supported by the Group Company Secretary.
The balance of helping to develop and execute strategy: Independent independence on the Board is carefully non-executive overseeing and managing the operational, directors 50% maintained and it continues to have the financial and safety performance of the Nonappropriate balance of skills, experience and independent Group: knowledge necessary for the operation of an directors 33% effective and robust Board.
The non-executive Non-executive identifying and managing risk: directors have extensive experience at Chairman 17% playing an instrumental part in identifying executive and non-executive Board level of and managing acquisitions in conjunction running international industrial engineering with local management teams: and companies and bring these skills to bear at How we are structured to ensure good, strong governance Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Executive Committee Role Role Role Role Responsible for the oversight of the Responsible for determining the Responsibilities include reviewing the Responsibilities include the day-to-day Companys financial reporting, internal remuneration packages of the executive composition of the Board, the management of the Group and controls and risk management, directors and other senior executives identification and nomination of operational matters.
managing the relationship with fraud and approves the Chief Executive candidates to fill Board vacancies and detection and reporting and Officers proposals for senior executives, considering succession planning for all whistleblowing reporting and the as well as reviewing the appropriateness Board positions and senior executives.
The effectiveness of the external auditors.
Membership Committee Chairman Committee Chairman Committee Chairman Committee Chairman John Sheldrick Alan Wood Mark Abrahams Nicholas Hobson Non-executive directors Non-executive directors Non-executive directors Executive director Alan Wood Vanda Murray Vanda Murray Richard Perry Vanda Murray John Sheldrick Alan Wood Incoming director John Sheldrick John Pratt Executive director Other members Nicholas Hobson Group Company Secretary: Debra Bradbury Managing Directors of operations: David Landgren Leonard Casey Allen Cubell Edwin Have Karen West Corporate Development Director: Richard Morello Others who are invited to attend from time to time External auditors Chairman Group Finance Director Director of Strategic Planning and Chairman Chief Executive Officer Group Company Secretary Investor Relations Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director External advisors as required Group HR Development Director Group Finance Director Group Company Secretary Group Business Risk Manager Group Company Secretary Independent external advisors Group HSE Coordinator Group Financial Controller External advisors as required Group Treasurer and Head of Tax Group Business Risk Manager Senior Internal Auditor Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 42 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results development and human resources.
This helps to ensure that all Board Board Gender Board appointees are given a tailored induction members are able to make meaningful, pack along with an explanation of different insightful and cohesive contributions to Board areas of the Group.
The induction programme discussions and decisions.
that John Pratt is undertaking ahead of Board evaluation becoming Group Finance Director is set out Each year an evaluation of the performance of below.
An external The Chairman, via the Group Company evaluation is conducted every three years and Male 71% Secretary, ensures that information is the Chairman conducts internal evaluations in submitted to the Board and its Committees in Female 29% the intervening two years.
a timely manner so that all documents, papers, including the Group Company Secretary In the year under review, the Chairman briefing notes, proposals and financial conducted the internal evaluation via a information can be reviewed ahead of meetings questionnaire followed by in-depth one-to-one to enable the Board to discharge its duties Appointments to the Board interviews with each Board member and the proficiently.
Board papers are issued Group Company Secretary.
The evaluation electronically over a secure web-based portal Information relating to appointments to the covered Board strategy, composition including Board can be found in the Nomination which improves the timeliness and portability diversity, balance of skills, effectiveness, roles Committee Report on pages 46 to 47 of information to the Board.
and responsibilities, quality of information and The Group Company Secretary is available to monitoring.
She is responsible for All Board members are expected to be able to The Senior Independent Director conducted ensuring that the Board follows procedures, devote sufficient time to the Company to an evaluation of the Chairman taking into providing information, guidance and advice as discharge their responsibilities effectively.
account the views of the other directors.
well as ensuring that the Board members are Board members are expected to attend all Through this process, and the fuller Board kept up to date on governance, regulations, main Board and Committee meetings and evaluation process, it was confirmed that development and best practice.
have sufficient time available to prepare for each member of the Board continues to make such meetings.
Executive directors cannot The Board has access to independent valuable contributions to Board discussions hold more than one non-executive professional advice at the Companys expense and decisions and all devote sufficient time directorship in a FTSE 100 company although should they require it to discharge their duties.
and attention to discharging their duties.
currently neither of the executive directors holds such a FTSE 100 role.
Ensuring an effective Board No significant issues were identified in The Board believes that maintaining the right relation to the effectiveness of the Board or its Development, information and s upport Committees.
Overall Board working and balance of skills, experience, knowledge and New Board appointments receive a full, efficiency was considered to be strong with an independence is crucial in maintaining an tailored induction when joining the Company, effective Board and it is confident that the appropriate mix of skills, experience and which typically includes one-on-one meetings diversity in the Boards composition.
current Board structure and membership with the Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance continues to achieve this aim.
There is a high Director and Group Company Secretary as well degree of cohesiveness amongst the Board as with key members of the manag emen t team members and good levels of interaction.
Board from health, safety and environment, fina nce, members have a high regard for each other tax and treasury, risk management, business and members of the senior management Planned induction programme for John Pratt Following the announcement on 19 August Individual meetings with the non- 2014 of John Pratts forthcoming appointment executive directors and Chairman as to the Board, John is now based at the well as regular meetings and briefings Companys head office in Hessle and will be with the Chief Executive Officer, current undertaking a bespoke induction programme Group Finance Director and Group which will include: Company Secretary.
Visiting all the main AEP operations and John, as a member of the Executive meeting with AEP senior management Committee, is already familiar with the Group in order to increase his knowledge and policies on business conduct, anti-bribery, understanding of AEP, its operational compliance and anti-trust as well as with the challenges and drivers.
Group HSE Management System Framework.
As a Divisional Managing Director of ECS for Provision of specific focused training to the last four years, he also already has a high refresh and broaden existing knowledge.
level of understanding of this part of the business.
Introductions to the Company brokers, advisors, investor relations specialists, The aim of his induction during the transition analysts and shareholders and attendance period before Richard Perry steps down as at Company presentations to the City as Group Finance Director is to facilitate a well as at the forthcoming AGM.
smooth, orderly hand over: Richard Perry will act as a mentor to John in the interim period, Familiarisation with the governance as will John Sheldrick.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 43 e t a R g e i - t i e v M a l e u g a a t e n a e L c M e n g a a n l i F H y e f i E a t n l n y v t M a g i h r u o e o t n Q a Corporate Governance continued monthly, half yearly and annual financial risks are well understood and can be Internal control results are prepared by the consolidation managed and controlled effectively by the In accordance with the requirements of the team and reviewed by management, with Group.
We have robust risk management and Code and the recommendations of the financial reports distributed to all Board reporting procedures which allow Fenner to Turnbull Guidance on internal control, the members: maximise opportunities, while also restricting directors can confirm that, after having inappropriate activities.
reviewed the effectiveness of the control comprehensive budgeting systems with systems and arrangements, no significant an annual budget approved by the Board: Our risk management process is driven from changes to material risks, control failings or monthly results are reported against Board level, but significant responsibility is weaknesses have been identified that resulted budget and revised forecasts for the year also taken by operating unit managers and in unforeseen material losses.
While the are prepared regularly: the risk identification process at Group and directors are responsible for the Groups operating unit level is linked to our strategic development of non-financial KPIs across system of internal control, like any system of planning process.
the Group: internal control, it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Risk factors an internal programme of monitoring misstatement or loss.
The Fenner Risk Universe explained below visits by the internal audit team, as analyses the risks identified into 11 categories agreed with the Audit Committee, reviews Key procedures within the internal control which reflect our business and the the compliance of each operating unit structure are: with the Group's standard internal environment in which we operate.
the identification of major business and financial control procedures: Our strategy is the focal point of all our risk insurance risks faced by the Groups competition compliance programmes are factors.
We define risk as events or situations operations, by both the Board and senior in place in several jurisdictions: which may be damaging to the achievement of management, and the determination of our strategic business objectives.
the most appropriate course of action to compliance policies are applied including deal with those risks: a Code of Business Conduct, an AntiGroup risks Inherent and Residual are bribery & Corruption Policy and a measured on a 10 point scale of impact and a central review and approval procedures in Whistleblowing Policy: and five point scale of likelihood.
Our assessment respect of major areas of risk such as of impact considers both financial and nonacquisitions and disposals, litigation, a programme of business risk reviews financial measures.
Risk impacts are treasury management, taxation and with operational management focusing on continuously monitored, as are their environmental issues: non-financial controls and risk mitigation and management strategies.
a clear management structure with wellWe focus in particular on understanding the defined lines of responsibility and the Risk management appropriate levels of delegation: link between cause, risk and effect so that we Culture and policy correctly identify the risk factor which is best regular review of the Groups operating Fenner recognises that effective risk measured, understood and upon which units by operational and executive management is not only essential for the control can be best exercised.
management and monthly reports from delivery of strategic objectives, but that it also the senior managing directors: We are continually developing our risk improves performance, decision making and helps drive sustainable shareholder value.
management processes and this year we are a structured process for appraising and introducing further considerations including: authorising capital projects which Our management of risks is a continuous a robust and objective assessment of the includes clearly defined authorisation process at Fenner which is embraced at all controls which mitigate the identified risks: a levels: projects are subject to postlevels from the Board, Executive Committee consideration of future risks and how they investment appraisals: and divisional management to the operating could affect our strategy in each of our units.
well established consolidation and businesses: and the concept of pillars of reporting systems for both the statutory Our philosophy on risk is to accept those risks risk which are subject to enhanced scrutiny and monthly management accounts: which enhance value, provided that those within the Group.
Risk Hierarchy Risk Management: Risk Universe a continuous process Summary of risks and themes from the Risk Universe and Heat Maps.
Principal Reported to the Audit Committee Selling Risks and the Board Group-wide risks validated from Operations Group the operating unit Heat Maps.
Reported to the Executive Risk Universe Technology Purchasing Committee Detailed risk assessment for each operating unit Business Heat Maps for management and and Risk Sheets n control of risks Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 44 i & t r y m t o f S S r i e t n a n t f e e d t I y S o c i t o e - k r e a c o M n o m i c Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Shareholder views and comments are Identification and management regularly communicated to the Board.
The Risks of the Group are considered as a GroupBoard also receives copies of all analyst and wide, top down exercise which is supported broker reports.
and validated by an independent assessment at operating unit level.
This produces a Launched in 2014, our new Group website consolidated Risk Universe and is our enhances shareholder information and gives principal risk management and reporting tool.
more clarity on the Group and its operations.
The website includes analyst presentations, Externally facilitated Risk Workshops are run the current share price, regulatory at each operating unit.
These focus on the announcements, financial performance activities and strategies of the operating units information, shareholder information and an and the possible risks that those activities, investor relations contact address.
It also and the environment in which the businesses includes a briefing on the Group operations operate, may generate.
worldwide and its markets and divisions.
Risk Heat Maps and detailed Risk Sheets are Constructive use of the AGM prepared for each operating unit.
These For several years the Chief Executive Officer quantify the risks and allocate responsibility and the Group Finance Director have given a for their management.
Controls for each risk presentation to the attending shareholders are identified and the mitigating effect of before the formal commencement of the AGM these controls is also assessed and recorded.
and shareholders are invited to ask questions All controls are monitored and tested to following the presentation.
The Company ensure these are working as stated and are intends to continue with this practice as it has providing effective mitigations to the risks always been well received by the shareholders.
At the conclusion of the formal business of We measure both Inherent Risk, before the AGM, all members of the Board make controls and mitigating actions, and the themselves available to answer questions.
resulting Residual Risk, which takes account In relation to the AGM: of our controls and management strategies.
separate resolutions are proposed for The operating unit Heat Maps are reviewed at each substantially separate issue Group level and their risks are incorporated including the receipt of the Annual into the Group Risk Universe.
Report: A schedule of Principal Risks is produced proxy forms allow shareholders to direct which summarises the key risks for reporting their proxy vote either for or against the and monitoring at Audit Committee and Board resolution or to withhold their vote: level.
the proxy count is available at the AGM in The Groups Principal Risks and respect of each resolution after it has Uncertainties are set out been dealt with on a show of hands: on pages 14 to 17 the Notice of Meeting, the Annual Report and any other related papers are made Relations with shareholders available to shareholders more than one Communicating with shareholders month before the meeting: and The Company continues to engage in regular dialogue with its major shareholders, private shareholders are invited to ask questions client brokers and also with private investors during the AGM as well as having an at the AGM.
There are regular face-to-face opportunity to meet the Board before and meetings throughout the year with major after the formal meeting.
shareholders along with briefings with Conflicts brokers and analysts.
While most meetings The statutory duties for directors relating to are conducted by the Chief Executive Officer conflicts of interest are set out in the and Group Finance Director, there are also Companies Act 2006.
No conflicts arose meetings between shareholder compliance during the year and the Board continues to and governance departments and the monitor events with a view to ensuring any Chairman and Senior Independent Director conflicts are handled appropriately.
and this year, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
All Board Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors members understand that they have responsibility for engendering and maintaining good relations and communications with shareholders.
Nonexecutive directors can request to be present Mark Abrahams at meetings with major shareholders and will be available to attend meetings as requested Chairman by major shareholders.
11 November 2014 Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 45
