Nomination Committee Report Mark Abrahams Chairman least twice a year and has the power to The short list was examined and the preferred Foreword by the Chairman request the attendance at meetings of any candidates chosen based on experience, director or Group employee as considered knowledge, skills and international exposure.
The preferred external candidate and John Committee Pratt were both interviewed.
The strong Activities The Nomination Committee plays a pivotal preference, viewed objectively, was the role in ensuring the continued success of the Re-appointment of non-executive internal candidacy represented by John Pratt Company through the careful evaluation and Chairman who had the necessary financial qualifications selection of candidates for Board During the year, the Committee reviewed and as well as international experience, cultural appointments.
The necessary balance of approved the re-appointment of Mark understanding and significant experience, skills, knowledge and experience required by Abrahams for a second term as the including having been Group Financial non-executive Chairman.
Vanda Murray the Board and its Committees are kept under Controller, a Divisional Managing Director and chaired the Committee meetings at which the review.
a member of the Executive Committee.
He re-appointment was discussed and Mark also had the skills required to fulfil the role.
Succession planning is taken seriously and Abrahams absented himself from those parts the Committee carried out a robust process in The candidate specification particularly of the meeting.
A formal evaluation of Mark the selection of John Pratt as the incoming sought to identify a person with Abrahams had been carried out prior to the Group Finance Director, details of which are complementary skills to the Chief Executive re-appointment and, as a result, the given below.
The Committee and Board are Officer and who would therefore provide both Committee felt that Mark remained a fit and delighted with the appointment and believe a balance and a challenge in all aspects of proper Chairman, who is effective in his role management.
The Committee were John will be a strong leader to take over from and who is a good leader for the Board.
unanimously of the opinion that John Pratt the very capable hands of Richard Perry on The Committee therefore approved his rehis retirement.
appointment, with the term to run from John will be given coaching and focused Responsibilities 1 March 2014 to 28 February 2017. training as part of his induction and will be Terms of reference set out the Nomination Appointment of new Group Finance shadowing Richard Perry in the months Committees role and duties.
The Committee Director before he takes up the position of Group adheres to the Group Diversity Statement when The Committee reviewed and recommended Finance Director.
John Sheldrick has also recruiting candidates to the Board.
the appointment of John Pratt as Group volunteered to act as a mentor whilst John The overall aim of the Committee is to Finance Director as the successor to Richard Pratt makes the transition from Divisional maintain a Board with the right balance of Perry upon his retirement in 2015.
The Managing Director to Group Finance Director.
skills and experience to help govern and lead Committee used the services of Wickland Diversity Westcott who provided a short list of potential the Company.
The Board considers diversity, including candidates after reviewing the pool of FTSE Governance gender, when recruiting new candidates and a 250 and other similarly skilled finance The members of the Committee are set out on directors: John Pratt was submitted as a Board Diversity Statement has been put in page 42.
The Committee generally meets at candidate alongside the external candidates.
All candidates are chosen on merit, Board Senior Managers All Employees Male 71% Male 87% Male 78% Female 29% Female 13% Female 22% including the Group Company Secretary Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 46 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results against the objective criteria set in the candidate specification, regardless of race, gender or religious beliefs and therefore in line with the Board Diversity Statement.
The principal concern of the Nomination Committee is to ensure all candidates are of appropriate experience and ability and fit for the role.
The Board does not intend to set specific diversity targets because it could fetter the ability to appoint the best candidate based on merit alone which would be against Board and Group philosophy.
Board succession is borne in mind and discussed as part of the process.
Diversity statistics are gathered and monitored around the Group.
The graphics on page 46 set out the current gender diversity split for the Board appointments, senior managers and the Group as a whole.
Appointments to the Board The Nomination Committee manages Board appointments and agrees the candidate specification, which sets out the type of skills, experience, qualifications and knowledge a preferred candidate should ideally have: this is agreed and discussed with external independent recruitment consultants.
Performance evaluation No changes were considered necessary to the Committees composition and only minor changes were made to the Committees terms of reference to ensure that they continued to reflect best practice.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors Mark Abrahams Chairman 11 November 2014 Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 47
