Audit Committee Report John Sheldrick Chairman of the Audit Committee annually review the policy on non-audit Responsibilities and activities Foreword by the Chairman work carried out by the external auditors: during the year of the Audit Committee this policy takes into account external The Audit Committee met three times in the guidance relating to the provision of nonThe Audit Committee, which comprises the year under review.
Its work covers the audit services: three independent non-executive directors, following: met three times during the year.
The review the schedule of non-audit work monitor the integrity of the Annual Committees responsibilities include carried out by the external auditors in the Report, Full Year Results and Half Yearly reviewing the Companys financial year: Financial Report: statements, internal financial controls and review non-audit fees of the external risk management systems.
To support this review the going concern status of the auditors: work, the Committee receives reports from Company: review the financial statements of the UK the Companys external and internal auditors.
review managements half year and full Fenner Pension Scheme: The Committee meets separately with both year results presentations for analysts external and internal auditors and also review the terms of reference for the and shareholders: reviews their independence and effectiveness.
Audit Committee on an annual basis: and review internal financial controls and the review the Groups treasury policies.
The work carried out by the Audit Committee internal control management systems in the year under review is set out in the including cyber security risk and potential Financial reporting and significant following report.
preventative measures: areas of judgement monitor and review the effectiveness and Composition and governance The Audit Committee reviewed a wide range performance of the internal audit The Audit Committee operates under formal of financial reporting and related matters in function, including the approval of the written terms of reference which govern its respect of the Groups half year and full year internal control programme and review role and responsibilities.
The Committee results statements and its Annual Report visits, and meet with the Senior Internal comprises John Sheldrick, Vanda Murray and prior to their consideration by the Board.
Auditor at least once a year: Alan Wood, all of whom are independent nonReports highlighting key accounting matters approve the Charter for Internal Audit: executive directors with John Sheldrick acting and significant judgements were also received as Chairman of the Committee.
All the review the risk management systems and from our external auditors, Committee members have extensive reports which are outlined in more detail  LLP PwC, in management experience in international in the Corporate Governance report on respect of the full year statements and organisations.
Neither the Board Chairman pages 44 to 45: discussed by the Committee.
nor executive directors are members of the review procedures for detecting fraud: In particular, this included the following areas Committee although they can attend by review the Whistleblowing Policy annually: of focus: invitation.
John Sheldrick, as Chairman of the review the whistleblowing report semi Committee, met the requirement of having Carrying amount of goodwill and annually: had recent and relevant financial experience, intangible assets acquired having been Group Finance Director of review the summary of Group insurance These carrying amounts are reviewed for Johnson Matthey plc from 1995 until his policies and levels of deductibles: impairment at least annually and are retirement in 2009.
The Group Company make recommendations to the Board in based on the net present value of Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee, relation to the appointment or projected cash flows for each cashwhich also has access to the services of the reappointment and remuneration of the generating unit CGU.
Following the Group Finance Director, Senior Internal external auditors and their terms of review during the year, an impairment Auditor, Group Business Risk Manager and engagement, including approval of the charge of 24.0m has been charged to external professional advisors.
The audit plan: exceptional items in the income Committee can request the attendance at statement for the year.
Details of make recommendations to the Board meetings of any director, external auditor or about putting the external audit out to assumptions used are provided in note 14 Group employee as considered appropriate.
periodic tender: to the Group financial statements on The Committee meets with the external pages 87 to 89. auditors without the presence of management ensure that the external auditors are at two of its three meetings during the year.
independent, objective and effective: Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 48 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results The Committee discussed with Going concern financial and compliance controls.
The management and PwC the cash flow Committee receives a financial internal Analysis to support the statement given projections and the appropriateness of control report at least twice a year from the on page 29 was reviewed, with the the discount rates used and considered Senior Internal Auditor.
Based upon the Committee receiving reports from the headroom for each group of CGUs internal control and risk reports, the Board management and PwC on this matter.
after taking into account the amounts determines the nature and extent of the Internal controls written off.
significant risks it is willing to take in PwC also reported to the Committee the achieving strategic objectives and the Board Provisions for contingent consideration on work they had undertaken in accordance believes it does maintain sound risk acquisitions with international auditing standards to management and internal control systems.
Provisions represent managements best review the risk of management override of estimate of the expenditure required to internal controls.
A detailed review of Risk Management settle obligations at the balance sheet is set out on pages 44 to 45 Following consideration of the matters date.
They include certain obligations presented to it and discussion with both within contingent and deferred management and PwC, the Committee was Whistleblowing consideration on acquisitions where satisfied that the significant judgements Fenner operates an international Group-wide payment is contingent on future made were justified and that the financial hotline to support the Group Whistleblowing performance.
The estimate of the amount reporting disclosures were appropriate.
The hotline is run by an external and that would ultimately be payable was independent third party.
The hotline facilitates reduced by 10.7m, which has been Risk management and internal credited to exceptional items in the arrangements whereby employees can make control income statement.
confidential disclosures on an anonymous The Group has a continuous process for basis if preferred about suspected The Committee reviewed the key identifying, evaluating and managing risk, impropriety and wrongdoing.
Any matters so assumptions, including the forecasts used with the process itself being subject to reported are investigated and escalated to the to estimate such provisions, and regular review and refinement.
Risks are Audit Committee as appropriate.
A report discussed with management and PwC the reported to the Audit Committee twice a year summarising all disclosures made during the likelihood of the remaining provisions and the Committee has received updated period is submitted to the Audit Committee being required.
Details of these provisions presentations from an independent twice a year.
are included in note 29 to the Group consultant, Sentio Insight LLP formerly financial statements on pages 106 to 107.
External auditors MaxAim, who are helping to run the Group Pension liabilities Independence Risk Workshop programme in conjunction The valuation of the Groups postwith the Group Business Risk Manager.
The The Committee continues to monitor the retirement benefit obligations requires process is well established and enhances external auditors compliance with applicable demographic and financial assumptions both the Committees and managements ethical guidance and guidelines and considers to be made which are set out in note 27 to understanding of risk in a broad as well as the independence and objectivity of the the Group financial statements on pages specific sense in relation to the Group and its external auditors as part of the Committees 99 to 104.
These assumptions have been operations.
The Audit Committee reviews the duties.
The Committee received and reviewed chosen based on advice from the Groups effectiveness of the Groups systems of written confirmation from the external external actuaries.
internal control and assures itself on the auditors on all relationships that, in their The Committee discussed the rigorousness of the internal control process.
judgement, may bear on their independence.
appropriateness of these assumptions The internal control review covers operational, The external auditors have also confirmed with PwC and whether the assumptions were consistent with externally derived Policy on non-audit services by the external auditors data.
Prohibited non-audit services Permitted non-audit services, subject to Recognition of exceptional restructuring approval by the Committee costs Restructuring costs of 5.9m have been auditing their own work: taxation services: charged to exceptional items in the making management decisions for the specific projects on internal audit where income statement.
These costs relate Company: the scope and management is principally to the closure of Fenner determined by the Committee: Precision Buffalo and Hallite Brazil.
acting as advocate for the Company: staff secondments where management The Committee considered the nature of authorising, executing or consummating the items and discussed with PwC is clearly directing and controlling the a transaction on behalf of the Company: whether separate disclosure to provide a secondee and on the basis that the determining which recommendation of clearer understanding of the Groups secondee cannot make management the audit firm should be implemented by underlying financial performance was decisions: the Company: appropriate.
litigation support services, providing it Revenue recognition internal audit services, other than does not include significant advocacy specific projects determined by the from the audit partner: and As part of their normal auditing Committee: procedures, PwC considered the risk that corporate financial services involving revenue may have been recognised provision of IT consultancy: advisory, acquisitions and disposals and incorrectly.
The Committee discussed due diligence.
legal services: with PwC the testing they had undertaken to identify unusual or irregular items.
HR and recruitment consultancy: and underwriting services.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 49 Audit Committee Report continued that they consider themselves independent Internal audit within the meaning of UK regulatory and The Committee receives a report from the professional requirements.
As a general Senior Internal Auditor at least twice a year.
principle, the external auditors are excluded The Committee reviewed the results of audits from consultancy work and cannot be undertaken by the internal audit team and engaged by Fenner for other non-audit work considered the adequacy of managements unless there are compelling reasons to do so.
response to any matters raised, including the The Committee periodically reviews the implementation of any recommendations Groups policy on non-audit services and made.
The Committee considered and those services which can be provided by the approved the 2014 internal audit programme.
external auditors under the policy are set out The effectiveness of internal audit was in the table on page 49.
During the year, nonformally reviewed, taking into account the audit services amounting to 143,000 were views of directors and senior management on incurred.
This amount comprised tax such matters as objectivity, proficiency, compliance of 16,000, tax advisory of 34,000 resourcing and audit strategy and planning.
and other assurance services of 93,000, In addition, an external review of internal principally relating to half year review audit was conducted and the results of that procedures.
review were considered by the Committee.
Effectiveness and reappointment Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors The Committee evaluated the performance of the external auditors during the year and received a report from management on the effectiveness of the external audit function: this confirmed that the senior finance staff around John Sheldrick the Group felt that the external auditors Chairman of the Audit Committee performed well.
The report outlined that a 11 November 2014 questionnaire had been issued to the senior finance staff assessing the external auditors on robustness of audit, quality of delivery of the audit service and quality of the audit team and service provided.
The Committee also made its own assessment of the external auditors performance.
The Committee concluded that the performance of the external auditors remained satisfactory following the reviews.
The performance of the external auditors will continue to be reviewed annually.
Following the performance and effectiveness evaluation, the Committee concluded it was appropriate to recommend to the Board PwCs reappointment as the Companys external auditors for the next financial year.
PwC has been the Companys external auditor since its formation in 1998, although predecessor organisations of PwC have held office for some time prior to that date.
Since that time, the audit has not been formally retendered although the performance of the external auditors has been subject to regular detailed reviews.
In 2011, the current audit partner was appointed in line with PwCs policy of partner rotation to ensure continued auditor independence.
The revised UK Corporate Governance Code, which applies to Fenner in the financial year ended 31 August 2014, recommended that FTSE 350 companies put their external audit contract out to tender at least every 10 years.
The Committee has considered this recommendation and it has recommended to the Board that the external audit contract be put out to tender when the current audit partner is due to rotate out of the post in 2016.
Mindful of the Financial Reporting Councils advice on the impracticality of all companies conducting a tender exercise at the same time, the precise timing of this exercise will be kept under review.
