Fidessa group plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors and corporate governance report continued Nominations Committees report Membership, meetings and evaluation The Nominations Committee, which is chaired by John Hamer, comprises John Hamer, Ron Mackintosh, Elizabeth Lake and John Worby and is therefore compliant with the requirements of the Code.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board evaluation process during the year and the conclusion was that the Committee was functioning effectively.
Responsibilities The Committee operates within its terms of reference, which are reviewed and updated annually and are available at www.
The Committees main responsibilities are to advise and make recommendations to the Board on the following matters: the size, structure and composition of the Board: succession planning of Board members: the appointment of external consultants where appropriate: and the appointment of new directors and the re-appointment of existing directors.
Matters considered during the year During 2014, the Committee considered and recommended to the Board: that the recruitment of Andy Malpass replacement as Finance Director be conducted through the use of independent search firm, Russell Reynolds Associates.
The independent search firm has commenced the search process.
the appointment of John Worby as Philip Hardakers replacement as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Following an initial search process involving the alumni networks of the Big Four accountancy firms, the Committee recommended to the Board that a replacement be sought through the use of independent search firm, Russell Reynolds Associates.
the appointment of Ken Archer as an independent Non-Executive Director.
Ken was identified as a candidate during the non-executive director recruitment process in late 2012.
Ken was evaluated by the Board and the independent search firm at that time and again during 2014 prior to his appointment to the Board.
Throughout the selection processes the Committee was mindful of the recommendations made by Lord Davies in 2011.
