Dir ectors and corporate governance report Dear Shareholder Three new Directors will join the Board for the June 2014 meeting.
I am pleased to introduce FirstGroups Directors and corporate Warwick Brady, Drummond Hall and Imelda Walsh will join as governance report for 2013 14 and my first as Chairman of Non-Executive Directors.
Biographical details for all three new the Company.
Non-Executive Directors are set out below.
Drummond will also become Senior Independent Director and Imelda, Chair of the The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate Remuneration Committee.
Additionally, Jim Winestock will become governance in respect of leadership, effectiveness, accountability, Chairman of the Board Safety Committee.
remuneration and relations with shareholders as identified by the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
This commitment and the Warwick Brady alignment of the Groups framework of controls and corporate Warwick Brady is Chief Operations Officer of EasyJet plc, joining governance with the tactical delivery of our strategic objectives as in May 2009.
He is part of the management team responsible for outlined on page 10 will contribute to the long term success of the significantly improving the airlines financial and operating Group.
In this section of the report we provide details of our performance, including achieving industry leading punctuality levels governance structures and processes which should provide as well as the introduction of important customer innovations.
He assurance that the key constituents are in place to deliver sustainable has significant experience leading low cost airlines he was Chief long term value for shareholders.
Executive of Indonesian airline Mandala, and previous roles include Chief Operating Officer of Air Deccan in India and Deputy Operations New reporting requirements Director at Ryanair.
This year new legislation has amended the structure and contents of Drummond Hall the Annual Report.
The new strategic report on pages 1 to 49 Drummond was Chief Executive of Dairy Crest Group plc from includes, amongst other matters, the Groups strategy, progress and performance for the year.
Disclosures in the Directors and corporate 2002 to 2006, prior to which his career was spent with Procter and governance report comply with changes to the Code that came into Gamble, Mars and PepsiCo.
He is currently the Senior Independent force for the financial year and include expanded disclosures on the Non-Executive Director of WH Smith plc and a Non-Executive work of the Audit Committee on pages 62 to 65.
Changes to Director of The Sage Group plc.
Drummond was a Non-Executive remuneration reporting are significant and are fully covered in the Director of Mitchells & Butlers plc from July 2004 to January 2010, Directors remuneration report on pages 70 to 92. and Chairman from June 2008 to November 2009.
Imelda Walsh Board Composition Imelda Walsh currently serves as a Non-Executive Director and As noted in my review on pages 2 and 3, Martin Gilbert retired as Chair of the Remuneration Committees of William Hill plc, Mitchells Chairman during the year and John Sievwright, Senior Independent & Butlers plc and Mothercare plc.
She was a Non-Executive Director Director, David Begg, Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the and Chair of the Remuneration Committee of Sainsburys Bank plc Remuneration Committee and Colin Hood, Non-Executive Director from 2006 to 2010.
Imelda has held senior executive roles at and Chairman of the Board Safety Committee will retire from the J Sainsbury plc, where she was Group HR Director from Board on 24 June 2014, after a period of long service.
I would like to March 2004 to July 2010, Barclays Bank plc and Coca-Cola & thank all of the retiring Directors for their contribution and support to Schweppes Beverages Limited.
Imelda is also Director of the me as incoming Chairman.
Mentoring Foundation and is a Trustee of Charity Projects Limited Comic Relief.
FirstGroup 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Dir ectors and corporate governance report Following the Board changes, John McFarlane, Drummond Hall, Board evaluation Brian Wallace, Imelda Walsh and Jim Winestock will thereafter Towards the end of the year the Board undertook an external review constitute the members of the Nomination Committee.
of Board and Committee effectiveness that also included a review of each member of the Board.
The review highlighted strengths but also It is a natural process for Directors who cease to become areas for improvement and a programme to address these going independent to retire from the Board and for the Board to be forward was agreed by the Board.
It is an essential part of good governance that we maintain a strong Board with a majority of independent Directors and a good Scottish independence gender balance.
The Company, as a Scottish registered company, has its headquarters and registered office in Scotland.
The Scottish Director induction Government is holding a referendum in September 2014 on the In January 2014, at the start of my appointment as Chairman and as question of Scottish independence from the UK.
The outcome of part of my induction process, I had the opportunity to meet with the referendum is unknown and the implications of an affirmative investors who control over 40% of the issued equity.
I welcomed this vote are not currently possible to assess with any degree of certainty.
opportunity and found the exercise beneficial and a valuable way to Those uncertainties and the full implications of an affirmative vote will commence my tenure as Chairman.
Further details of my induction become clearer after the vote and the Board will therefore continue can be found on page 58. to monitor the situation in the meantime.
Diversity The Board has previously highlighted that it is an advocate of diversity John McFarlane in the boardroom and a supporter of Lord Davies aim to raise the Chairman proportion of women on UK Boards, as reflected in the 2013 Women on Boards report.
The Board is pleased that, going forward, we are moving towards our aspiration of 20% of board positions being filled by women by 2015.
The Board remains of the opinion that appointments to the Board should be made relative to a number of different criteria including diversity of gender, background and personal attributes, alongside the appropriate skill set, experience and expertise.
Future appointments to the Board must also complement the balance of skills that the Board already possesses.
Further details of the Groups approach to diversity and inclusion can be found on page 32 and in the Groups 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report.
The Company complies with all the main and supporting principles of good governance set out in the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
FirstGroup 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dir ectors and corporate governance report continued Shareholders The Board Leadership, strategic aims, risk, values and standards Board Safety Executive Nomination Remuneration Audit 1 1,2 1,3 1,3 Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman Members Chairman Chairman Chairman Dr Colin Hood Executive Directors John McFarlane Prof David Begg Brian Wallace Members Key responsibilities Members Members Members Tim OToole It has specific delegated Prof David Begg Dr Colin Hood Prof David Begg Jim Winestock powers within prescribed Dr Colin Hood John Sievwright Dr Colin Hood Naveed Qamar limits to deal with matters John Sievwright Jim Winestock John Sievwright Group Safety Director arising in the ordinary Brian Wallace Key responsibilities Key responsibilities course of business that Jim Winestock Key responsibilities Determining the Monitoring the integrity of require consideration To review the safety Key responsibilities Remuneration Policy for the financial statements.
prior to the next scheduled performance of the To ensure that the Board all Executive Directors Keeping under review the Board meeting.
Group on behalf of the comprises individuals and the Chairman and effectiveness of the Board.
Provide oversight with an appropriate certain senior internal controls, risk of the management of balance of skills, management.
management process the Group risk profile and knowledge, experience and the internal and More information promote a positive safety and diversity including external auditors.
Directors remuneration culture throughout gender.
report pages 70 to 92 More information the Group.
More information Audit Committee More information Nomination Committee report pages 62 to 65 Corporate Responsibility report pages 60 and 61 report Risk Executive Executive Group Safety Management Committee Board Members Members Members Chief Executive, Executive Directors and Risk Champions and Divisional heads of each certain senior managers other members of business, other Group senior management Role Directors and the Group General operating Role Safety Director management committee.
Oversees the Groups Role Meets regularly normally risk management Reviews the Groups monthly to review activities and reviews safety performance and current issues and to and maintains the practices and approves consider the Groups Group Risk Register.
safety policies and operational and financial procedures.
sharing of best practice across the Groups operations.
1 T erms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Board Safety Committees are available on the Companys website.
2 The Nomination Committee is to be reconstituted as a Nominations and Governance Committee with effect from 24 June 2014.
3 Certain of the new Board members will be appointed as members of the Audit, Remuneration and other committees as determined by the Nomination Committee.
FirstGroup 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Dir ectors and corporate governance report continued meetings called at short notice, the majority of which dealt with the Leadership rights issue and UK rail bids.
The table below shows the Directors attendance at the Board and Committee meetings they were eligible The role and structure of the Board to attend in 2013 14.
The Board is collectively responsible for the long term success of the Company.
The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership of In addition to regular Board meetings, the Board took part in an the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls annual strategy day at which it considered the future direction of the for risk assessment and management.
The Boards role is to set the Company at the start of the business planning process.
The annual Companys strategic objectives, ensure that the necessary financial Board meeting timetable was arranged so that Board meetings were and human resources are in place for the Company to meet these held in London, Aberdeen and the US over the year which gave the objectives and to review management performance.
The Board also Directors the opportunity to visit different Group operations.
All sets the Companys values and standards and ensures that its Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board and obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders are understood of those Committees on which they serve and to devote sufficient and met.
The Board operates within the terms of its written authorities time to the Companys affairs to enable them to fulfil their duties as but also delegates authority to Committees of the Board to assist in Directors.
When Directors are unable to attend a meeting, their meeting its objectives whilst ensuring a sound system of internal comments on papers to be considered at the meeting may be control and risk management.
provided in advance to the Chairman.
The Chairman sets the Board agenda and ensures that important matters and, in particular, The Board currently consists of the Chairman, two Executive Directors strategy, performance, value creation and accountability, receive and six Non-Executive Directors.
Changes to Board membership that adequate time and attention at meetings.
The roles and will take place on 24 June 2014 are set out on page 52. responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive, as set out The Board met on 15 occasions in 2013 14.
Nine of these meetings on page 56, are clearly defined, documented and approved by were regular scheduled Board meetings and six were ad hoc Board the Board.
Board Board scheduled ad hoc Board Director meetings meetings Audit Remuneration Nomination Safety Chairman 1 John McFarlane 3 3 1 1 2 Martin Gilbert 9 9 5 6 4 4 Executive Directors Tim OToole 9 9 6 6 3 3 Chris Surch 8 9 6 6 Non-Executive Directors Mick Barker 9 9 6 6 David Begg 9 9 6 6 4 4 10 10 6 6 Colin Hood 9 9 5 6 4 4 10 10 6 6 3 3 John Sievwright 8 9 6 6 3 4 9 10 5 6 Brian Wallace 8 9 6 6 4 4 Jim Winestock 8 9 4 6 9 10 3 3 1 John McFarlane joined the Board on 5 December 2013 as a Non-Executive Director and as Chairman on 1 January 2014.
2 Martin Gilbert resigned as Chairman and as a Non-Executive Director of the Company on 31 December 2013.
FirstGroup 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dir ectors and corporate governance report continued The Chairman has met with the Non-Executive Directors in the John Sievwright is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director absence of the Executive Directors on occasions throughout the year.
and is available to address shareholders concerns on governance and, if necessary, other issues that have not been resolved through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman, Role of the Chairman Chief Executive, or Group Finance Director or in cases when Chairing the Board and general meetings of the Company such communications would be inappropriate.
Biographical details Setting the Board agenda and ensuring that the Directors receive and the dates of appointment of the current Directors are provided accurate, timely, clear and high-quality information on pages 50 and 51.
Ensuring that the Board determines significant risks, that the The main responsibilities of the Board Directors have effective oversight of risks and that the Board has The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups strategy and for effective decision-making processes and applies sufficient its overall management.
The Board sets and reviews the Companys challenge to management objectives and strategy, reviews the financial and operational Considering succession planning and the composition of the performance of each of the business units, agrees and reviews Board and taking the lead on issues of Director development, progress against the Groups annual budgets and sets and reviews including induction and acting on the results of the annual longer term business plans.
It also approves the half year and full Board evaluation year financial statements, financing arrangements, material capital commitments, relationships with regulatory authorities and the Promoting a culture of openness and debate by facilitating the Groups operating policies.
contribution of the Non-Executive Directors in particular Fostering relationships founded on mutual respect and open Information is supplied to the Directors in a manner that enables communication between the Non-Executive Directors and the them to fulfil their responsibilities.
This includes the circulation of Executive team.
Developing a productive working relationship comprehensive briefing papers several days prior to Board and with the Executive Directors, especially the Chief Executive, Committee meetings.
Presentations on business, financial and and providing support and advice whilst respecting their operational issues are made regularly to the Board by senior executive responsibility management.
Consulting with the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Key Board decisions and activity during the year on Board matters in accordance with the UK Corporate The Board has a routine agenda of business which includes receiving Governance Code reports from the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
Other Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and other items of key business considered by the Board during the year were: stakeholders and ensuring the Board is aware of the views of the Review of Group strategy including review of treasury, IT and Companys capital providers.
pension strategy Review of the Groups five year plan Role of the Chief Executive Review of business plans for each of the divisions and their Running of the day-to-day business of the Group within the execution including the First Student recovery plan authorities delegated to him by the Board Review of customer service and safety performance Ensuring implementation across the Group of the policies Matters in relation to the rights issue and strategy set by the Board Dividend policy Leading the development of the Groups future strategy Approval of half year and annual results announcement and including identifying and assessing opportunities for the the annual report growth of its business and reviewing the performance of its existing businesses Review of Group risks Day-to-day management of the Executive and senior Matters in connection with UK rail bids management team Review of reports from Board Committees Leading the development of senior management within the Approval of Board and Board Committee appointments Group with the aim of assisting the training and development and remuneration of suitable individuals for future director roles Ensuring the Chairman is kept appraised in a timely manner of the issues facing the Group and of events and developments as they arise.
FirstGroup 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Dir ectors and corporate governance report continued Effectiveness Board balance and independence Strategy The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is vital to the success of the Company.
Therefore, care is taken, through the Safety Risk Nomination Committee, to recruit and appoint Directors who can provide and maintain an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity.
The Board complies with the Code provisions that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, is made up of Non-Executive Directors who are considered by the Board to be independent.
Board Financial In considering the independence of its Directors the Board takes into Activity Transactions reporting account the guidance provided by the Code.
The Board considers David Begg, Colin Hood, Brian Wallace and Jim Winestock were independent during the year.
Notwithstanding John Sievwrights long tenure on the Board, the Board agrees with the NAPF Corporate Governance Policy and Voting Guidelines in that it views the UK Code Governance Operations nine year rule as a milestone rather than a cut off and therefore considers that John Sievwright continues to be independent in character and judgment and his input of significant value to the Board.
As set out on pages 52 and 53, he will be succeeded as Senior Independent Director on 24 June 2014 by Drummond Hall.
The Board Committee structure Chairman, John McFarlane, was independent on his appointment to The Board Committee structure and reporting lines are set out the Board.
Specific responsibilities are delegated to the Audit, Mick Barker is an employee of one of the Groups subsidiaries and Remuneration, Nomination and Board Safety Committees, each therefore cannot be considered independent in accordance with the of which has written terms of reference.
The terms of reference deal Code criteria.
The Board considers, however, that it is extremely clearly with the authorities and duties of each Committee.
Copies beneficial for its employees to be represented on the Board in this of the terms of reference for these Committees are available on the way as it enables employee related issues to be raised directly at the Companys website.
Apart from the Board Safety Committee, each Board and provides a two-way communication between the Board of these Committees comprises independent Non-Executive Directors and employees.
The Board Safety Committee comprises two Non-Executive Directors, the Chief Executive and Group Safety The Board is satisfied that all the current Non-Executive Directors are Director.
Members of the Committees are appointed by the Board on able to exercise independent judgment and that their experience, the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The Company gained from varied commercial backgrounds, enables them to bring Secretary is secretary to each Committee.
The Chairman of each specific insights and make valuable contributions to the Company.
Committee reports the outcome of meetings to the Board.
They also challenge assumptions constructively and effectively and help the executive management to develop their thinking.
Commitment The Board is satisfied that each of the Non-Executive Directors is able to devote sufficient time to the Companys business.
Non-Executive Directors are advised on appointment of the time required to fulfil the role and are asked to confirm that they can make the required commitment.
The Chairmans other significant business commitments are described in his biography on page 50.
One of the criteria considered for the appointment of the new Chairman was whether the candidate would be able to devote sufficient time to the role.
It was noted in particular that John McFarlane was Chairman of Aviva plc but the Nomination Committee took the view that this would not adversely impact his ability to carry out the role.
Executive Directors are encouraged to take non-executive positions in other companies and organisations to broaden their experience.
The appointment to such positions is subject to the approval of the Board which considers, in particular, the time commitment required.
FirstGroup 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dir ectors and corporate governance report continued Conflicts of interest also responsible for facilitating the programme of Directors induction The Companys conflict of interest procedures are reflected in the for enabling appropriate training and development needs to be Articles of Association.
In line with the Companies Act 2006 the identified and addressed and for Board performance evaluation.
Companys Articles of Association allow the Directors to authorise The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter conflicts and potential conflicts of interest where appropriate.
The requiring approval of the Board.
A new Company Secretary, Robert decision to authorise a conflict can only be made by non-conflicted Welch, was appointed by the Board to succeed the retiring Company Directors.
The Board considers conflicts or potential conflicts at each Secretary, Paul Lewis, with effect from 19 May 2014.
Directors do not participate in decisions concerning their own remuneration or interests.
Colin Hood has declared to the Performance evaluation Board his appointment to the Board of the Glasgow 2014 The Board undertakes regular evaluations of its own performance Commonwealth Games.
First Bus and First ScotRail are official as well as that of the various Board Committees.
As mentioned in supporters of the Games, providing passenger rail and bus services.
the Chairmans letter, an evaluation was carried out by Independent He therefore does not participate in any discussions or approvals Board Evaluation at the end of this year.
Choice of evaluator Development The choice of external evaluator was a key consideration for the There is an induction programme in place for new Directors.
Independent Board Evaluation IBE carried out an external Chairman is responsible for ensuring induction and training programmes evaluation in December 2012 and was chosen again this year to are provided.
All Directors are kept informed of changes in relevant conduct the process due to their flexibility of approach and ability legislation and regulations and changing financial and commercial risks to engage meaningfully with the Directors.
They are therefore able to with the assistance of the Companys legal advisers and auditor where assess progress on issues raised.
IBEs knowledge of the background appropriate.
Individual Directors, with the support of the Company and development of FirstGroup was also an important factor enabling Secretary, are also expected to take responsibility for identifying their own them to carry out an effective and targeted process.
training needs and to ensure that they are adequately informed about the Group and their responsibilities as a Director.
Evaluation focus The aim of the evaluation was to establish a benchmark against which future change can be assessed by the new Chairman.
Chairmans induction Evaluation process An extensive induction process was put together for John McFarlane A comprehensive brief was given to the IBE assessment team by the who joined as the Groups new Chairman in January 2014.
This Company Secretary and the Chairman in February 2014.
The lead included the following elements: evaluator also observed main Board and Committee meetings.
Support Full pack of Company policies and Board procedures provided and materials for briefing purposes were provided by the Company.
explained where required Detailed interviews were conducted with every Board member with Meetings with senior managers and key members of staff participants being interviewed according to a set agenda, tailored for Schedule of meetings with major shareholders the Board.
In addition, the team interviewed some of the senior management team and the Company Secretary.
Schedule of meetings with key stakeholders for the forthcoming year Site visits including Greyhound facilities in Texas and schedule of Draft conclusions were discussed with the Chairman and subsequently visits planned for the forthcoming year.
with the Board at its meeting in May 2014.
Following the Board meeting, the evaluation team gave feedback to Committee Chairmen Information and support on the performance of each Committee.
The Chairman, John The Board receives detailed papers on the business to be conducted McFarlane received a report with feedback on individual Directors and at each meeting well in advance and all Board members have direct John Sievwright received a report with feedback on the Chairman.
access to senior management should they wish to receive additional Conclusions information on any of the items for discussion.
The head of each The report indicated that the culture of the Board is changing and it is operating division attends Board meetings on a regular basis to ensure becoming more effective.
As well as highlighting certain strengths, the that the Board is properly informed about the performance of that report also identified areas for improvement, including Board diversity, division and the issues that it currently faces.
with steps taken for this to be addressed.
As a result of the evaluation Directors have access to independent professional advice at the a programme of actions was agreed by the Board in May 2014 and will Companys expense and to the advice and services of the Company be reported on in next years Annual Report.
Secretary who is responsible to the Board for advice on corporate Re-election of Directors at the Annual General Meeting governance matters and for ensuring that Board procedures are In accordance with the Articles of Association and the Code, all followed and that the Company and the Board operate within the then Directors will be offering themselves for annual election applicable legislation, rules and regulations.
The Company Secretary is or re-election at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 16 July 2014.
FirstGroup 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Dir ectors and corporate governance report continued The Board regularly reviews its procedures for identifying, evaluating Accountability and managing risk and meeting the requirements of the Code and its related guidance on internal controls.
A sound system of internal control Financial and business reporting is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve The Directors have a commitment to best practice in the Groups business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute external financial reporting in order to present a balanced and assurance against material misstatement or loss.
comprehensive assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects to its shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and The principal risks identified as a result of the Groups risk management other third parties.
This commitment encompasses all published procedures are shown on pages 36 to 41.
The responsibility for information including, but not limited to, the year end and half yearly establishing detailed control and risk management procedures within financial statements, regulatory news announcements and other public each subsidiary lies with the Executive Directors and divisional information.
The quality of its reporting is ensured by having in place managing directors.
procedures for the review of information by management.
There are also strict procedures set out in the Boards delegated authorities The Board sponsors the Risk Group as part of the Groups risk determining who has authority to release information.
The Risk Group comprises representatives the Directors responsibilities for preparing the financial statements can from Finance, IT, Legal, Insurance, Internal Audit, Company Secretariat, be found on page 93.
Corporate Communications, HR, Corporate Responsibility and Security and is also attended by relevant divisional senior management.
The Group adopts a financial reporting and information system which The divisions present their matrix and controls at least yearly.
complies with generally accepted accounting practice.
The Group Finance Manual, circulated by the Group Finance function to all The Risk Group meets at least four times annually and reports to the subsidiaries and finance functions, details the Groups accounting Audit Committee which in turn reports to the Board with the express policies and procedures with which subsidiaries must comply.
Budgets purpose of reviewing the risk and control procedures in each of the are prepared by subsidiary company management which are then business areas and support functions.
As a result of the reports consolidated into divisional budgets.
These are subject to review by submitted to it by the Risk Group, the Audit Committee is able to keep both senior management and the Executive Directors followed by under regular review the major risks facing the Group and the adequacy formal approval by the Board.
Regular forecast updates are completed of mitigating controls.
during the year and compared against actions required.
Each Further details of the Groups risk management approach, risk subsidiary unit prepares a monthly report of operating performance management structure and principal risks and uncertainties are set with a commentary on variances against budget and prior year.
Similar out on pages 36 to 41. reports are prepared at a Group level.
Key performance indicators, both financial and operational, are monitored on a weekly basis.
In Control environment addition, business units participate in strategic reviews which include The Board is committed to business integrity, high ethical and moral consideration of long term financial projections and the evaluation of values and professionalism in all its activities, principles with which all business alternatives.
managers and employees are required to comply.
The Group has a Code of Business Ethics, which is part of the Groups Corporate Review of effectiveness of financial controls Responsibility Policy.
A copy is available on the Companys website.
The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls for the year under review and to the date of In addition, the Board has effective controls in place including an approval of the Annual Report and Accounts through the Audit Anti-Bribery Policy to address the requirements of relevant antiCommittees review of reports prepared by Internal Audit.
corruption legislation including the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the US Treasury operations Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 1977.
Internal Audit maintains a Group The Board has set a policy for management of the risks from treasury Hospitality and Gifts Register which records all hospitality or gifts given operations and this is set out in more detail in note 24 to the financial or received by all Board and Executive Management Board members statements.
A Group Treasury Policy has been formulated and adopted including all hospitality or gifts offered but not accepted, the value of to ensure compliance with best practice and to control and monitor which exceeds a fide minimis amount.
Additional Hospitality and Gift effectively the risks attendant upon treasury and banking operations.
Registers are also maintained at divisional level.
Risk management and internal control The Group has a defined divisional organisational structure with lines The Board has ultimate responsibility for determining the nature and of authority and delegated responsibility which allows the Board to extent of the risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
plan, execute, control and monitor the business in a manner consistent with the Groups objectives.
The day-to-day business management is delegated to the Executive Directors and divisional management under the overall direction of the Chief Executive.
As noted above, the Board reserves to itself a number of specific items, which ensures that it FirstGroup 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dir ectors and corporate governance report continued retains control over key business decisions and significant transactions Nomination Committee in terms of size, type or risk.
A number of the Groups key functions including Treasury, Taxation, Insurance, Finance, Legal, Internal Audit, My role as Chairman of the Nomination Committee complements Corporate Communications, Pensions and Procurement are dealt with my role as Chairman of the Board.
Each of these functions is monitored by an Executive Director.
I strongly believe that good governance and strong balanced Board Whistleblowing leadership are critical to creating shareholder value.
Having made The Group has well established procedures whereby employees may, the changes to the Board referred to on pages 52 and 53, the in confidence, raise concerns relating to personal or employment issues, Committee will renew the membership of the other Board potential fraud, health and safety, harassment, discrimination, security Committees as appropriate.
We will continue to take account of the or any other matter.
The confidential hotline covers all businesses across Boards aims in relation to diversity whilst ensuring that we have the the Group in each country in which it operates.
The Audit Committee right people with the right skills on the Board and in senior reviews whistleblowing arrangements as part of its responsibilities.
management positions in the coming years.
The Group is confident that these whistleblowing arrangements are John McFarlane satisfactory and enable proportionate and independent investigation Chairman of the Nomination Committee of such matters and appropriate follow up action to be taken.
Monitoring Membership and meetings Throughout the year Internal Audit conduct a comprehensive Composition of the Committee and attendance by individual members programme of reviews of internal controls within the operating units.
at meetings is detailed below.
The Committee met six times during the These reviews have sometimes highlighted minor control weaknesses year.
The Committee meets as required to consider appointments of which are discussed with management and remedial action plans are both Executive and Non-Executive Directors to the Board.
Where appropriate, follow up visits to the operating entity then recommendations are then put to the Board for approval.
confirm that the action plans have been completed and that the controls that have been put in place are working effectively.
No material Number of meetings losses, contingencies or uncertainties that would require disclosure in attended out of total Committee member eligible to attend the Groups Annual Report and Accounts have been identified during the year by this process.
Martin Gilbert, Chairman 4 4 resigned as a Director 31 December 2013 1 John McFarlane, Chairman 0 0 appointed as Chairman of the Committee on the 28 January 2014 David Begg 6 6 Colin Hood 6 6 John Sievwright 5 6 1 Brian Wallace 0 0 appointed to the Committee on 28 January 2014 1 Jim Winestock 0 0 appointed to the Committee on 28 January 2014 1 There have been no Nomination Committee meetings since the relevant Director was appointed to the Committee.
Membership of the Committee was reviewed during the year.
The new Chairman of the Board, John McFarlane, was appointed as the Committee Chairman to replace Martin Gilbert.
In addition Jim Winestock and Brian Wallace were appointed as members of the Committee in January 2014.
Tim OToole attends meetings of the Committee at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
Mick Barker also attends meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee to represent the Groups employees.
FirstGroup 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Dir ectors and corporate governance report continued Role of the Nomination Committee Recruitment of Chairman of the Board The terms of reference of the Committee set out the Committees Following the announcement by Martin Gilbert that he would be responsibilities.
These were updated in March 2013.
They are available standing down as Chairman of the Board the Nomination Committee on request and are also published on the Companys website.
put in place a process for finding a successor.
John Sievwright, as Senior Independent Director, led the process.
Martin Gilbert, as The key responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to: outgoing Chairman, did not participate.
The Committee appointed JCA review the structure, size and composition of the Board including Group to act as the recruitment agent for the new Chairman.
JCA the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity including Group has no other connection with the Group apart from the provision gender and ensure that all members of the Board have devoted of senior executive recruitment services.
The Committee decided on sufficient time to their duties the key attributes, specifications and time commitment required for the role.
A role specification was also drafted and approved.
identify and nominate for approval by the Board, candidates to fill vacancies as and when they arise, including utilising JCA Group prepared a list of potential candidates for the role, each of search consultants where appropriate which was discussed and considered in detail by the Committee.
A number of interviews and meetings were then held with interested parties.
oversee the succession planning process for the Board and Engagement with major shareholders was ongoing throughout the senior management recruitment process in order to obtain their feedback.
At the conclusion make recommendations to the Board regarding the continuation in of that process the Nomination Committee unanimously recommended office of any Director, including their proposed re-election.
to the Board that John McFarlane be appointed as the new Chairman of The Employee Director is elected by the Employee Directors forum, the Company.
which comprises the Employee Directors of the Companys UK subsidiaries, and serves a maximum of three, three-year terms.
Diversity In 2011 the Board approved the following commitment to diversity: Main activities during the year We are supporters of diversity in the boardroom and we are supportive of the Financial Reporting Councils aims to encourage Succession planning for the new Chairman of the Board diversity in the boardroom.
We are also supportive of Lord Davies aim to raise the proportion of women on UK boards and will work towards Recruitment process and recommendation of approval of the new an aspiration of 20% of Board positions filled by women by 2015, Chairman of the Board subject to availability of candidates with the right skills and experience.
Review and appointment of the new Audit Committee Chairman We remain of the opinion that appointments to the Board should be made relative to a number of different criteria including diversity of Review of membership of the Nomination Committee and gender, background and personal attributes, alongside the appropriate appointment of new members skill set, experience and expertise.
As described in the Chairmans letter, with the appointment of Imelda Walsh, the Board is moving towards its aspiration to raise the proportion of Board positions filled by women subject to her election by shareholders at the AGM on 16 July 2014.
To further support the Groups diversity ambition, an action plan has been developed which includes launching our new Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy and supporting framework, setting diversity and inclusion priorities for each of our divisions and running employee focus groups in the UK to collect views of the employee experience at FirstGroup.
Nomination Committee evaluation The performance of the Nomination Committee was reviewed as part of the external evaluation of the Board and its Committees.
Some action items were identified for the Nomination Committee including a stronger emphasis on succession planning for senior management.
This will be addressed during the coming year.
FirstGroup 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dir ectors and corporate governance report continued Number of meetings Audit Committee attended out of total Committee member eligible to attend I am pleased to introduce to you the Audit Committee report for the John Sievwright 3 4 year ended 31 March 2014.
I joined the Committee in January 2013 resigned as Audit Committee Chairman on 29 October 2013 and succeeded John Sievwright as Chairman of the Committee on 29 October 2013.
I would like to thank John on behalf of the Audit Brian Wallace, Chairman 4 4 Committee for his hard work and effective chairmanship over appointed as Audit Committee Chairman on 29 October 2013 the years.
David Begg 4 4 As well as its core activities the Audit Committee has focused on Colin Hood 4 4 risk management and the review of significant judgments that impact the Groups financial statements to ensure that these are properly addressed.
The Committee has also reviewed the new Role of the Audit Committee reporting requirements for audit committees introduced by The terms of reference of the Audit Committee set out its the Code.
They are available The Audit Committee intends to maintain its focus on ensuring the on request and are also published on the Companys website.
appropriate management of risk and the integrity of the Groups The key responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: financial reporting processes and procedures in the year ahead.
In addition we will keep under review expected developments in Monitor the integrity of the annual and half year results and interim going concern reporting and legislative proposals from the EU management statements including review of the significant financial and Competition & Markets Authority on audit tendering.
reporting issues and judgments contained in them and review and, where necessary, challenge the Groups financial statements Brian Wallace Chairman of the Audit Committee Monitor the consistency of, and any changes to, accounting policies Review and oversee the Groups relationship with the external Membership and meetings auditor, monitoring its independence, objectivity, and the Composition of the Committee and attendance by individual members effectiveness of the audit process and developing and at Audit Committee meetings is detailed in the following table.
The implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditor Committee met four times during the year.
The Committee is to supply non-audit services scheduled to meet at least four times during the year at times set Make recommendations to the Board in respect of the according to the financial reporting calendar.
appointment re-appointment of the external auditor and the audit fee to be paid Notwithstanding his resignation as Chairman of the Committee, John Sievwright remained as a member of the Committee.
John Sievwright Review the reports on the Group from Internal Audit was considered by the Board to be independent during the year Review the activities, findings, conclusions and recommendations despite having served over nine years as a Non-Executive Director.
of the external auditor, together with the reporting to the Audit His continued membership of the Committee was considered to be Committee, the Management Representation Letter and the final of key importance at this time of transition due to his experience of the Audit Report Group and previous chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
The Board Review the procedures for the identification, assessment, reporting therefore believes that membership of the Committee is compliant with and management mitigation of risks the Code.
Brian Wallace has held executive positions within a number of large organisations as Group Finance Director and other senior Ensure the management of risk and integrity of the Groups financial finance roles and is a chartered accountant.
reporting processes and procedures Monitor the Groups whistleblowing arrangements and procedures The Group Director of Internal Audit and the Groups external auditor for detecting fraud regularly attend Audit Committee meetings.
Executive Directors and other senior managers also attend when requested and as appropriate.
Report formally to the Board, providing advice on the Annual Report Meetings were held with the external auditor and the Committee and making appropriate recommendations to the Board on the without management being present during the year.
The Group Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Director of Internal Audit has the right of direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Committee meetings may be requested by the The main activities of the Audit Committee during the year are external or internal auditors if they consider it necessary.
summarised in the table overleaf.
FirstGroup 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Dir ectors and corporate governance report continued Internal Audit as confirmation from the external auditor that it has remained The Group has an Internal Audit function which reports to the Audit independent within the meaning of the APB Ethical Standards of Committee.
Internal Audit reviews internal controls and reports to the Auditors.
Deloitte LLP confirmed its independence to the Committee Audit Committee on these controls, any areas of weakness identified at various stages throughout the year and at the end of the external and whether the controls are operating effectively.
Internal Audit reports audit process for the financial year.
are presented at each Audit Committee meeting.
The current auditor, Deloitte LLP, has been the Groups auditor since Internal Audit operates under an Audit Charter which was reviewed 1999 and the Senior Statutory Auditor SSA is rotated every five years.
The Audit Charter sets out the purpose, organisation, The current SSA was appointed in the 2010 11 financial year authority, responsibilities and standards of practice for the Internal and therefore a new SSA is due to be appointed for the 2015 16 Audit function.
Each year an Internal Audit Plan is prepared and approved by the The Committee is aware of the new Code requirement for the external Committee and the Board which identifies areas of priority as identified audit contract to be re-tendered at least once every ten years.
Progress against the plan is monitored by the Audit Financial Reporting Council has also recommended transitional Committee.
The outcome of Internal Audit work is monitored, reports arrangements in this respect.
In addition there are forthcoming are sent to senior executives of the Group and subsidiary units and changes to European Union regulations concerning the audit market.
there is a follow up process to ensure that actions to resolve any In view of the uncertainty regarding the form and impact of these identified control weaknesses are implemented.
regulations, the Committee will recommend a course of action to the Board during the year in respect of the tender of the external The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function is reviewed by the Audit audit contract.
This is done by the review of the Internal Audit Plan of work The majority of non-audit work is put out to tender, with the exception for the year and monitoring progress against the plan and actions of audit-related assurance services.
In such cases, the current auditors identified in the plan.
knowledge of the Companys business processes and controls means External auditor that it is usually best placed to undertake this work on a cost-effective The Committee assesses the independence of the external auditor basis on the Companys behalf.
The major item of non-audit fees during and the effectiveness of the external audit process before making this year was for work surrounding the rights issue.
The Deloitte LLP recommendations to the Board in respect of its appointment or teams working on non-audit projects also included partners with no re-appointment.
involvement or responsibility for the external audit to ensure that the objectivity of Deloitte LLP was maintained.
The Committee took the In assessing independence and objectivity, the Committee considers view that the expertise and in-depth knowledge of the business meant the level and nature of service provided by the external auditor as well Main activities of the Audit Committee during the year Financial Statements and Risk Management and External Audit and Accounting Policies Internal controls Internal Audit External Auditor Consideration of significant Review of business continuity Review of Internal Audit Charter Review of the external auditors audit risks and critical areas and disaster recovery plans Audit Report on the financial Review of Internal Audit Plan and of judgment including consideration of IT statements and consideration progress against the Plan and cyber-security of key audit findings Going concern review Review of Internal Audit reports Review of Risk Group Reports Review of the independence Review of the preliminary of the external auditor Review of issues raised by announcement, Annual Report Internal Audit and progress on and Financial Statements Consideration and approval actions agreed with management of external auditor fees Consideration of the half-yearly report and announcement Review of Management Representation Letter Consideration of the external auditors interim review Review of Audit Planning Report Review of the effectiveness of the external audit process FirstGroup 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dir ectors and corporate governance report continued that Deloitte LLP were best placed to provide these services.
Details Following the assessment of the independence of the external auditor of the audit and non-audit fees, including a further breakdown of the and the effectiveness of the external audit process, the Committee non-audit fees, are set out in note 6 to the financial statements.
recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be reappointed as the Groups auditor.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP will The Committee concluded that the nature and extent of the non-audit therefore be put to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming fees did not compromise the independence of the external auditor.
The effectiveness of the external audit process is first assessed by Significant issues reviewing delivery and performance against the External Audit Plan The external audit process identifies significant issues and accounting for the year, which includes the reports and updates provided to the judgments which are reviewed by the Audit Committee.
An annual assessment is then carried out by the summarised in the table below.
Management prepared papers and Committee, taking into account the results of questionnaires completed analysis on the significant issues and judgments which were discussed by each of the divisions and Group management.
These questionnaires in Committee meetings during the year.
The Committee also discussed cover a variety of topics including: the audit partners and team: the these issues with the external auditor at the half year and year end.
All planning and execution of the audit approach: and insights and added the significant issues were also areas of focus for the external auditor value provided by the audit process.
Feedback from the annual as detailed in the auditors report on pages 150 to 152. assessment was shared with the external auditor so that any areas for improvement could be followed up.
The Committee concluded that the external audit process was effective overall.
Significant issues How the Audit Committee addressed these issues and judgments Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets The Committee has considered the inputs for the impairment test model.
Management exercises a significant amount of judgment during the The cash flow forecasts have been reviewed alongside past impairment testing process as it is based on an estimation of future performance and expected operational changes to the business.
cash flows and a suitable discount rate.
The discount rate has been benchmarked to externally available data.
The growth rate assumptions have been applied in line with both market data and the macro-economic environment in the UK and North America.
Sensitivities to the model inputs have been tested for reasonableness.
Legal provisions The Committee has considered the assumptions used for estimating the Provisions are measured at managements best estimate of the valuation of provisions.
The legal issues are regularly reviewed with the likelihood and valuation of the expense required to settle the relevant related provisions being based on advice from external legal counsel.
obligation and, where applicable, the discount rate used to calculate expected settlement.
Self-insurance provisions The Committee has reviewed the provision and considered the Provisions are measured at managements best estimate of the likely assumptions used to calculate the liability.
Independent actuarial expert settlement of all known incidents.
A valuation of the expense required advice on the adequacy of the provisions against such liabilities is sought to settle the obligation and, where applicable, the discount rate is used on a regular basis and the discount rate has been benchmarked against to calculate the expected settlement.
Pensions Management has engaged with external experts and the Committee has The Group participates in a number of defined benefit pension considered the assumptions used for calculating the liability.
Management exercises significant judgment when analysis has been performed on the key assumptions which are the determining the assumptions used to value the pension liabilities as discount rate, the expected return on scheme assets, the inflation rate and these are materially sensitive to changes in the underlying mortality rates, and the overall liability has been assessed for assumptions.
Revenue recognition The Committee has reviewed the revenue recognition policies.
These Management must exercise judgment when determining the policies and their application are in line with accounting standards.
recoverability of amounts due and the carrying value of related assets Regular forecasts are compiled on the outcome of these types of and liabilities arising from franchises and long term service contracts.
franchises and contracts to assess the reasonableness of the assumptions applied.
FirstGroup 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Dir ectors and corporate governance report continued Fair, balanced and understandable Board Safety Committee New reporting requirements introduced by the Code require the Board to state that the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and The Board Safety Committee was set up in 2013 14 to provide provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the greater oversight and governance of safety throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee was requested to The Committee challenges the Group continuously to review its assist the Board in analysis in order to confirm this statement.
As part operational safety performance and culture.
As a consequence, we of its review, the Audit Committee took into account the preparation have reviewed how we look at serious incidents and a plan is in process for the Companys Annual Report.
place to enhance the engagement of employees and leadership in injury prevention.
An assessment of the safety culture throughout Themes are identified surrounding strategic and business objectives the Group will take place in 2014 15 with the aim to develop and which set the context for the whole of the Annual Report implement interventions to reinforce safety as a personal core value Different sections of the Annual Report are drafted and reviewed for employees.
by appropriate senior management who have visibility of the Dr Colin Hood Companys objectives and performance Chairman of the Board Safety Committee A thorough review process is undertaken to ensure that the information presented is supported and factually correct Membership and meetings Reviews of the drafts of the annual report are carried out by the Composition of the Committee and attendance by individual members Executive Directors and other members of senior management at meetings is detailed below.
The Committee met three times during Advice is received by the Audit Committee on the content of the year.
the Annual Report from external advisors, in particular the external auditor Number of meetings attended out of total A final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee before Committee member eligible to attend recommendation to the Board for approval.
Colin Hood, Chairman 3 3 Audit Committee evaluation Jim Winestock 3 3 The performance of the Audit Committee was externally assessed during the year as part of the Board and Committee evaluation Tim OToole 3 3 process.
Positive areas were highlighted such as the appointment of the new Chairman to the Committee who was considered to have Naveed Qamar Group Safety Director 3 3 the requisite skills and expertise to steer the Committee through its demanding remit.
Some areas for review were also identified which Role of the Board Safety Committee will be addressed during the forthcoming year.
The terms of reference of the Committee set out the Committees responsibilities.
They are available on request and are also published on the Companys website.
The key responsibilities of the Board Safety Committee are to: Provide an oversight of the management of the operational Group safety risk profile as updated and presented by the Group Safety Director Promote a positive safety culture throughout the Group Review the divisions safety performance.
Main activities during the year Considered safety committee structure in the Group Reviewed safety performance 2012 13 and targets for 2013 14 Proposed the themes for future meetings Reviewed environmental, safety and health hotline calls Review of safety benchmarking report FirstGroup 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dir ectors and corporate governance report continued Relations with shareholders Additional Information Dialogue with shareholders A number of the reporting requirements under section 415 of the We are keen to promote open and transparent communications with Companies Act 2006 are included in this report by cross reference our shareholders and potential investors.
We recognise that regular to the strategic report on pages 32 to 35, such disclosures being: dialogue is particularly important during challenging times.
Information on environmental matters including greenhouse gas Investors are kept informed on an ongoing basis of key business emissions activities, decisions, appointments and key announcements via the the Companys employees including a breakdown of Group-wide regulatory news service and press releases.
The Companys website diversity data www.
com contains this information together with financial Social, community and human rights issues.
reports, presentations and other information on the Groups operations.
There is also regular dialogue with institutional shareholders throughout The Company did not make any political donations during the year.
the year and general presentations are made by the Chief Executive The Company also publishes a separate Corporate Responsibility and Group Finance Director following the announcement of the half Report, available on the Companys website at www.
com and full year results.
Other Directors, including Non-Executive Directors, covering social, environmental and health and safety issues.
attend meetings with major shareholders as requested.
An investor day was held in January 2014 at which the divisional management Employee involvement presented to investors and financial analysts.
Specific consultations We take an informed and consultative approach to employee have been carried out with leading shareholders during the year on the communication across our business.
As well as more traditional forms appointment of a new Chairman and the Remuneration Policy.
of communication, employees can also access online facilities and our redesigned internal employee portal was launched in May 2014.
On his appointment as Chairman, John McFarlane met with our major In addition management teams work to ensure that communication institutional investors.
Discussions were held on a wide range of topics is cascaded face to face throughout their business areas.
such as: Employees are encouraged to discuss any issues with management Delivery of the business plans at any time and events, such as an executive roadshow series in Greyhound, have been arranged at regular intervals to allow employees Dividend policy the chance to feed back to senior management.
Progress within First Student A significant proportion of our workforce belongs to trade unions, Board composition with our employees represented by approximately 30 different unions.
The majority of our employees in North America, approximately 74% Regular reports on investor relations activity and feedback from of our UK Bus employees, and a significant proportion of our UK Rail investors are submitted to the Board and senior management.
employees are represented by unions.
We have a regular dialogue with employees and representatives from Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting trade unions.
Each division has its own information and consultation The Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday 16 July 2014 arrangements and levels of employee involvement in the business differ.
at The Marcliffe Hotel, North Deeside Road, Pitfodels, Aberdeen AB15 9YA.
In the UK, we have worked with trade unions on a number of key The AGM gives shareholders the opportunity to put questions to the workplace matters and initiatives.
A business presentation is also given at the AGM.
Voting is carried out by poll at the AGM which the Company believes is the fairest way to represent the views of all shareholders.
The final voting results are announced via a regulatory news service and are posted to the Companys website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
The Notice of AGM, setting out the business to be considered, is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and is also available on the Companys website.
Key shareholder engagement January April May June July October November Q3 Interim Pre close Full year Annual Q1 Interim Pre close Half year Management trading results Report and Management trading results Statement update Accounts Statement update Annual General Meeting FirstGroup 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Dir ectors and corporate governance report continued As well as gathering feedback throughout the year through formal and The Company operates a number of employee share schemes details informal channels, all employees are also given the opportunity to make of which are set out in note 34 to the financial statements.
Kleinwort their voice heard through our regular employee surveys.
These surveys Benson Guernsey Trustees Limited, as trustee of the FirstGroup plc at Group, divisional and local level provide a useful insight into what our Employee Benefit Trust, holds shares in the Company in trust in order people think about the Company.
The priorities identified by our own to satisfy awards made to participants in the Companys LTIP, ESOS people help to shape our future employee strategy.
and EABP and abstains from voting.
Under the rules of the FirstGroup plc Share Incentive Plan BAYE, employees buy shares and receive Policies concerning disabled employees free matching shares in the Company.
In order to preserve certain tax Full and fair consideration is given to applications for employment benefits these shares are held in a trust by Yorkshire Building Society by disabled persons.
We are committed to supporting disabled for employees.
Whilst these shares are held in trust, the voting rights employees including employees who become disabled persons during attached to them are exercised by the trustee but only at the direction their employment with regards to training, career development and of the employees.
The trustee does not vote on the shares if no promotion.
Results and dividends No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share The results for the year are set out in the consolidated income capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
The Directors are not recommending payment of a final dividend this year.
Authority for the Company to purchase its own shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2013 authority was Articles of Association granted for the Company to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares.
The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by a special During the year no ordinary shares were purchased.
Under the existing resolution of the Companys shareholders.
authority the Company may purchase up to 48,000,000 ordinary shares.
This authority remains in place until the AGM on 16 July 2014 Share capital when it is intended to seek a renewal.
Details of the Companys issued share capital, are set out in note 28 to the financial statements.
The Company has one class of ordinary Directors shares which carry no right to fixed income.
During the year the share The Directors of the Company who served during the year and their capital was increased by 722,859,586 new ordinary shares as a result biographical details are shown on pages 50 and 51.
Martin Gilbert also of the rights issue announced on 20 May 2013.
As at 21 May 2014, served on the Board and retired as a Director on 31 December 2013. there were 1,204,926,756 ordinary shares of 5 pence each in issue Having been appointed by the Board on 5 December 2013, the including 159,531 ordinary shares of 5 pence each held in treasury.
Companys Articles of Association require John McFarlane to seek The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and election at the Annual General Meeting on 16 July 2014.
As detailed on are governed by the Companys Articles of Association and UK law.
pages 52 and 53 David Begg, Colin Hood and John Sievwright will retire from the Board and three new Non-Executive Directors, Warwick Ordinary shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at any general Brady, Drummond Hall and Imelda Walsh will be appointed as meeting of the Company.
Those who are present at a general meeting Non-Executive Directors with effect from 24 June 2014.
The and duly appointed proxies or duly authorised corporate Companys Articles of Association require the new Directors to seek representatives, shall have one vote each on a show of hands and on a election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
poll, every shareholder present in person or by proxy will have one vote for every share held.
The Notice of the 2014 Annual General Meeting In accordance with the Code all other serving Directors will put accompanying this document specifies the deadlines for exercising themselves forward for re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the number for, against With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the and withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Code, the meeting and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Company is managed by There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the the Directors, who may exercise all powers of the Company which are transfer of shares which are both governed by the general provisions of not required to be exercised by the shareholders of the Company by the Companys Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The voting in general meeting.
Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Senior executives of FirstGroup America and its operating units have securities or on voting rights at any meeting of the Company.
executive service agreements that provide, in part, some compensation for any termination other than a termination for cause.
Severance payments range from one to two years in duration.
This is customary practice in the US market.
FirstGroup 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dir ectors and corporate governance report continued There are no other agreements between the Company and its The US$150m 4.26% notes due in three instalments of US$50m from Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or 2016 to 2017, the 250m 6.125% bonds due 2019, the 300m 8.125% employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or bonds due 2018, the 350m 8.750% bonds due 2021, the 200m otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
6.875% bonds due 2024 and the 325m 5.250% bonds due 2022 issued by the Company may also be affected by a change of control Details of the fees and remuneration of the Directors and their service of the Company.
A change of control in respect of the 250m 6.125% contracts or terms of appointment are set out in the Directors bonds due 2019 may result in an increase of 1.5% per annum in the remuneration report on pages 70 to 92. interest rate payable on those bonds.
However, the interest rate on the bonds will only be so increased if certain further thresholds in relation Directors interests to the credit rating of the bonds are also met.
In respect of the 300m The number of ordinary shares of the Company in which the Directors 8.125% bonds due 2018, the 350m 8.750% bonds due 2021, the were beneficially interested as at 1 April 2013 and 31 March 2014 are 200m 6.875% bonds due 2024 and the 325m 5.250% bonds due set out in the Remuneration report on page 87.
2022, upon a change of control of the Company, provided that certain further thresholds in relation to the credit rating of the bonds are met, No Director has any material interest in any significant contract or the bondholders have the option to require the Company to redeem the agreement with the Group, other than their service contracts.
In respect of the US$150m 4.26% notes due from 2016 to 2017, Directors indemnities and liability insurance upon a change of control, the Company must make an offer to Directors and Officers liability insurance is maintained by the Company noteholders to prepay the entire unpaid principal amount of the notes and is in place at the date of this report.
The Company reviews its level held by each bondholder at par together with interest accrued thereon of cover on an annual basis and is satisfied that it remains adequate.
but without any yield maintenance amount.
The Directors also have the benefit of indemnity provisions in the b UK Rail Companys Articles of Association.
These provisions are qualifying third The Groups franchised passenger rail operators, First Capital Connect, party indemnity provisions as defined in section 234 of the Companies First ScotRail, First TransPennine Express and First Great Western, are Act 2006. each party to a franchise agreement with the Scottish Ministers in Significant interests respect of First ScotRail and with the Secretary of State for Transport As at 31 March 2014 and 21 May 2014, the Company had been in respect of the other operators.
These franchise agreements are notified of the following interests in its shares which represent 3% or subject to termination clauses which may apply on a change of control.
more of the voting rights in the Company: These operators and the Groups non-franchised rail operator, First Hull Trains, each hold railway licences as required by the Railways Act 1993 as amended : these licences may be revoked on three months notice Institution Ordinary 5p shares % if a change of control occurs without the approval of the Office of Rail Regulation.
All of these operators also require and hold track access Franklin Mutual Advisers, LLC 60,595,200 5.03 agreements with Network Rail Infrastructure Limited under which they are permitted to access railway infrastructure.
Failure by any of the Orbis Investment Management Limited 50,876,095 4.22 operators to maintain its railway licence is a potential termination event Sandell Asset Management Corp 37,347,745 3.10 under the terms of the track access agreements.
The Groups railway operators also lease rolling stock from specialist rolling stock leasing companies such as Eversholt Rail Group, Porterbrook Leasing Change of control significant agreements Company Limited and Angel Trains Limited.
A material number of the a Financing agreements individual leasing agreements include change of control provisions.
The The Group has a 800m multi-currency revolving credit and guarantee Group is also involved from time to time in bidding processes for UK facility between, amongst others, the Company and The Royal Bank of Rail franchises and transport contracts further afield which customarily Scotland plc dated 15 May 2014.
This refinanced the Groups existing include change in circumstance provisions which would be triggered revolving credit and guarantee facility.
Following any change of control on a change of control and could result in termination or rejection from of the Company, individual lenders may negotiate with the Company further participation in the relevant competitions.
with a view to resolving any concerns arising from such change of control.
If the matter has not been resolved within 30 days an individual bank may cancel its commitment and the Company must repay the relevant proportion of any drawdown.
FirstGroup 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Dir ectors and corporate governance report continued c Joint venture agreements The Groups management of exposure to financial risk, including The Company has joint venture agreements with Keolis UK Limited in liquidity, currency, interest rate and commodity risks, is disclosed in relation to First TransPennine Express and with DSB in relation to DSB note 24 to the financial statements.
First Aps and DSB Sverige AB.
As is customary, these joint venture The Directors have carried out a detailed review of the Groups 2014 15 agreements include provisions addressing change of control.
budget and medium term plans, with due regard to the risks and Financial risk management uncertainties to which the Group is exposed of which the principal The Companys policies on financial risk management, including the items are set out on pages 36 to 41, the uncertain economic climate Companys exposure to liquidity risk, credit risk and certain market and the impact that this could have on trading performance.
based risks including foreign exchange rates, interest rates and fuel Based on this review, the Directors believe that the Company and the prices, can be found in note 24 to the financial statements.
Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for Audit information the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the Company at prepared on a going concern basis.
the date when this report was approved: so far as each of the Directors Forward-looking statements is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Where the Directors report contains forward-looking statements these auditor is unaware: and each of the Directors has taken all the steps are made by the Directors in good faith based upon the information that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself available at the time of their approval of this report.
aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
These statements will not be updated or reported upon further.
Consequently, such statements should be treated with caution due to This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. factors, underlying such forward-looking statements or information and Auditor nothing in this report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in office and a Post balance sheet events resolution seeking to reappoint it will be proposed at the forthcoming There have been no material post balance sheet events as at the date Annual General Meeting.
Going concern By order of the Board The Directors have acknowledged the guidance on going concern and financial reporting published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
Robert Welch Whilst the Group is affected by macro-economic developments, Company Secretary it has a strong balanced portfolio of businesses with approximately 21 May 2014 half of Group revenues secured under medium term contracts with government agencies and other large organisations in the UK and 395 King Street North America.
Aberdeen AB24 5RP While any changes in economic activity will impact UK Bus and Rail passenger numbers this potential risk is reduced in UK Bus by the ability of the Group to modify services giving 56 days notice 70 days in Scotland of such modifications.
In North America, the First Student and First Transit businesses are highly contracted and, whilst Greyhound is more susceptible to the economy, its costs are largely variable.
The Group has a diversified funding structure which is largely represented by medium term unsecured committed bank facilities and long term unsecured bond debt.
The Group has a 800m committed revolving banking facility dated 15 May 2014 which refinanced the Groups existing revolving credit and guarantee facility.
This facility expires on 28 December 2019.
FirstGroup 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
