CORPORATE GOVERNANCE I am presenting here the Companys Corporate Board Development Governance Report for 2014 on behalf of the Board.
Alent I have set out in my Chairmans Statement the development plc is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code the of the Board.
The Chief Executive succession was Code.
The Code encourages me to report personally undertaken with military precision.
It was successfully on how its principles relating to the role and effectiveness accomplished, and the appointment of Andrew Heath of the Board have been applied.
was achieved with unanimous Board approval.
We continue to develop both as a Board and as individual Looking Ahead directors.
The Board is committed to maintaining high The Board will focus on future developmental actions standards of corporate governance and ensuring values during 2015. and behaviours are embedded and consistent across the The remainder of this report contains the narrative business.
We continue to ensure that the Directors provide reporting required by the Code, the Listing Rules and the suitable leadership and direction to the Company in three Disclosure and Transparency Rules including the role and ways: performance evaluation, succession planning and work of the Nomination Committee.
Each of these are considered in turn within the Governance Report.
I would like to encourage all shareholders to attend our AGM on 7 May 2015.
It is an excellent opportunity to meet Evaluation the Board and senior executives.
We have again undertaken an externally facilitated review of the performance of the Board, its committees and individual directors.
A fuller description is set out on page PETER HILL, CBE 53 of this report.
I am encouraged by its findings.
Chairman The results of the Board evaluation were taken into account 2 March 2015 in respect of the Board changes that have taken place.
The areas that show the most marked improvement include the conduct of meetings, the dynamics between Non-executive Directors and the executives, specifically the levels of challenge and support: the adequacy of strategic Board discussions: the placing of more emphasis on operational and Group risk, and Board decision-making.
The Board now has a greater sense of clarity in, and visibility of, our business.
44 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION approval of key policies, including the Companys Compliance Statement financing and treasury policies, and others such as Alent plc is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code, those relating to Health, Safety, Environment and our published by the Financial Reporting Council The Code Code of Conduct the Alent Code, as well as key and available on their website, www.
This report areas of commitment such as Diversity and Inclusion: addresses the requirements of the Code and explains how Alent plc has applied its main principles.
During the year preparing the Groups and Companys ended 31 December 2014 the Company has in all respects financialstatements: complied with the provisions of the Code.
recommending or declaring a dividend: What is our approach to Governance?
The Board of Alent is committed to ensuring that the reviewing the Groups overall governance arrangements including approval of the delegated authorities matrix: highest standards of corporate governance are maintained.
This section of the Annual Report & Accounts maintaining effective internal controls and risk describes the Companys corporate governance management processes: structures and processes and how they have been succession planning and appointments to the Board: applied throughout the year ended 31 December 2014. setting senior executive remuneration: and At each of its meetings, the Board has received regular updates from both myself, the Company Secretary, and reviewing the performance of the Board itself and the Companys advisers as appropriate, enabling it to itsCommittees.
consider all governance developments as well as receiving appropriate training and education on relevant issues.
Leadership The Role and Responsibilities of the Board The Company is led and controlled by the Board of Areas of Board Focus in 2014 Directors, who have ultimate responsibility for the management of the Group.
The Board focuses primarily upon strategic, policy and governance issues and is responsible for the Companys long-term success.
It sets the Companys strategy, oversees the allocation of resources, approves the Companys operating budgets which are normally proposed by the Chief Executive and monitors the performance of the Company against them.
The Board is also responsible for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Company, and for establishing the effectiveness of the Companys systems ofinternal controls.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and delegates certain matters to Committees as set out in the Report.
In addition, the Non-executive Directors constructively challenge the Executive Directors and review their performance.
The Board reviews, at least annually, the performance of the Chairman.
Strategy HR Schedule of matters reserved to the Board for formal Finance incl Banking and Insurance Investor Relations consideration, and which are reviewed annually, include: Chief Executives Report incl H, S&E R&D setting the Groups strategy: Governance Risk Reporting reviewing the Company and divisional performance: approval of the annual budget: approval of major corporate transactions, including acquisitions, divestments, capital expenditure and majorchanges to the Groups capital structure: approval to enter into contracts which are deemed to bematerial either strategically or by reason of size, duration or liability: WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Who is our Board?
The Composition of the Board As at the date of this report, the Board has eight Directors, comprising the Chairman, five Non-executive Directors and the Executive Directors.
The names of the Directors serving at the end of the full year 2014 and their biographical details are set out on pages 42 & 43.
All Directors served throughout the year, save for Steve Corbett who stepped down as Chief Executive and a Director with effect from 3 September 2014.
The Board determines whether Non-executive Directors are independent.
With the exception of Lars Frberg, all of the Non-executive Directors are considered to beindependent.
Simon OHara served as Company Secretary during the year.
Name Position Independent Nationality Peter Hill CBE Chairman yes and at time of appointment British Senior Independent Director Mark Williamson Non-executive Director yes British Steve Corbett Chief Executive no American David Egan Finance Director no British, Australian Emma FitzGerald Non-executive Director yes British Lars Frberg Non-executive Director no Swedish Nol Harwerth Non-executive Director yes British, American Jan Oosterveld Non-executive Director yes Dutch Mr Corbett resigned as Chief Executive on 3 September 2014.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary How is our Board organised?
and Executive Directors, sets the agenda forBoard The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive and Division meetings and ensures that all Board and Committee of Responsibilities members receive accurate, timely and clear information The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and prior to meetings.
A clear structure for the operation of the the Chief Executive has been agreed by the Board and is Board and its Committees is inplace.
The Chairman meets set out in writing.
routinely with the Chief Executive, the Finance Director The Chairman and the Company Secretary to discuss relevant matters.
The Chairman leads and manages the Board, promoting The Board considers that the Chairman is able to, and the highest standards of corporate governance together does, devote sufficient time to his duties at Alent.
with a culture of openness, challenge and debate and ensuring itseffectiveness to safeguard the interests of The biographical details of the Chairman and details of hisrelevant experience are set out on page 42. shareholders.
The Chairman facilitates and encourages open communication and constructive working relationships between the Executive and Non-executive Directors and provides overall guidance tothe Executive Directors and senior management.
The Chairman ensures effective communication with shareholders.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Nomination Committee, is also responsible for Board succession planning and has ultimate responsibility for communication and dialogue with shareholders, togetherwith ensuring that the Board acts in the best interest of shareholders taken as a whole.
46 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION The Chief Executive The Senior Independent Director The Chief Executive provides leadership to the executive Mark Williamson is our Senior Independent Director.
team in running the business.
He has overall responsibility The Board nominates one of the Non-executive Directors for the day-to-day management of the business, the to act as Senior Independent Director and provide performance for which he is accountable and upon analternativecontact at Board level, other than the which he reports to the Board.
He has the lead role Chairman, to whom shareholder matters can be indeveloping the Companys strategic direction for addressed.
The Senior Independent Director, when consideration and approval by the Board, and for necessary, supports the Chairman and the other theimplementation of the agreed strategy.
The Chief Non-executive Directors on Company related matters.
Executive is responsible on a day-to-day basis for, and Hewill act as a sounding board for the Chairman and, oversees, the Companys performance in health, safety should it be required, can act as an intermediary for any and environmental matters.
concerns of other Non-executive Directors.
There is a The Chief Executive is supported by the Finance Director written job specification for the role which is reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee.
The Senior inthe provision to the Board of high-quality financial information on the Companys performance.
Independent Director is responsible for undertaking the annual evaluation of the Chairmans performance, The Role of Executive Directors leading the recruitment process for a new Chairman The Executive Directors have specific executive while ensuring an orderly succession process.
responsibilities, of which the Chief Executives are set out above.
The Chief Executive provides leadership to the The Company Secretary management team, sets the culture, standards, ethics During the period, Simon OHara was the Company andvalues of the Company, and is responsible for Secretary and acted as Secretary to all Committees management development and succession planning during the year.
The Secretary supports the Chairman within the Company.
The Finance Director has particular on corporate governance matters.
Together with the responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the Chairman, he is responsible to the Board in respect of Companys financial reporting, for treasury, tax and risk compliance with Board procedures, ensuring a timely management, and for internal financial controls.
flow of information and for the setting of the annual programme of Board and Committee meetings and Executive Directors are not members of the Board their agendas.
Furthermore, he has responsibility, via Committees, although they may be invited to attend.
the Chairman, for ensuring that the Board is kept up Both the Chief Executive, and following his resignation todate on legislative, regulatory and governance theInterim Chief Executive, and Mr Egan attended all matters and developments and that all induction Audit Committee meetings as requested during the andprofessional development needs are met.
The ChiefExecutive and Interim Chief Executive The Company Secretary ensures that there is an were also regular attendees at the Remuneration Committee whilst in office.
appropriate level of communication between the Board and its Committees and between senior management The biographical details of the Executive Directors and and the Non-executive Directors.
details of their relevant experience are set out on page 42.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of The Role of Non-executive Directors theCompany Secretary.
The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of skills and international experience to the Board.
Their role is to Board meetings The Board convened formally on eight occasions during understand the business and its markets, to help shape, develop and review proposals for and then approve 2014 and held a number of ad-hoc committee meetings, either face to face or telephonically, in which it considered strategy, and to challenge constructively and support the management.
Additionally, they scrutinise the non-routine business.
In addition, the Chairman and the other Non-executive Directors met routinely on their own performanceof management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
without the Executive Directors present, and, at least once during the yearthe Non-executive Directors met without Further, their role is also to satisfy themselves withregard tothe integrity of the Companys financial information the Chairman being present to discuss matters such asthe Chairmans performance.
Attendance at formal Board andto ensure that the Companys financial controls andrisk management systems are robust and defensible, and Committee meetings is set out on page 51. determine appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive The Board used one of its meetings in 2014 specifically Directors, be involved in the appointment, and where toconsider and review the Companys strategy and its necessary the removal of Executive Directors and monitor implementation, and its future prospects and has used succession planning.
Collectively they hold or have held subsequent meetings to review additional areas of the senior positions in their chosen fields, including finance Groups strategy.
and mergers & acquisitions, and contribute a wide range of international experience and objective perspective to the Board.
They represent a strong, independent element on the Board.
As Chairmen of the Board Committees, the independent Non-executive Directors also fulfil important leadership roles.
As members of the Board Committees, the independent Non-executive Directors bring focus on governance and succession planning, internal controls, risk management and remuneration policies.
The biographical details of the Non-executive Directors and details of their relevant experience are set out on pages 42 to 43.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees How is the Board structured?
Board Committees is composed of the independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board also delegates specific responsibilities to its The Board is assisted by three principal Committees: Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, as setout Finance and Share SchemesCommittees.
Each Committee is responsible for reviewing and overseeing activities within its particular terms of reference: copies of which are available on the Companys website: www.
At each scheduled Board meeting the Chairman of each Committee provides a summary of any Committee meeting held since theprevious Board meeting, and the minutes of allCommittee meetings are circulated to the Board.
Individual reports from each Committee Chairman for2014 are provided on pages 56 to 79.
Shareholders Elect the Directors Approve the appointment of the auditors Board Non-executive Chairman 2 executive Directors 5 Non-executive Directors Audit Committee Nomination Committee Independent Non-executive Directors Non-executive Chairman, Non-executive Directors Excluding the Chairman of the Company Remuneration Takes primary responsibility for Monitors the integrity of the Committee succession planning, Board DIrector Companys financial statements and selection and Board composition reviews financial and regulatory Independent Non-executive Directors compliance and controls Committee report page 62 Excluding the Chairman of the Company Committee report The compliance programme includes pages 56 to 61 undertaking risk assessments and engaging with others working on behalf of the Company to ensure that their standards comply with the Companys policies.
Agrees remuneration policy and sets individual compensation levels for members of senior management Committee report pages 63 to 79 48 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION 2 0 K I 1 R N 4 O C R L W U E A E D M N M I D U N A N L R G T E F I A P R N N T A O A T N I I R U T O G A A E N L R T E S B R N E O U V N I M U E S E W R Audit Committee Areas of Audit Focus in 2014 Responsibilities: To monitor the integrity of financial reporting and toassistthe Board in its review of the effectiveness oftheCompanys internal controls and risk managementsystems.
Chair of Committee: Mark Williamson Membership: Independent Non-executive Directors, excluding theChairman of the Company.
Attending by invitation: Company Chairman: Lars Frberg non-independent Non-executive Director : the Chief Executive: the Finance Director: and the external auditor are invited to attend on a regular basis.
The Head of Internal Audit and the Group Financial Controller are invited as and when appropriate.
Finance and Reporting Tax The Chairman of the Committee may request the Governance Internal Audit attendance of others at meetings, including Audit incl Internal control review externaladvisers.
Risk Management Minimum number of meetings per year: Four Committee Report: Page 56.
Remuneration Committee Responsibilities: To determine the appropriate remuneration packages forthe Companys Chairman, Executive Directors, andCompany Secretary and to recommend and monitorthelevel and structure ofremuneration for othersenior management.
Chair of Committee: Nol Harwerth 2014 Membership: Activity Independent Non-executive Directors, excluding theChairman of the Company.
Attending by invitation: Company Chairman: Lars Frberg non-independent Non-executive Director : the Chief Executive: and the Vice-President, Human Resources are invited to attend asrequired.
The Chairman of the Committee may request theattendance of others at meetings including externaladvisers.
Minimum number of meetings per year: As necessary it is anticipated that at least three meetings will be held each year.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 49 R E S M R U E T N T E A R M A T I R O E H N T R O E C E O C M N M A E N N R D E V A T O I O G N S D I V E R S I T G Y N I N N A L P N O I G S S O E V C E R C N U S A N C E CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Nomination Committee Responsibilities: To advise the Board on appointments, retirements and resignations from the Board and its Committees and review succession planning for the Board.
Chair of Committee: Peter Hill, the Chairman except where considering hisownsuccession or replacement, in which case the Committee is chaired by Mark Williamson, the Senior Independent Director.
2014 Activity Membership: The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors.
Attending by invitation: Chief Executive.
The Chairman of the Committee mayrequest the attendance of others at meetings, including external advisers.
Minimum number of meetings per year: As necessary.
In addition, the Board delegates certain responsibilities on an ad-hoc basis to a Finance Committee and Shares Scheme Committee.
Each Committee has written terms of reference agreed by the Board.
These are available to view on the Companys website www.
The Group also operates a Group Executive Committee which is convened and chaired by the Chief Executive, and assists him in discharging his responsibilities.
Under the direction of the Chief Executive, the Executive Committee is responsible for the operational management of the Group.
Members of the Executive Committee are regularly invited toattend Board meetings to report on their areas of responsibility, including key data for the core businesses, financial information, existing and potential risks, and updates on developments in important markets.
Finance Committee Responsibilities: To approve specific funding and treasury-related matters as set out in the Companys delegated authorities or as delegated from time to time by the Board.
Chair of Committee: The Chairman.
Membership: The Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Company Treasurer.
Attending by invitation: Others whom the Chairman shall so require.
Share Schemes Committee Responsibilities: To facilitate the administration of the Companys share schemes.
Chair of Committee: Any member.
50 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM O T H S E R R O M T A C T E T R E I R D S F O N O I T C C E O L E M P E O R S I T I O N O F B O A R D STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Who attends Board meetings Board Attendance Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Attendance Total meetings 8 4 6 8 Peter Hill 8 8 Mark Williamson 8 4 6 8 Steve Corbett 5 Rick Ertmann 3 David Egan 8 Emma FitzGerald 8 4 6 8 Lars Frberg 8 8 Nol Harwerth 8 4 6 8 Jan Oosterveld 8 4 6 8 Mr Ertmann is not a Director of the Company but was invited to attend all Board meetings whilst Interim Chief Executive.
The table does not include attendance by invitation of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and Mr Frberg to Committeemeetings.
Appointments to the Board and its Committees Board effectiveness The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board How do we get the best out of our Board?
appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Board seeks to ensure that both it and its Committees The Board through the Nomination Committee follows a have the appropriate range of skills, experience, knowledge formal, rigorous and transparent procedure based on and independence to enable them to discharge their objective criteria for the appointment of new Directors respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Committee considers any proposed privileged to have aBoard of Directors with such recruitment in the context of the Companys strategic international business backgrounds and a range of diverse priorities.
Board appointments are made on merit.
This diversity has been Non-executive appointees are required to demonstrate invaluable indeveloping the Companys business strategy that they have sufficient time to devote to the role.
and enables such a global manufacturing business to be TheNomination Committee is also responsible for effectively governed.
reviewing the Board succession recognising the The Board considers its size to be appropriate for the importance of recruiting Non-executive Directors with requirements of the business.
No one other than the thenecessary technical skills and knowledge relevant respective Committee Chairmen and members of tothe work of its Committees.
Further information onthe theCommittees are entitled to be present at meetings of Nomination Committee is set out in the Nomination the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, Committee Report on page 62. butothers may attend by invitation.
Time commitment of the Chairman and Appointments are made on personal merit and against  objective criteria.
In case of candidates for Non-executive The Chairman and Non-executive Directors each have Directorship, care is taken to ascertain that they have sufficient aletter of appointment which sets out the terms and time to fulfil their Board, and where relevant, Committee conditions of their directorship.
An indication of the responsibilities.
Non-executive Directors undertake to anticipated time commitment is provided in the informthe Board of any changes to their commitments.
recruitment role specification, and their letters of appointment provide details of the meetings that they The Board considers the majority of the Non-executive areexpected to attend, along with indicating the need Directors to be independent of management and free toaccommodate travelling time particularly for overseas from any business or other relationship which could affect trips and to set aside sufficient time to prepare for the exercise of their independent judgement.
meetings and regularly to refresh and update their skills The Chairman satisfied the independence criteria on and knowledge.
All Directors agree to commit sufficient hisappointment to the Board.
Dr Emma FitzGerald, Nol time for the proper performance of their responsibilities Harwerth, Jan Oosterveld and Mark Williamson have been and understand that this will vary from year to year determined by the Board to be independent in character depending on the Companys activities.
Lars Frberg is not considered to be expected to attend all Board meetings and any additional independent as he is managing partner of Cevian Capital meetings including Committee meetings as required.
which holds just under 22% of Alents issued ordinary share Directors other significant commitments are disclosed to capital.
No one party has the legal right to nominate the Board at the time of their appointment and they are Directors to the Board.
required to notify the Board of any subsequent changes.
The Company has reviewed the availability of the Nonexecutive Directors and considers that each of them is able to, and in practice does, devote the necessary amount of time to the Companys business.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Our Induction Programme Director Induction Programme Induction and training Board and Governance The Company Secretary is tasked with ensuring that a comprehensive induction programme is provided to Alents governance model, Directors duties, interests and eachDirector upon appointment.
This includes visits to potential conflicts manufacturing and other Company facilities, one to Committee induction onemeetings with key Company executives and wider management and introductions to the Companys Alents Business principal external advisers, as appropriate.
For example, at its Board meetings in September, held in Asia Hong Kong Assembly Materials January Meeting Surface Chemistries January Meeting the Non-executive Directors were given the opportunity to Research and Development, production and overview of our meet Alents wider leadership group at both formal operations September Meeting presentations and informal lunch and dinner events.
Site visits Subsequently, after each site visit the Board or appropriate Committee has been briefed on the impressions gained Functional Input by Directors attending the visit.
New Directors are advised of their legal and other Finance and tax Controls, external auditors and internal audit dutiesand obligations as Directors of a listed company.
Human Resources June Meeting Reference materials are provided, including information Ethics and compliance about the Board, its committees, Directors duties, procedures for dealing in the Companys shares and Information otherregulatory and governance matters.
The Company The Board has in place processes to ensure that it supports this by organising site visits and working sessions issupplied in a timely manner with information of with a wide range of operational managers and external anappropriate quality to enable it to adequately experts throughout the year.
Each Director is expected to discharge its duties.
Papers are provided to the Directors develop and refresh their knowledge and skills on an inadvance of the relevant Board or Committee meeting to ongoing basis.
The Boards learning is continued through enable them to make further enquiries about any matters Board and Committee briefings.
prior to the meeting should they sowish.
This also allows The Chairman agrees with each Director their training Directors who are unable to attend to submit views in anddevelopment needs as and when required.
Where a advance of the meeting.
general training need is identified, in-house training will be The Company Secretary oversees the distribution ofthese provided to the entire Board.
Each year, the Chairman will papers and ensures that there is an appropriate level of hold one-to-one meetings with each of the Directors, both communication between the Board and its Committees to discuss their own development needs if any, and the and between senior management and the Non-executive Board Evaluation Exercise.
The Company Secretary also keeps the Board For example, before the start of the Boards May meeting, informed of relevant developments in corporate the Companys legal advisers led a bespoketraining governance.
The Chief Executive provides, as a matter session addressing the duties andresponsibilities of ofroutine, a written update on important business issues Directors of listed companies.
Similarly, during the year, between meetings and invites the views of the Directors theCompanys external auditors presented advice to onthese.
theNon-executive Directors on regulatory developments Support and statutory changes impacting  There is an agreed procedure in place to support Directors andobligations.
in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent legal advice if necessary, at the Companys expense.
52 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Evaluation of Board effectiveness What is our approach to shareholders Performance evaluation re-appointing Directors?
The Board believes that annual evaluations are not Re-election of Directors onlyessential but provide a valuable opportunity for Once appointed, all Directors are required to submit continuous improvement.
The Chairman, assisted by themselves for re-election by shareholders on an annual theCompany Secretary, leads the evaluation process.
All the Directors will therefore be offering themselves Aformal and rigorous externally facilitated review for re-election at this years AGM, with the biographical coveringthe Board, its committees and individual details of each of the Directors, including details of their Directors, including the Chairman and Company other directorships and relevant skills and experience, Secretary wasundertaken.
The Board believes that each ofthe Directors standing for re-election is effective and In 2014 the facilitator was, for a second year, David demonstrates commitment to their respective roles.
Mensley, an independent practitioner with no other Accordingly, the Board recommends that shareholders connection to the Company.
The Chairman held one approve the resolutions to be proposed at the 2015 AGM onone meetings with each of the Directors as part of relating to the re-election of the Directors.
Do the Directors have Deeds of Indemnity?
The feedback from the evaluation was reviewed by Directors indemnities theChairman and the principal findings and To the extent permitted by section 236 of the Companies recommendations presented to the Board.
Act 2006, the Directors have been granted Qualifying The Senior Independent Director was responsible for Third-Party Indemnity Provisions by the Company.
The theperformance evaluation of the Chairman.
indemnities for Directors of Alent plc have been in force throughout the year.
Following the outcome of the Board review, general Directors conflicts of interest feedback showed considerable progress had been The Board has a formal system in place for Directors to madeduring the course of 2014. review regularly their interests and to deal with situations where a Director reports any conflicts ofinterest.
Any The Board successfully: conflict situation reported to the Chairman and the continued to challenge and effectively support the Company Secretary is considered by the Board based on management team as we continue to evolve the its particular facts.
Any authorisations given to a Director strategy as set out on pages 22 to 23: who has a conflict situation are recorded in the Board minutes and in aregister of Directors conflicts which is continued to make progress on planning the long-term reviewed annually by the Board.
The Board believes that framework for Board discussion, enabling more time for the systems it has in place for reporting situational conflicts fuller debate on a range ofstrategic subjects: operates effectively.
ensured appropriate challenge and debate around risk and the approach to risk: continued to review the balance and the content ofthe Board papers and meeting agendas: and reviewed how we can continue to benefit from theextensive and diverse experience of our Non-executive Directors.
The results of the Board evaluation were taken into account in respect of the Board changes that have taken place.
The Board will focus on future developmental actions during 2015.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Accountability How does the Board formally satisfy itself that it has Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control and that the sound risk management and internal control systems?
The Audit Committee necessary actions have been taken to remedy and control any control weaknesses identified during the year.
The membership of the Audit Committee is set out onpage 56.
The Audit Committee Report, which Since the date of this review there have been no summarises the terms of reference of the Audit Committee significant changes in internal controls or other matters and describes its work in discharging itsresponsibilities, which could significantly affect them.
The key risks facing isset out on pages 56 to 61. the Company are set out on pages 32 to 33.
Financial and business reporting During 2014, the Board further developed its procedures In its reporting to shareholders the Board recognises its and embedded processes in respect ofits Ethics, Health, responsibility to present a fair, balanced and Safety, Environmental and Sustainability activities.
Current understandable assessment of the Companys position activities are described in the Our Approach to and prospects.
The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 41 Corporate Responsibility section, onpages 26 to 30.
At setsout explanations for the basis on which the Company Board level, the Chief Executive takes the lead on these generates or preserves value over the longer term and the matters.
strategy for delivering the objectives of the Company.
The Board reviews the role of insurance and other measures Directors and Auditors Responsibility used in managing risks across the Company, receives A statement of the Directors responsibility for preparing regular reports on any major issues that have arisen during the Annual Report & Accounts is included on page 83. the year and makes anannual assessment of how the risks have changed over the period under review.
A statement by the Auditor, KPMG LLP, setting out its reporting responsibilities, is included on pages 84 to 85.
The Board considers significant financing and investment decisions concerning the Company, including the giving Going concern The Directors consider that the Company has adequate of guarantees and indemnities, and monitors policy and control mechanisms for managing treasury risk.
At the resources to continue in operational existence for theforeseeable future and accordingly, they have year-end, following the review by the Audit Committee of internal financial controls and of the processes covering adopted a going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the Company.
other controls, the Board evaluates the results of the internal control and risk management procedures How does the Board identify Alents significant risks?
This includes a Risk management and assessment and internal self-certification exercise by which senior financial and controlsystems operational management throughout the Company The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and certify the effectiveness of the system of internal controls maintenance of the Companys system of risk management within the businesses for which they are responsible, and internal control, andfor reviewing its effectiveness.
together with their compliance throughout the year The Boards process for identifying and evaluating Alents withthe Companys policies and procedures.
significant risks, its risk management and assessment system and its internal control system form part of the Audit Committee Report on pages 56 to 61 The Audit Committee assists the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management systems.
The Companys systems and controls are designed to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that any problems are identified on a timely basis and are dealt with appropriately.
54 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION The Company reports its financial results to shareholders Remuneration twice a year, with the publication of itsAnnual and Interim How do we decide what Directors are paid?
Financial Reports and will issue two further ad-hoc trading Executive compensation and risk updates.
Inconjunction with these announcements, All the independent Non-executive Directors serve presentations or teleconference calls will be held onboththe Audit and Remuneration Committees.
withinstitutional investors and stock market analysts.
Theyare therefore able to bring their experience and Recordings of these will be made available on the knowledge of the activities of each Committee to bear Companys website www.
com along with copies when consideringthe critical judgements of the other.
Thismeans that the Directors are in a position to consider carefully the impact of incentive arrangements on the Regular updates on shareholder issues and discussions Companys risk profile and toensure the Companys are provided to the Board.
Board members continue to remuneration policy and programme is structured so as receive copies of significant analysts notes issued on the toaccord with the long-term objectives and risk appetite Company.
All Directors are expected to attend the of the Company.
Companys AGM, providing shareholders with the opportunity to question them about issues relating to In addition, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will have meetings with key institutional theCompany, either during the meeting or informally.
shareholders and their representative bodies to discuss Annual General Meeting the Companys remuneration policy.
Communication with private shareholders is largely through the AGM, which is held at a central London location.
Shareholders How does our Board engage with our shareholders and Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions ensure that it is aware of shareholders views?
ofthe Board and the Chairman of each Board Committee The Board believes that it is a priority to communicate with during the AGM and to meet theDirectors informally.
shareholders and uses various methods to reach as many Separate resolutions are proposed at the AGM on a poll shareholders as possible.
There are programmes for the for each item of business and shareholders are asked to Chief Executive, Finance Director and the Investor vote for, against or vote withheld on each resolution.
Relations Manager to meet with the Companys major Votesare counted and an announcement confirming institutional investors in the UK, the US and Continental whether each resolution was passed at the AGM is made Europe.
The Board also seeks to ensure effective through the London Stock Exchange and can be viewed engagement with shareholders through the Companys on the Alent website, together with a summary of the regular communications, the AGM, as well as through number of votes cast in respect of each resolution.
The Capital Markets Days to provide the Companys majority of shareholders have elected to access the stakeholders with more detailed insight into the Annual Report and other shareholder documents online Companys future strategy and investment proposition via the Alent website rather than receiving a copy by post.
and other investor relations activities.
The Companys investor relations programme is managed by the Chief Executive and Finance Director, together with By Order of the Board the Investor Relations Manager.
The majority of meetings with investors are led by them, but the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other Directors are also available HELEN BARRETT-HAGUE to meet with shareholders as appropriate.
At these Company Secretary meetings, investors are offered the opportunity to meet with 2 March 2015 the Chairman or the Senior Independent Director, and indeed the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director held joint and separate meetings with several shareholders during the course of the year.
Result of our 2014 Annual General Meeting Resolutions % of votes for % of votes against Votes withheld 1 Report and Accounts 99.94 0.06 263,372 2 Final Dividend 100.00 0.00 1,616 3-10 Directors average 99.55 0.45 9,138 11 Re-appointment of Auditor 99.03 0.97 48,381 12 Remuneration of Auditor 100.00 0.00 47,364 13 Remuneration Report 99.42 0.58 6,482 14 Remuneration Policy 96.81 3.19 250,482 15 Incur Political Expenditure 99.85 0.15 6,943 16 Authority to allot equity securities 98.95 1.05 3,959 17 Disapply Pre-emption Rights 99.09 0.91 2,187 18 Purchase Own Shares 100.00 0.00 53 19 Notice of General Meeting 95.41 4.59 1,083 WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 55 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Members Responsibilities The Committee assists the Board in carrying out its Mark Williamson Committee Chairman responsibilities in relation to financial reporting requirements, risk management and the assessment of Dr Emma FitzGerald internal controls.
It also reviews the effectiveness of the Nol Harwerth Companys internal audit function and manages the Jan Oosterveld Companys relationship with the external Auditor.
Dear Shareholder, As part of this process of working with the Board and to I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report of maximise effectiveness, meetings of the Committee Alent plc.
The role of the Audit Committee is to provide generally take place just prior to a Company Board effective governance over the appropriateness of the meeting.
I report to the Board as part of a separate agenda Groups financial reporting, the performance of both the item, on the activity of the Committee and matters of internal audit function and the external auditor, and the particular relevance to the Board in the conduct of their management of the Groups systems of internal control, work.
All members of the Board receive the agenda, business risks and related compliance activities.
It is also papers and minutes of Audit Committee meetings.
to monitor the integrity of financial reporting and to assist The Audit Committee operates under formal terms of the Board in its review of the effectiveness of the reference that are reviewed on a regular basis.
These Companys internal controls and risk management terms of reference, which are available on the Companys systems.
Whilst the Board as a whole is responsible for website, www.
com, authorise the Committee to approving the financial results, we undertake the obtain outside legal or other independent professional detailed work to support that decision.
advice at the cost of the Company and to secure the Membership attendance at Audit Committee meetings of other The Committee comprises independent Non-executive parties with relevant experience and expertise should it Directors under my Chairmanship and meets at least four be considered necessary.
The Board also considers that the As a Committee, we are responsible for: Audit Committee members together possess the necessary commercial, financial and audit expertise to reviewing the announcements of the Groups financial help them assess effectively the complex accounting, results, including the Interim Report and Annual Report audit and risk issues they have to address.
The Board and Financial Statements, and monitoring compliance considers that I have recent and relevant financial with relevant statutory and Listing Rules requirements: experience, as required by the Code.
reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of the Appointment on the Audit Committee is for a period of Groups accounting policies and practices including three years, extendable by no more than two additional critical accounting policies and those judgements and three-year periods.
estimates with the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: At my invitation, the non-independent Non-executive Director, the Chairman of the Company, the Chief advising the Board on whether the Committee believes Executive, the Finance Director and the Companys that the processes underlying the compilation of the Auditor, KPMG LLP the Auditor, regularly attend Annual Report & Accounts are robust and support the meetings.
Other executives, including in particular the assertion reached by the Board that the document, Group Financial Controller and the Head of Internal Audit, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable are invited to attend as and when appropriate.
The and provides the information necessary for Committee regularly meets separately with each of KPMG, shareholders to assess the Groups performance, the Finance Director and the Head of Internal Audit business model and strategy: without others being present.
56 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION reviewing reports from management which address reviewed the results of an assessment undertaken of theappropriateness of the production of the Groups theperformance of the Auditor, based upon feedback financial statements on a going concern basis: received from the Companys corporate and divisional finance management: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems for financial control, financial reporting and risk making recommendations to the Board on the management, incorporating a review of reports on re-appointment of the Auditor and approving the any significant frauds, misappropriation of assets or remuneration and terms of engagement: unethicalbehaviour: monitoring and reviewing the Auditors independence, oversight of the anti-bribery & corruption programme objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account and providing input to the Board on ethics compliance: professional and regulatory requirements: reviewing and approving the remit of the Internal Audit reviewed and agreed the audit plan presented by function, ensuring its independence and that there are theAuditor, which detailed the approach and scope the necessary resources and access to information of the work to be undertaken and the level of fees to available in order for it to fulfil its mandate: and be charged: overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, reviewed the Companys procedures for the identification, covering their appointment, independence, fees and management and control of specific areas of risk which audit quality and effectiveness.
impact the Group and the Company: and reviewed the risk management process operated by Activities in 2014 management designed to identify the key risks facing The Committee met four times during the year.
The key each business and how those risks were being managed.
areas of business covered at the meetings included: reviewed the 2013 Annual Results Announcement Financial reporting Annual Report and Accounts, respectively.
In doing so, The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial the Committee received reports from management on reporting is to review with both management and the significant aspects of the Companys financial external auditor the appropriateness of the half-year and statements, including matters requiring significant annual financial statements concentrating on, amongst management judgement, asset impairment valuation, other matters: amounts reported at fair value, off-balance sheet items the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and contingent liabilities, and reports from the Auditor andpractices: identifying any accounting or judgemental issues thereon requiring its attention: the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial reviewed the 2014 Interim Results Announcement and andgovernance reporting requirements: Accounts, respectively.
In doing so, the Committee received reports from management on significant material areas in which significant judgements have aspects of the Companys financial statements, beenapplied or there has been discussion with the including matters requiring significant management external auditor: judgement, asset impairment valuation, amounts whether the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a reported at fair value, off-balance sheet items and whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and contingent liabilities, and reports from the Auditor provides the information necessary for shareholders to identifying any accounting or judgemental issues assess the Companys performance, business model thereon requiring its attention: and strategy: and reviewed information on any significant litigation any correspondence from regulators in relation to our involving the Group: financial reporting.
reviewed reports from management which address theappropriateness of the production of the Company To aid our review, the Committee considers reports financial statements on a going concern basis: fromthe Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and also reports from the external auditor reviewed internal audit reports: onthe outcomes of its half-year review and annual audit.
AsaCommittee we support KPMG LLP in displaying the necessary professional scepticism their role requires.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 57 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The primary areas of judgement considered by the Actions taken by the Audit Committee Committee in relation to the 2014 accounts, and how During 2014, the Committee: these were addressed, were: reviewed reports and received a presentation from the Provision for liabilities and contingent liabilities Groups Director of Taxation highlighting the key tax risks Context that the Group faces, the tax strategy, the tax controls, The international nature of the Groups operations the assumptions and judgements underpinning the exposesit to various different legal and regulatory regimes levelof tax provisioning and the recognition of deferred and consequently, from time to time, it faces claims that tax assets: might relate to its products, to taxation liabilities, to reviewed reports prepared by the external Auditor on tax environmental liabilities, or to other issues.
provisions, deferred tax and effective tax rates: and In considering these matters, and how best to present reviewed and challenged managements assumptions them in the financial statements, the Committee has to and judgements that sufficient future taxable income will decide whether provisions need to be established in the be realised by the Groups US operations, thereby Groups financial statements, and if so the size of the supporting the continued recognition of a deferred tax provisions required.
Alternatively, if the Committee decides asset in the financial statements in relation to unutilised that there is insufficient information available to support tax losses in the US.
making a provision, then it needs to determine whether it is appropriate instead to disclose the matter by way of note Outcome as a contingent liability.
The Committee satisfied itself with both the level of tax Actions taken by the Audit Committee provisions and the deferred tax assets recognised in During 2014, the Committee: thefinancial statements.
The Committee was also satisfiedwith the presentation of the recognition of the reviewed details of all the potentially significant claims USdeferredtax asset as an exceptional tax item in the outstanding against the Group: Group incomestatement as described in note 11 of the received legal reports from the Groups General financialstatements.
Counsel, who attended each Audit Committee meeting Disclosure of exceptional items during the year, and questioned and challenged the Context judgements in those reports: As detailed in note 2.6 of the financial statements, in took into account work performed by the external orderto present the Groups results in a way that assists auditor: and theuser of the accounts in understanding the financial performance of the Group and trends in its profitability, enquired of management and the external auditor as items of an exceptional nature are disclosed separately on tothe existence of any other matters potentially requiring the face of the Groups income statement.
During the a provision to be made.
year, the Committee considered the accounting treatment of various different matters presented to it by Outcome management, to determine whether they should be After due consideration, the Committee concluded that excluded from the Groups operating profit and instead itwas satisfied with both the level and the disclosure of treated as exceptional items.
provisions, as shown in note 30 of the financial statements.
Additionally, for those items disclosed as contingent Actions taken by the Audit Committee liabilities, the Committee was satisfied that it was not In making the determination of which of these matters, appropriate to make a provision and that the disclosures in ifany, should be treated as exceptional, the Committee: note 32 of the financial statements provided sufficient established whether the matter fell within the Groups information about the nature of the item and the internal policy for reporting exceptional items, as uncertainties relating to the amount or timing of any previously approved by the Committee and agreed potential outflow required to settle the liability.
bythe companys Auditor: Taxation considered guidance in relation to the reporting of Context exceptional items issued by the Financial Reporting The level of tax provisioning and the recognition of Council and, in particular, whether disclosure as an deferred tax assets in relation to the future value that exceptional item would help the reader of the financial mightbe derived from the Groups unutilised tax losses, statements in understanding both the trends in, and the require assumptions and judgements to be made quality of, the Groups profitability: bymanagement.
considered whether its approach was consistent with previous years and was not influenced by whether the item in question was a gain or a loss: 58 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION considered the tax effects of each exceptional item and The key features of the Groups system of internal whether these were properly explained in the financial controls include: statements: and Strategy and financial reporting considered whether exceptional treatment was The Group operates a comprehensive strategic planning consistent with the principle that the accounts as a and forecasting process, with an annual budget approved whole should be fair, balanced and understandable.
Monthly operating financial information is reported against this budget and key trends and Outcome variances analysed.
Action is then taken as appropriate.
The Committee satisfied itself that the presentation of Group accounting policies and procedures are exceptional items in the accounts was in accordance with formulated and disseminated to all Group operations, the Groups exceptional items policy, and assisted the user covering the application of accounting standards and of the accounts in understanding the Groups financial themaintenance of accounting records and key financial performance in the year and trends in its profitability.
Risk management and assessment and internal Operational controls control systems Each operating company, including the Divisional The Audit Committee assists the Board in reviewing the andCorporate offices, maintains internal controls and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, procedures appropriate to its structure and business including financial, operational and compliance controls, environment, whilst complying with Group policies on items and risk management systems.
such as the authorisation of capital expenditure, treasury The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment transactions and the management of intellectual property.
and maintenance of the Groups system of risk In addition, the Groups financial reporting process, management and internal control, and for reviewing its including the preparation of the Groups consolidated effectiveness.
This system is designed to manage, rather financial statements, incorporates the dissemination than eliminate, the risks facing the Group and safeguard anduse of common accounting policies and procedures assets.
No system of internal control can provide and financial reporting software.
absoluteassurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups system is designed to provide the Directors The Board considers significant financing and investment with reasonable assurance that any problems are decisions concerning the Group, including the giving of identified ona timely basis and are dealt with guarantees and indemnities, and monitors policy and appropriately.
In accordance with the provisions of control mechanisms for managing treasury risk.
theCode, the Directors confirm that they have reviewed Reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control The internal control system is monitored and supported by and that the necessary actions have been taken to the Companys internal audit function.
This function assists remedy and control any control weaknesses identified management and the Board in the effective discharge of during the year.
Since the date of this review there have their responsibility for internal control by conducting been no significant changes in internal controls or other reviews of Alents businesses and reporting objectively matters which could significantly affect them.
The key risks both on the adequacy and effectiveness of the system facing the Group areset out on pages 31 to 33. ofinternal control in place and as to whether those There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and businesses are in compliance with applicable Group managing any significant risks faced by Alent.
The Audit Committee receives management operates a risk management process reports from the Head of Internal Audit on a regular basis designed to identify the key risks facing each business and reports to the Board on the results of its review.
andreports to the Board on how those risks are being As part of the Boards process for reviewing the managed.
As a basis for this report, each of the Companys effectiveness of the system of internal control, it delegates major business units produces a risk map which identifies the following matters to the Audit Committee to be carried their key risks and assesses the likelihood of those risks out during the year: occurring, their impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage those risks to a desired level.
review of external and internal audit work plans: TheBoard has enhanced its risk management structure and consideration of reports from management, internal processes during 2014 as well as its procedures, audit and external audit on the system of internal control andembedded processes in respect of its Ethics, Health, and any significant control weaknesses: and Safety, Environmental and Sustainability activities.
Current activities are described in the Corporate Responsibility discussions with management on the actions taken on Review, on pages 26 to 30.
At Board level, the Chief problem areas identified by Board members, in internal Executive currently takes the lead on these matters.
audit reports or in external audit management letters.
The Board reviews the role of insurance and other measures used in managing risks across the Group and receives regular reports on any major issues that have arisen during the year and makes an annual assessment of how the risks have changed over the period under review.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 59 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED the planning and scope of the audit and identification Internal audit The Groups internal audit function operates on a global of areas of audit risk: basis.
The Head of Internal Audit is responsible for the execution of the audit: developing the function, within the framework of common the role of management in the audit process: Group policies and standards, and for carrying out assignments in accordance with an annual audit plan the quality of communication between the external approved by the Audit Committee.
In 2014, 27 internal auditor and the Audit Committee: audit assignments were undertaken covering the quality of the formal report to Shareholders: approximately 33%, of the applicable businesses as required by the Audit Charter.
The Head of Internal Audit the independence of the Auditor, in light of the provision reports directly to the Audit Committee Chairman with of non-audit services: functional responsibility to the Group Finance Director.
the objectivity of the Auditors views on the controls TheAudit Committee receives reports from the Head of Internal Audit and reports to the Board on the results of throughout the Group: itsreview.
the ability of the Auditor to coordinate a global audit, working to tight deadlines: During the year, a survey was conducted reviewing thequality of our internal audit function.
Participants of the cost-competitiveness of the Auditor in relation to the thesurvey included Audit Committee members as well audit costs of comparable UK companies: asexecutives within all major regions and functions of the tenure of the incumbent Auditor: and theGroup.
The team scored highly on their professional approach, experience, control and process improvement the periodic rotation of the senior audit management and overall value to the Group.
assigned to the audit of the Group.
External Audit In addition, the Audit Committee considers external The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the reviews of the performance and quality of the Auditor, including: appointment, reappointment and removal of the Auditor.
In undertaking this duty, the Committee takes into the Annual Report issued by the Audit Quality Review consideration a number of factors concerning the Team of the Financial Reporting Council on the work of Auditorand the Groups current activity.
the Auditor: KPMG LLP has been the Groups Auditor since Alent plc the Auditors own annual Transparency Report: and was listed on 19 December 2012.
We formally reviewed the evaluations of the effectiveness of the external effectiveness of the external audit process and the quality auditprocess.
The review covered the following: the audit partners with particular focus on the lead audit We conducted this review as part of our 2014 year end engagement partner: process.
In addition a survey was completed to capture the views of each member of the Audit Committee, Group the quality both of reports provided by the Auditor to the Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and various Audit Committee and the Board, and of advice given: members of both regional and functional management the level of understanding demonstrated of the teams.
We considered the results from the survey as well as Groupsbusinesses: various inspection reports and shared this with our external auditor and with management.
We also reviewed the fees the skills and experience of the audit team: of the external auditor and benchmarked these against a group of comparable size and complexity Groups.
Our conclusions were that the external audit was carried out effectively and efficiently with the necessary objectivity and independence for an appropriate fee.
60 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION KPMG LLP has been the Groups Auditor since Alent plc Committee evaluation was listed on 19 December 2012.
The Group is following the The Committee conducts a formal review of its EU legislation as well as the current Code requirement effectiveness annually and the results of the review carried regarding external audit tenure.
The Audit Committee is out in 2014 concluded that its performance was effective.
recommending the Auditor for reappointment at the Details of the Board and Committee evaluation process AGMin 2015. can be found on page 53.
The terms on which the Auditor is engaged do not include Employee helpline any contractual obligations which would prevent the This is an independent and confidential service through Directors appointing a different audit firm should this be which employees worldwide may register any concerns considered appropriate.
about any incorrect or irregular practices they perceive inAlents workplaces.
The helpline is operated 24 hours Independence and Objectivity of Auditor aday, seven days a week, by an organisation that The Audit Committee is cognisant of the need to ensure specialises in the provision of such services.
It can be that the independence and objectivity of the Auditor is contacted by phone, email or via a designated continually maintained.
It has put in place safeguards to website.
Translation facilities are available for those ensure that the independence of the external Auditor is forwhom English is not their first or preferred language.
These safeguards include: Allincidences received by the helpline are reviewed seeking ongoing confirmation from the Auditor that it is in andreported to the audit committee and where its own professional judgement independent of the applicable changes implemented.
Group: and Approach to anti-bribery and corruption training considering all the relationships between the Auditor The Alent Code and its policies on anti-bribery and and the Group, including those relating to the provision corruption require that employees and others working on of non-audit services and whether these impair, or behalf of the Group do not engage in any form of bribery appear to impair, the Auditors judgement or or corruption.
Our anti-bribery and corruption compliance programme has been implemented globally via an e-learning training In addition, recruitment to the Group of any new employee module.
New employees, where relevant, are required who had been employed by the Auditor in the past five tocomplete the e-learning training as part of their years requires the approval of the Audit Committee.
Non-Audit Services The compliance programme includes undertaking risk The Audit Committee monitors the other services being assessments and engaging with others working on behalf provided to the Group by the Auditor.
The Group has a of the Group to ensure that their standards comply with policy governing the Group-wide conduct of non-audit the Groups policies.
work by the Auditor to ensure that this does not impair its independence or objectivity.
The Auditor is prohibited from The Alent Code is reproduced performing services where it: in full on the Groups website may be required to audit its own work: would participate in activities that would normally be undertaken by management: On behalf of the Audit Committee is remunerated through a success fee structure: or acts in an advocacy role for the Group.
MARK WILLIAMSON The policy sets out the categories of work that the Auditor Chairman of the Audit Committee isprohibited from undertaking.
Other than these, the Group 2 March 2015 does not impose an automatic prohibition on the Auditor undertaking non-audit work.
The Auditor is eligible for selection to provide non-audit services that are not, or are not perceived to be, in conflict with Auditor independence, provided it has the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best interests of the Group.
Proposals for any non-audit related fees which the Group is intending to pay to the Auditor are presented to the Audit Committee.
Any individual assignment where the fee is likely to be in excess of 30,000 must be preapproved by the Audit Committee.
Where appropriate, services are tendered prior to awarding work to the Auditor.
Details of the amounts paid to the Auditor during the year for audit and other services are set out in note 7 on page 97.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 61 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Activities of the Nomination Committee during Members the year The Nomination Committee met eight times during the year Peter Hill Committee Chairman and the Non-executive Directors.
and attendance at those meetings is shown on page51 of this report.
This frequency of meetings was unusual, and was The Nomination Committee has delegated authority from directly linked to the Chief Executive succession.
the Board set out in its written terms of reference, available on the Companys website, which were last reviewed Matters considered by the Committee in 2014 included inDecember 2012. thefollowing: Role of the Nomination Committee implementation and completion of the succession The Nomination Committee advises the Board on exercise for the Chief Executive: appointments to, and retirements and resignations from, reviewed the Committees report within the 2013 Annual theBoard, and reviews the Companys succession plans.
Report and recommended approval to the Board: The Committee reports its material findings and recommendations at the next Board meeting and copies to regularly re-examine succession and the Boards ofthe minutes of its meetings are circulated to all Directors.
balance of skills and experience and diversity which willbe included as part of the Boards next annual Composition of the Nomination Committee strategy review: The members of the Nomination Committee are the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors.
The Committee the independence of the Board and the potential meets as and when required and is chaired by the Chairman lengths of tenure of each of the independent Nonor a Non-executive Director.
The Chairman acts as Chairman executive Directors: and of the Nomination Committee except where the matter After the year-end, considered the outcome of the underconsideration relates to him or succession to his role.
externally facilitated evaluation when discussing the Noindividual participates in discussion or decision making effectiveness of the Non-executive Directors seeking where the matter under consideration relates to them.
Formalmeetings are held to consider standing items of business: there is also a significant level of ad-hoc discussion The Board as a whole also considers succession plans for between members of the Nomination Committee, particularly members of the Board.
Jan Oosterveld announced his when a recruitment exercise is taking place.
decision to retire at the 2015 AGM: a candidate specification Policy on Appointment of the Board was agreed by the Committee of the Board, a search firm When considering the appointment of new Directors, the appointed, and a recruitment process, led by the Chairman is Nomination Committee draws up a specification, taking into underway.
Both of Alents divisions submit detailed succession consideration the diversity of the Board, the balance of skills, plans in respect of senior divisional executives to the Board for knowledge and experience, the independence of Board review each year.
The Board also considers succession members and the ongoing requirements of the Company.
planning for senior corporate executives.
The Nomination Committees foremost priority is to ensure The Nomination Committee also considers diversity generally thatthe Company has the best possible leadership.
Its prime across the Company.
It is the Companys aim to maintain an responsibility is to ensure the strength of the Board.
Board appropriate level of diversity on the Board to reflect the diverse appointments will be made on merit against objective criteria, nature of the Companys operations, and to increase the level selecting the best candidate for the post.
of diversity in executive management below Board level.
The Nomination Committee is empowered to appoint search The Board actively seeks to meet with key executives consultants, legal, tax and other professional advisers as it throughout the Company so as to gain a greater sees fit to assist with its work.
Wherever possible, the understanding of the breadth and depth of management Nomination Committee will arrange for all Directors to meet talent.
This enables members of the Committee to adopt a with the preferred candidate.
The Nomination Committee more informed approach to succession planning.
makes recommendations for each appointment to the full Board.
Care is taken to ensure that all proposed appointees have sufficient time available to devote to the role and do not have any conflicts of interest.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee During the year Egon Zender was engaged to identify appropriate candidates for Chief Executive.
A long list of potential appointees was considered and candidates PETER HILL, CBE Chairman of the Nomination Committee wereshortlisted for interview based on objective criteria.
TheCommittee then recommended its preferred candidate, 2 March 2015 Andrew Heath, to the Board for appointment, with unanimousapproval.
62 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
