Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Since 2008 the Audit Committee has refined its processes and methods Ensuring that the annual report is fair, to ensure that it is satisfied with the appropriateness of financial balancedand understandable reporting.
Each year and half-year, the importance of these areas of focus is re-assessed with management and EY to ensure that they In February 2015, the Audit Committee reviewed the annual report and remain valid areas of focus and that there are no other financial risk the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 prior to areas to consider.
In undertaking their review of the 2014 half-yearly recommending them to the Board for approval.
As part of that review report, the Audit Committee sought to ensure that issues discussed process, the members of the Committee were provided with a draft of during the review process for the 2013 full-year financial statements the full annual report some weeks prior to a formal review by the Audit had been progressed and that there wasconsistency between the Committee at the February meeting enabling them to ensure that the policies and judgements used in preparing the full-year and half-year numbers therein are consistent with those in the financial statements or financial statements.
are sourced from appropriate data.
More importantly, they can assess whether the words used are consistent with their understanding of the Companys business obtained through Board and Audit Committee Board statement on going concern meetings: and other interaction that they have with management: using The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect their experience to assess whether the annual report taken as a whole its future development, performance and position are set out in the is fair, balanced and understandable.
This additional review by Audit strategic review on pages 10 to 95.
The financial position of the Group, Committee members, supplemented by advice received from external itscash flows and liquidity position are described in the financial review advisors during the drafting process assists the Board in determining on pages 96 to 107.
In addition, notes 2, 33 and 34 to the financial that the report is fair, balanced and understandable at the time that it statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for is approved.
managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures Risk management and internal control tocredit risk and liquidity risk.
Risk management In making their assessment of the Groups ability to manage its future The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board not to replace cash requirements, the Directors have considered the Company itinmatters of risk and risk management.
and Group budgets and the cash flow forecasts for the period to 31 December 2016 as at February 2015.
In addition, they reviewed a The Boards role is primarily to consider whether a level of risk or more conservative cash flow scenario with reduced silver and gold aspecific risk is acceptable within the Companys strategy and risk prices of US$15 and US$1,100 respectively, whilst maintaining current appetite.
Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for making sure budgeted expenditure, which resulted in our current cash balances that internal control and risk management are effective, the detailed reducing over time to a small but adequate margin of liquidity towards work is delegated to the Executive Committee.
The primary role of the the end of 2015, and not falling below that level throughout 2016.
Audit Committee in relation to risk management and internal controls is to review the effectiveness of risk management systems and related The Directors have considered other scenarios to evaluate the cash internal controls to ensure that issues that have arisen are properly effects of silver and gold prices falling significantly below US$15 and dealtwith, and that going forward the systems are fit for purpose.
US$1,100 respectively for an extended period of time and reviewed managements evaluation of three particular mitigating actions that The Audit Committee discharges its obligations primarily through: they could implement.
First, management have identified specific re-assessing the adequacy of the top risks identified by management elements of exploration and capital expenditure which could be and procedures put in place to assess, quantify and mitigate deferred without adversely affecting production profiles.
Second, these risks: the Directors could delay the implementation of two new projects, reviewing the reports from the Internal Audit department on any which may moderately affect the production profiles, but are not issues identified in the course of their work, and ensuring that there expected to affect Fresnillos ability to reach its 2018 production goals.
isan appropriate response from management: Finally, management could amend the mining plans to concentrate on production with a higher margin to accelerate cash generation without reviewing annually the Groups system of internal control, including affecting the integrity of the mine plans.
thedevelopment of the Groups IT strategy: reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function: and After reviewing all of the above considerations, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that management have sufficient flexibility in reviewing reports from the external auditors on any issues identified in adverse circumstances to maintain adequate resources to continue the course of their work, including an internal control report on control in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Directors, weaknesses, and ensuring that there is an appropriate response therefore, continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting from management.
inpreparing the annual financial statements.
The development of the risk governance system over the past three years now provides a robust framework enabling the Audit Committee If the necessity arose to employ all of the above mitigations for and the Board to evaluate continuously the risk profile of the Group and an extended period of time, it may be that these could impact adapt its focus in response to changes to the risk profile.
the Companys ability to achieve its targets for production and or reservesby 2018.
Management will continue to build the existing risk management framework, seeking to enhance risk governance and management across the business in line with the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In order to support the Board responsibilities of i monitoring and reviewing the risk management and internal control | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 135
