Leadership continued Nominations Committee Report Dear Shareholder, Over the past year or two, I am pleased to introduce the report of the Nominations Committee.
the need to make progress Over the past year or two, the need to make progress in the evolution of the composition of the Board of Directors of the Company has in the evolution of the been uppermost in the thinking of the members of the Nominations Committee.
Our desire has been to achieve this without substantially composition of the Board losing the benefits gained through the shared experience of working together as one team since the Companys IPO in 2008. of Directors of the Company Replacing Directors of the calibre of our three departing Directors LordCairns, Fernando Solana and Javier Fernndez was never going has been uppermost in the tobe an easy task.
thinking of the members of In early 2014, the Nominations Committee considered a number of candidates for appointment as independent Non-executive Directors the Nominations Committee.
and Iam pleased that we were able to appoint Brbara Garza Lagera, Charles Jacobs and Jaime Serra to the Board at the AGM in Alberto Baillres May.
Our decision was guided by the principles set out in our Board Chairman of the Nominations Committee Appointments and Board Diversity policies which are summarised below and on our Company website.
Consequently, when recommending the new appointments to the Board, we were able to recognise the potential contribution that each of them could make to the Board on account of their knowledge and experience.
I believe that the quality of these new appointments also justifies our decision not to use external agencies to assist in the appointment process.
Given the importance of the Mexican context for most of our operations and recognising our responsibilities as a UK-quoted company, we believe that the Companys contacts provide the best source of quality candidates.
We have also considered the composition of our Board committees following the Board changes and we have ensured that all of our independent Non-executive Directors now have a role on at least one Board committee.
As far as the Nominations Committee is concerned, I would like to thank Javier Fernndez for his contribution to that Committee over the past few years and I look forward to working withBrbara Garza Lagera as she joins the Committee.
Yours faithfully Mr Alberto Baillres Chairman of the Nominations Committee | 120 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements The following table shows how the matrix of skills and experience Membership on the Board has been maintained and developed as result of The members of the Nominations Committee are Alberto Baillres these appointments.
Chairman of the Committee, Brbara Garza Lagera who replaced Javier Fernndez as a member of the Committee on 16 May 2014 Outgoing Incoming and Fernando Ruiz.
The majority of the members of the Nominations Lord Cairns Charles Jacobs Committee are, therefore, independent Non-executive Directors.
UK Capital Markets UK Capital Markets International economics International mining and metals International M&A Role UK law, regulation and corporate governance The Nominations Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and composition Javier Fernndez Brbara Garza Lagera of the Board and its committees and succession planning for the Mexican corporate Mexican commercial Directors and other senior executives.
Before making appointments of and commercial and industrial new Directors, the Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance International board experience of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and identifying and Fernando Solana Jaime Serra nominating suitable candidates.
Former Mexican Former Mexican The Board Appointments Policy and Process and the Board Diversity Government Minister Government Minister Policy, both of which are summarised below and can be found on the Banking International trade Companys website www.
com who-we-are corporateDiplomatic service and economics governance provide the framework for the Nominations Committee and the Boards approach to Board appointments.
Committee membership The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are available The Nominations Committee also considered the composition onthe Companys website at www.
com who-we-are of the Board committees in the light of these changes and the corporate-governance terms-of-reference.
Board approved the following Committee changes based on theCommittees recommendations: The letters of appointment for the Non-executive Directors are made Outgoing member Incoming member available for inspection at the Companys registered office, during normal business hours.
Audit Committee Fernando Solana Jaime Serra Activity during 2014 HSECR Javier Fernndez Mara Asuncin Araburuzabala The Nominations Committee met twice during the year, although these meetings were complemented by informal discussions between the Nominations Committee Chairman and members of the Committee particularly concerning the Javier Fernndez Brbara Garza Lagera Board appointments activity during the year.
Remuneration Committee Lord Cairns Chairman Charles Jacobs Chairman Board appointments Recognising that the majority of the Board had been in post since the Companys IPO in 2008, the Nominations Committee has, since 2013, been considering the need for progressive refreshing of the Board, as recommended by Code Provision B.
2.3 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This thinking was developed over a period of time through discussions between the Chairman and each Director.
As a result of those discussions, it was agreed that Lord Cairns, Javier Fernndez and Fernando Solana would not stand for re-election at the 2014 AGM.
A number of candidates were considered for appointment and three new independent Non-executive Directors Brbara Garza Lagera, CharlesJacobs and Jaime Serra were appointed.
Jaime Serra and Brbara Garza Lagera are members of the boards of relevant Mexicanpublic companies, and Jaime Serra and Charles Jacobs are alsomembers of boards of non-Mexican public companies.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 121 Leadership continued Nominations Committee Report continued Other Nominations Committee activity Board Diversity Policy The Nominations Committee also considered the following matters: in summary and progress Approval of the 2013 Nominations Committee report prior All Board appointments are made on merit.
The Board recognises and to publication embraces the benefits of having a diverse board: particularly the value that different perspectives and experience bring to the quality of board The time commitment required from each Director debate and decision-making.
There are certain diversity considerations Succession planning which need to be incorporated into the composition of the Board.
The proposed re-election of each of the continuing These considerations are: background and experience: age: gender: Directorsatthe AGM andshareholder perspectives.
Continuation of letters of appointment for the The Board believes that setting targets for the number of people from Non-executive Directors a particular background is not the most effective approach to take.
A self-evaluation exercise The Board will therefore look to follow the principles of this policy rather than specified quotas or targets.
This has been clearly demonstrated Board Appointments Policy over the past three years by the appointment of two distinguished Mexican businesswomen to the Board.
and process insummary More generally, as well as reflecting this commitment in the composition The Nominations Committee and the Board are committed to the of the Board, it is becoming more evident in the Groups training and principle of appointments to the Board being made on the basis of merit.
will be included in its development programmes.
The Board recognises The criteria for determining the composition of the Board and future that very few women are attracted to mining, engineering and Board appointments continues to be based on: geology academic programmes in Mexico and, in view of the stage of Relationship Agreement requirements for appointments to the Board development of Mexico, the participation of women in the labour force by Peoles: as a whole is still relatively low.
This will take time to rectify, considering the Companys leading position as a precious metals miner in Mexico: that current senior executives had their education 30 years ago, when the Companys inclusion in the FTSE 100 Index: very few women participated in higher education, and even less started careers in mining, engineering and geology.
This is changing and in the specific functions on Board committees which independent recent years, the Company has been able to hire younger women Directors will be required to fulfil: and trainedin mining, engineering, geology, finance and accounting.
the criteria set out in the current terms of reference of the Nominations Committee.
Succession planning The Nominations Committee does not use open advertising or retain Each year, the Nominations Committee reviews a schedule of possible any external consultants when making new appointments to the successors for all the positions on the Executive Committee Chief Board during the year as such assistance was considered unnecessary Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Exploration considering the Companys contacts within Mexico.
This review considers both short-term emergency and long-term planning options.
Any actions needed to support the development of potential long-term successors are discussed.
The Nominations Committee also monitors the long-term evolution of the membership of the Board as a whole.
These matters were all discussed by the Nominations Committee in 2014.
| 122 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
