Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Effectiveness Led by the Chief Executive Officer, members of the Executive Board process Committeeattend all of the Board meetings and present all of the The Board is responsible for setting the Groups long-term objectives papers on operational and financial matters.
The only discussions andcommercial strategy and overseeing the management of the whichmembers of the Executive Committee are not present for are Groups activities.
The Board also provides leadership to the Fresnillo discussions about management succession and the annual Board Group in establishing the values by which it will conduct its business.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision The Directors may raise concerns at meetings of the Board and, if which includes approvals of major expenditure and investments and key necessary, ask for such concerns to be recorded in the Board minutes.
This schedule is reviewed from time to time and was last revised Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company in April 2011.
Secretary whose appointment and removal is a matter reserved for A table of attendance of members of the Board and Board committees the Board.
A procedure has been established to enable Directors to atmeetings during the financial year ended 31 December 2014 is set later obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense in inthis report.
All meetings of the Board are held in Mexico.
Board papers are circulated to Board members usually five days prior The Board has received regular updates at its meetings regarding the to the meeting to allow the Board sufficient time to consider and litigation pertaining to the Ejido El Bajio agrarian community, where one deliberate papers.
The agenda is prepared by the Company Secretary of Minera Penmonts mining operations is located and management in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial will continue to report to the Board on this issue until its conclusion.
Officer for the Chairmans approval.
The Board has carried out an extensive review of the Companys risks in relation to all its land rights as a result of the Ejido El Bajio litigation, Papers in respect of strategic planning, policies and investment proposals mining regulations, tax reform and security, this review remains an for each Board meeting are prepared by members of the Executive on-going project.
Committee and are presented to the Board for its consideration under the Schedule of Reserved Matters, each proposal having been first Between Board meetings Directors are provided with information on considered and approved by the Executive Committee.
In so doing, the important developments and issues e. g. reports on fatalities.
Executive Committee aims to ensure that any such proposals take into consideration those factors set out in section 172 of the Companies Act Board programme in 2014 2006.
Matters that purely require Executive Committee approval are reported to the Board.
The Board meets at least four times a year and has an established programme of meetings.
The Board seeks to focus on strategicissues as well as overseeing the day-to-day operations of the Group.
Its primary areas of focus in 2014 were: February March April May July October Regular activity and approvals Directors interests Approval of 2013 results Board membership Annual General Meeting Di rectors interests Hedging strategy declared and annual report Senior Independent declared connected to the Approval of corporate Director Approval of interim Penmont transaction restructuring Board lunch and results Approval of Met Mex Bond placement strategy discussion Review of terms rates for 2014 Budget update ofreference Approval of 2015 Review of system P enmont transaction Business plan ofinternal control andbudget Board membership C orporate Governance changes Code changes Review of annual report Bo ard evaluation Review of dividend policy Strategy presentation Environment and P enmont strategy and Sustainable mining case study proposal to acquire 44% development strategy minority shareholding Matters considered at all meetings On-going issues outside of Board meetings Directors interests Reports on safety and fatalities Chief Executives report Imp ortant developments re projects transactions Financial report D istribution of relevant information on precious metals Board Committee reports Risk and Anti-Bribery and Corruption update | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 123 Effectiveness continued Board performance evaluation The Board recognises that sound governance has a role to play Board evaluation insecuring strategic success and strong performance as well as in In 2014, a new three-cycle commenced and the Board used an external protecting the interests of its shareholders.
The Board has sought to evaluator.
Whereas in the previous cycle the Boards general approach useits annual Board evaluation exercise, whether internally conducted to governance was considered, this time It was agreed that the or externally facilitated, to develop and improve its effectiveness.
evaluation should focus on specific aspects of the effectiveness of the Board recognising the evolution of best practice standards over the past Fresnillos approach to evaluating the effectiveness of the Board few years.
Independent Audit Limited IAL were again engaged to assist and its committees operates at two levels.
Both the Board and the Board with this review.
AuditCommittee undertake annual evaluations using a combination of externally facilitated and internally run evaluations over a three-year Audit Committee evaluation cycle.
The cycle of Board and Audit Committee evaluations are The Audit Committee has adopted a similar approach to the Board in summarised as follows: engaging IAL on a triennial basis to undertake its evaluation exercise.
To augment the assurance obtained concerning the effectiveness of Board evaluation the Audit Committee, IAL have also been engaged, over the past year or soto separately review the Companys risk management framework, to assess the effectiveness of its Internal Audit function and the external Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 audit process.
The Audit Committee evaluation findings are reported in the Audit Committee report and considered alongside the findings of the External Follow-up Focus on Board evaluation exercise.
Board evaluation on action plan outstanding and approach agreed from externally emerging issues Other Committee evaluations with Chairman facilitated arising from The Nomination and Remuneration Committees undertake selfevaluation action plan evaluation on an annual basis but given the relatively straightforward nature of their work, have not considered it necessary to use external facilitation for their reviews.
The performance of the Chairman is evaluated by the independent Non-executive Directors on an annual basis.
2014 evaluation IALs review was based on a review of Board and Audit Committee The previous external evaluation review in 2011 concluded that, papers covering the annual cycle.
They also interviewed all of the whilst in some respects it operates differently from the boards of Directors and the senior executives who interact regularly with the most UK plcs because of the way it is constituted and operates, the Board, including the Heads of Internal Audit and Risk Management.
Rather than look again at all aspects of the IAL also observed Audit Committee and Board meetings.
The reports Boards work in 2014, IAL agreed with the Chairman that they would andplanned actions were discussed with IAL.
look in-depth at four particular angles to see how far there were opportunities for improvement based on lessons to be drawn from IAL considered four aspects: these are summarised below along with bestpractice elsewhere.
thespecific actions agreed in response to the review: Performance Project Control Operational Key focus: Information Governance and Culture and organisational andReporting efficiency Could information flows How can the reporting How can the How can the Board Key questions: to the Board be improved to the Board on Board engage better asawhole improve to aid better discussion projectrisks and withmanagements itsvisibilityof the way and focus on the theirmanagement culture and values thatmanagement run strategiccontext?
Key responses: The format and information contained in Board papers will be refined to help focus discussion on key issues and risks, particularly in relation to the performance and risk profile of key projects More time in Board meetings will be devoted to discussion of long-term strategic considerations up to fiveyears Directors will be encouraged to continue to visit mines More information will be provided to the independent Directors about the factors taken into account priortoproposals being made to the Board for approval The Board considers that it is performing well but recognises that there are aspects where it can be improved.
| 124 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements The Executive Committee is an integral part of the Fresnillo boardroom Individual performance reviews and members are required to attend Board meetings.
As such, the The Chairman meets with the Non-executive Directors informally from attendance of the Executive Committee members is listed below: time to time without the executives present.
These meetings provide an opportunity for the Chairman to ensure that the Non-executive Directors Executive Committee Board meeting attendance training and development needs are being satisfied.
The independent Non-executive Directors normally meet to evaluate the performance Octavio Alvdrez 5 5 of the Chairman each October, following which the Senior Independent Mario Arregun 4 5 Director discusses the views of the independent Directors with the Chairman.
The independent Directors decided to postpone meeting in David Giles 4 5 2014 until after the February 2015 meeting to enable the outcome of the Roberto Daz 4 5 2014 Board evaluation review to be taken into account in their discussions and feedback to the Chairman.
Other than Mr Alvdrez, the Executive Committee members did not attend a meeting of the Board where changes to the membership of the Board were discussed.
Board development A number of initiatives are in place to give the Non-executive Directors more information about the broader context to the Companys activities.
These include case study presentations by senior managers and regular distribution of industry briefings on technical, market and sector issues.
Directors are encouraged to visit the Companys mines to familiarise themselves with the Fresnillo Groups operations.
All Directors have received briefings from the Companys advisers, including presentations to familiarise them with their duties and responsibilities as directors of a UK listed company.
The Chairman regularly discusses training and development needs with the Directors, usually as part of the Board and committee evaluation exercises.
Board and committee meeting attendance Audit HSECR Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee No.
of meetings in year 5 5 2 2 4 Alberto Baillres 5 5 2 2 4 4 Mara Asuncin Aramburuzabala 4 5 1 1 Alejandro Baillres 4 5 Juan Bordes 5 5 Lord Cairns 2 3 2 2 Arturo Fernndez 5 5 Javier Fernndez 2 3 1 1 2 2 Brbara Garza Lagera 2 2 Charles Jacobs 2 2 2 2 Jaime Lomeln 5 5 2 2 Rafael Mac Gregor 5 5 2 2 Fernando Ruiz 5 5 4 5 2 2 4 4 Jaime Serra 2 2 3 3 Fernando Solana 3 3 1 2 Guy Wilson 5 5 5 5 Appointed to the Board on 16 May 2014.
Resigned from the Board on 16 May 2014.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 125 Effectiveness continued Related party governance in practice Identifying Directors interests There are a number of checks and balances which will ensure that there Process How this is managed Responsibility is full transparency in the way that related party transactions are dealt Monitoring of If a Director is interested in a Directors with by the Board.
Directors interests company which could potentially enter into transactions with a Relationship Agreement Fresnillo plc Group company, the Board will normally consider The Company continues to have a relationship agreement in place that interest under its between Peoles and the Company to regulate the on-going relationship arrangements for authorising between them.
The agreement was reviewed in line with the terms of the conflicts of interest under s175 new Listing Rule requirements which came into effect on 16 May 2014, of Companies Act relating to controlled companies and the Relationship Agreement was amended in November 2014 accordingly.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Fresnillo Group is capable Managing a related party transaction of carrying on its business independently of the Peoles Group, and that transactions and relationships with the Peoles Group are at arms length Proposed On-going monitoring of Directors interests and related and on normal commercial terms.
transaction parties of the Company provides the information to determine if a related party approval is required for Peoles has also undertaken not to exercise its voting rights to amend aproposed transaction the Articles of Association in a way which would be inconsistent with theprovisions of the agreement.
It has also agreed to abstain from voting Process How this is managed Responsibility on any resolution to approve a related party transaction as defined Contract negotiation The Executive Committee will Fresnillo in paragraph 11.1.
5 R of the Listing Rules involving any member of the and verification seek to ensure that the best management and Peoles Group.
possible terms are achieved for Executive The following diagram summarises the approach taken to identify and a proposed transaction and that Committee they are verified by industry manage related party transactions.
benchmarking reports or independent valuation Conflicts of interests assessment The duties to avoid potential conflicts and to disclose such situations Financial scrutiny The Audit Committee reviews the Audit Committee for authorisation by the Board are the personal responsibility of each key terms of major transactions Director.
Each Director ensures that he she keeps these duties under which are verified as to price and review and informs the Company Secretary on an on-going basis of any quality with external consultants change in their respective positions, such as new directorships taken on.
where possible Each Director has completed a Directors List which sets out details Independent Under the Relationship Independent of situations where each Directors interests may conflict with those Director approval Agreement, the independent Directors of the Company situational conflicts.
The Directors Lists have been Directors must approve any resubmitted by each Director as at 31 December 2014 and the Board has transaction with the Peoles considered and authorised any new situational conflicts identified in these Group and its associates re-submitted lists.
In addition, Directors are reminded at the beginning of withoutthe Non-independent each Board meeting to notify the Board of any further conflicts of interest Directors voting in accordance with sections 175, 177 and 182 of the Companies Act 2006.
| 126 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
