Leadership continued Executive Committee Key strengths and experience Executive Committee Date of appointment: Mine management within Mexico UK Investor relations 15 August 2012 Mr Alvdrez has extensive experience within the mining industry having Mr Alvdrez is invited to attend previously held the position of General Manager of the Madero mine, Board, HSECR Committee and one of Mexicos largest mines operated by Peoles.
Mr Alvdrez joined Remuneration Committee meetings.
Octavio Alvdrez the Peoles Group in August 1988, since then he has held a number of Chief Executive Officer senior operational and financial positions across Peoles and Fresnillo, including that of Treasurer, Head of Investor Relations in London and Headof Procurement.
Date of appointment: Accountancy and treasury Investment banking 15 April 2008 Mr Arregun was previously employed by Peoles where he held the Mr Arregun is invited to position of Chief Financial Officer for 11 years and Group Treasurer for six attend Boardand Audit years prior to this.
Mr Arregun has a background in investment banking Committee meetings.
Mario Arregun and project management.
Chief Financial Officer Date of appointment: Senior exploration experience within Mexico Engineering and geology background 15 April 2008 Following a 30 year career at Peoles, Mr Giles held a number of senior Mr Giles is invited to attend management positions including Vice President of Exploration, prior Board meetings.
to this he worked for AMAX, Corona Gold and Tormex.
He is an officer David Giles of theSociety of Economic Geologists and the Mexican Association of Vice President, Exploration MiningMetallurgical and Geological Engineers.
Date of appointment: Senior project and operational experience Mining and engineering 1 November 2013 Following a long career in the mining industry, Mr Daz first joined Peoles Mr Daz is invited to attend in 1977 and, following roles with other groups, re-joined Peoles in 2007.
He has previously served as Fresnillos Vice President of Operations and Roberto Daz Vice President of Project Development.
Chief Operating Officer | 118 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Non-independent Independent Board membership Alberto Baillres Guy Wilson As at 31 December 2014, the Board consisted of 12 Directors Chairman and Chairman of Senior Independent Director the Non-executive Chairman, Alberto Baillres, six independent Nominations Committee andChair of Audit Committee Non-executive Directors and five non-independent Non-executive Directors.
Details about the current Directors of the Company and Alejandro Baillres Mara Asuncin Aramburuzabala summaries of their key skills, experience and perspective that they Juan Bordes Brbara Garza Lagera bringto the Board are set out on pages 116 and 117.
Arturo Fernndez Charles Jacobs In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Chair of Remuneration Committee Directors will seek re-election by shareholders at the forthcoming Rafael Mac Gregor Fernando Ruiz AnnualGeneral Meeting.
Chair of HSECR Committee Jaime Lomeln Jaime Serra Board balance and roles Lord Cairns The composition of the Board has been structured to ensure that no one Javier Fernndez individual can dominate the decision-making processes of the Board.
The Chairman, Mr Baillres, is beneficially interested in more than 50% Fernando Solana of the share capital of the Company through his interest in Industrias Appointed 16 May 2014.
B. fide C. V. Peoles, the Companys controlling shareholder.
Mr Baillres is also the Chairman of Peoles and other companies within Charles Jacobs is a senior corporate partner with Linklaters LLP, one of the the BAL Group.
Companys legal advisors, and as a Director, he has not and will not, be involved in the provision of legal or any other services to the Company by Peoles has entered into a legally binding relationship agreement with Linklaters LLP.
Fernando Ruiz has, since 2008, been a retired partner and the Company as required by Listing Rule 9.2.
2 AR 2, which ensures that consultant in the firm Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia.
S. C. a firm providing decisions in relation to transactions with Peoles must be taken by the professional services to the Company.
Guy Wilson retired as a partner of independent Non-executive Directors of the Company.
The key provisions Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys auditors, in 2008.
Mr Wilson was not of the Relationship Agreement are summarised later in this section.
involved in the provision of audit or any other services to the Company The Relationship Agreement was amended during the year, following byErnst & Young LLP prior to his retirement.
changes to the Listing Rules in relation to controlled companies to ensure compliance with the independence provisions set out in Listing Rule The non-independent Directors listed above have been appointed to 6.1.
The Company has complied with the independence provisions the Board by Peoles pursuant to the Relationship Agreement.
Thus, included in the Relationship Agreement during the financial year ended the Chairman was not independent at the time of his appointment.
As far as the Company is aware, such provisions have However, Mr Baillres has been responsible for overseeing the successful been complied with during the financial year ended 31 December 2014 development of the Fresnillo Group over many years and, therefore, the byPeoles or any of its associates.
Board considers that his continued involvement as its Non-executive Chairman is very important to the Company.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness as to all aspects of its role.
The Relationship Agreement continues to provide a transparent governance system, which ensures that the Company benefits from The separate roles of Chairman and of the Chief Executive Officer are MrBaillres leadership and experience whilst being able to demonstrate recognised and the requirements for these roles have been specified to other shareholders that the Fresnillo Group is capable of carrying on in writing and agreed by the Board in the Statement of Responsibilities.
In particular, the Relationship Agreement Octavio Alvdrez, the Chief Executive Officer, is not currently a member ensures that transactions and relationships between the Fresnillo Group ofthe Board.
and its controlling shareholder are at arms length and on competitive Guy Wilson, was appointed Senior Independent Director following the commercial terms.
Since that time, the Board has sought to build on retirement of Lord Cairns at the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2014. that system.
Thus the duties of the Audit Committee have since been Mr Wilson is available to shareholders if they have concerns that have not expanded to ensure that financial aspects of related party transactions been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive are reviewed by that committee.
Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Head of Investor Relations.
Directors indemnities Board independence The Company has given indemnities to each of the Directors in respect There have been a number of changes to the Board during the year but at of any liability arising against them in connection with the Companys all times it has consisted of 12 Non-executive Directors, six of whom are and any associated companys activities in the conduct of their duties.
considered to be non-independent and six whom are considered to be These indemnities are subject to the conditions set out in the Companies independent: as shown in the following table: Act 2006 and remain in place at the date of this report.
The Board considers Mara Asuncin Aramburuzabala, Brbara Garza Lagera, Charles Jacobs, Fernando Ruiz, Jaime Serra and Guy Wilson to Directors and Officers Liability Insurance be independent in character and judgement.
For each of these Directors, Directors and Officers Liability Insurance cover is in place at the date their circumstances are assessed by reference to Provision B.
Cover is reviewed annually and the last was carried out Code and the Board remains satisfied that they are each independent inOctober 2014. when the scenarios set out in Code Provision B.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 119
