Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Description of focus area Audit Committee action Licences and land title Land titles underpin all our mining activities as, without good title, the The Committee has oversight over the progress of the review and Group would not be able to conduct its operations.
The Committee throughout the year has received verbal and written reports from considers that the Company has a robust process to ensure that all thelawyers involved in the process.
required legal documentation is completed correctly on acquisition The review, which commenced in 2013, continued this year and has ofland titles and this methodology has been in place for many years.
The review of the remaining titles should conclude As a result of the litigation at Soledad-Dipolos, however, management in 2016.
To date, apart from the issues arising from the El Bajio litigations, continue to undertake a review of all our title documentation.
The specific which are being addressed, nothing significant has emerged.
risks are: The Committee is satisfied that the amount of the Soledad-Dipolos litigation and claims can give rise to uncertainty around the Groups mining assets written off at 31 December 2014 is adequate when ability to freely realise the benefits of its assets and may give rise to taking into consideration the currently available information and that asset impairment: relevant disclosures throughout the annual report are appropriate.
the assessment of the appropriate level of legal provisions and narrative disclosures in the accounts requires assumptions on thelegaloutcome of claims and estimates of costs: and the possibility that the Group would not be able to resume operations at Soledad-Dipolos.
The review is a substantial task as there is a large volume of titles and potential complexities surrounding land ownership in Mexico arising from the various layers of legislation from State, agrarian to local government.
See note 29 to the financial statements Continuing areas of focus in 2014: Mineral reserves and resources The determination of mineral reserves and resources requires significant The Committee discussed with the Head of Exploration the composition estimate with regard to future characteristics of mineral ore. Changes in of the reserves and resources and considered carefully the report the economic environment and future outlook may change the economic thereon by SRK who independently audit the reserves and resources status of the reserves.
Metal price assumptions determine the cut-off ofthe Group.
grade for identifying economically viable ore bodies.
The Committee also obtained a deeper understanding of the integration Reserves and resources, although not valued directly in our financial of the reserves and resources within the financial statements.
statements, are a primary driver of Fresnillos market valuation, impact This is an area of key audit focus for EY and we discussed with them investors decisions and play a significant part in the calculations of the theresults of their procedures: depreciation of mining assets, the mine restoration model and related on the expertise and objectivity of SRK: and provisions and underpin the calculations used to assess whether there is any impairment of mining assets.
As a result, inaccuracies in the on the comparison of metal price assumptions used by management estimation of reserves and resources would lead to broad implications in the determination of reserves and resources compared with prices across the annual report and accounts.
assumptions in various accounting models used in preparing numbers in the financial statements.
See pages 249 to 253 of the annual report The Audit Committee challenged the determination of mineral reserves and resources performed by management, which has been independently reviewed by SRK, and was satisfied with its accuracy.
Silverstream The Silverstream contract is a derivative financial instrument and is The Committee challenged managements judgement that the required to be reflected at fair value at each balance sheet date.
recognition of a fair value gain of US$77.05 million was within the range of acceptable valuation outcomes.
The fair value can be impacted by any of the valuation inputs, but is most sensitive to the timing and volume of forecast production derived from The Committee, as part of its review of the annual report and accounts, the reserves and resources and production profile of the Sabinas mine, reviewed the disclosures relating to the Silverstream contract including the estimated future silver price and the discount rate.
The Silverstream contract represents not only a large asset on our This is another key area of audit focus for EY and the Committee balance sheet but, with such recently volatile precious metal prices, discussed with them their procedures in auditing the accuracy of also the potential for change in its valuation can result in large, albeit the model used in the valuation and the key assumptions therein.
non-cash, amounts in our income statement.
We weresatisfied with the conclusions from the procedures performed.
See note 16 to the financial statements The Audit Committee was satisfied with the accounting treatment and disclosure of the Silverstream in the financial statements.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 133
