Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Membership Activity during 2014 The members of the Audit Committee at 31 December 2014 were The Audit Committee met five times in the year.
The activities of Guy Wilson Chairman of the Committee, Fernando Ruiz and Jaime the Audit Committee during 2014 are summarised in the following Serra, who replaced Fernando Solana following the 2014 AGM sections by reference to its duties, as set out above.
Guy Wilson was previously a partner atEY bringing an international audit and accountancy perspective Financial reporting aswell as extensive experience of capital transactions and corporate actions and is therefore considered to have recent and relevant The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting financial, auditing and accounting experience.
Further to the individual is to review with both management and the external auditor the biographies on page 117, Fernando Ruiz and Jaime Serra have great appropriateness of the financial statements concentrating on, experience of the economy and the business environment both in amongstother matters: Mexico and internationally.
In addition, Fernando Ruiz brings many monitoring the risks and associated controls over the financial years knowledge of the legal and tax environment and Jaime Serra, reporting processes, including the process by which the Groups political insight through the various roles he has held within the financial statements are prepared for publication: Mexican Government with particular focus on international trade andcommerce, so together the Committee members bring broad the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices: andrelevant perspectives to theissues they need to address.
the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial and governance The CFO and representatives from external and internal audit attend reporting requirements: all meetings, with the CEO and other members of the Executive Committee and management attending where appropriate and also material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or external advisors if relevant for specific matters.
there has been discussion with the external auditor: whether the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, Role balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business The role of the Audit Committee is set out in its terms of reference, model and strategy: and a copy of which can be found on the Companys website.
The terms any correspondence from regulators in relation to our of reference set out the duties of the Audit Committee under the financial reporting.
following headings: In reviewing the 2014 half-yearly report and the 2014 annual report Financial Reporting prior to recommending them to the Board for approval, the Committee, Risk Management and Internal Controls with the assistance of management and EY, identified a number of areas of particular focus being key areas of financial statement risk Whistleblowing Procedures and judgement for the Company.
Priority areas of judgement in 2014, Internal Audit recognising the evolution in the Committees assessment of the key changes in the reporting context during the year, were the basis for External Audit reviewing going concern, hedge accounting and the work on land Related Party Matters titles.
These are outlined in the following table along with how we haveaddressed them: In order to assist the Committee in fulfilling their duties whilst implementing good corporate governance, the Audit Committee developed a Committee Policy Manual which codifies the policies withinthe scope of the Audit Committees responsibilities.
This document is reviewed by the Committee on an annual basis.
The Audit Committee uses regular evaluation processes as a means of ensuring that the governance over the controls environment is appropriate.
In 2014 an externally conducted independent evaluation ofthe Committee was carried out by Independent Audit Limited.
The Company Secretary also facilitated a review of the Committees terms of reference.
The Committee concluded that the terms of reference remained appropriate and that it received appropriate information to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities thereunder, however minor amendments have been made to reflect the appointment and resignation of Committee members.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 131
