Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Leadership Fresnillo governance structure Key participants Fresnillo plc Board Membership Attendees Independent Directors Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer Head of Legal Non-independent Directors Chief Financial Officer Vice President, Exploration Head of Investor Relations Company Secretary Audit HSECR Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Membership Membership Membership Membership Independent Directors Independent Directors Chairman Independent Directors Non-independent Directors Independent Directors Non-independent Directors Attendees Attendees Attendees Attendees All meetings Chief Executive Officer Company Secretary All meetings Chief Financial Officer Safety Manager Company Secretary Internal Audit Head of Legal As required External Audit HR Towers Watson Company Secretary Sustainability manager Remuneration consultants Operations As required External advisers by invitation Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer Vice President, Exploration Head of Risk Head of Legal Head of IT Executive Committee Membership Attendees Chief Executive Officer Head of Legal Chief Operating Officer Chief Financial Officer Vice President, Exploration Honour Commission Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer Head of HR Chief Financial Officer Vice President, Exploration Head of Internal Audit | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 113 Leadership continued Safety performance: Whilst the HSECR Committee oversees health The Board structure and safety issues on behalf of the Board, the Executive Committee is The structure and business of the Board is designed to ensure that responsible for the day-to-day management of safety.
During 2014 the the Board focuses its time and energy on strategy, monitoring the Executive Committee continued to promote the No More Accidents performance of the management team, governance, risk and control campaign to embed a better health and safety culture at its mine issues.
Certain aspects of the Boards responsibilities have been sites and it has also been working on the maturity of the HSECR delegated to appropriate committees to ensure compliance with system.
Whilst the Groups fatality record has improved, the Executive theUKCompanies Act, FCA Listing Rules and the Code.
Committee ultimately continues to focus its attention on this issue.
The Board has delegated certain authorities to the following committees The Executive Committee is positioned to drive the strategic development to facilitate the routine business of the Company: of the Group.
This is promoted through the strong working relationship with the non-independent Non-executive Directors, who are all based Audit Committee in Mexico, through on-going dialogue.
During 2014, the Executive Executive Committee Committee led the work required for the successful completion of the acquisition of the minority interest in Penmont thus demonstrating its role Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations of implementing the Groups strategy.
HSECR Committee Nominations Committee The HSECR Committee provides assurance to the Board on the effectiveness of the Companys policies, action plans and systems Remuneration Committee for identifying and managing HSECR matters within the Companys operations.
The responsibilities of the Committee include monitoring The terms of reference for each of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations the Groups social and sustainability performance and the quality of and Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations Committees its external reporting.
As such, management reports to the HSECR are available on the Companys website www.
com who-weCommittee on such matters.
The members of the HSECR Committee are corporate-governance terms-of-reference.
are Rafael Mac Gregor Chairman of the Committee, Mara Asuncin Detailed reports on the activities of the Nominations Committee Aramburuzabala with effect from 16 May 2014 and Jaime Lomeln.
andthe Audit Committee are set out in this report on pages Meetings are also attended by various operational and unit managers.
The Report of the Remuneration Committee the Directors remuneration The Executive Committee is led by the Chief Executive Officer and report sets out the responsibilities and activities of the Remuneration consists of the most senior executives within the Fresnillo Group.
It is Committee during the year and can be found on pages 142 to 154. responsible for the management of the Companys businesses including the implementation of decisions agreed in principle by the Board and all executive management of the operations of the Group within the strategy and budget approved by the Board.
It has certain powers to approve smaller transactions on behalf of the Board such transactions are reported and explained to the Board at its next scheduled meeting.
Over the past few years, the role of the Executive Committee has evolvedin three main areas: Risk: It is also responsible for the identification, prioritisation and management of risk within a framework monitored regularly by the Board.
In 2014 the Committee undertook a full review of the Principal Risks to take account of changes in Government policy on mining and taxation as well as the Ejido litigation and other non-governmental organisation activity in general.
The Committee has also developed keyrisk indicators for the Group.
Business conduct: Members of the Executive Committee also serve on the Honour Commission which has taken on a key role in maintaining ethical business standards within the Fresnillo Group.
The terms of reference and membership of the Honour Commission are set by the Executive Committee.
| 114 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com s r o t c e r i y n D i t t u n r c e s d l a n n e r e p t e n I d n i - n o N I n d e p e E x n t e d r n e a l n s t c d r n r u D a a t i i n o r m B y e Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Board composition and independence Fresnillo boardroom Boardroom table Chairman Independent Directors Alberto Baillres Non-executive Chairman Mara Asuncin Aramburuzabala Non-executive Director Nominations Committee Chairman Brbara Garza Lagera Non-executive Director Charles Jacobs Non-executive Director Remuneration Committee Chairman Non-independent Directors Fernando Ruiz Non-executive Director Alejandro Baillres Non-independent Director Jaime Serra Non-executive Director Juan Bordes Non-independent Director Guy Wilson Senior Independent Director Arturo Fernndez Non-independent Director Audit Committee Chairman Jaime Lomeln Non-independent Director Rafael Mac Gregor Non-independent Director HSECR Committee Chairman Executive Committee Octavio Alvdrez Chief Executive Officer Mario Arregun Chief Financial Officer David Giles Vice President, Exploration Roberto Daz Chief Operating Officer | www.
