Audit Committee Report continued Description of focus area Audit Committee action Related party transactions including revenue recognition Transactions with related parties in the normal course of business may The Committee always scrutinises all major related party transactions carry no higher risk than transactions with unrelated parties: however, thatrequire independent Director approval to ensure that they are Fresnillo has a large controlling shareholder and as a result has very enteredinto transparently and conducted at arms length and thus strong ties both to Peoles and the broader BAL Group.
This year the Committee again reviewed related party transactions which individually or in aggregate amount There is a risk that related party relationships could be taken advantage toasignificant size see the section of this report headed Transactions ofto manipulate earnings or otherwise distort our financial position.
Furthermore related party transaction disclosure requirements are The Committee also discusses EYs procedures to ensure revenue onerous and there is a risk that disclosures in our financial statements is recognised accurately and reviews the relevant disclosures in the could be inaccurate or incomplete.
annualreport comparing them with the related party transaction See note 30 to the financial statements analysisrequested from management throughout the year.
The Audit Committee was satisfied with the accounting treatment and disclosure of Related Party Transactions in thefinancial statements.
Impairment Adverse metals price volatility, reductions in reserves and resources, The Committee challenged managements consistent application or operational issues potentially impact the recoverable value of ofassumptions used within the impairment review.
mining assets in the consolidated financial statements of the Group This is a key area of focus for EY and the Committee has discussed and investments in subsidiaries in the stand-alone parent company withthem the results of their procedures on the adequacy of the financial statements.
impairment models used by management and on the assumptions With the current level of precious metal prices and their future therein.
The Committee then discussed with management and EY the progression uncertain, the risk of the book value of mining assets headroom for each of the mining assets and investments in subsidiaries.
andinvestment in subsidiaries becoming impaired has increased.
As for the El Bajio situation at Soledad-Dipolos, the Committee has The judgements in relation to impairment testing relate to the challenged management over the Value In Use of our mining assets, assumptions underlying the calculation of the recoverable amount anddiscussed with EY their view of the accounting judgements oftheassets being tested.
applicableand the appropriateness of disclosures.
See note 14 to the financial statements and note 6 to the parent The Audit Committee supported managements judgement not to company financial statements record any impairment in mining assets but to record the impairment of investments in the Minera Mexicana a Cinega, S. A. fide C. V. Minera Saucito, S. A. fide C. V. and Exploraciones Parrea S. A. fide C. V. subsidiaries.
PTU and taxation There is a risk that deductions taken when calculating tax and PTU Our reviews of PTU and taxation have similar characteristics.
charges may be challenged, and that any resulting exposures to The Committee reviews all the significant accounting and legal payabletaxation and PTU may not have been provided for appropriately.
adjustments to the relevant operating profit subject to PTU or taxation Whereas the Committee does not consider that there is a risk of material for each subsidiary which are clearly set out in papers prepared by misstatement of these numbers in the financial statements, in the management.
This is also an area of focus for EY, who report to the current climate it is important for us to ensure that our shareholders Committee on their work in these areas.
have adequate information to conclude that the stated charges for The Committee challenges managements and EYs views and PTUand taxation are fair and reasonable.
ascertains the degree to which such adjustments are supported See notes 9 and 12 to the financial statements byinternal and or external subject matter experts to ensure that allareappropriate andproperly evidenced.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the stated charges for PTUand taxation are fair and reasonable and reflect the effects ofthenewMexican tax reform.
| 134 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
