Audit Committee Report continued Priority areas of focus in 2014: Description of focus area Audit Committee action Going concern The Directors must satisfy themselves as to the Groups ability to The Committee read managements schedules supporting and continue as a going concern for a minimum of 12 months from the explaining the inputs and process underpinning the going concern approval of the financial statements, which involves assessing whether, assessment.
These included the Group budgets, and cash flow forecasts in adverse circumstances, we have adequate liquid resources to fulfil for the period to December 2016, as revised in February 2015, including ourstated strategy.
the exploration and capital expenditure plans and sensitivities around those plans and the assumptions underlying the future trend on A misstatement in going concern arises either i when the conclusion operating costs.
They have also considered scenarios to illustrate the on whether going concern is appropriate is incorrect or ii when the sensitivities of the cash flow forecasts to movements in metal prices.
financial statements do not appropriately represent the conclusion.
If thefinancial statements do not appropriately reflect the conclusions The Committee considered EYs report on the adequacy of the cash on going concern, the effect is pervasive as it affects a significant flow models underlying this assessment and on the reasonableness of number of accounts.
assumptions therein, including their consistency with assumptions and estimates used elsewhere in the preparation ofthefinancial statements.
With the Companys production profiles at each mine being relatively predictable and with budgeted expenditure for capital investment and In particular, the Committee challenged management on the feasibility exploration being necessary to achieve our strategy, our fundamental of the mitigating actions and the potential speed of theirimplementation risk lies in metal prices and foreign exchange, as PTU, tax and dividend to achieve any flexibility required.
policies are a mathematical calculation from reported operating results.
The Committee reviewed and evaluated the conclusions of the Boards In addition to the continued uncertainty arising from falling metal prices, assessment of going concern and the proposed disclosures in the our cash resources were reduced by US$450.5 million following the financial statements.
payment for the acquisition of Newmonts shareholding in Penmont.
As a result of the procedures performed, the Committee satisfied See page 135 of the annual report itself that the financial statements appropriately reflect the conclusions on going concern.
Hedging In October 2014, following Board approval, the Company implemented The Committee challenged managements data which drives the a hedging programme to mitigate the risk of future adverse movements financial reporting.
It also discussed with EY their review of the in gold prices affecting the acquisition cost of the minority shareholding documentation underlying the hedging programme to ensure that it was in Penmont.
appropriate to support the accounting aspects underlying the financial reporting model.
This is a different type of strategy to those used previously by the Company both in size and duration.
Finally the Committee discussed with management the anticipated utilisation of the hedges over time to achieve managements objective.
Management presented a detailed strategy paper, including a list of all counter-parties and their respective allocation of the amount to be The Audit Committee was satisfied that the supporting hedged.
This paper evolved into a financial model which details daily documentation was appropriate and that the accounting movements and their financial effect in terms of cash flow and profit fortheresulting amounts in the financial statements was and loss.
See note 33 to the financial statements | 132 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
