Leadership continued The Board of Directors Key strengths and experience Chairman Date of appointment: Long-term knowledge and understanding of the Mexican commercial environment 15 April 2008 Relationships within the Mexican and international business communities Committee membership: Over a period of 50 years, Mr Baillres has built up unprecedented Nominations Committee experience and knowledge of both the Group and Mexican markets Chairman Alberto Baillres inwhich it operates from both investor and supervisory perspectives.
Remuneration Committee Non-executive Chairman Key strengths and experience Non-independent Directors Date of appointment: Insurance and related financial services in Mexico Broad board-level commercial experience in Mexico 16 April 2012 As Chief Executive Officer of Grupo Nacional Provincial, a leading insurance company in Mexico, as well as directorships of other companies in Grupo BAL, Mr Baillres brings knowledge and experience of Mexican Alejandro Baillres and international business to his role.
Non-executive Director Date of appointment: Senior executive CEO level responsibilities over several years Board membership of companies spanning a broad range of sectors 10 January 2008 and industries During his career, Mr Bordes has held both senior executive management roles and board responsibilities with companies spanning a number of Juan Bordes different sectors, particularly within Mexico.
Non-executive Director Date of appointment: International economics and public policy Directorships of several Mexican companies 15 April 2008 Mr Fernndez career brings together a solid academic economics background, many years experience within the Mexican public policy arena and broad commercial experience through board directorships Arturo Fernndez ofleading businesses in a number of sectors in Mexico.
Non-executive Director Date of appointment: Capital markets Financial services and commercial sectors 10 January 2008 Mr Mac Gregor had wide-ranging commercial experience in Mexico serving on the boards of a number of major companies across a number of sectors, including the Mexican Stock Exchange.
Rafael Mac Gregor Non-executive Director Date of appointment: Mining and engineering Senior operational experience within Mexico 15 April 2008 Following a career in metals and mining, Mr Lomeln was Chief Executive Officer of Fresnillo plc from April 2008 to 15 August 2012 when he became non-executive director, thus he brings senior management, mining and Jaime Lomeln engineering experience to the Board discussions.
Non-executive Director | 116 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Key strengths and experience Independent Directors Date of appointment: International audit and accountancy UK Government and Capital Markets 1 July 2008 Following a career within Ernst & Young, which includes 29 years as a Committee membership: Partner of that firm, Mr Wilson brings extensive experience of international Audit Committee Chairman audit and accounting practice, capital markets and transactions.
Guy Wilson Senior Independent Non-executive Director Date of appointment: Executive experience within industrial and financial sectors Mexican and international M&A and capital transaction experience 16 April 2012 Having been Vice Chairman of Grupo Modelo, one of Mexicos largest Committee membership: breweries, until it was sold to Anheuser-Busch InBev in 2012-13, HSECR Committee and now also Chief Executive Officer of Tresalia Capital S. A. fide C. V. Mara Asuncin Aramburuzabala Ms Aramburuzabala therefore brings a broad range of commercial Independent Non-executive Director experienceto the Board.
Date of appointment: Mexican commercial and industrial International Board experience 16 May 2014 As an experienced director, particularly through her career at Coca-Cola Committee membership: FEMSA KOF and Fomento Econmico Mexicano FEMSA, the largest Nominations Committee franchise bottler of Coca-Cola products in the world, MsGarza Brbara Garza Lagera Lagera brings a broad experience of Mexican commercial and Independent Non-executive Director international business.
Date of appointment: Legal professional with a focus on capital markets, mining and metals and corporate governance 16 May 2014 International M&A experience Committee membership: Through his experience as a senior partner of global law firm Linklaters Remuneration Committee LLP, Mr Jacobs brings a legal, regulatory and corporate governance Chairman Charles Jacobs perspective to the Boardroom.
Independent Non-executive Director Date of appointment: Mexican tax and accounting International board and audit committee 15 April 2008 Mr Ruiz was managing partner of Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia.
tax Committee membership: advisers and consultants in Mexico and now serves on the board and Audit Committee audit committees of several Mexican and international companies.
Remuneration Committee Fernando Ruiz He hasextensive knowledge of Mexican tax and accounting issues.
Nominations Committee Independent Non-executive Director Date of appointment: Mexican Government International trade and commerce 16 May 2014 Following a distinguished career in Government in Mexico, with particular Committee membership: focus on international trade and industry, Mr Serra brings a broad range Audit Committee ofexperience of Mexican politics and international trade to the Board.
Jaime Serra Independent Non-executive Director | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 117
