Remuneration Policy Introduction Remuneration Policy This part of the Directors remuneration report sets out the Remuneration The Groups Remuneration Policy seeks to ensure that the Company Policy of the Company and has been prepared in accordance with is able to attract, retain, and motivate its executives and senior The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and management.
The retention of key management and the alignment of Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 theRegulations.
The policy management incentives with the creation of shareholder value are key was developed taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate objectives of this policy.
Governance Code 2012 and the views of our major shareholders.
Setting base salary levels for Executive Directors at an appropriate level It describes the policy to be applied for the financial year ending is a key to managerial retention in Mexico.
Therefore, the Remuneration 31 December 2014 and beyond.
The Policy Report was put to a binding Committee seeks to ensure that salaries are market competitive vote at the Annual General Meeting held on 16 May 2014, and received both within the Mexican context and internationally for comparable overwhelming shareholder support.
Total compensation is set within a range around the median ofthe policy is 16 May 2014. level for the Companys peer group within Mexico and internationally, total remuneration is benchmarked biennially to ensure that the whole remuneration package is maintained at this level over the long term.
Salaries are positioned within the range according to experience and service.
The table below sets out the key elements of Executive Director pay set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy: Operation Maximum value Performance metric Discretion Base salary Provides the core reward for the role Reviewed annually and fixed for The Chief Executives salary will The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee 12months starting on 1 April each be reviewed taking account of the considers individual salaries at the will establish the Companys year and the review is influenced by: benchmarking information received appropriate meeting each year by comparator peer group in Mexico by the Remuneration Committee reference to the factors noted under and internationally as part of role, experience and performance: and the maximum value of the the Operation heading in this table.
the biennial review which it will average workforce Chief Executives base salary will consider in April 2014.
The peer salary adjustments: Details of the current remuneration be positioned within the mid-range group will be reviewed again in of the Chief Executive Officer is Mexican economic factors: and for companies in the peer group April 2016 as part of the following provided in the annual report on comparison with the Companys of Mexican and international biennial review.
peer group in Mexico resources companies.
will report on the outcome of and internationally.
these reviews within the relevant Salaries are benchmarked bi-ennially annual report on remuneration for by reference to companies of similar the 2014 and 2016. size and complexity and will be positioned within a mid-range of the Companys comparator peer group in Mexico and internationally.
The next reviews will take place in April 2014 and April 2016.
Benefits Help recruit and retain employees An Executive Director would be The current benefits are set out in None.
The Remuneration Committee entitled to life insurance, the use the annual remuneration report.
may consider changes to of a company car, the payment the benefits made available The maximum value of benefits will ofpremiums for medical insurance to Executive Directors in line be determined by Company policy covering limited expenses and with any changes in the policy that is applicable to all employees.
Benefits may be for benefits provided to all changedif Company policy on employees.
Pension Rewards continued employment and sustained contribution The Group operates a defined The maximum contribution for None.
Executive anyemployee may not exceed Directors are entitled to membership 16%of salary.
of the defined contribution scheme.
| 144 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Operation Maximum value Performance metric Discretion 1 Annual Bonus Rewards the achievement of shortand long-term financial and strategic business targets and delivery of personal objectives Targets are renewed annually and The maximum percentage of salary The KPI targets focus on risks The Remuneration Committee relate to the strategic aims of the is 50% six months salary and is that are within the control and considers that the KPIs, upon business as a whole.
A scoring paid where Executive Directors influence of management.
Thus, which bonuses are based, may system is used for the plan.
Each achieve more than 115 points the management of safety, security, need to evolve from year to year objective set for the executive at the underthe Annual Bonus Plan.
project, human resource, exploration in line with the strategy and beginning of the year is allocated Target is 100 points.
and environmental risks are all therefore it retains the discretion a points-rating which represents currently implicitly covered within to adjust individual KPI weightings a median performance target for the KPIs.
The KPIs and targets are from year to year.
Upper and lower also designed to ensure that both The Remuneration Committee point thresholds are set to allow short-term objectives and the longretains the discretion to adjust for outstanding performance and term development of the Fresnillo bonus payments to take account ensure that underperformance is Group are given equal priority.
of the following: not rewarded.
For each member of Details of the measures, targets Factors outside the control the Executive Committee including and performance for the year are of Executive Directors e. g. the Chief Executive Officer, a bonus provided in the annual report on force majeure circumstances.
is only payable if the aggregate remuneration.
In deciding whether adjustment performance equals or exceeds is merited, the Remuneration 100points.
Bonus payments are Committee will consider paid for aggregate performance the appropriateness of the against target at or above 100 points Executive Directors response as follows: to those circumstances: in this Variable pay Variable pay situation an upward adjustment Points Months salary % of salary may be considered 100-104 Two 16.67 Poor executive response to adverse health, safety or 105-109 Four 33.33 environmental performance 110-114 Five 41.67 during the year, in which case 115 Six 50.00 a downward adjustment would be considered Any such discretion will be fully explained in future Directors remuneration reports.
1 Fresnillo plc does not operate any share option of share-based long-term incentive plans.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 145 Remuneration Policy continued Alignment of executive remuneration Policy on recruitment The Committee will consider the remuneration of new executive andthemarket appointees to the Board by reference to the Remuneration Policy set In setting the fixed remuneration of the members of the Executive out above.
The Committee does not expect to pay sign-on payments or Committee, information relating to the mining company comparators compensate new Directors for any variable remuneration forfeited from is provided by various consultants.
Information relating to the Mexican any employment prior to joining the Board.
Salary will be set so as to be economic metrics and internal benchmarking is collated by management market competitive both within the Mexican context and internationally for the Remuneration Committee to consider.
In 2012, information for comparable companies and taking account of the experience and showing the three-year trends for inflation, market growth and pay seniority of the appointee coming into the new role.
The Committee is increases in Mexico was considered in setting salary increases for likely to set base salaries below median on appointment whilst retaining members of the Executive Committee.
discretion to award increases during the first and, possibly, subsequent A review conducted by Towers Watson in April 2012 enabled the years to bring salaries into the normal range expected for Executive Remuneration Committee to validate the Companys policy towards Directors, in line with the Companys stated policy.
New Executive short-term and long-term remuneration and ensure that it was globally Directors will receive benefits and pensions in line with Companys as well as locally competitive.
The analysis evaluated the elements of existing policy and will be able to participate in the annual bonus scheme base salary: short-term compensation guaranteed payments and shorton a pro-rated basis for the portion of the financial year for which they term bonus and long-term compensation primarily stock programmes are in post.
Whilst there is no expectation of changing this approach, separately.
It concluded that the level of total remuneration for all of the the Remuneration Committee will bring any variation to this approach members of the Executive Committee was set in line with the objective toshareholders for approval prior to implementation.
A further review by Towers Watson was undertaken in early 2014 prior to the review of the Executive Committee Policy on loss of office members salaries taking effect from 1 April 2014.
Following this Other than in circumstances of gross misconduct, Directors and review, the Remuneration Committee established the peer group of senior executives, including the Chief Executive Officer, leaving companies for the purposes of validating the remuneration of Executive employment from the Group, will be entitled to receive salary and Directors.
See also page 152 of the annual report on remuneration for pro-rated annual bonus based on performance to the date of leaving.
Statutory entitlements are payable according to Mexican labour law, based on length of service.
Mexican labour law does not make any Comparison of executive and provision for employers and employees to give or receive notice of  termination of employment.
Therefore the Committee will not make payments in lieu of notice to departing executives unless required to do When setting pay and benefits for Executive Directors and Executive so by law.
No contractual commitments concerning loss of office were Committee, the Remuneration Committee takes account of pay and entered into with any Director prior to 27 June 2012. conditions across the Group.
It will consider the overall pay increase percentage negotiated with employee representatives as its starting point.
The Remuneration Committee may agree pay increases above Annual Bonus Plan and policy on or below the agreed percentage in exceptional circumstances, where variableremuneration in its discretion it considers such variance to the norm to be justified.
It is the Companys policy not to use its equity to incentivise long-term Other than the Towers Watson report specifically commissioned by the performance by this means.
The Companys core strategy is one of Remuneration Committee, the same benchmark reports are used in the long-term sustainable growth.
Sustainable growth in mining requires evaluation of executive and employee remuneration, thus providing a the steady and safe expansion of the Groups operations through the common approach to both.
discovery of new resources and construction, maintenance and or Below Board level, a statutory profit-sharing arrangement PTU is expansion of new mines.
No distinction is therefore made between operated which in recent years has enabled employees within the shortand long-term incentives.
operating companies to receive significant levels of bonus in line with The Company operates a single cash-based incentive plan the increased profitability of the relevant operating company.
Neither the forthe members of the Executive Committee, including Chief Executive Officer nor any of the Non-executive Directors participate theChiefExecutive Officer.
in a PTU scheme within the Fresnillo Group.
The other members of the senior management group below Board level are employed by Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo SA fide CV which pays annual PTU payments.
However, such payments are modest.
The Remuneration Committee does not consult with employees in setting Directors remuneration.
| 146 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Illustrations of the application of Remuneration Policy for the Chief Executive Officer The following table sets out the fixed and variable remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer in the different scenarios where they receive minimum, target and maximum variable pay.
Component Max value Minimum Target Maximum 1 US$k 2 Share incentives Annual Bonus 327 US$1,424,000 Annual Variable US$1,206,000 23% 3 Pay US$1,097,000 9% Pension benefits 88 100% 91% 77% Other benefits 116 Base salary 893 Fixed 4 Pay 1 The amounts shown in this table reflect the remuneration level at 31 December 2013, being the latest available data at the point at which the Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders.
2 Fresnillo plc does not operate any share option of share-based long-term incentive plans.
3 Variable Pay consists only of remuneration where performance measures or targets relate only to one financial year.
4 Fixed Pay includes salary, benefits and pension.
The Remuneration Committee keeps the policy under review and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment considers that the upper limit for cash-based remuneration incentives On their initial appointment, each of the Non-executive Directors signed is appropriate.
In setting this level, the Remuneration Committee has a letter of appointment with the Company, for an initial period of three considered both local market practice and that within the global mining years.
Since April 2011, the letters of appointment all serving Nonindustry.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that this has helped to executive Directors have been drafted in accordance with provision B.
7.1 incentivise senior management in managing the Group sustainably and in of the UK Corporate Governance Code, thus obliging them to retire at meeting shareholders reasonable expectations.
each annual general meeting and be subject to annual re-election by shareholders to serve for a further term of one year.
The amendments External appointments have been drafted such that renewed appointment will not necessitate anew letter of appointment.
It is the Boards policy to allow Executive Directors to accept directorships of other quoted and non-quoted companies provided that they have Each Non-executive Director is expected to commit a minimum of 14 obtained the consent of the Chairman of the Company.
Any such days per year in fulfilling their duties as a Director of the Company.
A base directorships must be formally notified to the Board.
fee of 30,000 is paid to each Non-executive Director to reflect the time commitment and level of involvement they are required to make in the Chairman and Non-executive Directors activities of the Board as a whole.
There are no set fees for membership of any Board committees or for the chairmanship of the Board.
The remuneration of the Chairman of the Company and the NonThe UK-based Non-executive Directors receive a higher fee to reflect the executive Directors consists of fees that are paid quarterly in arrears.
additional time commitment that they make in order to travel to Board The Chairman and Non-executive Directors do not participate in any longmeetings in Mexico and to their responsibilities as appropriate as Senior term incentive or annual bonus schemes, nor do they accrue any pension Independent Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and entitlement.
Neither the Chairman nor any of the Non-executive Directors Chairman of the Audit Committee.
has a service contract with the Company: however, each has entered into a letter of appointment with the Company.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 147 Remuneration Policy continued Unless otherwise determined, the Director concerned may give not less than three months notice of termination of the appointment.
Copies of the Directors letters of appointment and service agreements are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The key terms of the Non-executive Directors letters of appointment for the Directors serving during the year are as follows: Date of original Notice period from Fees 1 Director letter of appointment Director to the Company Duration of term p. a. Alberto Baillres 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 2 Lord Cairns 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 90,000 Juan Bordes 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Rafael Mac Gregor 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 2 Javier Fernndez 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Arturo Fernndez 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Fernando Ruiz 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Guy Wilson 1 July 2008 3 months 1 year 90,000 2 Fernando Solana 18 February 2009 3 months 1 year 30,000 Alejandro Baillres 16 April 2012 3 months 1 year 30,000 Mara Asuncin Aramburuzabala 16 April 2012 3 months 1 year 30,000 Jaime Lomeln 15 August 2012 3 months 1 year 30,000 2 Brbara Garza Lagera 11 April 2014 3 months 1 year 30,000 2 Charles Jacobs 11 April 2014 3 months 1 year 90,000 2 Jaime Serra 11 April 2014 3 months 1 year 30,000 1 Unexpired term: the Non-executive Directors all have rolling contracts which are subject to the annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The current term expires on 18 May 2015, being the date of the next Annual General Meeting but the appointment will continue after that date provided that each Director is re-elected at the AGM.
2 Lord Cairns, Javier Fernndez and Fernando Solana retired at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 16 May 2014.
Brbara Garza Lagera, Charles Jacobs and Jaime Serra were appointed to the Board on 16 May 2014 although their letters of appointment were entered into beforehand and their appointments were conditional on shareholders approval at the AGM.
The Board have agreed that the aggregate fees of the Non-executive Directors excluding the reimbursement of expenses will be 480,000 per annum.
The Articles of Association of the Company require that the aggregate remuneration of Directors may not exceed 3,000,000 unless approved by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders of the Company.
| 148 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
