Social and Sustainability Report continued 1 2 3 4 Sustainability: Advance and enhance 4 thesustainability of our business What we said we would do in 2014 Increase our knowledge of communities with a perception survey and Community re-assessment of capabilities and opportunities Reinforce our stakeholder engagement processes incorporating best practices in the extractive industry relations Review and upgrade our community investment strategy and policies Reinforce training and competences for our community relations and external affairs personnel Unify criteria among our units What we did in 2014 Conducted a qualitative assessment of community perception: re-assessed opportunities and capabilities Our communities are strategic partners.
Adopted some new industry best practices in stakeholder engagement: Having their trust requires effectively engaging implemented a new information system to support reviewed processes them and being accountable for our impacts.
Updated community investment priorities, strategy and policies We recognise that building trust is the only way to Community relations team participated in trainings to reinforce obtain and preserve our social licence to operate.
engagement skills and the use of the information system, helping unifycriteria across the Company Strategy Good community relations rely on knowing the community.
We aim What we plan to do in 2015 to understand the socioeconomic challenges and competences of Match our units with NGOs to increase collaboration and partnerships our communities, their perception of our company, and the potential on projects to benefit communities or real impacts of our operations.
Advancing our knowledge of the community is fundamental in guiding our engagement efforts and Launch regional and corporate social investment committees setting favourable conditions to develop with the communities.
Enhance collaboration with the land acquisition team to bring social expertise to the process Continue identifying and adopting best practices in stakeholder Develop Advance our Engage engagement: consolidate those adopted in 2014 with the knowledge effectively community Advance our knowledge We build our knowledge of the community by identifying our stakeholders Identify and analyse Consultation Investment and analysing their positions on material issues.
Social baseline surveys stakeholders Committees and perception studies have helped us gain further understanding of the Community activities Social baseline surveys Community risks and opportunities in the communities where we operate.
Communication investment Evaluate associations Grievance mechanism Recognising that many non-profit organisations have more competencies with NGOs Strategic investment than us when it comes to developing projects with the communities, we Field reports Perception surveys Contributions have been seeking to partner with NGOs.
In 2014, the International Board Meetings Media monitoring Capacity building on Books for Young People IBBY, our ally in bringing books and children Registry of together, conducted an assessment of our community projects.
We will Indicators Local employment commitments partner with IBBY to further develop programmes that promote reading Development of Registry of incidents in our communities.
We have also laid the ground for future cooperation localcontractors with other NGOs, notably ECOS, Reforestamos Mexico, the US-Mexico Foundation and the Nature Conservancy.
Community Investment US$ Engaging effectively 2.21m We aim to engage effectively to build mutually beneficial relationships with our communities.
Further developing our competencies to engage 3.14 2.14 2.21 effectively is a learning journey: we have started by identifying and beginning to implement some best practices in the extractive industry.
Our efforts focus on strengthening key practices such as the stakeholder registry and mapping, informal and formal meetings, and registries of commitments, issues and grievances.
Our community relations team assigned to operations and exploration projects participated in workshops 2012 2013 2014 | 92 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance to reinforce their stakeholder engagement skills.
Frequent team meetings Performance have helped unify their criteria.
An information system was implemented Community investment % Community investment % to advance the maturity of the stakeholder engagement and community By strategic lever By business unit investment processes.
We will continue identifying and adopting best practices and to consolidate those adopted thus far.
In line with our culture of continuous improvement, we have brought in external counsel to ensure we stay ahead of the curve on social engagement practices, and will evaluate a series of integrated initiatives and programmes in 2015.
Our exploration teams are the first to establish contact between thecommunity and the Group.
Through positive engagement and fair Environmental awareness 3Cinega 11 negotiation, the Group builds trust and obtains temporary access to Community capacity building 18Explorations 6 the land.
Not all exploration projects have the potential to become Education 35Fresnillo 64 mining projects, but once a project has been approved, negotiation Social welfare 41Penmont 12 withlandowners is critical.
Infrastructure 3 Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo 3 Saucito 4 Land acquisition has become a major challenge for the Mexican mining industry.
We see an area of opportunity in partnering with our land acquisition teams to launch community relations at the earliest stages of Community activities % Community activities % By strategic lever Operations By strategic lever Explorations land acquisition campaigns.
Constructing mutually beneficial relationships cannot depend solely on our community relations team, therefore we have begun to look to internal stakeholders to broaden the relation with communities.
Developing with the community Our operations are located in communities that are socio-economically diverse, ranging from low to high levels of social marginalisation, with some close to urban centres and other in remote locations.
Water, Environmental awareness 9 Environmental awareness 37 Capacity building 13 Capacity building 2 infrastructure, insecurity violence, unemployment, and lack of Education 27Education 13 access to quality public services are among the challenges faced by Social welfare 51 Social welfare 48 our communities, according to our perception surveys and baseline studies.
These challenges, combined with other insights gained from our stakeholder engagement practices, guide our community activities Contributions requested % Contributions requested % and social investment programmes.
Our efforts target development By the community Operations By the community Explorations levers such as education, capacity building and infrastructure.
We also contribute to social welfare public health, social interaction and sports and help communities to raise environmental awareness.
We aim to develop with the community rather that developing for the community, and are exploring new such mechanisms with noted NGOs like ECOS and Reforestamos Mexico.
To advance our governance framework for social investment, we aim to introduce social investment committees in 2015 comprised of regional Accepted 80Accepted 85 mine and corporate representatives.
We will also pursue efforts to Rejected 20Rejected 15 match our units with NGOs in order to increase collaboration on projects the benefit communities.
Economic value distributed % Economic value distributed % By region Economic impact Our economic contribution creates value in the regions where we operate.
This includes total wages and benefits, payments to local contractors and suppliers, and municipal, state and federal taxes.
US$m Wages and benefits of workers 82.35 Payments to suppliers contractors 581.56 Wages and benets of workers 10Zacatecas 25 Payments to suppliers Sonora 46 Payments to local governments 2.21 contractors 71Durango 15 Payments to federal government 154.58 Payments to Chihuahua 10 820.71 local governments 0 Coahuila, Estado fide Mexico Payments to and Guanajuato 4 federal government 19 | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 93
