Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Relations with Shareholders The Board seeks to ensure that the interests of minority shareholders The following graph demonstrates the Companys global appeal in the Company are properly respected and aligned with those of major with a significant shift since IPO in 2008 from a predominantly shareholders.
As described on page 126, the Board maintains procedures UKshareholder base.
for dealing with transactions with related parties as well as Directors Geographical split of free float shareholders conflicts of interest.
since 2008 The Company has an office in London where the Head of Investor Geographical split of free oat shareholders Relations is based.
The Group has implemented a strong communications % and investor relations programme and aims to meet major shareholders United Kingdom Europe and analysts at least twice a year to discuss the results of the Group North America Rest of the World and to respond to any queries the shareholders may have.
The Senior Independent Director, Guy Wilson has attended such meetings and it is hisintention to continue to do so in order to sustain good communications between shareholders and the Company.
The Head of Investor Relations in London maintains on-going relations with analysts and major shareholders through telephone calls and meetings.
The Company also uses a full programme of mining conferences to meet with current and prospective investors.
Contact with investors inMexico is maintained through the Investor Relations Office in Mexico City.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer participate in IPO 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 the major roadshows to meet with analysts and shareholders.
They are joined by other members of the Executive Committee for some of these visits.
The Head of Investor Relations, supported by the Chief Executive The principal investor relations and communications activities during 2014 Officer and Chief Financial Officer, gives a report at each Board meeting are shown below.
on communications and shareholder activity.
Investor relations programme January March April May June August September October November Investor relations Conference Roadshows Conference Site visits Interim results Conference calls calls following following the calls following roadshows in following the the production Preliminary the production the UK production results Announcement report results announcement in the UK, US announcement and Canada Major industry conferences and briefings BofAML Global Denver Deutsche Bank Metals & Mining GoldForum Metals and Conference, Mining UBS Metals Conference andMining Conference | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 127 Relations with Shareholders continued Major interests in shares Authority to purchase own shares As at 2 March 2015, the Company had been advised of the following The Company was authorised by a shareholders resolution passed at notifiable interests whether directly or indirectly held in its voting rights: the Annual General Meeting held in May 2014 to purchase up to 10% ofits issued Ordinary Share capital.
Any shares which have been bought Notification received from: Number of voting rights % back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled Peoles 552,595,191 74.99 immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing 1 the amount of the Companys issued and authorised share capital.
BlackRock, Inc 44,555,345 6.05 This authority will expire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and First Eagle Investment a resolution to renew the authority for a further year will be proposed.
Management LLC 37,586,093 5.10 No shares were purchased by the Company during the year.
1 Includes interests held by BlackRock Global Funds.
General meeting Annual General Meeting The Company held a general meeting on 6 October 2014 to approve The Companys seventh Annual General Meeting will be held on Monday the acquisition of a 44% stake in the Penmont J. V. The Board decided, 18 May 2015 at 12.00 noon.
The business of the Annual General Meeting notwithstanding the authority it had to convene the meeting on 14 days AGM will be conducted in accordance with the provisions B.
7.2, notice, that it was appropriate that shareholders should receive 21 days E. 2.1 and E. 2.2 of the Code.
The Chairman of the Board and the chairmen notice of the meeting on this occasion.
of each of the Board committees will be available to answer questions put forward to them by shareholders of the Company.
The Annual Report and Accounts and the Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting.
In planning the business of each AGM, the Board takes account of institutional shareholder guidelines on pre-emption rights, share buy-backs and shareholder rights in relation to general meetings when drafting the usual resolutions dealing with those matters.
In each case, resolutions are presented to the AGM to give the Board flexibility to respond to market developments.
| 128 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
