Directors Report In accordance with section 415 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors Articles of There are no restrictions on the transfer of the of Fresnillo plc present their report for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Association Ordinary Shares other than: continued The Directors believe that the requisite components of this report the standard restrictions for a UK-quoted are set out elsewhere in this annual report and or on theCompanys company set out in article 32 of the Articles website, www.
The table sets out where the necessary of Association: disclosures can be found.
where, from time to time, certain restrictions may become imposed by laws and regulations forexample, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Directors Directors that have served during the year and Services Authority whereby certain Directors, summaries of the current Directors key skills and officers and employees of the Company require experience are set out in the corporate governance the approval of the Company to deal in the report onpages 116 and 117.
Results and Results for the year ended 31 December 2014 are No shareholder holds securities carrying special dividends set out in the financial review on pages 96 to 107 and rights as to the control of the Company.
There are the consolidated income statement on page 163. nolimitations on the holding of securities.
There are Information regarding the proposed final dividend no restrictions on voting rights or any arrangements can be found in the financial review on page 106. by which, with the Companys co-operation, financial Dividend payments made during the year ended rights carried by securities are held by a person 31 December 2014 can be found in the notes to other than the holder of the securities.
There are thefinancial statements on page 201. no agreements between holders of securities that are known to the Company which may result in Change of Details setting out the effect of a change of control of restrictions on the transfer of voting rights.
control the Company on significant agreements are set out on the Companys website at www.
com The Sterling Deferred Shares only entitle the who-we-are corporate-governance.
shareholder to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary Shareholders on winding up Articles of The Companys full Articles of Association or on a return of capital.
The Sterling Deferred Shares Association can be found on the Companys website at do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, www.
com who-we-are corporateor to receive notice or to attend and speak at any governance.
Any amendments made to the Articles general meeting of the Company.
The Company of Association may be made by a special resolution may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred of shareholders.
The following is a summary of the Shares at a price of 1.00 or, as custodian, purchase structure, rights and restrictions of the Companys or cancel the Sterling Deferred Shares or require share capital: the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Shares.
The Company has two classes of share capital: Except at the option of the Company, the Sterling 736,893,589 ordinary shares of US$0.50 Ordinary Deferred Shares are not transferable.
Shares and 50,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each Share capital Details of the Companys share capital are set out in Sterling Deferred Shares.
The Ordinary Shares note 21 to the financial statements on page 200. are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Mexican Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations Authority to Details on the Companys current authority to attaching to these shares are governed by UK law purchase own purchase its own shares and that being sought at and the Companys Articles of Association.
shares the forthcoming Annual General Meeting are set out in the corporate governance report on page 128.
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general Directors Details of the Directors beneficial interests are set meeting of the Company.
On a show of hands every interests out in the remuneration report on page 151. shareholder present in person or by proxy or being a corporation represented by a duly authorised Directors Details regarding deeds of indemnity and Directors representative shall have one vote, and on a poll indemnities and Officers Liability Insurance are set out in the every shareholder who is present in person or by and Directors corporate governance report on page 119. proxy shall have one vote for every share held.
and Officers The Notice of Annual General Meeting specifies Liability deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing Insurance a proxy or proxies.
| 140 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Major interests Notifiable major shares interests of which the Audit Each of the Directors at the date of the approval in shares Company has been made aware are set out on information ofthis report confirms that: page128 of the corporate governance report.
so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Political and The Company did not make any donations to political auditors are unaware: and charitable organisations during the year: information regarding donations the Companys charitable donations can be found in he she has taken all the reasonable steps that the strategic report on page 92. he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit Greenhouse Details of the Companys greenhouse gas emissions information and to establish that the Companys gasemissions can be found in the sustainability report on pages 86 auditors are aware of the information.
to 91 of the strategic report.
The confirmation is given and should be interpreted Employees Information regarding the Companys employees in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of can be found in the sustainability report on page 94 the Companies Act 2006. of the strategic report and in note 9 to the financial statements on page 190.
The Directors Report has been approved Financial risk Details of the Companys policies on financial by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc.
management risk management are outlined in note 34 to the financial statements.
Signed on behalf of the Board.
Going concern The Companys going concern statement can be found in the Audit Committee report on page 135.
Future Details about the Companys future developments Guy Wilson developments can be found in the strategic review on pages 71 Senior Independent Director to79.
3 March 2015 Auditors The Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP have indicated theirwillingness to continue in office and a Fresnillo plc resolution seeking to re-appoint them will be Registered Office: proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
28 Grosvenor Street London W1K 4QR Post balance There have been no post balance sheet events.
United Kingdom sheet events Company No: 6344120 Annual General Details of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting Meeting can be found on page 128 of the corporate governance report.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 141
