Corporate governance report Our governance framework The board leads the groups governance framework, These matters fall under 12 categories: setting broad strategic targets, monitoring progress, approving Strategy and management proposed actions and ensuring appropriate controls are in Structure and capital place and operating effectively.
Financial reporting and controls Management decisions, development of strategies and Risk and internal controls policies and implementation of board decisions fall to the Contracts group executive committee.
Communication Board membership and other appointments Regional management teams have responsibility for businesses Remuneration within their regions and are tasked with implementing policies Delegation of authority and controls at business unit level, as well as ensuring they Corporate governance matters meet agreed financial and non-financial goals.
Policies The presence of a majority of independent non-executive Other matters such as settling material litigation, making directors on the board ensures objectivity, challenge and major changes to the groups pension scheme rules and the debate.
It is the primary responsibility of the board to appointment of group advisors provide effective leadership for the group and this is done By way of example, board approval is required for: unbudgeted by, amongst other things, ensuring that decision making is capital projects of more than 10m: entering into a sales conducted throughout the group within a strong internal contract where annual revenue is anticipated to be more than control framework and by setting values and standards.
50m: any changes to the groups capital structure: and the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets.
There is a detailed schedule of matters which are reserved to the decision of the board.
The board fulfils a number of its most important functions through its committees.
The work of these committees is described below in this report.
The terms of reference of each of the committees are available on the companys website at www.
Governance structure Board Remuneration CSR Risk Audit Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee See pages 70-84 See page 62 See pages 63-64 See pages 65-69 See page 61 Group Risk & Internal Group Executive Committee Audit Function Investment Executive Risk Committee Committee Regional Regional Risk & Audit Executives Committees 56 56 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 Governance Board balance Board tenure Board composition As at the date of this report, the board comprises 11 members: the non-executive chairman John Connolly, seven other non-executive directors and three executive directors.
The board 8 yrs considers all the non-executive directors to be independent.
3 directors 2 yrs or less GG, MS, ME 3 directors The names of the directors serving as at 31 December 2014 AA, HR, TW and their biographical details are set out on pages 52 and 53.
All the directors served throughout the year.
Grahame Gibson, one of the executive directors, and Mark Seligman, the nonexecutive deputy chairman, will retire from the board at the conclusion of the companys 2015 Annual General Meeting.
4 yrs 6 yrs The Nomination Committee is engaged in a process to recruit 2 directors 2 yrs 4 yrs CS, WF a new non-executive director.
3 directors AC, PS, JC Induction, information and professional development 6 yrs 8 yrs 0 directors A tailored induction is provided to new directors joining the board.
In the case of non-executive directors, this includes spending time with the executive directors and other senior executives to understand the business, its structure and people, as well as the Board performance review companys strategy and financial performance.
Induction also In 2014, Lintstock Limited conducted a performance review for the provides details of the groups governance policies and structure board.
The review involved detailed self-assessment questionnaires and risk management framework.
being completed by board members and regular board committee attendees, as well as individual interviews with each director and the To build on the induction programme, directors receive further company secretary.
The resulting report was considered by the briefings both to help in their own development and also to board when it reviewed its own performance and informed its enhance their awareness of the different elements of the business.
planning for the boards priorities in 2015.
Lintstock also reviewed Briefings are provided to all board members on legal, governance, the performance of each of the board committees, which in turn compliance and reporting developments and to those members considered the resulting reports when reviewing their performance.
of board committees on matters which are relevant to their work on the committees in question.
As part of its review process, Lintstock also reported on the performance of each of the directors and separately on that of In addition, non-executive directors are encouraged to learn about the chairman.
The individual director reviews were used as the basis the groups business and to meet employees and management for the chairmans individual discussion with each of the directors through site visits, attendance at group and regional conferences.
about their performance and any training and development needs.
In 2014, non-executive directors visited a cash centre, an adult The report on the chairman was used to inform the discussion prison and a youth training centre operated by the group and about the chairman which was conducted by the senior attended part of the group management conference.
independent director without the chairman being present.
Lintstock has no connection with the company other than evaluating the board and its committees performance.
2015 primary board objectives Board balance Following consideration of Lintstocks report on the boards Non-Executive John Connolly, Adam performance, and after consideration of priorities chosen Crozier, Mark Elliott, by the board and the strategy adopted by the company, directors Winnie Fok, Mark the board has agreed a set of primary objectives for its work Seligman, Paul Spence, in 2015, which will include: 8 Clare Spottiswoode, Reviewing progress on strategy execution and a range Tim Weller of business improvement programmes approved by Ashley Almanza, Executive the board Grahame Gibson, directors Monitoring the performance of the wider leadership team Himanshu Raja Addressing the new requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code 3 Increasing focus on people in terms of succession planning for the senior executives, employee satisfaction and management development Maintaining emphasis on risk management Gaining greater understanding of markets and competitors Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 5757 Corporate governance report continued Director re-election Relations with shareholders The companys articles of association require that all continuing directors are subject to election by shareholders The company actively seeks to engage with shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting following their and during 2014, senior management had contact via appointment and that they submit themselves for re-election one-on-one meetings, group meetings and telephone at least every three years and that at least one-third of the conference calls with shareholders representing over directors not standing for election for the first time stand for 80% of the share register across over 150 institutions.
re-election at each annual general meeting.
However, in In November, the chief executive and chief financial accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code officer provided a capital markets update via a webcast, provision on re-election of directors, all the continuing which is available on the companys website.
Additional directors stand for re-election every year.
meetings are held after the preliminary and half-year Conflicts authorisation results are announced.
Each of the directors has disclosed to the board any The chairman met with major shareholders as part of situations which apply to them as a result of which they a general governance road show.
The chair of the CSR have or may have an interest which conflicts or may conflict Committee, Clare Spottiswoode, and relevant senior with the interests of the company.
In accordance with the executives met with a group of socially responsible companys articles of association, the board has authorised investors in June 2014, updating them on the groups such matters.
The affected directors did not vote when their corporate responsibility programme.
Tim Weller, in his own interests were considered.
Where the board deemed capacity as chair of the Audit Committee, consulted major it appropriate, such authorisation was given subject to shareholders regarding the external audit tender.
The board reviews such matters on of the Remuneration Committee, Mark Elliott engaged a regular basis.
with a number of shareholders and their representatives on remuneration issues.
Diversity It is intended that all the directors will attend and be With operations in over 110 countries, the group operates in available to answer questions at the companys Annual very diverse communities and its workforce reflects that diversity General Meeting which is an important opportunity for in terms of its mix of gender, age, race, religion, nationality, language, communication between the board and shareholders, background and experience.
The board recognises that the group particularly private shareholders.
At the Annual General benefits greatly from this diversity and needs to continue to Meeting, the meeting is informed of the number of proxy promote it in order to help create an organisation which attracts, votes cast and the same information is published supports and promotes the broadest range of talent.
This allows subsequently on the companys website.
individuals to reach their full potential and the group to provide the best service to its customers.
Diversity is a consideration that forms part of any new recruitment for, and appointment to, the board.
Although appointments will always be made on merit, the Nomination Committee and the board recognise that the board performs better when its members are from varying backgrounds and possess different experiences and perspectives.
Diversity will therefore continue to be a key consideration when contemplating the composition and refreshing of the board and senior management, although the board has no specific targets in relation to diversity including gender.
58 58 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 Governance Board meetings and information flow Fair, balanced and understandable assessment Seven board meetings were held during the year ended 31 December 2014.
One of these meetings was an extended In relation to compliance with the Code, the board has given two-day board and strategy session at which, in addition to normal consideration to whether the annual report and accounts, taken board business, the board and executive committee met and as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
The preparation reviewed the group strategy by region and by business line, as well of the annual report and accounts is coordinated by the finance, as considering succession planning, risk appetite, the technology investor relations and company secretariat teams with group-wide used by the group and the financial basis of the strategy.
support and input from other areas of the business.
Comprehensive reviews were undertaken at regular intervals throughout the Prior to each board meeting, comprehensive papers are circulated to the directors addressing not only the regular agenda items on process by senior management and other contributing personnel within the group.
The statement required to be given by the which the executives will report, but also details of any matters requiring approval or decisions, such as significant transactions or directors by Code provision C. 1.1 can be found on page 88. events or important market issues.
Risk management and internal control At each meeting the board receives reports from the chairman, The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the groups the chief executive, the chief financial officer and the company system of risk management and internal control and for reviewing secretary, an HR and health and safety report and an investor its effectiveness each year.
The system is designed to manage rather relations report, which includes summaries of analysts reviews and than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and any comments received from major shareholders since the previous can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against board meeting.
The board receives regular in-depth presentations material misstatement or loss.
from regional management and from the management of business units and the board makes visits to business sites from time to time.
The groups key risks are summarised in the principal risks section After meetings of the board committees, the respective chairmen on pages 44 to 50. report to the board on the matters considered by each committee.
The key features of the groups risk management process, which Regular board dinners are held prior to board meetings which was in place throughout the year under review, are: provide an opportunity for the directors to discuss topics in an Senior executives in each business unit and region use a informal environment outside the more formal setting of the common risk management framework to provide a profile board meeting.
of those risks which may have an impact on the achievement of their business objectives.
After each board meeting the chairman holds meetings with Each significant risk is documented in the groups risk the non-executive directors without the executives being present.
management system, showing an overview of the risk, its owner, There are seven board meetings scheduled for the current how the risk is managed, and any improvement actions.
Risk year, including a two-day board and strategy meeting.
appetite tolerance is considered in the context of the residual after controls and mitigation risk with a particular focus on Meeting attendance in 2014 High net risks.
To be categorised as High a risk must meet Board at least one of the following criteria: scheduled major impact on the achievement of the business strategy: Executive directors serious damage to business reputation: Ashley Almanza CEO 7 7 severe business disruption: Himanshu Raja CFO 7 7 impact of 5% on operating profit or assets.
Grahame Gibson 6 7 The risk profiles ensure that internal audit reviews of the Non-executive directors adequacy, application and effectiveness of risk management John Connolly chairman 7 7 and internal controls are targeted on the key risks.
Mark Seligman deputy chairman 7 7 Risk management committees have been established at Mark Elliott senior independent director 7 7 regional and group level.
Clare Spottiswoode 7 7 Risk and control self-evaluation exercises are undertaken for Winnie Fok 7 7 each operating company, for most companies at least twice a year, and updated risk profiles are prepared.
Similar exercises are Paul Spence 7 7 undertaken as part of the integration process for all major Adam Crozier 6 7 acquisitions.
The results of the company risk evaluations are Tim Weller 6 7 assessed by the regional risk management committees Both the regional committees and the group executive risk committee receive internal audit reports and regular reports on risks.
They monitor the actions taken to manage risks.
Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 5959 Corporate governance report continued The process is carried out under the overall supervision of the The Audit Committee undertakes a high-level review of risk group executive risk committee, which comprises the group chief management and internal control each year.
As well as the above financial officer, the group general counsel, the group processes and sources of assurance, the Audit Committee also communications director, the group human resources director, considers the following year end reporting in conducting this review: the group director risk and audit and the group head of risk.
The Summary of internal audit work including update on all open group executive risk committee reports to the group executive and audits with a deficient rating, analysis of results by region, to the Risk Committee of the board.
The process outlined above is common audit findings and areas identified for improvement reviewed regularly by the board through its Risk Committee to in internal controls ensure its robustness and suitability to meet the groups needs.
Summary of internal financial reviews including significant accounting or financial control issues and common During 2015 the risk management improvement plan will focus on: concerns identified embedding the risk management approach into businesses Overview of year-end financial control status reports completed across the group: by all businesses confirming adherence to group standards with enhancing the quality of information being provided by businesses: any exceptions reported managing the groups residual risk exposure: A broad overview of the general risk management and internal progress on implementation of mitigation action plans: control systems in place during the year.
new and emerging risks: Review of risk management processes and of the groups rolling-out enhanced contract approval and contract review principal residual risks by the Risk Committee of the board processes for large contracts piloted in the UK region across External audit year end reporting on financial controls the rest of group.
Further information about the Risk Committee, its remit, work Further information about the Audit Committee, its remit, work during 2014 and its plans for 2015 can be found on pages 63-64. during 2014 and its plans for 2015 can be found on page 65-69.
The internal control system includes clearly defined reporting lines The Audit Committee has confirmed that it is satisfied that and authorisation procedures, a comprehensive budgeting and the groups risk management and internal control processes and monthly reporting system, and written policies and procedures.
The board has reviewed the groups In addition to a wide range of internal audit reports, senior risk management and internal control system for the year to management also receive assurance from other sources including 31 December 2014 by considering reports from the Audit security inspections, third party reviews, company financial control Committee and the Risk Committee and has taken account reviews, external audit reports, summaries of whistleblowing activity, of events since 31 December 2014. fraud reports and risk and control self-evaluations.
G4S Government Solutions, Inc. GSI which was disposed of in November 2014 was governed through a proxy agreement under which the group The group has in place robust internal control and risk management was excluded from access to operational information, therefore GSI was not systems for financial reporting.
The group has a single global subject to the same risk management process as is applied to other group consolidation system which is used for both internal management companies.
The board had however satisfied itself as to the adequacy of the reporting, budgeting and planning as well as external reporting.
internal control processes adopted by GSI which included a risk review by an The group has a comprehensive budgeting process with the budget external advisor.
being approved by the board.
Forecasts for the year are reported quarterly.
Actual results at business unit, region and group level are reported monthly and variances are reviewed.
A programme of business internal financial reviews is performed by a finance team from either region or group to check the accuracy of financial reporting and compliance with the group finance manual.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The boards statement on the companys corporate governance performance is based on the September 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website https: www.
The Listing Rules require companies to disclose whether or not they have complied with all relevant provisions in the Code and to report how the main principles in the Code have been applied by the company.
The Code recognises that alternatives to following its provisions may be justified in particular circumstances if good governance can be achieved by other means, provided the reasons are explained clearly and carefully.
In such cases companies must also illustrate how their actual practices are consistent with the principle in question and contribute to good governance.
The company complied throughout the year under review with the provisions of the Code.
The Corporate governance report, together with the Audit committee report and the Directors remuneration report, describe how the board has applied these provisions.
60 60 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 Governance Main activities of the Nomination Committee during the year % The Nomination Committee Reviewing time demands of board roles 10% Recruitment of new NEDs 50% Succession planning 20% Extending terms of There have been no changes to the composition appointment for NEDs 20% of the board or its committees during 2014.
Refreshing the board Nevertheless the committee has been active After the changes to the board and the board committees made to ensure that the membership of the board is in 2013, it was felt that no changes were required during 2014, appropriate and, where necessary, refreshed.
but the chairmanship of the Audit Committee passed to Tim Weller Both Grahame Gibson and Mark Seligman will following the AGM.
Mark Seligman will retire from the board in leave the board in 2015 and this has meant that 2015 and stood down from the Audit Committee at the end of the future composition of the board and its 2014.
The Nomination Committee has therefore begun a process committees have been given careful consideration.
to seek a new non-executive director.
The specification for the ideal candidate was drawn up after discussion by the full board and the John Connolly Nomination Committee is being assisted by the external executive Nomination Committee Chairman search consultant, the Zygos Partnership.
Zygos has no other connection with the company other than as provider of recruitment consultancy services to the Nomination Committee.
Grahame Gibson will also stand down from the board in 2015, Meetings but the board and the Nomination Committee have agreed not to Committee membership and attendance attended seek a replacement executive director at this time.
A number of the serving non-executive directors terms of John Connolly chairman 3 of 3 appointment expired during 2014 and the committee Adam Crozier 3 of 3 recommended to the board that such appointments be extended Mark Elliott 3 of 3 after consideration of the directors independence, commitment to the role, their other commitments and the experience and qualities Responsibilities they bring to the board.
When the directors concerned were also The Nomination Committee is responsible for making members of the Nomination Committee, they did not participate recommendations to the board on appointments and on in the committees deliberations.
maintaining a balance of skills and experience on the board and its committees.
Succession planning for the board is a matter which Diversity is devolved primarily to the Nomination Committee, although the The boards approach to diversity is set out on page 58. committees deliberations are reported to and debated by the full Committee performance board.
The board itself also reviews more general succession The performance of the Nomination Committee was reviewed planning for the senior management of the group.
as part of the exercise undertaken by Lintstock to assess the The committees terms of reference are available at performance of the board and each of its committees.
Nomination Committees performance was determined to have been satisfactory, the review did identify additional issues which it Succession planning could consider.
The committee has already begun to address The entire board has considered succession planning for the those issues.
senior management of the group in some detail during 2014 and, in addition, the Nomination Committee gave further consideration Priorities for 2015 to the succession plans for the most senior board roles.
The committees primary specific focus in 2015 will be the recruitment of a new non-executive director.
In more general terms though, it will continue to monitor carefully the need to refresh the membership of the board and each of its committees and to ensure that membership has an appropriate range of talents and experience to fulfil their duties and to meet the needs of the group and its strategy over the medium and longer term.
It will also ensure that succession planning is given appropriate prioritisation.
Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 6161 Corporate governance report continued Main activities of the CSR Committee during the year % The CSR Committee Current issues 15% Health and safety 30% CSR reporting 20% Business ethics, anti-corruption, human rights 35% We are aware that both the inherent nature As part of the CSR Committees focus on health and safety during the year, the committee oversaw a number of initiatives such as the of the groups activity and the numerous and often roll-out of health and safety training to the senior management complex and challenging environments in which it community and the Safety First campaign aimed at embedding operates has a potential impact on societies.
10 fundamental rules of safety in all businesses.
As part of its normal Our task is to ensure that such impact is a positive cycle of work, the committee received six critical country reviews one.
The work of the committee focuses on health CCRs during the year.
CCRs provide important information to and safety, business ethics and anti-bribery and senior management and the committee and are an important tool corruption and human rights to ensure it is closely to support those businesses where fatalities have occurred in aligned to the groups values.
Good progress was assessing their health and safety management, raising awareness and made in health and safety during the year with the sharing good practices.
The committee also reviewed the process safety rules campaign which took place across the for and policy on serious incident reporting and investigation.
group and road traffic awareness material made As part of the annual review of the groups Business Ethics available to all businesses.
However, too many of Policy, the document which defines what the group considers are our colleagues still lose their lives to work-related acceptable and unacceptable business practices, the committee incidents, therefore health and safety remains a reviewed and commented on proposed changes.
In addition, priority in 2015. the committee oversaw the review of the whistleblowing policy and practices in place across the group, which resulted in a number of Clare Spottiswoode changes being made to better align it with the principles of the CSR Committee Chair Whistleblowing Commissions code of practice in the UK.
This review also led to the selection of a new global whistleblowing Meetings hotline system, which will be implemented during 2015.
A new Committee membership and attendance attended case management tool which will enable the capture of information on whistleblowing cases across the group and the analysis of Clare Spottiswoode chair 3 of 3 trends and issues raised in a more systematic way is also due to Winnie Kin Wah Fok 3 of 3 be implemented.
Paul Spence 3 of 3 The CSR Committee receives regular updates on current issues and allegations from the groups internal audit, human resources and Other regular attendees include Grahame Gibson, one of the CSR teams.
executive directors of the board, the group communications director and the group human resources director.
When Grahame Committee performance Gibson steps down later in the year, Peter Neden, Regional The assessment of the committees performance concluded that President for the UK and Ireland region and a member of the it performed well in monitoring compliance with CSR policies and group executive committee will succeed him as the regular reviewing the integration of CSR processes within the groups executive attendee at CSR Committee meetings.
Peter has already broader risk management regime.
The committees targeted attended one meeting in 2015. approach focusing on a small set of issues was found to be effective.
Responsibilities Priorities for 2015 The CSR Committee reviews and monitors the groups CSR Priorities for 2015 are to drive continued improvements in strategy, which includes developing policies on various CSR-related health and safety and to monitor and review the implementation matters for consideration by the board and reviewing the activities of enhanced whistleblowing systems and case management tools of the executives who have responsibility for CSR matters.
Committee also reviews and monitors how the group performs against relevant policies.
The committee oversees reporting on CSR matters and the companys separate CSR Report for 2014, which provides more detail on the groups CSR strategy and progress made during the year, is available at www.
Further details of the committees responsibilities can be found in the committees terms of reference which are available at www.
com investors 62 62 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 Governance Main activities of the Risk Committee during the year % The Risk Committee Large contracts bids approval 10% Risk governance 45% In depth review of speci c high risk contracts 25% Contracts risk management In 2013, recognising that risk oversight and risk 20% governance are vital to the continued growth In 2014, a significant amount of the Risk Committees time was and profitability of the group, the board constituted allocated to risk governance.
The committee reviewed and a separate Risk Committee.
The Risk Committee approved the revised group risk framework developed in response was tasked with providing robust oversight of to the report commissioned from Deloitte during 2013.
In doing the management of risk within the group.
We have so, the committee sought to ensure that the proposed changes made considerable progress in this respect.
During would reinforce the group by providing a sound risk management the past year, changes to the governance structures and internal controls system to identify the risks facing the group and processes were implemented.
These are now as a whole, assess their likelihood and impact, develop robust well embedded in the business and are supported mitigation plans and define clear control processes.
Throughout the by a new risk management information system.
In year, the committee received regular reports on the progress of 2015 we will focus on ensuring that the business its implementation.
gets the maximum value from the investments The committee also defined the companys risk appetite and made in 2014 by focusing on the quality of risk developed a more precise and formal group risk appetite statement assessments and on making measurable progress which was subsequently approved by the board.
on planned mitigation actions at all levels of The principal residual risks to the groups 2014 business plan the business.
were reviewed and approved and reports from the group risk John Connolly function on implementation by management of mitigation actions Risk Committee Chairman to address them were also received.
The committee noted that the progress in reducing residual risk levels over the year across the group was variable.
In some cases, this was due to changes external to G4S such as an increase in terrorism threats, political instability Meetings Committee membership and attendance attended and civil unrest in certain regions, while in others the level of investment and timescales required to drive improvement in specific areas needed to be recognised.
For example, although there was John Connolly chairman 3 of 3 significant progress in the approach to health and safety across the Ashley Almanza 3 of 3 group during 2014, more time is needed to ensure new practices Himanshu Raja 3 of 3 become fully embedded in all businesses and translate into a Paul Spence 3 of 3 significant reduction in the risk of injuries.
Tim Weller 2 of 3 The committee tasked management with ensuring that the right Other regular attendees include the group general counsel, and balance is struck between the level of residual risk and the allocation of the groups resources to opportunities for the group director of risk and audit.
Further details of the principal risks and uncertainties Responsibilities facing the business are set out on pages 44 to 50.
The Risk Committee advises the board on the groups overall risk appetite, develops the groups risk management strategy, advises the Audit Committee and the board on risk exposures and reviews the level of risk within the group and assesses the effectiveness of the groups internal control and risk management systems.
The committees composition ensures that a broad-ranging set of skills and experience come together to look at how the group manages risk in the business.
The Risk Committee will consider all significant risks to the group, not only financial risks.
Further details can be found in the committees terms of reference available at www.
Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 6363 Corporate governance report continued Contract risk management was another key area of focus for Committee performance the committee which oversaw the inception and implementation in The assessment of the committees performance showed that the the UK of new review processes for new and ongoing contracts.
composition of the committee and the chairmans leadership were With regard to new contracts, the group risk function was tasked highly rated.
It was also reported that the committee was effective with reviewing and improving contracts onboarding processes to in providing oversight of the controls in place over significant risks.
ensure that, in addition to financial assessment criteria, other criteria Priorities for 2015 focusing on the ability to win and deliver the opportunity were also Areas of focus for 2015 will include reviewing progress on considered.
These changes to the groups contract risk management embedding a risk management approach into businesses across were implemented in the UK during the year and implementation the group with a view to increasing the quality of information across the rest of the group is planned during 2015. being reported, reviewing the groups residual risk exposure and The committee will receive regular reports on its implementation progress of mitigation action plans, as well as reviewing new and and key themes identified through these contract reviews are to emerging risks.
be reported regularly to the committee.
The committee also conducted a review of two large high-risk and complex on-going contracts in the UK and a sub-committee considered a major contract bid, the risks associated with it and proposed mitigation plans.
64 64 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014
