Board of directors John Connolly Ashley Almanza Adam Crozier Non-executive Executive director Non-executive director Chairman Chief executive director of the board Ri A N N Ri June 2012 May 2013 January 2013 Key strengths and experience: Developing Key strengths and experience: Extensive Key strengths and experience: Wide-ranging the board and its governance of the group.
board and executive management experience of business transformation in Extensive experience of working in a experience and strong track record a number of public and private sector global business environment and in sectors working across international borders in organisations in the media, logistics and of strategic importance to the group.
Held a number of retail sectors and a serving FTSE 100 CEO.
A chartered accountant, John spent his senior executive roles at BG Group Started his career with Mars before joining career until May 2011 with global from 1993 to 2012, including Chief the Daily Telegraph followed by Saatchi professional services firm Deloitte, Financial Officer from 2002 to 2011 and and Saatchi, where he became joint chief was Global Chairman between 2007 Executive Vice President from 2009 to 2012. executive.
He then became chief executive and 2011, and prior to that Global As Executive Vice President he was of the Football Association and was Managing Director between 2003 and accountable during 2009 and 2010 for the subsequently appointed chief executive 2007.
He was Senior Partner and CEO strategic and operational management of BG of the Royal Mail Group, where he oversaw of the UK partnership from 1999 until his Groups UK, European and Central Asian an extensive programme of modernisation retirement from the firm.
He also led a consortium of and change to enable the business to global companies through complex Current external commitments: Chairman compete in the UK and international government negotiations in Central Asia.
of Amec Foster Wheeler plc and of a marketplaces.
Since April 2010 he has number of private companies.
Beyond He holds an MBA from London Business been chief executive of ITV plc.
commercial business roles, he is on the School and was previously Chairman of Current external commitments: Board of Governors of London Business the 100 Group of Finance Directors.
Chief executive of ITV plc.
School, chairman of the Board of Trustees Current external commitments: Non-executive of Great Ormond Street Hospital Charity director of Schroders plc and Noble and a member of the CBI Presidents Corporation, but will step down from the Advisory Council.
board of Noble Corporation in the near future.
Board member of the Ligue Internationale des Socits fide Surveillance.
Mark Elliott Grahame Gibson Winnie Kin Wah Non-executive Executive director Fok director Senior Non-executive independent director director C Re Re N April 2005 October 2010 September 2006 Key strengths and experience: Extensive Key strengths and experience: International Key strengths and experience: Extensive knowledge of the group and its predecessor board and senior management experience international board and executive companies in many different markets and with extensive knowledge of Asian markets experience having held a number of senior in a number of executive functions.
Joined and strong involvement in Scandinavia.
management positions at IBM, including Group 4 in 1983, starting as finance director leadership of IBMs operations in Europe, Takes a particular interest in the groups UK followed by a number of senior roles, the Middle East and Africa with responsibility businesses in Asia.
including deputy managing director UK, for operations in more than 110 countries.
vice president corporate strategy, An auditor by training, was involved in General Manager IBM Global Solutions: vice president finance and administration, management positions in finance, audit Managing Director of IBM Europe, Middle vice president operations central and south and corporate advisory work and a wide East and Africa: member of the board eastern Europe and UK and chief operating range of roles in asset management firms of IBAX, a hospital software company officer of Group 4 Falck A S. He was the investing with a focus in Asia.
Senior partner jointly owned by IBM and Baxter Healthcare: groups regional CEO for the Americas until of EQT and CEO of EQT Partners Asia formerly chairman of Reed Elseviers November 2014 and was chief operating Limited: managing director of CEF New remuneration committee and chairman officer between 2005 and 2012.
Will retire Asia Partners Limited.
of the Deans Advisory Council of the Kelly from the board at the conclusion of School of Business, Indiana University.
Current external commitments: Senior the 2015 AGM.
adviser to Wallenberg Foundations AB: Current external commitments: Non-executive Current external commitments: Board chairman of QinetiQ Group plc and non-executive director of Volvo Car member of the Ligue Internationale Corporation: non-executive director of chairman of Kodak Alaris Holdings Limited.
SEB AB, Kemira Oyj and HOPU Investments Co Ltd. 52 52 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 Governance Himanshu Raja Mark Seligman Paul Spence Executive director Non-executive Non-executive Chief financial director Deputy director officer chairman A C Ri Ri Re October 2013 January 2006 January 2013 Key strengths and experience: Strong track Key strengths and experience: Extensive Key strengths and experience: In-depth record as a financial executive in global financial and management experience knowledge of outsourcing in both the services businesses.
having worked in the financial services public and private sectors and extensive sector, with a focus on investment banking.
international experience in key developing As well as having responsibility for all core Takes particular interest in the financial countries such as India, China and Brazil.
finance functions including tax, audit, treasury performance of the company, including its A graduate of the Wharton School at the and investor relations, Himanshu oversees financing and transactional activity.
Qualified University of Pennsylvania with a degree in the IT, procurement and Service Excellence as a chartered accountant with Price economics and decision sciences: served a Centres for G4S globally.
Senior roles at SG Warburg 30-year career with Capgemini and its Prior to joining G4S, Himanshu was CFO & Co Ltd and Barclays fide Zoete Wedd: predecessors.
Having started in the US at Misys, and from 2010 to 2012 he was Head of UK Investment Banking at CSFB: and become managing partner of midCFO of Logica plc.
Himanshu worked for Chairman of UK Investment Banking at Atlantic information and technology for more than 10 years at BT Group in a Credit Suisse: member of the Credit Suisse Ernst & Young, he went on to gain significant number of divisional finance director roles Global Investment Banking Executive Board international experience for 16 years as including Chief Financial Officer of BT and senior adviser to Credit Suisse Europe.
managing partner of Ernst & Young Global Services, BT Design, BT Operate Will retire from the board at the conclusion Consulting Australia, CEO of Capgemini and BT Wholesale.
His early career included of the 2015 AGM.
Ernst & Young in Asia and CEO Capgemini finance and systems roles at Worldcom Ernst & Young UK.
He then spent eight years Current external commitments: Alternate International, UUNET and MFS.
serving on Capgeminis executive member of the Panel on Takeovers and management committee during which Himanshu is a qualified chartered Mergers: member of the Regional Growth time his roles included deputy group accountant and holds an honours degree Fund Advisory Panel: non-executive CEO and CEO of Capgemini Global in law.
director and audit committee chairman Outsourcing Services.
for BG Group plc: and senior independent Current external commitments: None director of Kingfisher plc.
Current external commitments: None Clare Tim Weller Non-executive Spottiswoode director Non-executive director A Ri C Re June 2010 April 2013 Key strengths and experience: Considerable Key strengths and experience: Significant experience in the public sector, the energy experience of the energy and utilities sectors markets and the financial services sector and serving FTSE 250 CFO.
An accountant as well as setting up and managing her by training, joined KPMG in 1985, rising to own businesses.
A mathematician and partnership in 1997 before joining Granada economist by training, worked for the plc as director of financial control.
Between UK Treasury, director general of Ofgas, 2002 and 2010, he gained significant further the UK gas regulator: policyholder advocate experience in the energy and utilities sectors for Norwich Unions with-profits holding CFO positions with Innogy one of policyholders at Aviva and a member of the UKs leading integrated energy the Independent Commission on Banking companies at the time, RWE Thames Water and the Future of Banking Commission.
the worlds third largest water and wastewater service company and United Current external commitments: Chairman Utilities Group PLC a UK-based water and of Gas Strategies Group and Flow Group: Key to committee membership wastewater service company.
He was non-executive director of Ilika plc, Enquest N Nomination Chief Financial Officer of Cable & Wireless plc, Partnership Assurance Group plc, Re Remuneration Worldwide plc between 2010 and 2011.
Seven Energy International Limited and A Audit BW Offshore Limited: and independent Current external commitments: CFO of C CSR director of the Payments Council.
Petrofac Limited, the international oil and Ri Risk gas service provider and a non-executive director of the Carbon Trust.
Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 5353
