Executive committee Ashley Almanza Martin Alvarez Andy Baker Executive director Regional president, Regional president Chief executive Latin America & Africa Caribbean See page 52 for full biography Martin joined G4S as Regional President, Andy joined G4S as Regional President Latin America and Caribbean for G4S for G4S Africa in 2012.
Andy has wide ranging experience of Martin has extensive experience working in managing and building sustainable the region and a wealth of experience in businesses across Africa, with a strong strategic commercial and operational roles.
emphasis on technology and logistics.
Martin joined G4S from Dell, where he Andy joined G4S from Nashua Group, served eight years as executive director the second largest ICT business in South of multi-country Latin America MCLA, Africa, where he was Group Chief responsible for 38 countries, more than Executive Officer.
US $1 billion in revenue and the Americas Our executive team |Shared Service Centre with over 3,000 Prior to this, Andy spent four years as group G4S is managed through a functional employees.
Prior to Dell, Martin spent 10 chief operating officer of Altech, a JSE listed and regional structure.
years with DHL holding various management technology group with revenues of US Our structure enables us to deliver and leadership roles including vice president, $1.2bn and operations in 15 countries.
our strategic objectives, maintain DHL Mexico.
and General Manager for Andy also spent 13 years at DHL as a strong governance framework, several other countries in the region.
regional MD of Southern Africa and Turkey.
develop integrated solutions, target Martin has an MBA from IESE in Andy holds an MBA from key regional markets and build Barcelona and a Bachelors degree in Cranfield University.
International Trade and Finance from Louisiana State University.
Mel Brooks Irene Cowden John Kenning Group strategy Group HR director Regional CEO & commercial for North America director & technology Mel became group strategy and Irene has spent her career in HR John joined G4S in November 2014 to commercial director in July 2014, management, specialising in employee lead the diverse range of services the responsible for ensuring that the group relations, organisational development, North America businesses provide such has robust strategy and planning processes, talent management, employee engagement, as consulting, investigations, security, a technology strategy and high quality sales compensation and health and technology and youth services solutions operations and bidding resources across safety matters.
across multiple private and public sectors.
She has been involved in major change John has a proven track record leading Mels previous role within G4S was regional projects including the cultural and global organisations.
Prior to joining strategy director for the Asia Middle East integration aspects of mergers and G4S, John was executive vice president region and CEO for G4S India where he acquisitions, as well as large scale and president, commercial business for lead the transformation of the businesses, organisational change involving workforce OfficeMax where he led the global, focusing on key customer segments and restructuring and working in partnership business-to-business B2B division.
John was formerly president, North America commercial for ADT Tyco Security Prior to joining G4S, Mel held a number Irene has worked in the security industry Services, where he led the transformation of senior line and functional roles in the for 37 years and has held director level of the business to a technology services defence and technology industry where positions at business unit, divisional and leader and also led the separation of he was responsible for service line and corporate level.
She was appointed to the the residential and commercial security commercial strategies, technology board of Securicor plc in 2002 as group businesses in North America.
development and leadership of a number HR director.
She will retire from the group of business unit turnaround programmes.
John is a board member for Miami University Advisory Athletic Board and Irene is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute past board member of the Make-a-Wish of Personnel and Development FCIPD.
John holds a bachelors degree in business from Miami University.
54 54 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 Governance Graham Sren LundsbergPeter Neden Regional president Levinsohn Nielsen UK & Ireland Regional CEO Group general Europe counsel Peter became Regional President of UK Graham became Regional CEO Europe Sren began his career as a lawyer in & Ireland in January 2015, following his in November 2013.
Graham has more than Denmark and since 1984 he has had a wide appointment on an interim basis in May 20 years experience in the security industry, range of legal experience as general counsel 2014.
Peter was previously Regional having joined Securicor Cash Services in for international groups in Denmark, managing director of G4S Outsourcing 1994 as general manager marketing.
Belgium and the US before joining Group 4 Services for the UK & Ireland region.
Falck in 2001 as Group General Counsel.
Since then, Graham has held a number of Previous roles included responsibility commercial and line management positions Sren has been involved in a wide range for the business development programme in both the cash and security lines of the of successful mergers and acquisitions within G4S in the UK and Africa regions, business.
Graham was responsible for the during his career, including the acquisition as well as a number of senior positions creation of the UK cash centres outsourcing of Wackenhut and the Group 4 Falck in both the commercial and government business in 2001 as managing director, merger with Securicor.
before moving on to become divisional Sren has overall responsibility for all managing director for G4S Cash Services Prior to the merger between Group 4 internal and external legal services for G4S UK, and then regional president Nordics.
Falck and Securicor, Peter was Securicors as well as the groups insurance programme.
He became group strategy and development director, having joined the development director in 2008 and joined Sren is a member of the Danish Bar and company in 2001.
Peters early career the executive committee in 2010.
Law Society, a member of the advisory included a number of sales, marketing and board of the Danish UK Chamber of general management roles within Centrica.
Graham is a fellow of the Chartered Commerce and author of the book Institute of Marketing and a director Peter has a degree in economics from the Executive Management Contracts, published of COESS, ESTA and member of the Ligue University of Nottingham.
Internationale des Socits fide Surveillance.
Himanshu Raja Dan Ryan Debbie Walker Group chief Regional CEO Group financial officer Asia Middle East communications director See page 53 for full biography Dan joined G4S in August 2010, from Debbie is group communications global logistics and transportation company director, heading the corporate Neptune Orient Lines NOL, where he communications team which focuses on was a member of the group executive team the groups key audiences media, and held a number of senior management government, employees and customers.
positions including regional president roles Debbie is also responsible for the groups for Greater China, Middle East and Europe CSR and human rights strategies.
In his last Prior to the merger between Group 4 position with the group, Dan led the project Falck and Securicor, Debbie held a number to review, redesign and transform NOLs of senior marketing and communications organisation across all its Americas divisions.
roles within the Securicor group from Dan is a charter member of the Middle 1993 to 2004.
East Logistics Supply Chain Management Debbie is also vice chairman of the Forum, Hong Kong Liner Shipping CBI South East Regional Council Association and the American Chamber the representative body for all CBI of Commerce Shanghai.
He holds an member companies based in the South MBA from the University of Notre Dame East of England and the Thames Valley, in Indiana and a B. S. Finance, from California having previously served as chairman for State University, Sacramento.
Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 5555
