Governance The committee members were selected for their range of commercial and financial expertise, necessary to fulfil the The Audit Committee committees responsibilities.
Each member of the Audit Committee brings significant and relevant experience gained at senior management level.
Their skills and experience are set out on pages 52 and 53.
The Audit Committees chairman Mr Weller is, and Mr Seligman was, considered by the board to be members of the Audit Committee with recent and relevant financial experience.
Audit Committee meetings are attended by the chief financial officer, the group financial controller, the head of group internal audit, the company secretary, the group director of risk and audit and representatives of the groups external auditor.
The chairman of the board and the chief executive also attend meetings from time to time in agreement with the chairman of the committee.
After each meeting, the chairman of the committee reports to the board on the matters which have been discussed.
As announced in last years report, I succeeded Mark Seligman as chairman of the Audit Responsibilities Committee after the AGM in June 2014.
Mark The committee makes sure there is effective governance of the remained a member of the committee until the groups financial reporting and internal controls to ensure the integrity of its financial statements and adequacy of related end of the year and I am very grateful for his disclosures.
The committee also has oversight of the performance support during this time.
During the year, the of both the internal audit function and the external auditor.
Further group made significant progress in strengthening details can be found in the committees terms of reference available the organisation in terms of finance, internal audit at www.
The Audit Committees work focused on the groups system of internal controls, Main activities of the Audit Committee during the year % the quality of our group financial reporting and the effectiveness of the external and internal Whistleblowing fraud audit processes.
We also conducted a tender allegations 10% for the role of the groups external auditor.
This has resulted in the proposal to shareholders at Internal audit Financial reporting 10% the 2015 AGM to confirm the appointment of 25%  LLP as group auditor.
Tim Weller External audit tender Audit Committee Chairman 10% External audit and non-audit services 20% Committee membership and attendance Meetings attended Scheduled Unscheduled 1 Tim Weller chairman 4 of 4 2 of 2 Effectiveness of financial controls and 2 risk management procedures 25% Mark Seligman 4 of 4 2 of 2 Adam Crozier 4 of 4 2 of 2 The committee has an annual agenda which includes standing items that the committee considers regularly, as well as specific matters Paul Spence 4 of 4 2 of 2 that require the committees attention.
Tim Weller became chairman after the AGM in June 2014.
Mark Seligman stood down as chairman after the AGM in June 2014 and as a member on 31 December 2014.
Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 6565 Corporate governance report continued Significant issues considered by the Audit Committee The primary issues considered by the committee in the 2014 financial statements, and how these were addressed, were: Significant issue considered Mitigation Action Revenue recognition on UK Government and other contract-related provisions The group delivers outsourcing services that can be complex During the year, management enhanced the processes and controls for contract reviews and now in nature.
There is a risk that billing and revenue recognition reviews on a quarterly basis the top 25 contracts for each region, as well as those contracts with on these contracts is not in accordance with contractual low profitability.
In addition, a new process of 360 degree contract review on the largest and most entitlements or that contracts are forecast to be loss making complex contracts was introduced, covering financial, legal, reputational and operational risk over the remaining life of the contracts and therefore criteria.
These reviews are attended by at least one member of the group executive committee.
The identification of potential loss Each quarter, the Audit Committee receives a report summarising the results of these making contracts, and measurement of any related provision reviews and the contract judgements made.
The committee was satisfied that the requires judgement to be exercised and there is a risk that judgements made by management were balanced and the recommended provisions were provisions are not estimated appropriately.
area of focus for the Audit Committee and external audit.
Goodwill impairment testing The total value of the groups goodwill and other intangible The committee addressed these matters through receiving reports from management assets as at 31 December 2014 was 2.1bn and relates to a outlining the basis for the assumptions used in relation to terminal growth, resulting significant number of historic acquisitions.
The estimation of the headroom and sensitivities applied by management and alternative valuation bases such recoverable amount of goodwill supported by the groups cash as reference to transactions for similar assets.
generating units requires significant judgement, primarily in The committee was satisfied with the carrying value of goodwill.
relation to the achievability of long-term business plans and macroeconomic assumptions and related modelling assumptions underlying the valuation process.
During the year there have been some changes in material contracts that required further focus on the review of future projections.
Consequently this continued to be a significant area of focus for the committee, and a prime area of external audit focus.
Taxation The group operates in many tax jurisdictions, including The committee asked the external auditor to ensure that taxation constituted an important countries where tax legislation is not always applied area of focus during the external audit and to report on key tax issues identified during the audit consistently and under certain complex contractual process.
The committee also asked management to pay particular attention to the review of the circumstances where the responsibility for tax arising is level of estimation of tax provisions and contingencies in the financial statements.
The committee was satisfied with the report from the external auditor and that the provisions in the financial statements are adequate.
Risk of management override of internal controls The group operates in a large number of diverse locations The committee reviewed the overall control environment of the group, and monitored with a significant number of local financial systems and progress against the approved group internal audit plan for the year, the different financial processes which could potentially lead to management control and balance sheet review processes and the output of the whistleblowing process.
During the year, the group has In addition, the committee received regular updates on the implementation of risk and audit continued to make significant investment in strengthening committees in each of the regions, the consistent application of the different financial capability in finance, internal audit and risk, and introduced control processes across the group, and the half year review of financial statements by stronger internal controls and group oversight to mitigate the external auditor.
These include monthly reviews of the quality of The committee also examined significant accounting estimates and judgements and the earnings, a comprehensive internal audit plan and a regular supporting documentation for evidence of fraud or bias that may represent a risk of cycle of reviews of local business units or country balance material misstatement.
The committee satisfied itself that the risk of material misstatement sheets and controls.
resulting from management override of internal controls was not significant.
Presentation of the income statement In order to give better understanding of the underlying The committee discussed the rationale for this presentation with management and with performance of the business, the underlying results of the external auditor and concluded that separate presentation of the restructuring charges the group are presented with separate disclosure of and other specific items provides users of the groups financial statements with added clarity restructuring changes and specific items.
and transparency and therefore facilitates a clearer assessment of the groups performance over time.
Management confirmed to the committee that appropriate accounting policies, guidance and controls had been exercised over the treatment of restructuring items and other specific items, allowing the committee to be satisfied that the presentation and disclosures were fair, balanced and reasonable.
Going concern and liquidity risk The group has net debt of 1,578 million and the board The committee reviewed the groups forecasts of cash flow and net debt, taking into account has set a goal of net debt to EBITDA of 2.5 times over reasonably possible risk sensitivities: as well as the financing facilities available to the group: the medium term.
noting the group had renewed its revolving credit finance facility for up to a further seven years.
The committee also reviewed compliance with covenants and the availability of headroom in relation to those covenants.
The committee was satisfied that the group adopt the going concern basis of accounting in the financial statements and recommended the same to the board.
66 66 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 Governance Internal control a risk-based internal audit plan, as well as changes to the reporting and communication on a quarterly basis of summary audit findings The group has in place robust systems of internal control and risk management for financial reporting.
Their main features include to the regional risk and audit committees, had resulted in clear improvements.
The need to ensure the efficient coordination clearly defined reporting lines and authorisation procedures, a comprehensive budgeting and monthly reporting system, written of initiatives from internal audit, the finance team and the risk function was identified and addressed through the creation of policies and procedures and the use of a single global consolidation a working group.
system for both internal management reporting, budgeting and planning as well as external reporting.
The group budget is approved In October 2014, the group director, risk and programme by the board.
A regular update is provided by the group CFO on assurance was appointed to the combined role of group director of the outlook.
Actual results at business unit, region and group level risk and audit.
The group internal audit team was reinforced are reported monthly and variances reviewed.
A programme of significantly, both through increasing the size of the team and also business internal financial reviews IFRs is performed by a finance its expertise through the addition of a number of specialists in the team from either region or group to check the accuracy of financial areas of contracts and IT.
reporting and compliance with the group finance manual.
Each year, the committee reviews and approves the internal audit The system is designed to ensure the integrity of financial reporting plan.
The 2015 plan is more risk based than its predecessors and and the committees responsibility is to ensure these internal covers 55% of the groups businesses and 83% of the groups controls remain effective.
The committee does this primarily through revenue.
Reports from internal audit are reviewed at each reviewing the process followed by management to review the committee meeting and the committee monitors senior groups control environment such as IFRs.
managements responsiveness to issues raised in these reports.
The committee also receives quarterly reports from group External auditor internal audit, summarising the results of internal audits carried out.
The committee considers the reappointment of the external Open audits with a deficient rating, as well as common audit auditor, including the rotation of the audit partner, each year and findings and areas identified for improvement, any instances of assesses its independence on an ongoing basis.
The external auditor alleged fraud, in particular allegations of fraud involving employees is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the group in roles with responsibility over internal controls, are also included.
The current external auditor, KPMG Audit Plc In addition, during 2014, the group introduced regional risk was first appointed in 2005 and the current lead audit partner has and audit committees in each of the regions formed by regional been in place since June 2014.
KPMG undertook the audit of the management, group management and internal and external auditors.
groups consolidated accounts for the year ending 31 December They bring together a formal review of risk management for each 2014, having been reappointed at the companys 2014 AGM.
region, internal and external audit issues arising and any significant Last year, the company indicated that it planned to put the external judgements in the financial statements.
The Audit Committee audit engagement for the 2015 financial year out to tender and reviews the issues arising from these regional risk and audit the associated tender process is outlined on page 68.
The Audit Committee has confirmed to the board audit firms were invited to take part in the tender.
After discussion that it is satisfied that the groups risk management and internal with the committee, the company and KPMG mutually agreed control processes and procedures are appropriate.
that KPMG would not participate in the tender, noting the longevity of their appointment.
Responses to the audit tender were assessed Internal audit review The Institute of Internal Auditors suggests that internal audit using detailed evaluation criteria which incorporated key aspects of the Financial Reporting Councils audit quality framework, functions are subject to an external assessment at least every five years.
In May 2013, the Audit Committee commissioned including organisation, capability and service delivery, audit quality, audit approach, and team capability and fit.
Having concluded the an independent review of the groups internal audit function by Deloitte.
process at the end of September 2014, the committee recommended to the board that  LLP Deloitte reported in November 2013 and found that the existing PwC be appointed as the groups external auditor for the internal audit function was organised and diligent and made some 2015 financial year.
A resolution to this effect will be put to the suggestions for improvement in certain areas.
The committee shareholders at the companys AGM on 4 June 2015. adopted Deloittes recommendations aimed at strengthening the internal audit function and placing more emphasis on auditing the Subject to shareholders approval, PwC will take over the audit engagement contract for the year ending 31 December 2015. third line of defence activities.
Resources available to the internal audit function were increased significantly.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the companys choice of external auditor.
A follow-up report from Deloitte was commissioned to assess A tri-partite transition plan setting out the agreed principles, the progress made by the group internal audit function.
The report, framework and timeline to ensure the efficient and effective transfer submitted to the committee in August 2014, concluded that, of the external audit arrangement from the incumbent to PwC although good progress had been made, certain areas required has been prepared.
Several initiatives, such as increasing collaboration between the risk and group internal audit functions, developing Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 6767 Corporate governance report continued Audit tender process In April 2014, having considered proposed changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code and the recommendations of the Financial Reporting Council, the company announced its intention to put the external audit engagement for the 2015 financial year out to tender.
The process the company followed is outlined below.
RFP development A request for proposal document was developed following consultation between the chairman of the Audit Committee and the chief financial officer and distributed to the four largest Big Four audit firms in May 2014.
Expressions of interest received Having received the request for proposal document, each of the participant audit firms completed a confidentiality undertaking and a conflict of interest declaration and affirmed its intention to respond.
Preliminary meetings A preliminary meeting was held with each of the participant audit firms and members of the Audit Committee and chief financial officer in early June 2014 in order to establish the committees overall requirements and the significance attached to the selected evaluation criteria.
Data room access Access was then granted to historic information held within an externally hosted virtual data room throughout June-July 2014.
Meetings with G4S senior management A series of meetings and conference calls were held during June-July 2014 between the participant audit firms and members of the group finance leadership team, company secretariat and regional finance directors in order to supplement the data room material.
Written proposals A written response to the request for proposal was received from participant audit firms in early August 2014 together with a preliminary indication of the firms independence to act as the groups auditor.
Evaluation and assessment During August-September 2014, these proposals were of the proposals assessed and scored against the groups weighted evaluation criteria by executives from the group finance leadership team, company secretariat and regional finance directors.
High-level meetings During August-September 2014, additional meetings were held between participant audit firms and the chairman of the Audit Committee and, separately, the chief financial officer.
Presentations At the end of September 2014, participant audit firms made a final presentation of their overall proposals and confirmed their independence to act as the groups auditor to the members of the committee, chief executive officer and chief financial officer.
Recommendation to the board On the basis of the above and in conjunction with by the Audit Committee the evaluation of the audit firms written proposals the committee recommended to the board that  LLP be selected as the groups external auditor for the 2015 financial year.
Board decision The board accepted the committees recommendation at its October 2014 meeting.
68 68 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 Governance Non-audit services Effectiveness of the external auditors To ensure that the independence of the audit is not compromised, A combination of formal and informal processes is used in the the committee has put a policy in place on the non-audit services assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process.
that can be provided by the external auditor, the relevant approval A formal questionnaire is completed at the end of the audit by process for certain services and those services the auditor is members of the audit committee, group finance department and prohibited from providing.
In essence, the external auditor is the finance directors of significant operations across the group and prohibited from providing services that could create a conflict of the output is reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The assessment of interest, result in the audit firm auditing its own work or result in the external audit concluded that it remained effective and the the performance of management functions.
The committee has external auditor independent.
pre-approved certain services which can be provided by the auditor Committee performance subject to specified fee limits above which further approval is The assessment of the committees performance showed that the required.
All other services would require prior approval by committee remains effective at discharging its responsibilities and in the committee.
particular in reviewing the quality of the groups financial reporting.
Every year the Audit Committee reviews its policy on the provision Priorities for 2015 of non-audit services by the external auditor.
This year, the Audit The priorities for the committee for the next year will include Committees review was carried out in light of the new EU overseeing the transition of the groups external audit to the new regulatory framework for statutory audit, which was adopted in auditor, reviewing the implementation of further changes to the April 2014 and is due to come into force in June 2016.
The review internal audit function and testing the effectiveness of changes made resulted in a number of amendments to the non-audit services to the internal controls environment.
policy to better align the policy with the proposed EU reforms.
The list of pre-approved services, which includes consultation and due diligence services related to mergers and acquisitions, audits of employee benefit plans, reviews of internal accounting and control policies and general advice on financial reporting standards, was amended to include work of a reporting accountant nature for example, stock exchange circulars or comfort letters.
The approval process for non-audit services was also amended so that a two-tier approval process is now in place, whereby any engagement with the external auditor for pre-approved services above a certain threshold requires the joint prior approval of the Audit Committee chairman and the chief financial officer and any engagement with the external auditor for any other services or for pre-approved services above a second, higher, threshold requires prior approval from the committee.
The provision of any non-audit services by the audit firm must, in any event, comply with the requirements in that regard of the Auditing Practices Board.
The auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has written to the Audit Committee confirming that, in its opinion, it was independent for the period through to 5 March 2015.
Details of the fees paid for audit services, audit-related services and non-audit services can be found in note 10 to the financial statements.
The external audit is a complex exercise involving more than 1,000 KPMG personnel covering over 110 countries in which G4S operates.
In anticipation of taking over the audit engagement contract for the year ending 31 December 2015, in order to ensure independence, PwC had previously terminated all services which fell within the scope of the non-audit services policy by 31 December 2014.
Since the Audit Committee is keeping under review whether and when to bring tax compliance and tax advisory services within the scope of the non-audit services policy, it is anticipated that the vast majority of tax compliance and tax advisory services being undertaken by PwC will have either terminated or transitioned by 30 June 2015.
There were around thirty such services ongoing across the group at the beginning of 2015, however, these are deemed insignificant both individually and in aggregate.
Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 6969
