Governance High standards across the Group Board composition Balance of non-executive Board membership and executive directors I am pleased to report on the continued high standards of 9 9 governance across the Group.
The year has been characterised by stability and gradual evolution, as the Board has adapted to the Non-executives 6 Chairman 1 Executive directors 3 Senior independent director 1 improved prospects for the Other non-executives 4 Executive directors 3 Groups markets, particularly inhousebuilding.
Length of appointment Diversity The strong performance of the Groups operational businesses, the improvements to profitability made by the housebuilding division, and the response of the construction division to its challenging market backdrop, have given the Board increased confidence in its governance and risk management processes.
That increased confidence is particularly reflected in the decision to reduce the number of formal Board meetings from ten to eight, 9 9 with additional ad hoc meetings held as necessary.
While cognisant of improved prospects for the Group, the Board has previously acknowledged that there remain specific areas identified for further improvement.
I was therefore delighted that we were able to welcome Ishbel Macpherson and Terry Miller to 02 years 4 Male 6 the Board as non-executive directors in February this year.
The 25 years 1 Female 3 Board is already benefiting from Ishbel and Terrys considered 510 years 3 opinion and insight, and we look forward to moving forward 10 years 1 together as a group into the next financial year.
At the presentation of half year results, the Group announced a revised corporate strategy for the years to 2018, in response to the improved prospects for its key markets, in particular housebuilding, and the strengthening UK economy.
The Board was necessarily closely involved in the formulation and approval of the strategy, which the executive team is now tasked with delivering for shareholders and stakeholders.
We are pleased that 2014 has been another strong year of delivery against strategy, and similarly of full compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Ian Coull, chairman 44 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Board composition Senior independent director Biographical summaries for each of the directors, their respective Amanda Burton was the Groups senior independent director Committee responsibilities and their external directorships are set until 16 September 2014 and was available to shareholders in out on page 43. accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
She was not contacted during the year.
Peter Rogers has assumed the position of senior independent director on Amandas stepping All continuing directors will stand for re-election at the 2014 annual down from the Board.
general meeting and all continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Non-executive directors Other than the changes referenced, the roles and responsibilities Ishbel Macpherson and Terry Miller were both appointed as ofeach of the non-executives, which are detailed in their individual non-executive directors with effect from 1 February 2014. letters of appointment, have not changed from the previous financial Amanda Burton retired from the Board on 16 September 2014, year.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection on after a nine year appointment.
Greg Fitzgerald has indicated his request at the Companys registered office and will be available intention to retire in 2015.
There have been no other changes to the forinspection immediately prior to the annual general meeting.
Board, either during or since the end of the financial year.
Chairman and chief executive The chairman and chief executive continue to work closely together on all aspects of the Groups performance and strategy.
Their roles within the Group remained unchanged from the summary disclosed in previous governance reports.
2013 14 Governance review Governance action Explanation Governance implications Result Ishbel Macpherson and Terry Miller were The ratio of independent non-executive Both appointments have successfully Appointment of additional formally appointed as non-executive directors directors improved from 57% to 66% on refreshed the Boards composition, non-executive directors on 1February 2014.
Ishbel and Terry have the appointments taking effect.
The Board independence and diversity.
Both Ishbel and joined the Audit and Remuneration gender diversity ratios similarly improved Terry have completed effective inductions, Committees.
Both appointments strengthen from 14% to 33% from February onwards, and are contributing strongly to the Board and the independence and diversity of the Board, with this ratio falling to 25% on Amanda its Committee work and strategic formulation.
and addressed succession planning for Burton stepping down from the Board.
The appointments should mean the Board is Amanda Burtons retirement from the Board in adequately composed and resourced in the 2014. short and medium term.
Group brokerage review and The Executive Board initiated a thorough Having established strong working Both appointed brokers continue to work review of its existing brokers, and in parallel relationships with both incumbent brokers effectively to deliver an improved service to retender conducted a comprehensive market tender over engagements spanning many years, the Group, following completion of the tender in 2013.
Through the tender process, three the Executive Board took the opportunity process.
The selected brokers complement additional brokers were invited to present in October 2013 to review and benchmark each other to ensure that a premium service is to the Executive Board alongside both service levels.
The tender process was received across the agreed broking remit.
All completed follow up actions.
extremely beneficial in reaffirming existing As a result of the tender, the Executive Board areas of strength, and identifying potential recommended to the Board the appointment areas for service improvement and adoption of HSBC Corporate Broking in addition to its of new market initiatives.
The Group committed to complete a tender  LLP were originally In itself a valuable exercise, the review External audit review and retender of the external audit engagement in 2014, appointed as the Groups external auditor in and tender process established that in line with the rotation date of the previous January 2001, and completion of the external  LLP continue to lead partner, Pauline Campbell.
The decision tender sought to market test and reaffirm offer a market competitive external audit reflects the latest guidance of the UK whether their continuing appointment was proposition.
Their experience of working Corporate Governance Code and EU in the best interests of the Group and its across the Groups operations offers Competition Commission.
stakeholders, given the requirements of the continuity, which will be strengthened by UK Corporate Governance Code.
the appointment of a new audit partner from October 2014.
A key component of the Groups revised 2018 Previously a business unit within construction, The Executive Partnerships Board was formed Establishment of Executive strategy is the refocusing of the Groups with divisional board representation at that for the 2014 calendar year, and continues to Partnerships Divisional Board affordable housing business, Galliford Try level and organised with an operational operate effectively.
From 1 January 2014, management board beneath, the strategic director for Partnerships chairs meetings, Partnerships has transferred to form part of change has necessitated establishment of a which are attended by the chief executive, the housebuilding division, with a refocused new Executive Partnerships Divisional Board, finance director, construction division chief management team expected to drive a to drive strategy and performance.
executive, and general counsel and company significant increase in both mixed tenure secretary in advisory capacities, to ensure revenues and the size of the contracting appropriate resourcing.
directly to the Executive Board, with the chief executive responsible for operational performance.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 45 Governance continued Diversity Calendar of 2013 14 Board activities and areas of focus In line with our stated commitmentand addressing the Month Activity or area of focus expectations of Lord Davies report Women on Boards, the Group improved the ratio of female Board members during the July 2013 Site visit The Queensferry Crossing, FirthofForth financial year.
The gender balance at Board level accordingly Approval of 2013 14 Group budget improved, from 14% to 33%, reflecting Ishbel Macpherson and September Presentation and review: Galliford Try Partnerships Terry Millers appointments as non-executive directors in February.
Full year results statement and Annual Report The ratio will be 25% upon Amanda Burton stepping down from October Strategy meeting the Board.
November Annual general meeting Notwithstanding the diversity related improvements in 2014, the December Health, safety and environment performance review Nomination Committee undertakes to actively consider a diverse Presentation and review: affordable housing range of candidates, including those from other societal groups andregeneration not currently represented at Board level, for positions as and when Approval of Group business plan for 2014 to 2018 they become available, whilst always basing any recruitment February 2014 Half year results statement and report decision on merit.
Further diversity disclosures can be found Presentation and review: Galliford Try Infrastructure and in the Strategic Report on page 37. International April Site visit Gloucestershire County Cricket Club, Bristol Jane Davies was appointed as HR director with effect from Housebuilding divisional presentation and review 9September 2013, with specific responsibility for strategic May Presentation and review: Group sustainability HRplanning.
Jane attends Executive Board meetings as a Presentation and review: Group risks and internal control member of the senior management team.
framework Board: attendance Meetings were led by the chairman, including a specific The Board continues to benefit from its established reporting performance assessment day at which individual appraisals were mechanisms, which ensure crucial management and project completed.
The company secretary was in attendance.
The senior specific information, and all significant Group-wide developments, independent director separately led a meeting of the non-executives are reported quickly and accurately.
The reporting mechanisms to assess performance of the chairman, without him being present.
facilitate prompt approval of further actions.
Throughout the year the Board also received regular Group, divisional and Board: remit business unit specific presentations, covering all aspects of There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for prior the Groups operations.
authorisation by the Board, the specifics of which have not materially changed from those disclosed in previous years.
The Board held its annual strategy away day in October 2013and specifically approved the Group business plan for 2014 to 2018.
46 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials 2013 14 Board attendance table Board Executive Board Audit Committee Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Number of meetings 8 12 3 2 3 Ian Coull 8 n a by invitation 2 2 Chairman Amanda Burton 8 n a 3 2 3 Senior independent director Peter Rogers 8 n a 3 2 3 Non-executive Andrew Jenner 8 n a 3 2 2 Non-executive 1 Ishbel Macpherson 2 n a 1 n a n a Non-executive 1 Terry Miller 3 n a 2 n a n a Non-executive Greg Fitzgerald 8 12 by invitation n a by invitation Chief executive Graham Prothero 8 12 by invitation n a n a Finance director Ken Gillespie 8 12 n a n a n a Construction division chief executive Kevin Corbett 8 11 3 2 3 General counsel and company secretary 1.
Ishbel Macpherson and Terry Miller joined the Board on 1 February 2014.
Board: information, advice, evaluation, insurance and Executive Board report indemnity Membership of the Executive Board is detailed on page 43.
Well-established Board procedures covering timely provision of Executive management is the responsibility of the chief executive.
information in advance of all Board and Committee meetings, and Hechairs the Executive Board, which in turn takes responsibility for the provision of independent professional advice, remained in for the operational management of the Group, under terms of operation throughout the financial year.
reference delegated by the main Board.
The Executive Board also has further delegated responsibility for making recommendations All directors have access to the advice and services of the general to the main Board on all items included in the formal schedule of counsel andcompany secretary.
No director sought independent matters reserved for main Board authorisation.
There are regular advice during the financial year.
performance and operational related reports and presentations from divisional management.
The assistant company secretary As reported in the 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements, acts as secretary to the Executive Board.
an external performance evaluation of the Board was completed in 2013 using the services of Armstrong Bonham Carter LLP, The Executive Board meets on a monthly basis, and additional a recognised independent consultant.
An internal Board meetings are convened when necessary to consider and authorise performance evaluation was therefore completed in 2014, using specific operational or project matters.
the Groups well-established processes and augmented by input from Armstrong Bonham Carter LLPs related recommendations.
The 2014 evaluation focused on risks to the Groups revised 2018 corporate strategy and sought opinion on current operations, performance, governance and strategy.
Consideration was given to the aggregate time commitments of the non-executive directors.
The findings and recommendations were presented to, and approved by, the Board in May 2014.
The Group maintains appropriate directors and officers liability insurance on behalf of, and provides individual indemnities to, the directors and general counsel andcompany secretary, which complies with the provisions of section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 47 Governance continued Audit Committee report 2014 The Committee has continued to monitor and review the Groups risk management and internal control framework, inthe context of an improving outlook for the Groups markets, and in particular in UK housebuilding.
Although the thorough review and tender of the external auditcompleted this year resulted in thereappointment of  LLP PwC, shareholders and stakeholders can be reassured that the review was extremely beneficial in benchmarking PwCs service levels and engagement.
The decision to reappoint PwC followed a detailed and comprehensive audit review and tender process, and was based on merit, as well as reflecting PwCs long standing involvement with, and knowledge of, the Group and its operations.
The Committee looks forward to continuing to work with the audit team closely under the newly appointed partner, Jonathan Hook.
Having specifically established revised procedures, I am pleased to confirm on behalf of the Committee that the 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements are considered fair, balanced and Introduction: Andrew Jenner understandable in terms of the form and content of the strategic, Audit Committee chair governance and financial information presented therein.
The Group has evolved the format of the Annual Report and Financial Statements over recent financial years to ensure that this Annual Report complies in full with requirements of new regulations covering narrative and remuneration reporting, applying to the The Audit Committee has Group for the first time this financial year.
focused its attention on key We have welcomed the appointment of both Ishbel Macpherson and Terry Miller as Committee members and the Committee is projects in 2014 relating to already benefiting from their considered insight and opinion in the thereview and tender of the short period since their appointment.
We look forward to working together as a group into the next financial year.
external audit, and also Audit Committee: composition and attendance establishing fair, balanced Membership of the Audit Committee is detailed on page 43.
The chairman, chief executiveand finance director attend all Committee andunderstandable review meetings by invitation.
Andrew Jenner, who is Committee chair, has a strong financial background which satisfies the UK Corporate processes for the Annual Report Governance Code requirement that the Committees membership and Financial Statements, in line has recent and relevant financial experience.
The general counsel and company secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
with the requirements of the UK Audit Committee: remit Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee meets at least three times a year, this number being deemed appropriate to the Audit Committees role and responsibilities.
The Committees delegated authorities and calendar of prioritised work have not changed substantially fromthose disclosed in previous years.
The key responsibilities ofthe Committee are: delegated responsibility from the Board for financial reporting: monitoring external audit, internal audit, risk and controls: and reviewing instances of whistleblowing.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Groups website.
The authorities and calendar of work remain in line with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
At each meeting, Committee members took time, in the absence of the executive directors, to separatelyreview and discuss any issues meriting their attention.
The Committee also met informally several times during the financial year, in connection with the external audit tender project completed in July 2014.
The table on page 49 summarises the key activities during the financial year.
The Committee also continues to meet with the internal and external audit teams, in the absence of executive management.
48 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Calendar of 2013 14 Committee activities and areas offocus Month Activity or area September Committee review of 2012 13 full year results 2013 2012 13 external audit presentation 2012 13 going concern review Risk and internal audit report to the Committee Whistleblowing report February 2014 Committee review of 2013 14 half year results 2013 14 half year external audit presentation 2013 14 half year going concern review External audit engagement review Introduction: Peter Rogers CBE Annual review of provision of non-audit services Nomination Committee chair Risk and internal audit report to the Committee Whistleblowing report May 2014 Approval of 2014 full year audit plan Nomination Committee report 2014 Fair, Balanced and Understandable review Early stage review of Strategic Report content Nomination Committee: composition and attendance anddisclosures Membership of the Nomination Committee is detailed on page 43.
The Committee was chaired by Peter Rogers, an independent non-executive director, throughout the financial year.
Ian Coull During the financial year, the risk and internal audit team focused will chairthe Nomination Committee followingthe appointment of on delivering their agreed calendar of audit reviews, under Peter Rogers as senior independent director in September their rolling three-year internal audit plan, and also providing 2014.
The general counsel and company secretary acts as commercial and risk management support across the Group at secretary to the Committee.
the request of the Committee, the Executive Boardand senior management.
Further information regarding their activities during Nomination Committee: remit the year can be found on page 50.
The terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Groups website.
The authorities delegated to the Committee by As disclosed in note 5 to the financial statements, no significant the Board comprise: non-audit related services were provided by PwC during the financial year, although the Group did receive non-audit related reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board: advice and services covering general corporate matters.
Policies evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and review mechanisms governing the provision of material on the Board, including the impact of new appointments: non-audit services, and safeguarding the objectivity and overseeing and recommending the recruitment of any independence of the external auditor, remained in force throughout newdirectors: the financial year.
A market tender of the external audit was ensuring appointments are appropriately made against completed during the financial year, in line with the guidance of the objective criteria: and UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee is satisfied that keeping the leadership and succession requirements of the the incumbent external auditor, PwC, remains fully independent, Group under review.
and accordingly has recommended to the Board that a resolution to reappoint PwC is proposed at the 2014 annual general meeting.
The Committee took direct responsibility for the processeswhich led to the appointment of Ishbel Macpherson and Terry Miller The Committee reviewed the integrity of the Groups financial as non-executive directors in February 2014.
A detailed job statements and all formal announcements relating to the Groups specification was prepared by the Committee and external financial performance.
This included an assessment of consultants were appointed to provide advice on the availability Partnerships segmental reporting and each critical accounting ofsuitable external candidates.
The Committee then commenced policy, as set out on pages 77 and 78, as well as review and a formal, rigorous and transparent selection process, which debate over the following areas of significance: included considering adiverseshortlist of candidates, before recommending the final appointments to the Board.
Further contract revenue and provisions: in conjunction with the background to both appointments, together with the Boards annual audit, the Committee reviewed a paper setting out key agreed position on diversity in accordance with the requirements judgements in respect of revenue recognition and contract of the UK Corporate Governance Code, can be found on pages 45 provisions, in relation to individually significant long-term and 46. construction contracts: reporting exceptional items: the Committee reviewed and In accordance with best practice and the latest guidance issued considered the FRCs press notice of December 2013 in by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, the relation to the reporting of exceptional items: new non-executive directors received a formal and thorough going concern: the Committee assessed the available banking induction programme covering, amongst other things:Board facilities, and theassociated covenants and sensitivities.
policies and procedures: share dealing restrictions: financial, The related paper also considered other commercial and strategic and operational summaries: governance processes: economic risks to the Groups going concern status.
The introductory meetings with senior management and advisers: Committee reported to the Board on its findings: and and other Group specific information and training.
goodwill impairment review:during the year, the Committee considered the judgements made in relation to the valuation methodology adopted by management and the model inputused, as well as the sensitivities used by management and the related disclosures.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 49 Governance continued The Committee continues to review Board composition The Groups annual general meeting, held in November each year, andprogress made by potential internal candidates for key continues to be a popular means for private shareholders to executive roles.
receive personal updates on performance from Board members and share opinions on progress.
All directors of the Company The Committee remains wholly independent in accordance were in attendance at the 2013 annual general meeting and all withthe requirements of provision B.
2.1 of the UK Corporate arrangements for the meeting followed the requirements of the Governance Code.
External consultants, The Zygos Partnership UKCorporate Governance Code and related best practice.
Zygos, have been engaged to advise on all prospective Board appointments, and the appropriateness of open advertising and Reporting, risk, internal audit and controls other recruitment methodologies.
There is no other connection The governance review commencing on page 44 details the between Zygos and the Group.
specific actions undertaken by the Group during the financial year, including those with a risk management focus.
The Boards Remuneration Committee report 2014 approach to risk and internal audit, including its systems in relation Remuneration Committee: composition and attendance to the preparation of consolidated accounts, and the material Membership of the Remuneration Committee is detailed on page controls of the Groups established internal control framework 43.
The Committee was chaired by Amanda Burton throughout the have not changed substantially from those disclosed in detail in financial year.
Ishbel Macpherson chairs the Committee on the 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Amanda Burtons stepping downfrom the Board.
The Groups governance reporting structure shown on page 51 Remuneration Committee: remit clarifies the effective Group, divisional and operational board The authorities delegated to the Committee by the Board have structures upon which the delegated authorities matrices and notmaterially changed from those disclosed in the 2013 Annual Corporate and Finance Manuals are overlaid, and reflects changes Report and Financial Statements.
Further information regarding made in 2014. the work of the Committee during the financial year can be found on pages 52 to 63, which addressthe requirements of the During the financial year, a programme of 17 internal audits was Directors Remuneration Reporting Regulations effective from completed across the Groups operations and progress checks 30September 2013 as issued by the Department of Business, were completed against previous recommendations.
internal control failings or weaknesses, including compliance with the provisions of the Group Corporate and Finance Manuals, have Governance policies been rectified either during the financial year or to the date of this Annual Report.
The Group continues to operate a suite of governance and risk management policies, procedures and training programmes, all of Compliance statement which address obligations arising under the relevant legislation.
The Group Corporate and Finance Manuals, which summarise the The Group believes that the highest standards of corporate policies, procedures and authority matrices by which the central governance are integral to the delivery of its strategy, providing functions and divisions operate, were refreshed and updated themeans by which the Board manages the expectations of during the financial year.
stakeholders to optimise sustainable performance as summarised in this Annual Report.
Shareholder relations The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, applicable to all The Company continues to prioritise maintaining effective premium listed companies, is the governance code to which the relationships with all its shareholders and accordingly seeks to Group is subject.
The Group remains compliant with the UK engage appropriately with all interested parties.
The Board, and Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2.
6 and inparticular the chairman, chief executive and finance director, related information can be found in the Directors Report on pages continue to organise a range of meetings with existing and 64 and 65. prospective institutional shareholders.
Specific reports regarding shareholder views generally are regularly provided to the Board for As a member of the FTSE 250, Galliford Try has committed to analysis and discussion.
The Board continues to actively engage complying in full with all provisions of the Code and in doing so with institutional shareholders in line with the expectations of the seeks to both support and foster the highest standards of UK Stewardship Code, whether on key matters of specific corporate governance.
The Group complied in full with all relevance to the Group and its operations or general market provisions of the Code throughout the financial year.
The Board, the senior independentdirector and other non-executive directors, are available to attend meetings with For and on behalf of the Board shareholders and address any significant concerns stakeholders may have.
Kevin Corbett General counsel and company secretary During the year, the Company completed a standard postal consultation with all registered shareholders regarding the proposed implementation of e-communications.
Consultation responses were such that only 19%of registered shareholders elected to continue to receive hard copy mailings from 2014onwards.
50 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Group governance reporting structure 2014 plc Board Directors: 9 Meetings annually: 8 Remuneration Executive Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Committee Directors: 5 Directors: 5 Directors: 4 Directors: 5 Meetings annually: 12 Meetings annually: 3 Meetings annually: 2 Meetings annually: 3 Executive Housebuilding Executive Partnerships Construction and Investments Other Group and Divisional Board Divisional Board Divisional Board functional steering Directors: 7 Directors: 8 Directors: 5 committees and Meetings annually: 10 Meetings annually: 10 Meetings annually: 6 forums Housebuilding Partnerships Building Board Divisional Board Divisional Board Directors: 6 Directors: 19 Directors: 9 Meetings annually: 8 Meetings annually: 6 Meetings annually: 8 Infrastructure Board Directors: 7 Meetings annually: 11 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 51
