GOVERNANCE Nominations Committee report The appointment and retention of strong candidates is key to the success of the Company.
The Nominations Committee plays a vital role in ensuring the selection and recommendation of strong candidates for appointment to the Board.
We keep under review the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and the composition of Board Committees, with any changes recommended to the Board for its consideration.
We also review succession MIKE TURNER CBE planning, both to the Board and to the senior Chairman of the Nominations Committee management grade immediately below Board.
Mike Turner Chairman Committee membership Angus Cockburn Tufan Erginbilgic Shonaid Jemmett-Page Richard Parry-Jones Nigel Stein In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the majority of members are independent non-executive Directors.
The Secretary to the Committee is Jos Sclater, General Counsel & Company Secretary.
The role of the Nominations Committee is to lead the process for identifying, and making Role recommendations to the Board on, candidates for appointment as Directors and as Company Secretary, giving full consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the Group.
It also: makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Nominations Committee and the composition and chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees: keeps under review the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, ethnicity and gender and the independence of the non-executive Directors: and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
The Nominations Committee follows Board-approved procedures in making its recommendations.
Written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority and responsibilities are available on our website at www.
The Committee met three times in 2014.
Our attendance at these meetings is set out in the table on page 65.
70 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 2014 activities Diversity During 2014 we: We acknowledge the importance of diversity, including gender, considered the composition of the Board following Marcus both on the Board and throughout the Group.
Our aim is for the Brysons decision to retire: Board to consist of people with diverse experience who can add considered and recommended new appointments to the real value to Board debates, thereby supporting the achievement of Executive Committee: our strategic objectives.
This includes diversity of industry skills, considered and recommended the appointment of Jos Sclater as knowledge and experience in addition to gender and ethnicity.
General Counsel & Company Secretary: and recommended to the Board a three-year extension of terms of It is our aim to have at least 25 per cent female representation on office for Richard Parry-Jones and Tufan Erginbilgic.
the Board and we will continue to work towards this as and when positions arise.
However, our overriding purpose in any new appointment must always be to select on merit, in fulfilment of our Board and Committee composition role of ensuring the continued success of the Company.
In light of Marcus Brysons retirement at the end of 2014, we considered the subsequent composition of the Board and the We are currently focusing on the development and support of our Executive Committee and the balance of skills, knowledge and executive pipeline with regard to gender and ethnic diversity: experience on each.
further information can be found in the sustainability review on page 56.
Following our review, we deemed the size of the Board and the balance of executive and non-executive Directors following Marcus Brysons retirement to be appropriate.
We considered that the Advice provided to the Committee Boards collective skills and experience and its knowledge of both From time to time the Committee appoints external search GKN and the industries in which it operates would enable the Board consultants to assist with the selection and recruitment of to continue to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
We did, potential new Board members.
During the year no such assistance however, support changes to the Executive Committee to ensure was required.
Accordingly, the Board approved our recommendation to appoint Kevin Cummings, CEO Performance evaluation GKN Aerospace, Peter Oberparleiter, CEO GKN Powder Metallurgy, The Committees annual evaluation was carried out as part of a and Phil Swash, CEO GKN Land Systems, to the Committee.
Each series of one-to-one interviews between the Company Secretary will attend Board meetings when there is a significant agenda item and each Director.
No changes were considered necessary to the relating to their divisions, giving the Board direct access to their Committees terms of reference as a result, and the Committee was knowledge and expertise where appropriate.
considered to be effective in fulfilling its role throughout 2014.
Executive matters On behalf of the Committee Following the retirement of Judith Felton, Company Secretary, in June 2014, the Committee recommended the appointment of Jos Sclater as Company Secretary in addition to his role as General Counsel.
The Board approved our recommendation.
Mike Turner CBE Non-executive matters Chairman of the Nominations Committee During the year we considered the extension of the terms of 23 February 2015 appointment of Richard Parry-Jones and Tufan Erginbilgic.
Taking into account the contribution that each makes to the Board and its Committees, the Committee recommended to the Board the extension of the terms of both non-executive Directors for a further three years.
The Board approved these recommendations.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71
