GOVERNANCE Audit Committee report The Audit Committee plays a key role in monitoring and reviewing those aspects of management and auditor conduct which could financially impact shareholders.
This includes reviewing the integrity of the Groups financial statements to determine whether the judgements and policies taken by management are appropriate, as well as monitoring the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors.
It also includes oversight of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management.
This report details the activities SHONAID JEMMETT-PAGE we undertook during the year in fulfilling Chairman of the Audit Committee our responsibilities.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page Chairman Committee membership Angus Cockburn Tufan Erginbilgic Richard Parry-Jones All members are independent non-executive Directors and, in the Boards view, have recent and relevant financial experience as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In particular, Shonaid Jemmett-Page has held a number of senior finance roles in Unilever and is a former partner at KPMG and former Chief Operating Officer at CDC Group plc, the UK Governments development finance institution.
Angus Cockburn is currently the Chief Financial Officer of Serco Group plc and previously held senior finance positions within international organisations.
The secretary to the Committee is Jos Sclater, General Counsel & Company Secretary.
The primary role of the Audit Committee is to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting and Role audit processes and the maintenance of sound internal control and risk management systems.
This includes responsibility for monitoring and reviewing: the integrity of the Groups financial statements and the significant reporting judgements contained in them: the appropriateness of the Groups relationship with the external auditors, including auditor independence, fees and provision of non-audit services: the effectiveness of the external audit process, making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the external auditors: the activities and effectiveness of the internal audit function Corporate Audit : the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems: and the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing policies.
Written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority and responsibilities are available on our website at www.
The Committee met five times in 2014, with meetings generally timed to coincide with the financial and reporting cycles of the Company.
Our attendance at these meetings is set out in the table on page 65.
72 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information In order to maintain effective communication between all relevant 2014 activities parties, we invited the Group Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Our activities in 2014 principally related to financial reporting, the Finance Director, Head of Corporate Audit, the external audit external audit, internal control and risk management.
In addition, engagement partner and other members of senior management to we considered other specific matters such as treasury activities, attend Committee meetings as necessary.
updates from the divisional finance directors on relevant divisional matters and the Groups approach to IT controls including Members of the Committee met separately at the start of each cyber security.
meeting to discuss matters in the absence of any invitees.
At the conclusion of meetings, the Head of Corporate Audit and the audit engagement partner of  LLP PwC were each given the opportunity to discuss matters without executive management being present.
Both the Head of Corporate Audit and the external auditors have direct access to me should they wish to raise any concerns outside formal Committee meetings.
Significant issues We identified the issues below as significant in the context of the 2014 financial statements.
We consider these areas to be significant taking into account the level of materiality and the degree of judgement exercised by management.
We debated the issues in detail to ensure that the approaches taken were appropriate.
Area of focus Committee action We considered the significant judgements, assumptions and estimates made by management in preparing Impairment testing the impairment review to ensure that they were appropriate.
see Note 11 to the financial statements We reviewed assumptions relating to: An impairment review is carried the discount rates, which reflect the risk inherent in each unit taking into account factors such as out annually by management to geography and sector, used to discount the expected future cash flows to their present value: identify cash generating units in the estimation of long term growth rates for the territories in which the units were based: and which the recoverable amount the forecast of operating cash flows, based on the most recent budget and strategic reviews and taking of the units assets including into account data such as sales profile and prices, market performance, volume, raw material costs and expected future cash flows capital expenditure levels.
generated by those assets is less than the value of the assets We also considered sensitivities that would affect the assumptions noted above.
carried in the Groups accounts.
Impairment results in a charge to We obtained the external auditors view in relation to the appropriateness of the approach and outcome of the Group income statement.
Taking this into account, together with the documentation presented and the explanations given by management, we were satisfied with the thoroughness of the approach and judgements taken.
Key judgements and assumptions need to be made when valuing the The review resulted in the impairment of four units and a charge to the income statement of 69 million.
assets of the cash generating units and the quantum of potential future cash flows arising from those assets.
We increased our focus on this area in 2014 due to the evolving risk profile of the Group, particularly with Provisions for potential regard to long term complex contracts in aerospace and increasing customer activity in relation to vehicle liabilities recalls in automotive.
Both of these factors could have a significant impact on the Groups liabilities.
see Note 21 to the financial Further details on the nature of these risks can be found in our principal risks and uncertainties on statements pages 47 and 48.
The Group makes provisions where In particular, we focused on the potential liabilities arising from contractual matters with customers.
To it is probable that settlement of determine whether the level of provisioning in the balance sheet was appropriate, we considered liabilities will result in a cash outflow managements view of a number of factors including the nature of the claim received, details of any costs in respect of contractual obligations, incurred and potential recall or rectification costs.
We also reviewed an assessment of the likelihood of warranties, litigation, customer and future cash outflows arising and the historical accuracy of the level of Group provisions.
supplier claims and other matters.
Key judgements are made in We invited PwCs comments on this area and concluded that the approach taken in respect of provisioning assessing an appropriate level continued to be appropriate.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73 GOVERNANCE Audit Committee report continued We also reviewed the following areas due to their materiality and the application of judgement.
However, we considered them to be stable in nature and therefore we did not classify them as significant issues in the context of the 2014 financial statements.
Impairment reviews of programme development costs against associated future cash flows are Development costs on circulated to the Committee on a six-monthly basis.
On each occasion we reviewed the valuation and aerospace programmes the assumptions made, including programme risk factors, and the most recent external forecasts of see Note 11 to the financial aircraft programme demand.
Actions and factors likely to influence levels of impairment were noted and statements the view of the external auditors was sought in relation to the appropriateness of the approach and Development costs for large aerospace outcome.
Particular focus was placed on the A350 programme due to the value of its development costs, programmes can be significant and which totalled 210 million including capital expenditure and capitalised interest at 31 December 2014. assessing the likelihood of future Taking into account the documentation presented and the assessment of the external auditors, we were recoverability of costs involves various satisfied with the approach and judgements taken.
These relate to factors such as anticipated volumes, method of amortisation, forecast cash flows and discount rates.
Key matters reviewed this year included the appropriateness of valuation assumptions such as discount Post-employment rates, mortality and inflation.
The Committee also reviewed the impact of certain pension fide-risking obligations activities on the financial statements.
In the US, cash lump sums were offered to deferred members on see Note 24 to the financial a voluntary basis in lieu of future pension obligations.
In the UK, a bulk annuity buy-in was completed statements whereby the Group insured a proportion of its pension liabilities.
Determining the current value of the Groups future pension obligations Valuation assumptions, prepared by external actuaries and adopted by management, were requires a number of assumptions.
considered in the light of prevailing economic indicators and the view of the external auditors.
These assumptions relate principally to The adoption of a new US mortality table was reviewed and the approach adopted by management life expectancy, discount rates applied was accepted as appropriate.
to future cash flows and rates of inflation and future salary increases.
The use of such instruments requires a number of decisions to be made which impact the financial Treasury hedging activities statements.
In some areas, management has discretion as to how to act, particularly with regard to: see Notes 18 and 19 to the financial statements the way in which the instruments are accounted for: In 2014, the Group entered into crossthe way in which the instruments are valued: and currency interest rate swap instruments the method by which the effectiveness of the instruments is measured.
to convert its 350 million 6.75% bonds maturing in 2019 and 450 million We considered managements adoption of net investment hedge accounting and reviewed the method 5.375% bonds maturing in 2022 into US and frequency by which it planned to perform the valuations of the swap instruments and effectiveness Dollars and Euros.
Although entering testing of the hedge relationship.
We were content that the decisions taken by management were into such instruments is a relatively appropriate in all instances.
common activity for companies which operate globally, we considered Given the significance of foreign currency movements on the financial statements, we debated the this area due to the quantum of nature of the Groups hedging activities and reviewed the financial and presentational impact on the the amounts involved and the 2014 financial statements.
We were satisfied by the approach taken and disclosures given.
Financial reporting External audit During the year, we: In 2014, we: considered information presented by management on approved PwCs audit plan and terms of engagement: significant accounting judgements and policies adopted in conducted our annual review of the independence and respect of the Groups half year and annual financial statements objectivity of PwC: and agreed their appropriateness: noted the non-audit fees payable to PwC, having regard examined key points of disclosure and presentation to to the policy on the provision of non-audit services: ensure the adequacy, clarity and completeness of the approved for recommendation to the Board a revised financial statements: policy on non-audit services to take effect from 2015: discussed with PwC its audit reports which highlighted key determined that PwC remained effective in their role accounting matters and significant judgements in respect of as external auditors: each set of financial statements: recommended to the Board that PwC be appointed reviewed documentation prepared to support the going concern as external auditors for a further year: and judgement given on page 41: and agreed the timing of a tender exercise in relation to received an update on the implications of a new accounting the appointment of external auditors.
standard which will take effect in 2017.
74 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to Details of the fees paid to PwC in 2014 can be found in note the Board in relation to the appointment of the external 4 a to the financial statements.
We also approve the terms of engagement and fees during 2014 amounted to 0.9 million which related principally of the external auditors, ensuring that they have appropriate to tax compliance services 0.5 million.
Tax advisory services audit plans in place and that an appropriate relationship is totalled 0.2 million and audit related assurance services and maintained between the Group and the external auditors.
other services amounted to 0.1 million each.
Non-audit fees as a percentage of audit fees totalled 20%.
All such activities remained within the policy approved by the Board.
Audit plan PwCs presentation of their audit plan set out the scope and During the year, we approved a revised policy on the provision of objectives of the audit together with an overview of the planned non-audit services for recommendation to the Board.
This takes approach, an assessment of the Groups risks and controls and effect from 2015 and was amended in anticipation of the proposed areas of audit focus.
In my role as Chairman, I attended implementation of EU legislation.
In addition to limiting the PwCs audit planning meeting.
Additionally, PwC worked with permissible services, the authorisation levels were also reviewed Corporate Audit and management to identify areas which indicated and amended.
Any proposal to use the external auditors for an increased risk of control breakdown.
These areas were then non-audit work with a value between 50,000 and 250,000 must targeted proactively to ensure they received the appropriate be submitted to the Group Finance Director for approval prior to amount of attention during the audit.
All proposals above this amount must be submitted to me for approval.
In addition, the Group Finance Independence Director will seek my prior authorisation for certain aspects of As a Committee we are responsible for the development, non-audit services relating to acquisitions, disposals and implementation and monitoring of the Companys policies on investigative accounting services, regardless of the fee value.
The external audit which are designed to maintain the objectivity and use of contingent fees is strictly prohibited under the policy.
independence of the external auditors.
These policies regulate the appointment by the Group of former employees of PwC and set out the approach to be taken when using the external auditors for non-audit work.
Our annual review of the independence of the external auditors included: receiving confirmation from PwC that they remained independent and objective within the context of applicable professional standards: considering the tenure of the audit engagement partner, who is required to rotate every five years in line with ethical standards: ensuring that management confirmed compliance with the Groups policies on the employment of former employees of PwC and the use of PwC for non-audit work: and considering Corporate Audits annual review of PwCs objectivity, independence and effectiveness and of the audit process.
As a result of this review, we concluded that PwC remained appropriately independent in the role of external auditors.
Non-audit services In order to safeguard independence further, we monitor compliance with the policy for the provision of non-audit services.
The external auditors are generally excluded from consultancy work and are not engaged by GKN for other non-audit work unless there are compelling reasons to do so, for example where PwC can draw upon significant historic knowledge gained through the audit process.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75 GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Report continued Effectiveness and reappointment Internal control and risk management Our review of the performance of PwC and the effectiveness of the In fulfilling our remit we: external audit process included consideration of responses from reviewed the results of audits undertaken by Corporate Audit: questionnaires conducted with members of the Committee, received reports on control issues of significance to the Group: executive Directors and senior management.
All participants were reviewed the status of the Groups internal financial control asked to rate PwCs effectiveness in a number of areas including monitoring system: independence and objectivity, audit planning and execution, reported to the Board on our evaluation of the operation of the conduct and communication, audit findings and feedback and Groups systems of internal control and risk management, expertise and resourcing.
The results confirmed that both PwC and informed by reports from Corporate Audit and PwC: and their audit process were considered to be effective and that a good noted the implementation of additional risk processes.
working relationship was supplemented by a sufficient amount of robustness in challenging management judgements.
Minor The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the improvements relating to team member continuity and effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk communications with site management were suggested to and management systems and the activities and effectiveness of accepted by PwC.
PwC have been the Companys external auditors since their formation in 1998, although several predecessor organisations of We reviewed Corporate Audits quarterly reports throughout the PwC held office for some time prior to that date.
Whilst the year which detail any internal control issues and identify any Company has not formally tendered the audit in recent years, the themes arising in relation to audit recommendations.
We Committee did conduct a comprehensive review of the considered the adequacy of managements response to matters effectiveness and performance of the external auditors following raised and the implementation of recommendations made.
the rotation of the audit partner in 2011.
As part of this exercise, the new audit partner submitted a tender proposal for future audits We received regular updates on progress in respect of the covering matters such as independence, objectivity, resourcing continued development of the Groups risk management framework and value for money.
We also conducted a benchmarking exercise and the implementation of additional assurance processes in order based on external data and a review of external documents on the to strengthen the framework.
Further information on the Groups four major audit firms issued by regulatory bodies.
systems of internal control and risk management is given on pages 68 and 69.
Together with an internal control review undertaken by In determining whether to recommend the auditors for Corporate Audit and an informal review of our internal control reappointment in 2015, we took into consideration the tenure of the environment carried out by PwC, we evaluated the systems of audit partner, the results of the effectiveness review detailed internal control and risk management and reported to the Board on above, the FRC Audit Quality Inspection Report in respect of PwC our evaluation in order that it could form a view on the and the firms internal quality control procedures.
Taking these effectiveness of those systems.
The Boards statement on internal elements into account, we concluded that it was appropriate to control can be found on pages 68 and 69. recommend to the Board PwCs reappointment as the Companys auditors for a further year.
Internal audit During the year we: Mindful of the increasing regulatory focus on audit tendering in the approved the appointment of a new Head of Corporate Audit: UK and EU, we have been keeping under review the appropriate approved the 2015 Corporate Audit programme, including the timing of conducting a formal tender exercise.
During 2014, the proposed audit approach, coverage and allocation of Committee recommended, and the Board accepted, a proposal to resources: and put the audit contract out to competitive tender following the reviewed the effectiveness of Corporate Audit.
rotation of the current audit partner.
It is therefore anticipated that any change in auditors would take effect for the audit of the 2016 In relation to consideration of the Corporate Audit programme for financial statements.
the forthcoming year, we reviewed the proposed audit approach, coverage and allocation of resource.
We also received progress There are no contractual obligations restricting our choice of updates against the 2014 audit programme throughout the year.
We reviewed the terms of reference and effectiveness of Corporate Audit, taking into account the views of Directors and senior management on matters such as independence, proficiency, resourcing, and audit strategy, planning and methodology.
The review confirmed that the Corporate Audit function was independent and objective and remained an effective element of the Groups corporate governance framework.
76 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Employee disclosure Performance evaluation To support the Groups Employee Disclosure Procedures Policy Our annual evaluation process was carried out by questionnaire in available on our website, GKN operates a Group-wide 2014.
The questionnaire focused on areas such as Committee international employee disclosure hotline.
Run by an external composition, quality and content of meetings, role and remit, and and independent third party, the hotline enables employees to areas of focus for 2015.
Feedback from the questionnaire, which make anonymously if preferred confidential disclosures was circulated to Committee attendees as well as members, showed about suspected impropriety and wrongdoing.
Any matters that the Committee was considered to be effective in fulfilling its reported are investigated and escalated to the Audit role throughout 2014.
Committee as appropriate, and statistics on the volume and general nature of all disclosures made are reported to the Overview of Committee activities for 2015 Committee on an annual basis.
Risk management will continue to be our priority for 2015.
As part of the refinement and reinforcement of our internal control systems, the Board plans to review the control systems relating to the Other matters Groups principal risks of product quality, programme management During the year we: and contracting.
We will consider the effectiveness of any additional received an update on treasury strategy, particularly in respect internal control systems that may be implemented as a result of this of hedging activities: review.
Our other area of focus will be the oversight of the tender reviewed progress against the Groups IT security plan: and process for the external audit contract.
received updates from divisional finance directors on matters relevant to their divisions.
On behalf of the Committee Recognising the financial impact that an IT security breach could have on the Company, we received an update on the Groups approach to IT security controls in terms of prevention, detection and response.
Further information can be found in our principal risks and uncertainties on page 50.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page Chairman of the Audit Committee We also received updates from our divisional finance directors on 23 February 2015 matters relevant to their divisions.
Principally these related to contractual matters, reviews of programme development costs and updates on a cross-divisional project to develop a bespoke software tool to track and improve the separation of duties in transactions, thereby reducing the risk of fraud or error.
Advice provided to the Committee The Committee has independent access to the services of Corporate Audit and to the external auditors, and may obtain outside professional advice as necessary in the performance of its duties.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77
