Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate governance Leadership The role of the Board We are responsible for the long term success of GKN, with the A full description of our role, which includes a number of specific overarching aim of safeguarding shareholders interests.
Principally, responsibilities reserved to us, is available on our website at we achieve this through: www.
setting the strategic objectives of the Group and ensuring the necessary resources are in place to meet those aims: Board meetings providing entrepreneurial leadership within an effective risk I set Board agendas following consultation with the Chief Executive management framework: and with the assistance of the Company Secretary.
An annual setting the values and standards of the Group: and programme of items for discussion is kept under review by the reviewing management performance.
Company Secretary to ensure that all matters reserved to us and other key issues are considered at the appropriate time.
Agendas are As Chairman, I am responsible for leading the Board and for its closely aligned to the key aspects of our role: below are examples of effectiveness.
Nigel Stein leads the business as Chief Executive and areas on which we focused in 2014. is responsible for the execution of the Groups strategy and the day-to-day running of the Group.
He does so with the support of the Executive Committee.
Board focus areas in 2014 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE Reviewed and approved the Groups strategic plans Reviewed divisional strategic and and annual budget operational performance Approved the acquisition of Williams Hybrid Considered Group financial performance against Power Limited budget and forecast Approved the disposal of the Groups 50% Considered health and safety performance throughout shareholding in Emitec the Group Reviewed a number of potential acquisitions CONTROL Kept under review the technology plans for the Considered and approved a revised employee Group following consideration of megatrends and code of conduct to reinforce the Companys values emerging technologies and standards RISK Assessed, with the support of the Audit Committee, the effectiveness of internal control and audit processes Assessed the risks to the achievement of the Group strategy including risks in relation to future technology trends Considered and debated the principal risks and uncertainties which could impact the Group Approved the level of risk financing and insurance CAPABILITIES Considered succession planning for the Board and for senior executive positions within the Group as well as the succession planning framework Evaluated the effectiveness of the Board GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued We meet formally approximately eight times a year.
At least one Board committees meeting is combined with a Board visit to the Groups business Certain Board responsibilities are delegated to our Board locations, and in 2014 we visited GKN Driveline in Oles nica, Poland.
Committees which play an important governance role through The accent on the s in In addition to regular Board meeting discussions on strategy, one the work they carry out.
Reports on their activities can be found Olesnica is a fudge of an s two-day Board meeting per year is devoted to reviewing progress on the following pages and their terms of reference are available followed by an accent and made against Group strategy and for discussing longer term on our website.
All Board Committees are supported by the then kerned in to make strategic options.
During this meeting senior executives give a Company Secretariat.
- This object wont number of updates and each divisional chief executive proposes the strategic options for their respective division.
Briefing papers are prepared and circulated to Committee members meetings are also held during the year which helps to strengthen in advance of each meeting and, in respect of the Audit Committee, relations between Directors.
Additionally, I meet from time to time made available to other Directors.
In order that the Board remains with the non-executive Directors without the executive Directors fully updated on their work, the Committee Chairmen report formally being present.
on Committee activities at the subsequent Board meeting.
The Committees may obtain external professional advice at the Companys expense if deemed necessary.
GKN PLC BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS EXECUTIVE DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Shonaid Richard Chairman Mike Turner Nigel Stein Nigel Stein Jemmett-Page Parry-Jones All independent All independent All non-executive Executive Directors, Chief Executive, Composition non-executive Directors non-executive Directors Directors and the divisional chief Finance Director, Chief Executive executives, Group Company Secretary HR Director, Group Communications Director, Company Secretary At least four times Periodically when Periodically when Eleven times annually Periodically when Meets annually required required required Monitors and reviews Agrees remuneration Leads the process Leads, oversees and Ensures adequate Role certain aspects of of the Directors and for identifying and directs the activities procedures, systems management and the Company appointing Directors of the Group.
and controls are auditor conduct Secretary within with skills and Executes the Groups maintained to enable which could impair the terms of the experience to deliver strategic plan.
the Company to the financial agreed policy.
the continued Approves and leads comply with its performance of Reviews proposed success of the the consistent obligations regarding the Company.
short and long term Company.
implementation identification and This includes: incentive payments Keeps under review of business and disclosure of monitoring the to executive Directors the succession operational inside information.
integrity of in light of annual planning and processes.
the financial financial results to leadership needs of Identifies, evaluates reporting process: ensure such the Group.
and monitors the overseeing the payments are Keeps under review risks facing the Groups internal justified by the the structure, size Group and decides control and risk Groups performance.
and composition of how they are to management Monitors the level the Board and its be managed.
systems: and and structure of Committees, reviewing the remuneration of recommending any effectiveness the most senior changes to the Board.
of the external executives and internal immediately below audit process.
64 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Operational governance The work of the Executive Committee in executing the Groups strategy is supported by three sub-committees.
GOVERNANCE LEAN ENTERPRISE GROUP TECHNOLOGY AND RISK SUB-COMMITTEE STRATEGY BOARD SUB-COMMITTEE Responsible for driving operational best Responsible for development of the Groups Responsible for monitoring and reviewing practice globally through the application of technology plan.
matters relating to governance, compliance and Lean business processes.
Drives the development of appropriate risk management.
technologies across the Group and the strengthening of external relationships, including access to sources of funding.
Reviews the plans for and progress of major technology projects across the Group.
In addition, the Chief Executives Council assists in shaping the Groups strategy and operations.
Chaired by the Chief Executive, the Councils membership comprises members of the Executive Committee and 17 senior executives from divisional leadership teams involved in the day-to-day running of the businesses.
Board and Committee attendance Attendance at relevant meetings of the Board and of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees held during 2014 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Director 9 meetings 5 meetings 8 meetings 3 meetings Chairman Mike Turner 9 3 Executive Directors Nigel Stein 9 3 a Marcus Bryson 8 Andrew Reynolds Smith 9 Adam Walker 9 Non-executive Directors Angus Cockburn 9 5 8 3 b Tufan Erginbilgic 8 4 6 2 Shonaid Jemmett-Page 9 5 8 3 Richard Parry-Jones 9 5 8 3 Former Executive Director c William Seeger 2 2 Actual attendance maximum number of meetings Director could attend based on date of retirement.
a Marcus Bryson was unable to attend the December Board meeting due to illness.
b Tufan Erginbilgic was unable to attend the February Audit and Remuneration Committee meetings due to illness and the September Board, Remuneration and Nominations Committee meetings due to a prior business commitment.
c William Seeger retired from the Board on 25 February 2014.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Development Effectiveness Directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses, the markets in which they operate and changes to the competitive and regulatory environment through briefings to the Board and meetings Board composition with senior executives.
Board visits to Group business locations The Board currently comprises three executive Directors and enable us to meet local management and employees and to update five non-executive Directors including the Chairman.
It our knowledge of the Groups operations.
Non-executive Directors considers that all of the non-executive Directors, excluding the are also encouraged to visit Group operations to increase their Chairman, are independent and it is not aware of any exposure to the business.
relationship or circumstance likely to affect the judgement of any Director.
I discuss training and development needs with each Director as part of our annual individual performance evaluation process.
The The composition of our Board is kept under review by the Company Secretary keeps under review the suitability of external Nominations Committee to ensure that it retains the necessary skill, courses so that any needs identified either through the evaluation knowledge and experience to meet the needs of the business.
In process or on an ad hoc basis can be addressed.
Directors attended 2014 it considered composition and succession planning in light of external training courses on a number of matters during the year Marcus Brysons decision to retire from the Board: further details including ethics, technological updates and risk and compliance.
Information and support Following the appointment of Adam Walker as Group Finance I am responsible for ensuring that Directors receive accurate, timely Director Designate on 1 January 2014 and until William Seegers and clear information.
The provision of information to the Board was retirement from the Board on 25 February 2014, our Board comprised reviewed during the year as part of the performance evaluation five executive and four independent non-executive Directors exercise referred to on the following page.
Although contrary to the UK Corporate Governance Code provision which states that at least half the board, To ensure that adequate time is available for Board discussion and to excluding the chairman, should comprise non-executive directors, enable informed decision making, briefing papers are prepared and we considered that this arrangement was necessary to facilitate circulated to Directors one week prior to scheduled Board meetings.
an orderly handover between William Seeger and his successor.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the As a Board, we are content that the independent judgement of the Company Secretary who ensures that the Board is fully briefed on non-executive Directors was not adversely affected during this legislative, regulatory and corporate governance developments.
addition, Directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, all Directors will seek re-election at the 2015 AGM.
Our biographical details are given on The Company Secretary also supports the Committee Chairmen by page 61. ensuring that agendas are appropriate and address all matters for which the Committee has specific responsibility.
Recommendations for appointments to the Board are made by the Nominations Committee.
The Committee follows Board-approved Induction procedures available on our website which provide a framework for On joining the Board, a Director receives a tailored induction to suit the different types of Board appointments.
Appointments are made the individuals background and experience.
This includes: on merit against objective criteria with due regard to diversity of a comprehensive induction pack with background information skills, experience and gender.
Non-executive appointees must also about GKN, details of Board meeting procedures, and Directors demonstrate that they have sufficient time to devote to the role.
The duties and responsibilities in addition to a number of other activities of the Nominations Committee during the year are set out governance-related issues: on page 71. a briefing with the Company Secretary who is tasked with facilitating the induction of new Directors both into the Group and as to their roles and responsibilities as Directors: meetings with the Chief Executive and with relevant senior executives to be briefed on the Group strategy and each individual business portfolio: plant visits: and external training where appropriate, particularly on matters relating to the role of a Director and the role and responsibilities of Board Committees.
This induction process was applied following the appointment of Adam Walker.
66 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 2015 actions Performance evaluation Feedback from the evaluation was generally positive.
In particular, members felt that there was a constructive and challenging dynamic Board evaluation and the style of the meetings was conducive to all members feeling Each year a performance evaluation of the Board is undertaken.
An that their contributions were encouraged and valued.
external evaluation is carried out every three years.
Following the external evaluation conducted in 2013, we undertook an internal Following discussion of the evaluation results, the Board agreed the evaluation in 2014.
The evaluation process is described below: following key actions for 2015: Divisional strategies to be discussed in Strategy PERFORMANCE EVALUATION PROCESS the context of long term macro-economic and technology trends, with input from external experts.
Together with the Company Secretary, I agree areas of focus that KPIs relating to key principal risks to be Risk we believe to be critical to the Boards effectiveness.
For 2014 revised and reported to the Board.
these included: strategy and process: The internal control systems of each division Board composition and succession planning: relating to quality, programme management risk and risk management systems: and contracting to be reviewed during 2015. monitoring financial and non-financial performance: culture: and Increase senior managements level of overall Board and Committee working efficiency.
Succession exposure to the Board to accelerate planning development.
Extensive one-to-one interviews conducted by the Company Secretary with each Director Director evaluation The individual performance of the Directors was evaluated against a number of assessment areas.
I conducted interviews Summary of results presented to the Board with each Director, taking into account feedback received as part for discussion of the Board evaluation process.
I can confirm that each Director continues to make a valuable contribution to the Board and devotes sufficient time to the role.
My evaluation was undertaken by the Senior Independent Director taking into account the views Key actions agreed by the Board of the other Directors.
Committee evaluation 2014 actions Committee evaluations were carried out as part of a separate Following feedback gained during last years evaluation exercise, process: details of these evaluations can be found in the relevant progress against our key actions included making changes to the Committee report.
strategy process to ensure that macro and mega trends were considered in more detail.
We also invited external industry experts to attend our strategy meeting to update us on future technology trends and market outlook.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Internal control Accountability The Group has in place a number of controls to manage risk in respect of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated accounts.
Financial and business reporting These include: the implementation of Group accounting policies and procedures, When reporting externally, the Board aims to present a fair, supported by regular bulletins from the central and divisional balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups finance teams on the application of accounting standards and position and prospects.
During the year, the Board satisfied reporting protocols: itself that appropriate assurance processes are in place to Group and divisional policies governing the maintenance of enable it to state that this annual report, taken as a whole, is accounting records, transaction reporting and key financial fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information control procedures: necessary for users to assess the Companys performance, a proprietary internal control monitoring system, GKN Reporting business model and strategy.
A statement of this responsibility, and Integrity Procedures GRiP, to assess compliance with key together with additional responsibilities of the Directors in financial controls on monthly, quarterly and annual cycles: respect of the preparation of the annual report, is set out on monthly operational review meetings which include, page 102.
Page 109 of the auditors report includes a statement as necessary, reviews of internal financial reporting issues by  LLP about their reporting and financial control monitoring: responsibilities.
As set out on page 41, the Directors are of the divisional certifications in relation to internal financial controls, opinion that GKNs business is a going concern.
accounting judgements and representations of divisional financial results: and Risk management and internal control ongoing training and development of financial reporting personnel.
The Board is responsible for setting the risk appetite of the Group and we also retain responsibility for maintaining sound risk Other controls in place to minimise risk and ensure the efficient conduct management and internal control systems and undertaking an of the Groups business include: annual review of the effectiveness of these systems.
Certain the regular review of the GKN Code and policies to ensure that areas elements of this responsibility are overseen on our behalf by the of potential risk are adequately covered.
The Code and policies Executive Committee and the Audit Committee.
define the behaviours expected of all GKN employees and are available on the Group intranet: Our risk management and internal control processes are regularly the development and dissemination of training programmes to reviewed and revised to ensure that they remain relevant to changes educate employees on relevant topics such as competition law or in the Groups internal and external risk profiles.
Improvements anti-bribery and to reinforce the behaviours expected of them: during 2014 included: clearly defined approval limits and delegated authorities, the development and approval of a revised GKN Code for particularly in relation to treasury transactions and capital Group employees: expenditure submissions: and the continued strengthening of the Groups export control an employee disclosure hotline which employees can use to report compliance programme: any instances of suspected wrongdoing.
the introduction of an online tool for assessing external anti-bribery and corruption risks: The areas of our risk assurance processes in which compliance the revision of our Supplier Code of Conduct: and monitoring is considered to be of the utmost importance currently the enhancement of reviews of catastrophic health include: financial reporting, IT controls, legal matters including and safety risk.
anti-bribery and corruption, competition law and export control, human resources issues including employment practices and During the year, we considered changes to the revised UK Corporate employee disclosure and health, safety and the environment.
The risk Governance Code and related FRC guidance, particularly in respect assurance framework therefore incorporates: of risk management and internal control.
We are reviewing our monthly monitoring of compliance with the GRiP financial reporting processes in the context of these changes and will report against the processes through a self-certification process and peer reviews: revised provisions in the 2015 annual report.
the quarterly completion of an IT controls checklist confirming adherence to Group IT standards and policies: monitoring the completion of mandated training on legal topics and Enterprise risk management the compliance of divisional sales agents and consultants GKNs enterprise risk management ERM programme facilitates a committees implemented as part of the Groups anti-bribery and Group-wide approach to the identification and assessment of risk.
corruption measures with the relevant Group policy: A description of the process for managing enterprise risk, together the bi-annual completion of a human resources controls with a summary of risks which could have a material impact on checklist confirming compliance with certain Group HR the Group and actions in place to mitigate those risks, is given standards and procedures: on pages 42 to 51. monitoring the completion of internal health and safety audits against target and any themes arising from these audits: the annual completion of a questionnaire by senior managers in relation to awareness of the Groups Code and policies: and the annual confirmation by senior managers that non-financial controls are in place and operating effectively in their businesses.
The Executive Sub-Committee on Governance and Risk ESCGR monitors the output from these processes and reports any areas of concern and proposals for improvement to the Executive Committee for consideration.
68 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information In 2014, the ESCGR made recommendations to revise the Groups The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Director of Investor Supplier Code of Conduct and recommunicate the Groups Fraud Relations meet regularly with major shareholders to discuss Management policy, both of which were accepted by the Executive strategy, financial and operating performance.
by the Companys brokers after meetings and presentations to ensure that the Groups strategy and performance is being communicated effectively and to develop further an understanding Risk review of shareholders views.
This feedback is included in a twice-yearly Each year all Group businesses are required formally to review their report to the Board, which also provides an update on investor business risks and to report on whether there has been any material relations activity, highlights changes in holdings of substantial breakdown in their internal controls.
This formal review is shareholders and reports on share price movements.
In addition, supplemented by an interim review conducted at the half year.
external brokers reports on GKN are circulated to all Directors.
Businesses also have to confirm annually whether they have complied with statutory and regulatory obligations as well as with GKN hosted a number of events for institutional investors in 2014, the policies which support the GKN Code.
which included site visits to its facilities in the UK, China and the US and divisional presentations on strategy, growth opportunities and The Groups systems and procedures are designed to identify, technology innovations.
A recording of the presentations and slide manage and, where practicable, reduce and mitigate the effects of material shown is available on our website.
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They are not designed to eliminate such risk, recognising that any system can Communications with shareholders only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Written responses are given to letters or email received from material misstatement or loss.
shareholders and all shareholders receive, or can access electronically, copies of the annual and half year reports.
The Process for review of effectiveness investor relations section of our website provides further detail The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the ongoing control about the Group, including share price information, webcasts and processes, and the actions undertaken by the Committee to presentations of annual and half year results, other presentations discharge this responsibility are described in the Audit Committees made to the investment community, and copies of financial reports.
Annual general meeting The Board receives an annual report from the Audit Committee Information regarding the 2015 AGM is given on page 99. concerning the operation of the key systems of internal control and Shareholders who attend the AGM are invited to ask questions risk management.
This report is considered by the Board in forming during the meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal AGM its own view on the effectiveness of the systems.
Resolutions for consideration at the AGM are voted on by way of a poll rather than by show of hands to The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups allow the votes of all shareholders to be counted, including those systems of internal control and risk management during the cast by proxy.
The results of the poll vote are announced to the period covered by this annual report.
It confirms that the London Stock Exchange and published on our website after processes described above, which accord with the FRC guidance the meeting.
on internal control the revised Turnbull Guidance, have been in place throughout that period and up to the date of approval of the annual report.
The Board also confirms that no significant Compliance statement failings or weaknesses were identified in relation to the review.
This corporate governance statement, together with the Nominations Committee report on pages 70 and 71, the Audit Committee report on pages 72 to 77 and the Directors Relations with investors remuneration report on pages 78 to 98, provide a description of how the main principles of the 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code have been applied within GKN The Board maintains a dialogue with investors with the objective of during 2014.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting ensuring a mutual understanding of objectives.
Council and is available on its website at www.
Major shareholders As noted on page 66, from 1 January 2014 until 25 February Communication with major institutional shareholders is undertaken 2014, GKN was not compliant with Code provision B.
1.2 relating as part of GKNs investor relations programme, in which nonto the balance of executive and non-executive Directors.
For the executive Directors are encouraged to participate.
remainder of the year, it is the Boards view that GKN was in compliance with all relevant Code provisions.
With support from the Company Secretary, I meet with institutional shareholders and investor representatives to discuss matters This statement complies with sub-sections 2.1, 2.2 1, 2.3 1, relating to governance and strategy and feed back any issues to the 2.5, 2.7 and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the Disclosure Rules and Board.
The Senior Independent Director is also available to discuss Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
The issues with shareholders where concerns cannot be addressed information required to be disclosed by sub-section 2.6 of through normal channels of communication.
Richard Parry-Jones, in his capacity as Remuneration Committee Chairman, also engages in discussion with shareholders on significant matters relating to executive remuneration.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69
