Corporate governance report Our governance framework, values and business model continue to underpin our approach to achieving our strategic objectives Andrew Allner, Chairman We also understand the importance of a diverse workforce and recognise, Dear Shareholder in line with the transport industry generally, that there are barriers to attracting, retaining and promoting women in the workplace.
In recognition of this, a new On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Diversity Forum was established during the year and, with representatives from Go-Aheads corporate governance report for 2014. operating companies, this forum has been set the objective of achieving target Our governance framework is built upon robust improvements in gender ratios.
systems and processes, effective leadership, high Board evaluation standards of behaviour and a culture based on I see regular and appropriate Board and committee evaluation as an area which openness and honesty.
This report seeks to provide is fundamental to achieving and improving Board effectiveness.
We undertake a comprehensive explanation of how we continue to Board evaluations annually, with an external evaluation every three years.
apply our clear and consistent governance framework During the year under review, an internal evaluation of Board performance was conducted by the Group Company Secretary.
The objectives of the evaluation and how it has operated over the last year.
were to build on improvements made since the last years external evaluation: Strategy to address the key characteristics research has shown make for an effective Board: and assess whether we are working in the most efficient way.
I was The Board formally reviews the Groups strategy and delivery plans for pleased that the Group Company Secretarys report was positive and found achieving our key strategic objectives on an annual basis.
In addition, regular only a small number of areas for development.
Importantly, all Board members debates take place throughout the year to challenge and review progress against the Groups strategy and budget targets.
contribute to maintaining and improving their effectiveness and the collective effectiveness of the Board.
Full details of the evaluation and its outcomes are Our governance framework, values and business model continue to underpin set out on pages 58 and 59. our approach to achieving our strategic objectives.
Full details of our key strategic priorities for 2014 15 can be found in the strategic report on UK Corporate Governance Code pages 1 to 49.
The Group has adopted the new provisions of the 2012 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and is compliant with all provisions.
People We disclose details of how we comply with the Code throughout this report.
During the year, we intensified our focus on building upon our plans to During the year we received a number of awards.
Specifically, we received ensure that the Group is able to attract, develop and retain the best people.
external recognition for our efforts on our 2012 Annual Report by winning I am pleased with the considerable progress that has been made in developing the PwC 2013 Building Public Trust Excellence in Reporting in the FTSE 250 the leadership and development frameworks which started in the previous award.
Additionally, we were delighted to top the list of the 4,000 publicly year.
Our employees engagement with our values, strategy and culture is also traded companies included in GMI Ratings review of trustworthy accounting vital to the success of our business and we believe that it is this overarching and governance behaviour.
culture that is an essential pre-requisite of sustainable success, starting at the top with the Boardroom and cascading through all levels of the organisation.
Go-Ahead places great importance on effective, open and transparent reporting between Go-Ahead and its stakeholders.
Boardroom diversity As a Board, we value the aims and objectives of the Davies Report on women on boards and we recognise and embrace the benefits of having a diverse Board.
Our nomination committee strives to ensure our Board members have the right balance of skills, industry experience, background, Andrew Allner, and other qualities attributable to a director.
All Board appointments are Chairman made on merit, in the context of the skills and experience the Board as 3 September 2014 a whole requires to be effective.
Read more about our people and diversity on pages 26 to 29.
Details of the nomination committee report can be found on page 66 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 52 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Board highlights 2013 14 Board priorities 2014 15 Awarded the Thameslink, Southern and Great Northern TSGN Ensure that health and safety performance is integral to strategy franchise which will operate as GTR Govia Thameslink Railway and is maintained at the highest possible level Good progress towards achieving bus operating profit target Mobilisation and strategic integration of GTR of 100m by 2015 16 Maximise rail profits in existing franchises and secure extensions Development of new talent management, leadership on the right terms development, succession planning and staff engagement Continued progress towards achieving bus operating profit target programmes of 100m by 2015 16 Building upon the improvements implemented from the 2012 13 Consider growth opportunities both within and outside traditional Board evaluation, identified further opportunities to enhance markets and geographies the Boards stewardship of the business as part of the 2013 14 Continue to run our businesses with strong financial discipline, Board evaluation including strong cashflow generation and balance sheet management Top-down process for risk assessment improved to focus Continue to strengthen our key relationships with shareholders, in more depth on key risks passengers, central and local government and the communities Confidence in Group performance and prospects leading in which we operate to a proposed increase to the full year dividend Enhance our collaborative working relationships with our strategic Ending the year in a strong financial position, with low levels partners including DfT, TfL, local authorities and Network Rail of net debt Provide high quality, locally focused passenger transport services The successful development of Andrew Allner and Katherine delivering high levels of customer service Innes Ker in their first full financial year as the new Chairman Continue to build upon the new talent management, training and and Senior Independent Director respectively staff engagement programmes and improve succession planning and The successful integration of Adrian Ewer in his first full leadership development strategies across the Group financial year as the new Chairman of the audit committee Ensure that the Groups core values of trust and transparency and and Board member achieving the highest levels of corporate governance are maintained Continued focus on ensuring that core governance processes Ensure that the Groups sustainability performance is maintained and and values, and the means to monitor them, are embedded that our companies continue to operate in a safe, socially and throughout our business environmentally responsible manner Board committees The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to the audit, remuneration and nomination committees.
All non-executive directors sit on each committee.
The terms of reference for each committee are reviewed annually and the current versions are available on the Groups website.
For terms of reference, visit our website www.
com While the Board delegates some of its responsibilities to these committees, it still retains full responsibility for a number of key areas such as health & safety, sustainability and risk management.
Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee See the audit committee report See the directors remuneration report See the nomination committee report on page 61 on page 68 on page 66 www.
com 53 Corporate governance continued How the Board works Go-Ahead is headed by an effective Board which is collectively responsible Compliance with the UK Corporate for the long term success of the Group.
Governance Code Day-to-day management of the Group and the implementation of strategies agreed by the Board across Group companies have been delegated to the The Code sets out principles and specific provisions on how a executive directors.
The executive directors meet regularly with senior company should be directed and controlled to achieve standards management in Group and across our businesses, both formally via monthly of good corporate governance.
In September 2012 the Financial meetings, and less formally on a regular basis.
The Board and management Reporting Council made changes to the Code which focused on structure is set out below.
The 2012 version of the Code applies to the Group for the year ended 28 June 2014.
The role of the Board This corporate governance report describes the manner in which The Board is responsible for: the Group has applied the principles set out in the Code during setting the Groups strategy and ensuring that the necessary resources are the year.
The Board considers that the Group was compliant in all in place to achieve and monitor progress against the agreed strategic aims material respects with the Code for the whole of the year ended and objectives: 28 June 2014. setting the Groups vision, values and culture: A copy of the Code is available at www.
uk formulating the Groups sustainability, policies and goals: determining the Groups key policies and reviewing management and financial performance: directing and monitoring the Groups affairs within a framework of controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed effectively: Board and management structure ensuring the Group continues to deliver high quality bus and rail services to its passengers: and The Go-Ahead Group plc: Board of directors accountability to shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable financial performance and long term shareholder value.
Conflicts of interest The Board has established robust procedures for ensuring that its power to authorise conflicts of interest is operated in accordance with the Groups Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive articles of association.
The Board considers that the procedures in respect committee committee committee directors of this power, which have been properly followed, have operated effectively during the year and the conflicts register has been updated accordingly.
The Board is aware of its directors other commitments and any changes to these Operating Rail business Bus business Group commitments are advised to and approved by the Board.
company steering steering executive Our devolved structure boards group group team We believe that our devolved management structure, illustrated opposite, enables the Group to be managed in a particularly effective way.
Local management teams, who know their markets well, are empowered to operate our companies as autonomous business units.
Many aspects of Forums: Forums: the Groups day-to-day management are reported by operating company Commercial Engineering senior management directly to the executive directors who in turn feed Operational Finance this into the Board.
Engineering Operational Through our regular cross-business forums, we also work together to identify Finance Marketing & commercial opportunities to share knowledge, experience and best practice across our HR Leadership HR leadership operations.
The senior managers responsible for the key centralised Group Marketing Health & safety functions also regularly meet to look across the businesses to identify, execute Safety group Energy and track synergies which can then be cascaded through the cross-business Communications Diversity forums.
Working collaboratively in this way has proven to be valuable in the context of cost savings, quality improvements and economies of scale.
This structure allows the right balance between local and wider initiatives to deliver Group benefits.
It also ensures the Board remains well informed about our businesses, employees, passengers and stakeholders, enabling it to respond pro-actively to the changing dynamics of the businesses.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 54 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Board meetings Matters reserved The full Board typically meets at least seven times a year, with at least one In addition to the responsibilities set out on page 54, the Board has a formal separate meeting dedicated to reviewing the Groups strategy.
Additional schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
This schedule is reviewed by meetings are held when required.
The number of scheduled meetings held the Board each year.
The key matters reserved are the consideration and during the year and attendance of directors is set out in the table below.
approval of: There were also two additional Board meetings to discuss rail franchise Group strategy and long term plans: bidding activity.
Group objectives, values and overall governance framework: The Chairman and the non-executive directors periodically meet without annual budget and operating plan: the executive directors being present.
During the year, the Chairman met risk management and internal controls: individually with each director.
Board appointments: The agenda for each Board meeting is set by the Chairman in consultation with the Group Chief Executive and Group Company Secretary.
Detailed Group financial structure, including taxation and treasury briefing papers in relation to the business to be conducted at each meeting management policies: are circulated to the Board electronically at least one week before each material capital projects, investments, acquisitions, franchises and meeting.
The executive directors and Group Company Secretary are readily disposals: and available should any Board member wish to receive additional information.
annual and half year financial results and shareholder communications.
Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion and debate and the The full schedule of matters reserved for the Board and terms of reference Chairman ensures that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda for the committees can be found on the Groups corporate website items, in particular strategic matters.
Matters considered at all Board meetings include: Board and committee attendance at meetings key issues and strategic matters: in 2013 14 the Group Chief Executives report on safety, strategic and business developments: Directors attendance at scheduled meetings they were eligible the Group Finance Directors report which includes the latest available to attend: management accounts: Audit Remuneration Nomination performance against financial and non-financial KPIs: Board committee committee committee 1 investor relations report: Andrew Allner 7 7 3 3 5 5 2 2 1 1 David Brown 7 7 3 3 3 3 2 2 sustainability report: and 1 1 1 Keith Down 7 7 3 3 3 3 1 1 where applicable, reports from the audit, remuneration and nomination Katherine Innes Ker 7 7 3 3 5 5 2 2 committees.
Nick Horler 7 7 3 3 5 5 2 2 Division of responsibilities Adrian Ewer 7 7 3 3 5 5 2 2 The offices of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held separately 2 1 1 1 Rupert Pennant-Rea 3 3 1 1 3 3 1 1 and the division of responsibility between these roles is clearly established as 1 Meetings attended by invitation only.
The Board has adopted a written Statement of Division 2 Rupert Pennant-Rea retired as a non-executive director of the Board on of Responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
The Chairman leads the Board, ensuring its effectiveness by promoting challenge and debate and managing a regular evaluation process.
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the performance, management and supervision of the Group in accordance with the strategies and values set by the Board.
The Chairman and Group Chief Executive have an effective and co-operative working relationship and are supported by the Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Director provides a sounding board to the Chairman and is an alternative point of contact for directors and shareholders, where contact with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance Director is inappropriate.
The Chairman holds regular informal meetings with the Board members to encourage a culture of openness.
Integrity is considered of utmost importance in the Boardroom and our non-executive directors challenge the executive directors to encourage constructive debate and facilitate effective decision making.
com 55 Corporate governance continued Individual roles of the Board Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Operation, leadership and governance Overall responsibility and leadership for Maintains strong financial management of the Board Group performance and implements effective financial controls Board effectiveness Communicates the culture, vision and Develops the Groups policies values of the Group and strategies Sets Board agenda, style and tone of Board discussions Stewardship of Group assets Ensures a commercial focus across all business activities Ensures the directors receive accurate, Plans and executes objectives and strategies timely and clear information Ensures the appropriateness of Maintains a close working relationship with risk management In conjunction with the Group Company the Chairman, ensuring effective dialogue Secretary, ensures that new directors with investors and stakeholders Supports and advises the senior receive a comprehensive induction management team Manages the senior management team programme Maintains effective communications Has overall responsibility for the Groups Effective communication with with shareholders and investors sustainability performance shareholders Ensures that leadership and development Sets the tone of the Groups culture and frameworks are developed to generate values and ensures that these continue to a positive pipeline of future opportunities be strengthened and embedded across for the Group the Group Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Group Company Secretary Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman Provide constructive challenge Secretary to the Board and its committees Serves as an intermediary for the other Help develop strategy Ensures efficient information flows within directors the Board and its committees and Scrutinise performance of management between senior management and Is available to shareholders if they have Monitor reporting of performance non-executive directors concerns which they have not been able Ensure integrity of financial information to resolve through the normal channels Facilitates induction of new directors and Ensure financial controls and systems of of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive assists with training and development risk management are robust and defensible or Group Finance Director or for which needs as required such contact is inappropriate Determine appropriate levels of Ensures compliance with Board remuneration for the executive directors Conducts an annual review of the procedures performance of the Chairman and Are available to meet with major Regularly updates the Board on corporate convenes a meeting of the non-executive shareholders governance matters, legislative changes and directors to discuss the same regulatory regimes affecting the Group Facilitates Board evaluation For full biographies of our directors see pages 50 and 51 or visit our website www.
com The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 56 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Time commitments Board effectiveness The nomination committee regularly assesses the other commitments of all Board composition directors.
This year, the committee is again satisfied that there are no conflicts At 28 June 2014, the Board comprised the Chairman, three non-executive of interest and that all directors, particularly those who also chair committees, directors and two executive directors.
The biographies of all members of the have sufficient time to fulfil their responsibilities.
Prior to any new commitments Board, outlining the experience they bring to their roles, are set out on pages being made by directors, agreement is sought from the Chairman.
Indemnification of directors The composition of the Board did not change during the year except for the The Group maintains a directors and officers liability insurance which gives retirement of Rupert Pennant-Rea as a non-executive director at the Groups appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors.
The Group AGM on 24 October 2013. has also granted indemnities to each of its directors to the extent permitted by law.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined in Section 234 Directors tenure of the Companies Act 2006 were in force during the year ended 28 June 2014 and remain in force, in relation to certain losses and liabilities that the Adrian Ewer Non-Executive Director directors may incur to third parties in the course of acting as directors or 0-2 years employees of the Group or of any associated company.
Neither the Groups indemnity nor its insurance provides cover in the event that a director is 17% proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Nick Horler Non-Executive Director 2-4 years David Brown Group Chief Executive Induction Keith Down Group Finance Director All new directors undertake a full induction programme either shortly before 50% or upon joining the Board.
This covers amongst other things: Katherine Innes Ker Senior Independent Director 4-6 years the business of the Group: Andrew Allner Chairman the legal and regulatory responsibilities of directors: 33% meetings and briefings from members of the Board: opportunities to meet with local senior management at operating companies: and Election & re-election to the Board opportunities to meet with key advisors.
All directors are required by the Groups articles of association to be elected This is a personalised induction programme, tailored to the directors by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment by the Board.
previous experience and background, and is geared to particular areas of Subsequently, all directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders focus.
It is designed to enhance the new directors understanding of their roles as recommended by the Code.
and responsibilities and develop their knowledge in relation to the transport The performance of all directors is objectively and rigorously reviewed on industry generally, and, specifically, the Groups structure and operations.
The an annual basis and this is used as the basis for recommending re-election Group Company Secretary, working closely with the Chairman, agrees the of directors to shareholders.
personalised induction plan with each new director.
The performance evaluation undertaken during the year confirmed that While no new directors were appointed during the year under review, members of the Board and its committees have the appropriate balance the above process was followed when Adrian Ewer was appointed as a of skills, experience and diversity of background to enable them to discharge Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the audit committee in April 2013. their duties and responsibilities effectively, which includes their views carrying significant weight in the Boards decision making.
The Board works well together to bring independent and balanced judgement to their deliberations and no individual or group of individuals dominates decision making.
The non-executive directors are independent in both character and judgement and the Chairman was considered independent on his appointment.
As such, and in accordance with the Groups articles of association and the Code, all directors will be offering themselves for annual re-election at the 2014 AGM.
Full details of the performance evaluation process can be found on page 58 www.
com 57 Corporate governance continued Performance evaluation Continuing professional development A formal evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual directors is carried out on an annual basis.
The Chairman regularly encourages the non-executive directors to continually update their skills, knowledge and ongoing familiarity with the Group in order to competently carry out their responsibilities.
2013 14 evaluation of the Board and its committees This is achieved as follows: The Group Company Secretary met with each Board regular presentations at Board meetings from senior management member on a one-to one basis to discuss: on matters of significance.
Examples during the year included the areas of improvement identified as part of the previous years presentations from the Managing Director of Rail Development external evaluation: updating the Board on the TSGN bid, the Group Engineering the key characteristics research has shown make an effective Director presenting on the Groups health and safety ethos and Board: and the Group HR Director talking about the development of the whether the Board is doing the things they should be and Groups leadership and succession planning programmes: whether there are better ways of working.
the non-executive directors periodically visit operating companies The Group Company Secretary shared findings with the Chairman and attend the Groups Senior Management Conference each on an anonymous basis.
During the year, the Chairman, Katherine Innes Ker and Nick Horler visited all major operating companies.
Separately, as part of A full Board discussion took place following which an action plan his formal induction, Adrian Ewer continued his site visits, meeting was agreed and implemented.
with senior managers and employees across the businesses: the directors are regularly provided with updates on the Groups businesses as well as updates on corporate governance and Evaluation of individual directors legislative regulatory issues.
Updates are by way of written Each non-executive director completed a self-assessment briefings from the Group Company Secretary, presentations questionnaire and a cross-assessment questionnaire on each other: from management and presentations from external advisors.
the questionnaires were designed to gain insight into the During the year under review updates focused on the changing corporate landscape which included the Companies Act 2006 directors perceptions and views of what the relationship between the Board members was like and whether the Board Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 and the FRCs 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code, particularly processes and support, and interactions with its committees, were appropriate.
Views were also sought on the administrative the new fair, balanced and understandable requirements and the reforms to directors remuneration reporting: and support for the Board and whether sufficient information and time were devoted to key issues and strategic matters: and the directors are regularly provided with updates on political and market related issues as well as compliance training.
An executive directors were not required to complete selfassessment questionnaires or have cross-assessment example during the year was the requirement for all Board directors to participate in an online training course covering the questionnaires completed on them given that this process had taken place through their one-to-one appraisals.
areas of anti-bribery, corruption and competition law.
Each course followed the same format: the applicable law in each area was The Group Company Secretary compiled information from explained and practical scenarios were used to illustrate how that the questionnaires into a report to ensure feedback from each law was relevant to the bus and rail industries.
At the end of each director remained anonymous.
course the directors had to answer a set of questions correctly The Chairman met with each director to discuss findings from in order to pass an exam.
As in previous years, the Senior Independent Director led the process of evaluating the performance of the Chairman, in As part of their annual performance evaluation, directors are given the consultation with the non-executive directors and with input opportunity to discuss their own training and development needs.
Directors from the executive directors.
are expected to take responsibility for identifying their training needs and to take steps to ensure that each is adequately informed about the Group and their responsibilities as a director.
The Board is confident that all of its members Summary of findings have the knowledge, ability and experience to perform the functions required In summary, the review this year again found a well-run Board.
of a director of a listed company.
There was a general feeling of satisfaction about the way the Board was performing, its culture and effectiveness.
The Board operated within a robust corporate governance structure and was well organised, with the information received being comprehensive and timely.
The review indicated that the atmosphere around the board table was a positive one and discussions were open and frank with all directors demonstrating good trust and confidence in each other.
In particular, there was a genuine desire from the non-executive directors to engage more actively and work better collectively with the executive directors to further increase Board effectiveness, while recognising their respective roles and duties.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 58 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Although no areas of material concern were highlighted, the Board concluded Information and support that the following matters should be considered to ensure improved Board Board procedures manual stewardship in the future: The Board is supplied with high quality information, presented in a form appropriate to enhance Board effectiveness.
A comprehensive Board procedures manual is maintained which includes formal procedures for the 2013 14 evaluation 2013 14 actions taken working of the Board and its committees, delegated authorities, the timely recommendations provision of appropriate information and the duties and responsibilities of directors, including standards of conduct and compliance.
This manual Timetable revised to facilitate Capitalise more on is regularly updated to ensure it is consistent with current best practice.
earlier discussion and debate non-executive directors Group Company Secretary on strategy.
More regular updates expertise earlier in the The Group Company Secretary is available to all directors to provide advice on how progress is being made process for strategy against strategy, with a focus on and is responsible for ensuring that all Board procedures are complied with formulation those areas not performing to and that Board and committee papers are circulated to all directors on iPads plan, the consequent remedies ensuring fast, timely and secure provision of information.
and whether plans are being The Group Company Secretary reports to the Chairman in her role as achieved in a timely manner.
secretary to the Board and its committees.
She reports to the Group Finance Director on all other company secretariat matters, including the management More focus and discussion given Create more time of the Groups bus pension arrangements.
Her biography can be found on to the new agenda item Key Issues in Board meetings page 51. and Strategic Matters introduced for thorough debate Independent advice following the last Board evaluation.
on key issues All directors may take independent professional advice, at the Groups More time spent actually debating and discussing, rather than listening.
expense, if they believe it to be necessary for the proper discharge of their duties as directors.
More information provided to the Improve succession Relations with shareholders Board on a regular basis including planning and leadership Go-Aheads Board has always been committed to reporting in a fair, balanced specific information on key and understandable manner and places great importance on transparent, management processes individuals, pipelines and succession relevant and timely communication with shareholders.
Throughout the year, to support the delivery plans and career development plans.
we maintained open and frequent dialogue with investors, providing updates of strategy on strategy, objectives and governance.
The Groups investor relations IR programme, managed by the Groups More regular updates from Improve engagement IR team, includes regular dialogue between the executive directors and senior managers on key strategic with senior managers current and potential shareholders through group and one to one meetings, and topical matters to allow presentations and conferences.
The executive team are also in regular contact non-executive directors to hear with sell-side analysts and meet with broker sales teams to communicate the and question first hand those Groups key message to the people dealing with investors every day.
We also individuals responsible for current communicate with the investment community through regular news releases matters and issues of importance.
Financial results and other material news releases are issued via the London Stock Exchange as well as being published on our More formalised More focused individual director corporate website www.
reviews now undertaken at least individual director on an annual basis, involving review and individual and self-assessments.
development More time given at each meeting Improve top-down to review and discuss in detail process for risk the critical and key risks that could assessment impact delivery of strategy, and the mitigating actions and controls in place.
com 59 Corporate governance continued The investor relations section of our website provides a wealth of information Annual General Meeting AGM including a dedicated results centre, latest news, access to reports, presentations In addition to individual meetings, the principal communication with all and other useful documents, as well as share price, market capital and other shareholders is through the Annual Report and the AGM.
The AGM is attended shareholder information.
Investors and other interested parties can subscribe by all directors and all shareholders are invited and encouraged to attend as it to receive news through email updates by registering their details on our provides an opportunity to develop their understanding of the Group and ask website.
To enable shareholders to access information on the move we questions.
There is also the opportunity to meet informally with the directors also have a dedicated investor relations iPad app.
before and after the meeting.
Any questions shareholders wish to register in advance of the AGM can be sent to the Group Company Secretary at We continue to use other channels to engage with a wider audience through agm@go-ahead.
com or The Go-Ahead Group plc, 3rd Floor, 41-51 Grey our Facebook and Twitter accounts.
We also have a range of award-winning Street.
social media activities in place across our bus and rail companies, updating passengers with real time service information.
Combined, Go-Ahead and its Full details of the business to be discussed at the AGM can be found in the companies are reaching 250,000 people on Twitter and 140,000 on Facebook.
Notice of Meeting sent to registered shareholders in advance of the meeting and is also available on our corporate website at www.
Our investor base is largely UK focused and as such we focus our IR programme in the UK.
Following our full and half year results we hold investor Ordinary business raised for consideration at the AGM each year includes roadshows in London and Edinburgh for institutional investors.
We also attend receiving the financial statements for the year, together with the directors the annual conferences held by our corporate brokers.
In addition to these and auditors reports, the directors remuneration report and the final dividend: programmed events, we respond to meeting requests from institutional electing and re-electing members of the Board: and re-appointing the Groups and private holders throughout the year.
While key shareholder engagement auditor.
Other matters included on the agenda for the AGM may vary from activities are undertaken by the executive directors, overall responsibility for year to year in accordance with the requirements of the Group.
ensuring that there is regular and effective dialogue with investors rests with the Chairman, who is available and appreciates the opportunity to meet investors for this purpose.
The Senior Independent Director and the chairmen of the Boards committees are also available to meet key investors on request and the Group Corporate Communications Director and Head of IR are available to provide updates on the Groups sustainability and broader governance strategies to socially responsible investors.
We will be holding an investor event in London in the autumn, details of which will be released following the year end results.
The IR team provides the Board with regular reports and updates, including analysts reviews, analysis of the shareholder register and shareholder feedback.
Understanding our shareholders views is important to us.
Following our full and half year roadshows our corporate advisors gather detailed feedback from institutional shareholders which is presented to the Board.
This forms an important part of the Boards strategic discussions and also assists the IR team in improving the quality of communications.
Feedback is also sought by the Boards committee chairmen: for example, the Chairman of the remuneration committee consults with major shareholders before any For further information visit our website at www.
com ir or significant changes in executive remuneration.
contact the IR team via enquiries@go-ahead.
com The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 60 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dear Shareholder On the following pages we set out the audit Audit committee report committees report for the year ended 28 June 2014.
The past year has seen significant developments in the regulatory backdrop The committee provides underpinning the committees important role which is to provide assurance assurance that the financial and surety of the Groups processes and procedures in relation to internal statements are fair, balanced control, risk management and corporate reporting.
and understandable Following publication of the revised version of the Code in September 2012, the Board requested the committee to advise them on whether it believes Adrian Ewer, that the Annual Report and Accounts the Report, taken as a whole, are fair, Audit Committee Chairman balanced and understandable such that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
In order for the audit committee and the Board to be satisfied with the overall fairness, balance and clarity of the Report, a collaborative approach is taken to Audit committee membership creating the Report which involves direct input from key report contributors and the Board throughout the process.
Additionally the following steps are taken: Adrian Ewer Committee Chairman early planning and implementation of timetables: Katherine Innes Ker Senior Independent Director project managers for each section established from outset: Nick Horler Independent Non-Executive Director Composition compliant with Provision C. 3.1of the Code review, consideration and feedback on regulatory changes and best practice: Committee Secretary validation of data and information included in the Report both internally Carolyn Ferguson Group Company Secretary and by the external auditor: Meetings also regularly attended, by invitation, by: a series of key proof dates for comprehensive review across all sections Andrew Allner Chairman that aim to ensure consistency and accuracy: David Brown Group Chief Executive audit committee review and recommendation to the Board: and Keith Down Group Finance Director Board sign-off.
External auditor representative s Internal auditor representative s As a result of this work, the committee concluded that the processes and controls were appropriate and we were able to provide positive assurance to the Board that the Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
2013 14 audit committee highlights In addition to the audit committees main responsibilities detailed on page 62, Approval of half-year and full-year financial statements we set out opposite our key highlights for 2013 14 and priorities for 2014 15.
Provided assurance to the Board on whether the 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable Focus on the key significant risks that could impact the Group achieving its strategic objectives Adrian Ewer, Review of the effectiveness of the external auditor process Audit Committee Chairman 3 September 2014 Ongoing control and assessment of the internal audit process Health check of cyber security and implementation of processes to review annually Tendering brief and timetable agreed in readiness for the external audit tender process which will commence in 2014 15 2014 15 audit committee priorities In addition to its usual items of business, the audit committees priorities for 2014 15 are to: Monitor changes in the external regulatory environment to make sure that we continue to have appropriate financial, compliance and internal controls in place Tender the Groups statutory audit work ahead of the 2015 16 audit cycle Ensure the committee is exercising its assurance oversight role in the best possible way www.
com 61 Corporate governance continued Audit committee responsibilities How the committee works The terms of reference of the audit committee are reviewed regularly The committee normally meets at least four times per year excluding meetings and approved by the Board.
These are in line with best practice and held to review its effectiveness as part of the annual performance evaluation.
reflect the recent changes to the Code and the FRCs Guidance on Audit This year, due to timings of meetings around the year end date, the committee Committees.
The audit committees terms of reference can be accessed met three times in 2013 14.
Members individual attendance at committee via the corporate website www.
com or upon request from meetings for the year under review can be found on page 55. the Group Company Secretary.
Meetings of the committee generally take place just prior to Board meetings in The audit committee is responsible for: order to maximise the effectiveness of collaborating with the Board.
Meetings are attended by the independent non-executive directors and, by invitation, the monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and internal and announcements relating to the Groups financial performance, and reviewing external auditors.
Other individuals from the business are also invited to attend significant financial reporting judgements contained in them before their certain meetings in order to provide an increased understanding of certain key submission to the Board for approval: issues and developments.
In order to ensure momentum is sustained and matters reviewing and challenging, where necessary, the consistency of significant progressed, the Committee Chairman holds pre-audit committee meetings with accounting policies, and whether appropriate accounting standards have key advisors between main committee meetings.
been used: At least once a year, the non-executive directors hold separate meetings with reviewing the content of the Report and advising the Board on whether the external and internal auditors, without the executive directors being present.
it is fair, balanced and understandable: The committee members have between them a wide range of business and reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal financial financial experience which enables the committee to fulfil its responsibilities controls and internal control and risk management systems: in a robust and independent manner.
The committee considers Adrian Ewer, reviewing reports from the internal health and safety auditor on health the Committee Chairman, to have recent and relevant financial experience and safety audit standards: for the purposes of compliance with the Code.
Key financial matters for 2013 14 How the committee addressed these key financial matters Compliance with franchise terms and The committee regularly reviews the levels of income and cost arising from franchise agreements.
conditions relating to the rail components At interim and year end reviews, a full schedule of material income statement and balance sheet of the Group, specifically relating to the movements is assessed against the committees expectations and discussed with the Group Chief accounting for related income and costs Executive and the Group Finance Director arising from franchise agreements Ongoing review of provisions for liabilities At interim and year end, the levels of provision for third-party claims, lease return and dilapidation and charges, specifically relating to provisions are reviewed with the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
Managements third-party claims and lease return and review is supported by reports from appropriate third-party experts who independently assess the dilapidation provisions for rolling stock, required provision based on their industry knowledge and an understanding of the Groups specific stations, depots, other properties and circumstances.
Increases in provisions, utilisation and release of provisions are all reviewed for measurement of uninsured liabilities reasonableness in light of these reports and the Groups specific circumstances Impairment testing in respect of the The ongoing review of goodwill and carrying value of investments, as presented by management, is carrying value of goodwill on the challenged by the committee.
This is done by assessing the expected performance of the individual Groups investments cash generating units and ensuring that relevant risk factors are imputed to the rate of return used to assess net present value of future cashflows.
The committee also reviews historic performance against expectations set in previous years Assumptions underpinning the Pension scheme liabilities are assessed on behalf of the Group by independent actuaries.
Additionally, calculation of the Groups defined the committee assesses the underlying assumptions with other professional advisors to ensure that benefit pension liabilities the actuaries own assumptions are appropriate for the Group.
The committee also discusses the appropriateness of the assumptions with the Groups external auditor Re-presentation and restatement of the Group management implemented reporting under IAS 19 revised during the year.
Amounts derived financial statements to reflect the impact under the new standard and the old standard were compiled by the Group actuaries and discussed of IAS 19 revised with management.
The revised disclosures were agreed with the committee and the Groups auditors Ongoing review of changing issues such The audit committees review of risks and uncertainties in the wider economy encompasses emerging as the impact of European working time risks and considers each when appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
The committee will seek directive on holiday pay specific legal or other professional advice to support its assessment of areas that could affect the Group Understanding and treatment The committee will consider separate disclosure of exceptional income or costs in light of the FRC of exceptional items in the year recommendations of a balanced and consistent approach.
The committee is mindful of the need to end accounts understand the underlying trends of each division within the business with the impact of large and unusual items segregated out as necessary to avoid distortions from such non-recurring aspects The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 62 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information providing assurance to the remuneration committee on quality of whether the Report, taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable: and earnings and budget for performance-related bonus purposes: any correspondence from regulators in relation to our financial reporting.
reviewing the adequacy of the whistle blowing system, the Groups As part of the interim and year end financial statements approval process, the procedures for detecting fraud and the systems and controls for the committee met with the external auditor.
During this exercise the committee prevention of bribery, and receiving reports on non-compliance: considered the key audit risks identified as being significant to the 2013 14 reviewing and assessing the annual internal audit plan and receiving accounts and the most appropriate treatment and disclosure of any new or reports from the internal auditors at each meeting: judgemental matters identified during the audit and half yearly review as well overseeing the Groups relationship with the external auditor, including as any recommendations or observations made by the external auditor.
The monitoring and reviewing their performance, assessing their continuing primary areas of judgement considered by the committee in relation to the independence, making recommendations as to their reappointment key financial matters for 2013 14 and how these were addressed are set out or, where appropriate, making recommendations for change, and approving on page 62. their terms of engagement and the level of audit fees payable to them: How we manage the Groups risk management and assessing the qualifications, expertise and resources of the auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process: and internal control system The Boards responsibilities ensuring that at least once every ten years the audit services contract is put out to tender.
For the financial year ended 28 June 2014 and up to the date of approval of this report, the Board confirms that it has complied with provision C. 2.1 of Financial reporting the Code and has established procedures that implement in full the guidance given in Internal Control : Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined The primary role of the committee in relation to financial reporting is to review, with both management and the external auditor, the appropriateness Code the Turnbull Guidance.
of the interim and year end financial statements.
The committee focuses on, The Board recognises its responsibility for the Groups risk management amongst other matters: and internal control system and is committed to ensuring its adequacy and effectiveness in every respect.
Any system of internal control can provide only the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices: reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material financial irregularities the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting will be detected or that the risk of failure to achieve business objectives is standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements: eliminated.
The Boards objective is to ensure that the Group has appropriate material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or there systems in place for the identification and management of risks.
has been discussion with the external auditor: Key features of the Groups risk management and internal control system The Groups decentralised organisation structure supports an effective top-down bottom-up approach to risk Group structure management and control Leadership Clear leadership from the Board with the executive directors plays an integral role working with operating companies Regular review of reports received from the Groups internal auditor, health and safety consultants, external auditor Board-level reporting and the executive directors Health and Health and safety standards established across all operating companies and key performance indicators monitored safety reporting on a monthly basis at operating company and Board level Strategy and financial reporting A comprehensive Group-wide system of financial reporting, budgeting and cash forecasting and control through which financial accounts are prepared and submitted to the Board monthly Annual certification by each operating company that they have adhered to the Groups policies and procedures manual Compliance management which reinforces the Groups corporate governance, internal control processes and management of risk www.
com 63 Corporate governance continued Internal control and risk management Internal auditor The key roles and responsibilities of each of the respective functions within The Groups internal audit function has been outsourced to the Groups system of risk management are detailed on page 35.
Through the  on a rolling 12 month contract, with overall processes outlined in this framework: responsibility and direction being retained by the audit committee.
The internal key risk areas are identified, assessed and prioritised: audit function provides assurance over the effectiveness of key internal controls as identified as part of the risk assessment process.
In addition to meetings with areas for improvement of internal controls and risk management local management, the internal auditor reports to the executive directors at are identified: least six times a year and to the audit committee, normally, at least four times action plans are agreed and implemented to achieve such improvements: and a year.
This year, due to timings of meetings around the year end date, the progress against actions is monitored by senior management, the executive committee met three times in 2013 14. directors and the audit committee.
The committee keeps under review the internal audit relationship with The other key features of the Groups internal control and risk management  and maintains the procedures to ensure appropriate independence of the internal audit function.
system are set out in the table on page 63.
The Board has confirmed that, through its audit committee, it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system At the start of the year the committee considered and approved the internal of internal financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, audit plan for the two years ending 27 June 2015, which covered a number and considers that this system of internal controls operated effectively of focused audits in key business areas across the operating companies and throughout the financial year and up to the date on which the financial Group functions.
During the year, the committee reviewed findings from the statements were signed.
internal audit reports scheduled in the year ended 28 June 2014, the actions taken to implement the recommendations made in these reports and the Whistle blowing & anti-bribery procedures status of progress against previously agreed actions.
The Group is committed to the highest standards of quality, honesty, openness and accountability and a whistle blowing policy has been issued to all operating External auditor effectiveness companies to ensure a consistent approach across the organisation.
Employees During the year, the Chairman of the audit committee led the process to assess are encouraged to raise genuine concerns under the policy and any concerns the effectiveness of the audit process.
The primary purpose of this assessment raised are investigated carefully and thoroughly to assess what action, if any, was to gain assurance that the external auditor had conducted a should be taken.
Any matters of significance are reported to the audit comprehensive, appropriate and effective audit.
During the year, no issues of significance were raised.
honest dialogue with the external auditor about its performance the objectives The Board supports the objectives of the Bribery Act 2010 the Bribery Act of the process were to: and procedures have been established to ensure that compliance is achieved.
assess each phase of the audit process against a quality framework, as shown Any issues arising under the Bribery Act are dealt with promptly and in the table below: appropriately by the Group Compliance Officer.
Training has been provided to the Board and senior management who are in turn responsible for ensuring discuss with the external auditor what areas went well and what could the staff reporting to them comply.
Training is refreshed on a regular basis.
be improved: Any breach of the Bribery Act will be regarded as serious misconduct, result in optimised assurance being derived from the audit: and potentially justifying immediate dismissal.
help inform future audit tender processes that the audit committee A Group anti-bribery policy has been established and is set out in the Groups will undertake.
This sets out what is expected from employees to ensure that they protect themselves as well as the Groups reputation and assets.
The audit committee reviewed an audit quality framework which assessed the following key audit phases: Phase Areas covered Team structure and leadership demonstrated by the audit partner Audit planning and design Integrated audit approach Audit tailored to the business Leveraging sources of assurance Use of innovation and technology Behavioural factors including professional challenge Audit execution Technical excellence Communication and audit reporting Audit efficiency and project management Review of external auditors internal quality control procedures Independence and Consideration of audit firm transparency report in line with the Code, paying specific attention to the sections quality control on independence and quality assurance and training Detailed questioning of the role of management at both operating company and Group level Role of management The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 64 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The assessment was carried out in conjunction with each key phase of External audit appointment the audit and so was discussed at each subsequent committee meeting.
The committee reviews and makes recommendations with regard to the The observations from this assessment for the 2013 14 financial year were reappointment of external auditors.
In making these recommendations, the presented and discussed at the August 2014 meeting and it was concluded committee considers auditor independence and objectivity, partner rotation, by the audit committee that our audit process had been effective.
the ratio of audit to non-audit fees, the effectiveness of the audit process and any other factors which may impact the external auditors reappointment.
Independence, objectivity and fees The external auditor is required to rotate its audit partner every five years.
The Board recognises the importance of auditor independence and is aware The most recent change for Go-Ahead occurred in the year ended 2 July 2011 of the situations that may give rise to the impairment of auditor independence.
and, therefore, partner rotation is due before the 2015 16 audit.
The audit committee carefully considers the objectivity of the auditors on an The current external auditor, Ernst & Young, was first appointed to the Group annual basis, in relation to both the audit process and the relationship with in 1987.
While the Group has not formally tendered the audit since then, as the Group.
part of the committees review of the activities outlined above, the committee In order to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence, the committee remains confident that the effectiveness and independence of the external has, as part of its terms of reference, the following policy for the provision auditor is not impaired in any way.
Having considered the need to tender the of non-audit services by the external auditor: position for the current year, the committee has provided the Board with its the auditors will only be used for the provision of non-audit work if it can recommendation to the shareholders on the reappointment of Ernst & Young be demonstrated that the engagement will not impair independence, is a as external auditor for the year ending 27 June 2015.
Accordingly a resolution natural extension of their audit work or there are other overriding reasons proposing the re-appointment of Ernst & Young will be put to shareholders that make them the most suitably qualified to undertake the work: at the 2014 AGM.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Group with regard to its appointment and we do not indemnify our external auditor.
the auditors will not provide certain categories of non-audit services to the Group, such as internal audit, and litigation support: the full list of which The committee will continue to assess the effectiveness and independence can be found in the committees terms of reference: of the external auditor and is very supportive of provision C. 3.7 of the Code which recommends FTSE 350 companies should put their audit contract out the provision of certain non-audit services including accounting and tax to tender at least every ten years.
We will comply with the Competition services if the fees exceed a cumulative 50,000 is subject to approval by Commission Order relating to the statutory audit market for FTSE 350 the audit committee.
In 2014, this was reduced from a previous cumulative companies, which is expected to come into effect from 1 October 2014. of 250,000: and Under the transitional arrangements, the committee intends that a formal the ratio of the external auditors audit to non-audit fees during the year, tender process be held during the course of next year which coincides with as a proportion of the annual external audit fee, is kept under review the timing of the rotation of the current Senior Statutory Auditor who will by the committee.
be retiring after the 2014 15 audit having completed a five year term.
The During the financial year, the principal external auditors fees were 0.5m purpose of the audit tendering exercise will be to market test the quality and 2013: 0.5m : in addition, non-audit fees of 0.1m 2013: 0.2m were payable effectiveness of the services provided by the incumbent auditor against those to the principal auditor.
In comparison, non-audit fees paid to other providers offered by other firms, with the aim of obtaining the best quality and most during the financial year were 1.8m 2013:0.7m.
Approval was given for effective audit.
the provision of taxation services where the committee was satisfied that the external auditor was able to provide better value for money without compromise to their independence.
Several operating companies use Grant Thornton as their auditor.
Total fees to Grant Thornton during the financial year were 0.1m 2013: 0.1m.
Grant Thornton received non-audit fees of 0.1m 2013: nil relating to litigation support for Group companies with whom they have no audit relationship.
com 65 Corporate governance continued Dear Shareholder On the following pages we set out the nomination Nomination committees report for the year ended 28 June 2014. committee report The Board of Go-Ahead consists of the Chairman, three non-executive and two executive directors, who together bring a diverse and complementary range of backgrounds, personal attributes and experience.
Biographies of The recent transitional all the members of the Board can be found on pages 50 to 51 of this report.
Board period has The primary objective of the nomination committee is to review the structure, completed successfully size and composition of the Board, including the Boards succession planning requirements.
It also oversees the identification and assessment of potential Andrew Allner, Board candidates and makes nominations to the Board for its approval as Nomination appropriate.
Committee Chairman The recent transitional Board period has now completed smoothly and successfully.
Katherine Innes Ker, Adrian Ewer and myself completed our first full financial years as Senior Independent Director, Audit Committee Chairman and Chairman respectively.
Additionally, October 2013 saw the retirement Nomination committee membership of Rupert Pennant-Rea as a non-executive director after more than ten years with the Group.
Nick Horler was appointed as Ruperts replacement in Andrew Allner Committee Chairman Chairman November 2011 and is an Independent Non-Executive Director.
I am pleased Katherine Innes Ker Senior Independent Director that our succession planning processes have been efficient and effective and Nick Horler Independent Non-Executive Director we look forward to providing a continuation of leadership necessary to Adrian Ewer Independent Non-Executive Director promote the success of the Group for the long term value of shareholders David Brown Group Chief Executive in the future.
2.1 of the Code The committee also keeps under review the leadership needs of, and Committee Secretary succession planning for, the operating company directors and other key senior Carolyn Ferguson Group Company Secretary management appointments.
Its remit also includes making recommendations Meetings also regularly attended, by invitation, by: for the appointment or removal of the Chairman or any executive director, Keith Down Group Finance Director and the terms associated with such recommendations.
A key focus for the committee and Board as a whole this year has continued to be addressing succession risks and ensuring that we are building a diverse In addition to the nomination committees main responsibilities as management pipeline capable of stepping up to fill the most senior positions detailed on page 67, our key highlights for 2013 14 are as follows: in the Group in the coming years.
To this end, we have continued to refine 2013 14 nomination committee highlights a number of our initiatives such as a Group Leadership Programme and a Understanding our leadership and succession pipelines and Bus Graduate Scheme.
Additionally, we have developed internal retention supporting the identification and development of participants strategies including career planning conversations and tailored personal development programmes.
For further information, please see the People Reviewing succession plans for the executive directors and key section on pages 26 to 29. senior management positions and ensuring appropriate development and retention plans are in place Developing a Boardroom diversity policy, the principles of which can be cascaded through the business As part of the performance evaluation process, undertaking a review Andrew Allner, of the skills of the Board Committee Chairman 3 September 2014 2014 15 nomination committee priorities Our priorities for 2014 15 will be to continue to build upon the good work already completed from our leadership and succession planning to date.
We recognise that our success will come from our people and we want to ensure we have the right framework in place to identify, develop, motivate and retain employees who have the right skills and capability to support the Board in the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives In the year ahead, the committee will also continue to monitor developments in corporate governance to ensure the Group remains at the forefront of good governance practices The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 66 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Training, personal development and career planning are an integral part of Meetings how the Group equips people to do their job and encourages employees The committee meets as needed to deal with necessary assignments and to build a long term career with the Group.
The objective is to drive high its responsibilities as listed below, in accordance with the needs of the Group performance, develop the next generation of leaders, reward excellent and best practice in corporate governance.
The committee met twice during performance and behaviour and create an engaging culture where individuals the year excluding meetings held to review its effectiveness as part of the and teams can be successful in achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
Members individual attendance can be found on page 55.
For further information on succession planning and our people plans, see pages 26 to 29.
Committee purpose and responsibilities The purpose of the nomination committee is to keep the Boards governance, Boardroom diversity policy composition, skills, experience, knowledge, independence and succession Go-Ahead recognises the importance, and values the benefits, of having arrangements under review and to make appropriate recommendations to a diverse Board, and sees increasing diversity at Board level as an essential the Board to ensure the Groups arrangements are consistent with the highest element in maintaining a competitive advantage.
Our non-executive directors corporate governance standards.
The key responsibilities of the committee come from a broad range of industry and professional backgrounds, with varied are set out in the table below.
A full list of responsibilities is detailed in the experience and expertise aligned to the needs of the business.
The combination committees terms of reference which are reviewed regularly, approved by the of personalities on the Board provides a good range of perspectives and Board, and are available on the Groups corporate website www.
com challenge and improves the quality of decision making.
During the year, the or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
Board continued to focus on improving diversity and formally introduced the Boardroom diversity policy.
The percentage of female representation on the Succession planning and leadership management Board is currently 17% and, including our Group Company Secretary, 29% While succession planning is the responsibility of the Board as a whole, the female representation.
nomination committee oversees the Boards arrangements for the longer term succession of Board and committee members and ensures that an established The Board aspires to maintain the current levels of gender diversity going formal process for succession is followed that recognises the challenges of forward and, in considering appointments to the Board and to senior executive working as a small Board.
During the year under review, no new appointments positions, we will consider diversity across a wider range of areas including were made to the Board.
However, with oversight from the committee and the gender, background, skill set, experience and expertise.
Our foremost priority Board, the leadership review introduced last year to address succession risks remains to ensure that Go-Ahead continues to have the strongest possible for the key roles beneath the executive director level was further developed.
leadership and we will appoint only the most appropriate candidates.
This review consisted of two key elements: Further information, including the proportions of women in senior succession planning to identify succession risks at operating company and management and within the Group overall, is shown in the People Group level: and section on pages 26 to 29 a leadership programme to identify and develop potential successors for We also understand the importance of a diverse workforce and recognise, critical roles.
in line with the transport industry generally, there are barriers to attracting, In addition, internal retention strategies were built upon to include career retaining and promoting women in the workplace.
In recognition of this, a new planning, tailored personal development, external appointments and improved Diversity Forum was established during the year and with representatives from incentive arrangements.
This forum has been set the objective of achieving target improvements in gender ratios.
The Board recognises that significant advantage is to be gained by identifying and developing our own people as well as bringing in skills from outside the organisation.
Responsibilities of nomination committee Nomination committee terms of reference Composition, skills and independence Succession planning Corporate governance Identifies and reviews the balance of skills, Leads the Board selection and appointment Oversees the Boards governance knowledge, diversity and experience on the process for new directors.
arrangements to ensure that they pay Board and nominates candidates to fill due regard to best practice principles Considers succession planning, taking into Board vacancies.
account the challenges and opportunities Reviews the time commitment required facing the Group and the future skills and Monitors Board governance issues including from non-executive directors.
expertise needed on the Board.
the establishment of appropriate policies and practices to enable the Board to Reviews the leadership needs of the Provides oversight of succession planning operate effectively and efficiently.
organisation, both executive and nonand talent management for the key roles executive, with a view to ensuring the beneath the executive director level.
continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the market place.
