Corporate governance REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE COMMITTEE I am pleased to introduce our audit committee report for 2013 14which explains the committees role in monitoring thegroups financial reporting, its internal controls and itsriskmanagement processes.
Ian Durant Chairman of the audit committee A number of topics were considered by the quality and effectiveness of internal and Financial statements and audit committee during the year and the most external audit.
It also regularly considers Before the start of the audit cycle, the significant are described below.
The thecompanys whistle blowing procedures.
committee reviewed the audit plan presented committee is cognisant of revisions to the Thecommittee also reviews the groups risk by the auditor and agreed the scope of the audit UK Corporate Governance Code and the management policies and procedures prior to work.
In reviewing the financial statements related Guidance on Audit Committees, submission to the board and receives detailed the committee reviewed the consistency of both of which came into force for the past reports on the risk management processes accounting policies on a year-to-year basis year and accordingly presents this report within the business units and key functional and across the group, and the methods used to which focuses on matters of particular areas.
Regular updates are provided to the account for significant or unusual transactions.
significance and relevance to Greene King.
committee on regulatory, accounting and It also reviewed the proposed accounting reporting developments under relevant forthe sale of 275 pubs to Hawthorn Leisure financial standards and codes.
Limited, where contracts were exchanged Membership prior to the year end and the sale completed The audit committee was chaired during after the year end, resulting in an impairment Operation of the committee theyear by Ian Durant.
The other members of 19.6m on disposal.
The focus given by of the committee were John Brady and The committee met three times during the theauditor to matters relating to revenue Mike Coupe.
All members are considered year.
Attendance at these meetings by the recognition was also noted.
Significant issues bythe board to be independent.
The board committee members is shown in the table that the committee addressed in relation to is satisfied that Ian Durant has recent and on page 43.
On each occasion the finance the financial statements are set out in the table relevant financial experience, as the former director or interim finance director and on page 47.
The committee also reviewed finance director of Liberty International plc, senior members of the finance function managements attestation paper setting out since renamed as Intu Properties PLC, and attended, as well as the company secretary the information that had been provided to the current audit committee chairman at and head of risk.
The external auditor the auditor to enable it to form its opinion Home Retail Group plc.
attended all of the meetings.
By rotation, onthe groups financial statements and operational managers present risk reports demonstrating that it was appropriate for at audit committee meetings.
There is an Responsibilities thedirectors to make the representations opportunity at each meeting for the committee setout in the letter of representation.
The role of the audit committee is to review to discuss matters privately with the auditor the groups financial reporting, controls and without management present.
In addition, risk management processes.
This includes the chairman of the committee is in regular Effectiveness of external audit assessing the external audit conclusions on contact with the external audit partner to After the audit was completed a review of the full year and interim results, in each case discuss matters relevant to the company.
Details theeffectiveness of the auditor and of the prior to their submission to the board.
The of the committees specific responsibilities audit service was undertaken, supported board undertakes the required assessment and how the committee exercised those byaquestionnaire completed by the audit that the annual report is fair, balanced and responsibilities are set out in the remainder committee chairman, the group finance understandable and consequently does not of this report.
The committees detailed terms director, and a number of key members of the ask the audit committee to advise it on this.
of reference are available on the companys finance team involved in the preparation of The committee is responsible for reviewing website and these are reviewed and updated the statutory accounts.
The review covered the the companys internal control systems, annually.
In addition, the committee reviews overall quality of the service, the audit partner advising the board on the appointment of critically its own performance annually, taking and the audit team, and considered matters external auditors, overseeing the relationship input from the external auditor, andassesses such as the management of the audit team, the with the external auditors, and reviewing the where improvements might bemade.
46 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2014 www.
co. uk Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Significant issues considered by the audit committee in relation to the financial statements for 2013 14 MATTER CONSIDERED WHAT THE COMMITTEE DID Impairment offixedassets andgoodwill Two detailed reports from management were considered by the committee on the methodology used to determine the extent of impairment required.
The committee challenged the assumptions used, the range of pubs covered by the review and questioned managements site-by-site reviews and likely timetable for disposals of non-core sites.
Thecommittee also discussed managements proposals with the external auditor and took into account its viewson assumptions used, reviewed market practice and consistency.
Asaresult the committee concluded thatanimpairment of 22.0m was appropriate in relation to tangible fixed assets.
As regards goodwill, it was determined that 6.4m should be written off in relation to disposals undertaken during the year and 14.6m writtenoff inrelation to the sale of the 275 pubs which took place after the year end.
Uncertain tax positions The committee reviewed in detail a number of uncertain tax positions which have not yet been agreed or are in dispute with HMRC.
For each item the committee noted their current status and considered the views of the groups advisers and independent counsel as to the most likely outcome in each case.
Particular attention was paid to the largest of these, aninternal funding arrangement undertaken in 2003 4, known as Sussex.
The committee also discussed with the external auditor their detailed reports on the provisions and satisfied itself, as a result, thatappropriate provisions were in place in respect of these uncertain taxpositions.
Funding headroom and covenants The committee reviewed the groups funding headroom and covenants in conjunction with the review of the use ofthe going concern assumption.
Managements projections, assumptions and stress testing were reviewed and challenged, as were the extent to which mitigating actions would achieve the desired outcomes.
The committee alsosought and received assurances from the external auditor as to the work it had undertaken in relation to this issue.
The audit committee has established a support being provided by Ernst & Young in Effectiveness of external audit policy in relation to the use of the auditor relation to a matter in dispute with HMRC.
The company will It was noted that since 2005 Ernst & Young quality of their challenge, insight and award non-audit work to the firm which has not provided tax structure advisory communications and the cost-effectiveness of provides the best commercial solution for services to the group and that this policy the audit.
The committee reviewed the the work in question, taking into account continues.
The committee reviewed and feedback provided and, with further enquiry, the skills and experience of the firm, the debated a report from Ernst & Young in including a review of the results of external nature of the services involved, the level of which it confirmed compliance with its own quality inspections of Ernst & Young by the fees relative to the audit fee and whether policies, procedures and ethical standards, Audit Quality Review team of the Financial there are safeguards in place to mitigate to including those of the Auditing Practices Reporting Council, satisfied itself as to the an acceptable level any threat to objectivity Board, in relation to auditor objectivity and current quality of the audit service.
The and independence in the conduct of the independence.
It also noted the use by the feedback was also provided to Ernst & Young.
audit resulting from such services.
auditor of a separate tax audit team to audit The issue of audit independence was also the tax disclosures in the annual report and considered and is covered in more detail below.
Work estimated to cost in excess of 25,000 took account of the robust and challenging is put out to tender unless agreed otherwise audit of the groups financial statements External auditor appointment by the chairman of the audit committee.
The committee was therefore We last tendered our external audit contract The finance director may approve specific satisfied that auditor independence and in 1997 and Ernst & Young has been the engagements up to 50,000 in aggregate objectivity was safeguarded and that it was companys auditor since then, with an annual upto 100,000 pa, and the chairman of the appropriate to recommend to the board rolling contract and an annual shareholder audit committee may approve engagements Ernst & Youngs re-appointment as auditor.
It is required to rotate the up to 100,000 in aggregate up to 200,000 pa, This resolution will be put to shareholders audit partner responsible for the group and with fees in excess of those limits being at the AGM.
subsidiary audits every five years and the subject to approval of the full committee.
current audit partner was appointed in the The committee has in place a policy in autumn of 2011.
The boards current intention During the year the company made limited relation to the appointment of former is to put the audit of the group and subsidiary use of specialist teams within Ernst & Young employees of the auditor by the group.
The accounts out to tender, with a view to any for non-audit work such as taxation support, policy provides that audit partners will not change taking effect for the 2016 17 statutory primarily in relation to certain tax matters be offered employment by Greene King or accounts, at the end of the current audit on which Ernst & Young specialists had any of its subsidiary undertakings within partners five-year term.
It is, however, also originally advised, including an ongoing two years of undertaking any role on the aware and considering the implications of dispute with HMRC.
The total fees paid to audit.
Other key team members will not be the transitional provisions in the EU Ernst & Young during the year amounted to offered employment by Greene King within regulation on audit matters, which would 420k, of which 87k related to non-audit work.
six months of undertaking any role on the allow a further period of seven years before audit.
Other audit team members who a change of audit firm was required.
Particular consideration was given by the accept employment by Greene King must committee to the issue of auditor independence cease activity on the audit immediately they and objectivity, especially in the light of tax tender their resignation to the audit firm.
co. uk Annual report 2014 GREENE KING PLC 47 Corporate governance REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Internal audit A summary of the risk management ongoing monitoring by the board of framework is set out on page 30.
The risk compliance with financial covenants: The committee reviewed the companys management framework and internal internal audit function, which previously control systems are designed to manage, a centralised financial reporting system focused primarily on the groups Retail and not to eliminate, the risk of failure to and close process, with controls and division.
The committee supported achieve business objectives.
They can provide reconciliation procedures designed managements proposals to extend the remit reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that tofacilitate the production of the of the internal audit function to cover more the groups assets are safeguarded and that consolidated accounts: central functions and has, since the year the financial information used within the end, agreed terms of reference and reviewed business and for external reporting clearly defined evaluation and approval a proposal for how the internal audit teams isreliable.
processes for acquisitions and disposals, work will be reported to the committee as capital expenditure and project control, well as work undertaken in 2013 14.
Under The company has in place procedures to with escalating levels of authority the terms of reference for the function, the assess the key risks to which it is exposed including board approval for major internal audit team has direct access to the and has formalised the control environment acquisitions and disposals, detailed audit committee chairman to enable it to needed to address these and other issues.
appraisal and review procedures and raise any significant issues.
There are processes in place which accord post-completion reviews: with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee Other matters on internal control, and these remained in review of retail operational compliance The committee reviewed, as it does on an place up to the date of this report.
The board by the retail internal audit team annual basis, the groups whistle blowing is satisfied that there are no significant responsible and other analytical and policy and its application across the business.
control procedures facilitated by the EPOS till system: and The committee considered the issue of The key elements of the internal control cyber security following publication of the framework are: documented policies to cover bribery governments Cyber Security Framework andwhistle blowing and regular updates in2013 and will be keeping this issue under the schedule of matters reserved on any incidents.
review during the course of 2014 15. fortheboard: The group finance director has been on an The terms of reference of the committee the groups defined management extended leave of absence since March 2014 were also reviewed and updated during the structure with suitable authority limits for health reasons.
The audit committee is year and an exercise was undertaken to and responsibilities, staffed by satisfied that the arrangements put in place assess the effectiveness of the audit appropriate personnel: in his absence ensure appropriate leadership committee itself.
of the finance function and maintain regular updates for the board on strategy: effective levels of internal control.
Internal control and risk a comprehensive planning and financial management reporting procedure, including annual The board has overall responsibility for budgets and a three-year strategic plan, thegroups risk management framework both of which are reviewed and approved and systems of internal control and for by the board: reviewing their effectiveness, whilst the audit committee monitors and reviews ongoing monitoring by both the board those internal controls and risks on a and senior management of performance regular basis and reports to the board on against budgets, through the periodic itsfindings.
During the course of the year reporting of detailed management the committee reviewed in detail reports accounts and key performance indicators: from a number of business units and functional areas on their respective risk management processes and key risks.
Representatives of the relevant business unit or functional area attended those meetings to present the reports and answerquestions from the committee.
48 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2014 www.
