Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Greene King is committed to good governance and believes it to be essential inhelping the business to deliver its strategy, generate shareholder value and safeguard our shareholders long-term interests.
We also note the emphasis within the UK Corporate Governance Code onwell balanced, effective boards, strong oversight of risk management, alignment of remuneration policies with shareholder interests and sound shareholder relations.
This years corporate governance report and the reports from the board committees describe the operation of the board and explain how we applied the principles of good governance setout in the code during the year.
Our committees are structured to ensure that the responsibilities of the board are carried out effectively and in line with best practice procedure.
We work hard to provide, in this report, the information you need to understand our business model and strategy for growth and to assess our performance towards our goals.
As a result, your board believes this annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, as we confirm in the directors responsibility Statement of compliance with the statements on page 63.
I would also encourage you to refer to our website UK Corporate Governance Code www.
The company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code the code Although there have been no board changes, the board has nevertheless been focused which isissued by the Financial Reporting onboard succession issues, with the process to recruit a new non-executive director to Council and which is available at replace John Brady, who will stand down at the end of July having completed nine years www.
The code sets out of service on the board, having begun during the year.
guidance in the form of principles and provisions on how companies should be Our group finance director, Matthew Fearn, fell ill during the year and has not yet returned directed and controlled to follow good towork.
The board appointed David Brown, the groups corporate finance director, as interim governance practice.
Companies listed group finance director in Matthews absence.
We wish Matthew a full and speedy recovery.
in the UK are required to disclose how they have applied the main principles The audit committee has continued its reviews of key accounting and reporting matters and whether they have complied with and its report includes fuller details of the work it has undertaken during the year, its provisions throughout the financial aswell as explaining how significant issues were considered.
Where the provisions have not been complied with companies must The remuneration committee continues to ensure that the remuneration of the directors provide an explanation.
is aligned with the interests of shareholders whilst at the same time motivating a successful team.
The directors remuneration report includes details of the remuneration paid The board considers that the company todirectors during the year as well as a number of other disclosures required by the has complied with the UK Corporate governments new regulations on remuneration reporting.
Governance Code dated September 2012 throughout the year.
Tim Bridge Chairman Tim Bridge, the chairman, was not independent business interests.
The board considers that The board on appointment, having previously served as he remained independent in both character Board composition chief executive.
However, the board is satisfied and judgment, that his performance has As at the year end the board comprised the that he shows independent judgment, that his been effective and that he has demonstrated chairman, two executive directors and four performance as chairman is effective and that commitment to the role.
As well as supporting non-executive directors.
The board believes he demonstrates continued commitment to the chairman and acting as a sounding board that the structure and size of the board is therole.
for the chairman and an intermediary for appropriate and that no single individual or other directors, a key responsibility for the group dominates the decision making process.
Ian Durant is the senior independent senior independent director is to be available non-executive director.
He has never been for direct contact from shareholders should The non-executive chairman is Tim Bridge, employed by the company and has diverse they require.
the chief executive Rooney Anand, and the senior independent director Ian Durant.
John Brady, who was appointed to the board Board independence and committeemembership as a non-executive director in 2005, will be Nomination Audit Remuneration retiring from the board on 27 July 2014.
Name Independent committee committee committee Tim Bridge chairman No The directors biographies are on page 40.
Rooney Anand No Independence of John Brady Yes  Mike Coupe Yes In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, more than half of the board, Ian Durant Yes excluding the chairman, are non-executive Matthew Fearn No directors and the board is satisfied that all of these were independent throughout the year, Lynne Weedall Yes inthat they satisfied the independence criteria of the code on their appointment and continue to satisfy those criteria.
co. uk Annual report 2014 GREENE KING PLC 41 Corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Leadership carefully examined and fully discussed, The board continued thatthe performance of the company Diversity Role of the board ismonitored and challenged and that The board approves of the principle of The board is collectively responsible for the thefinancial information provided is long-term success of the company and for its trying to recruit more women into senior comprehensive and accurate.
They are management and director roles.
When making leadership, strategy, control and management.
alsoresponsible for ensuring, through new appointments, the policy of thecompany therelevant committee, that appropriate is to recruit on merit for each role on offer, The offices of chairman and chief executive remuneration arrangements are in place are separate and distinct and the division whether executive or non-executive.
We set forthe executive directors.
out a job specification anda profile of the ofresponsibilities between them has been clearly established, set out in writing and likely characteristics, qualifications, experience Operation of the board and merits required before starting a search, agreed by the board.
The board has a formal schedule of matters and aim tofind the individual who is best suited which are reserved for its decision, including to the role, without prejudice between male The chairman is responsible for the approval of the long-term objectives and leadership and effectiveness of the board and female candidates.
strategy, approval of budgets and financial and for ensuring that each non-executive statements including the annual report, director is able to make an effective We currently have one female director on the acquisitions and disposals, changes to the board, Lynne Weedall, who is chairman of the contribution to the board through debate structure of the group and overall corporate anddiscussion with the executive directors.
We have not set a governance issues.
It reviews trading percentage target for female representation He is also responsible for setting the style performance and considers major capital and tone of board discussions.
on the board as we do not think it is the right expenditure and acquisition opportunities.
way to address the issue for a board of seven The chief executives role is to develop the people, where the key will be to ensure The board has delegated certain asuitable range of skills, experience and companys strategic direction and to lead responsibilities to standing committees, senior management in executing the companys knowledge across the board members and details of which are set out below.
By where the issue of gender and diversity will strategy and managing the operational delegating key responsibilities to these requirements of the business.
bejust one consideration taken into account committees, the board is able to ensure when filling board vacancies.
thatadequate time is devoted by board The non-executive directors have a particular members to the oversight of key responsibility to ensure that the strategies areaswithin their responsibility.
proposed by the executive directors are GREENE KING BOARD Approve the groups long-term objectives, commercial strategy and the overall The board is ultimately responsible fundingstrategy for the long-term success of the company.
Its principal Approve the budgets and financial statements, including the annual report responsibilities are to: Approve acquisitions and disposals Oversee the groups operations and review performance in the light of the groups strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets Nomination Audit Remuneration reviews structure, size and reviews and monitors full year sets remuneration policy: composition of the board: and interim results: sets executive director makes recommendations monitors internal financial remuneration and incentives: forappointments: and controls: approves annual performance succession planning.
oversees external audit objectives: and relationship: and approves granting of oversees risk management.
Ian Durant Chairman Lynne Weedall Chairman Tim Bridge Chairman John Brady John Brady John Brady Mike Coupe Mike Coupe Mike Coupe Ian Durant Ian Durant Lynne Weedall Nomination committee report Audit committee report Directors remuneration report page 45 pages 46 to 48 pages 49 to 60 42 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2014 www.
co. uk Details Members Committees Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Day to day management and control of Attendance at scheduled meetings held during the year is set out below: thebusiness is delegated to the executive Nomination Audit Remuneration directors, business unit managing directors Board committee committee committee and certain key functional heads, who meet formally on a monthly basis together with Executive directors other senior managers as appropriate.
Rooney Anand 8 8 Board meetings are scheduled to be held Matthew Fearn 6 8 eighttimes a year, with main meetings Non-executive directors linkedto key events in the companys financialcalendar, with the annual results Tim Bridge 8 8 2 2 and dividend being approved in June or John Brady 7 8 1 2 3 3 2 3 Julyand the interim results and dividend inNovember or December.
Regular agenda Mike Coupe 8 8 2 2 3 3 1 1 items include an overview of the market and Ian Durant 8 8 2 2 3 3 3 3 current trading as well as a detailed review of financial performance against agreed targets.
Lynne Weedall 8 8 2 2 3 3 Matthew Fearn was unable to attend meetings in March and April 2014 due to his current illness.
There is a two-day meeting for the board J ohn Brady was unable to attend one board meeting, nomination committee meeting and remuneration inFebruary each year focusing on strategy, committee meeting for family reasons.
with the business unit managing directors Mike Coupe was appointed to the remuneration committee with effect from 29 April 2014. and heads of the main functional areas, namely commercial, HR and property, attending for part thereof.
The strategy board are appointed to deal with matters corporate governance generally.
Initial sessions include an in-depth review of which it is known will need to be dealt with responses have been discussed by the relevant economic factors, managements between scheduled board meetings.
It is chairman and the non-executive directors.
projections for the medium term and provide expected that all directors attend board Anumber of minor comments were raised, the board with an opportunity to agree the andrelevant committee meetings, unless although none of any significance.
Inaddition strategic plans across all areas for the short they are prevented from doing so by prior to the formal evaluation exercisethere is and medium term.
Following approval of the commitments.
If directors are unable to an ongoing dialogue withinthe board to companys strategy, budgets are prepared attend meetings in person or by telephone ensure that it operateseffectively.
Any matters forthe next financial year to be approved they are given the opportunity to be raised areaddressed in a timely manner.
The board also has consulted and comment in advance aprogramme to review each business unit ofthemeeting.
The code requires an externally facilitated and main functional area in detail on a board evaluation to be performed every regularbasis, with particular focus on Board papers are circulated seven days three years and for Greene King this will theachievement of strategic objectives.
prior to each board or committee meeting take place during the next financial year.
Therelevant managing director or functional toensure that directors have sufficient head attends such meetings to present and timeto review them before the meeting.
An appraisal of the chairmans performance answer questions.
Documentation includes detailed management was undertaken by the senior independent director, Ian Durant, in conjunction with accounts, reports on current trading, reports The board has responsibility for determining from each business unit and main functional the renewal of the chairmans appointment.
whether the annual report, taken as a whole, Discussions were held with the other areas and full papers on matters where the is fair balanced and understandable to enable board is required to give its approval.
non-executive directors and with the chief shareholders to assess the companys executive and it was agreed to appoint the performance, business model and strategy.
The chairman holds regular, informal chairman for a further term of three years.
In coming to its view, the board took into The performance of the executive directors meetings with the non-executive directors account its own knowledge of the group, without the executive directors being is reviewed annually by the remuneration itsstrategy and performance in the year, committee in conjunction with their annual present and the non-executives also meet theguidance given to all contributors to with the chairman and the chief executive pay review and the payment of bonuses.
theannual report and a detailed review by on an informal basis twice each year.
senior management of the overall content.
Training and support Each director is responsible for ensuring Other matters specifically considered Board effectiveness that they remain up to date in their skills during the year included property acquisitions Board performance and evaluation and knowledge of the company, and the and disposals, financing, taxation, risk The board conducts an annual evaluation training needs of the board and its committees management and key group risks, the approval ofits own performance and that of its are regularly reviewed.
Particular emphasis of new long-term incentive arrangements, committees and directors.
This year the is placed on ensuring that directors are committee terms of reference and delegated evaluation was undertaken internally, in aware of proposed legislative changes in authority limits.
theform of a detailed questionnaire that areas such as remuneration, corporate alldirectors were asked to complete and governance and financial reporting and Between meetings, as required, the board return to the chairman.
All directors are also can be in frequent contact to progress the covered a range of areas including questions encouraged to visit the companys pubs and companys business and, if necessary, board on board structure and composition, restaurants and do so throughout the year.
meetings can be held at short notice.
Where strategyand financials, board processes, possible, however, ad hoc committees of the risks, the boards committees and on www.
co. uk Annual report 2014 GREENE KING PLC 43 Corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED an audit committee, each of which has formal Board effectiveness continued Institutional shareholders terms of reference governing its method andanalysts Training and support continued ofoperation.
Each of the terms of reference, There is a regular dialogue with institutional Newly appointed directors receive a tailored which have been approved by the board, are shareholders, including meetings after the induction on joining the board to acquaint available on request or to download from announcement of the year-end and interim them with the company.
This generally takes the companys website and will be available results.
Analysts are also invited to presentations the form of meetings with other board for inspection at the AGM.
at those times and separately to analyst trips members and senior management, and the to visit our premises and hear presentations provision of an induction pack containing on specific divisions of the business.
The general information on the company, its DTR disclosure board receives regular reports and feedback policies and procedures, financial and The information required by DTR 7.2 on the meetings held between the executive operational information and a briefing issetout in this report, the nomination directors and principal shareholders, and ondirectors responsibilities.
committee report and the audit committee copies of analysts reports on the company.
report, except for information required There is an agreed procedure, set out under DTR 7.2.
6 which is set out in the The senior independent non-executive inwriting, for directors, in furtherance directors report.
director, Ian Durant, is available to shareholders oftheir duties, to take independent if they have concerns about governance professional advice at the companys issues which the normal channels of contact expense.
Directors also have access to fail to resolve.
theservices of the company secretary.
Thecompany has in place directors AGM andofficers liability insurance.
The AGM is fully utilised as a means ofcommunicating directly with private Commitment and conflicts of interest shareholders, who receive a brief presentation All significant commitments which the on the business before the substantive part directors have outside Greene King are of the meeting begins.
They also have the disclosed prior to appointment and on an full opportunity to ask questions during the ongoing basis where there are any changes.
meeting and to meet directors and senior The board is satisfied that each of the management informally after the meeting.
non-executive directors commits sufficient The board aims to ensure that all members time to their duties and fulfils their of the board, including in particular the obligations to the company.
chairmen of the board committees, are available to answer questions at the AGM.
The board has the right, under the articles of association, to approve potential situational The notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders conflicts of interest.
A small number of such at least 20 working days before the meeting.
potential conflicts have been approved by All substantive items of business at shareholders the board following disclosure by certain meetings are dealt with under separate directors, in each case with the relevant resolutions, including a resolution to adopt director not taking part in any decision the report and accounts.
The chairman relating to their own position.
Directors announces the results of the proxy voting arealso aware that the disclosure and on each resolution after it has been dealt authorisation of any potential conflict with on a show of hands.
situation does not detract from their requirement to notify the board separately Website of an actual or potential conflict in relation to a proposed transaction by the company.
The company maintains a website www.
co. uk to provide up-to-date, detailed information on the Communication with shareholders companys operations and brands, which The board is keen to ensure that our includes a dedicated investor relations section.
shareholders have a good understanding All company announcements are available ofthe business and its performance, and onthis site, as are copies of slides used for that the directors are aware of any issues presentations to investment analysts.
We are orconcerns which shareholders may have.
happy to answer questions by telephone or Communication with shareholders takes e-mail investorrelations@greeneking.
Board committees The board has established a nomination committee, a remuneration committee and 44 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2014 www.
