Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE COMMITTEE I am pleased to introduce our nomination committee report for 2013 14.
During the year the committee continued to focus onthe issue of succession planning, as wellasconsidering board and committee composition, to ensure that they continue tomeet theneeds of the company and itsshareholders.
Tim Bridge Chairman of the nomination committee for board members and senior management, The composition of the boards committees Membership taking into account the challenges and was reviewed and it was decided to recommend During the year the nomination committee opportunities facing the company, and what to the board the appointment ofMike Coupe was chaired by Tim Bridge.
The other skills and expertise are therefore needed on to membership of the remuneration committee members of the committee were John Brady, the board in the future, and for reviewing with effect from29 April 2014.
Mike Coupe, Ian Durant and Lynne Weedall.
membership of the boards committees to Apart from the chairman, all members were ensure that undue reliance is not placed On the recommendation of the nomination considered by the board to be independent.
committee, and taking into account the continuing effective performance of the Responsibilities directors, the board has decided once again Activities during the year The role of the nomination committee is to this year to ask all directors apart from The committee met twice during the identify, evaluate and nominate candidates John Brady who retires on 27 July to stand year.
Attendance at these meetings by the for appointment to the board, to review for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
committee members is shown in the table regularly the structure, size and composition on page 43. including skills, knowledge and experience The committee has also commenced the of the board and make recommendations to process of appointing a new non-executive Matters considered by the committee the board with regard to any adjustments director to take John Bradys place on during the year included board succession that are deemed necessary.
planning, committee composition, the board evaluation exercise, training requirements The committee is also responsible for for directors, the committees terms of considering the companys succession plans reference and the re-election of directors.
co. uk Annual report 2014 GREENE KING PLC 45
