Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43 Audit Committee I am satisfied that the activities of the Committee enable it to gain a good understanding of the key matters impacting the Company Introduction The Committee will continue to keep its activities under review in I am pleased to introduce the report of the Audit Committee the light of regulatory developments and the emergence of best for 2014. practice.
In particular, the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code will take effect for the first time in our 2015 financial year and we The Committee plays an important part in the governance of expect there to be clarification of the UK implementation of the the Company with its principal activities focused on the integrity EU Directive and Regulation on statutory audit.
of financial reporting, quality and effectiveness of internal and external audit, risk management and the system of internal control.
Overall I am satisfied that the activities of the Committee during the year enable it to gain a good understanding of the There have been a number of changes to the membership of key matters impacting the Company along with oversight of the Audit Committee during 2014 as detailed below and we the governance and operation of its key controls and ultimately have worked hard to ensure that all new Committee members to draw the conclusions set out in the report below.
received appropriate induction and training.
Allison Kirkby I have set out below the main matters considered by the Chair of the Audit Committee Committee during the year and the conclusions drawn.
We meet formally at key times within our reporting calendar and the agendas for our meetings are designed to cover all significant areas of risk over the course of the year and to provide oversight and challenge to the key financial judgements, controls and processes that operate within the Company.
44 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Audit Committee continued Composition Meetings during the year The Audit Committee is comprised of the following: The Audit Committee met five times during the year.
Details of Committee members attendance is given on page 39.
Allison Kirkby Chair Helena Ganczakowski appointed 2 January 2014 The Committee normally invites the Company Chairman, Peter McPhillips appointed 10 March 2014 the Executive Directors, the Head of Business Assurance and Sandra Turner appointed 1 May 2014 the external auditor to attend its meetings.
Time is set aside bi-annually for discussion with the external auditor and with the It is the practice of the Company for all independent NonHead of Business Assurance, in each case in the absence of Executive Directors to serve as members of the Audit Committee.
The Committee also has access to the Helena Ganczakowski, Peter McPhillips and Sandra Turner were Companys management team and to its auditor and can seek each appointed to the Committee when they joined the Board further professional advice, at the Companys cost, if required.
during the year on the dates shown above.
Julie Baddeley and Iain The Chair has regular contact with the Finance Director Ferguson resigned from the Audit Committee when they stepped and internal and external auditors, in addition to scheduled down from the Board on 1 May 2014.
Committee meetings to ensure that emerging issues are addressed.
She also has access to and, in 2014, met with Training is provided for new members of the Audit Committee a partner independent of the partner responsible for by way of a thorough induction process which includes access the audit.
to the external auditor, the Head of Business Assurance and relevant members of management.
Financial reporting In 2014 the Audit Committee reviewed the 2013 Annual Report, The Directors biographies on pages 36 and 37 detail the interim results, preliminary results announcement and reports from Committee members previous experience.
The Board considers the external auditor on the outcome of their reviews and audits.
that Allison Kirkby has recent and relevant financial experience and is confident that the collective experience of the members During the year, and up to the date of this report, the Committee enables them to act effectively as an Audit Committee.
considered key accounting issues and judgements and related disclosures in the Groups accounts.
The significant areas Role and responsibilities of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the The Terms of Reference of the Committee can be accessed at: accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2015 are as follows: corporate.
co. uk Investor centre Corporate governance Company documents.
The key responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: ensuring that the accounting and financial policies of the Company are proper and effective: assisting the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by monitoring the integrity of the accounts and information published by the Company and reviewing significant financial judgements contained in them: advising the Board on whether it believes the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: reviewing the internal financial controls and the Groups approach to risk management: oversight of whistle-blowing arrangements: monitoring compliance with the Listing Rules and the recommendations of the Governance Code: oversight of the Companys external and internal auditors and reviewing the effectiveness and objectivity of the audit process: and reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 Area of focus Action taken Asset impairment The accounts include asset impairment provisions made by assessing expected The Audit Committee considered the sensitivities of the assumptions used and future cash flows.
The results of the impairment reviews were presented by assessed whether any reversal of impairment was indicated by improved trading in management to the Committee based on the following methodologies.
For shop the impaired shops.
It concluded that the impairment provisions were appropriate assets historic cash flows including attributable overheads are used as a base, and that they reflected suitably the future plans of the business.
with a 0 per cent growth rate and a discount rate of 10 per cent applied over an appropriate period based on the remaining lease term.
For supply chain assets the potential net realisable value of the sites was considered.
The total cumulative impairment held against assets on the balance sheet at the end of the year was 4,186,000 2013: 5,796,000.
Accounting for onerous leases Onerous lease provisions have been made for shops which have been vacated, The Committee reviewed managements assessment in respect of these leases have been identified for closure or re-site or are under-performing.
The key and concluded that the assumptions made were appropriate.
area of judgement in making this provision is the determination of the length of time it will take to find a suitable exit opportunity for each lease.
The onerous lease provision held on the balance sheet at 3 January 2015 was 3,155,000 2013: 3,672,000.
Dilapidations Dilapidation provisions have been made on a lease by lease basis and are based The Committee reviewed managements assessment of the need for dilapidation on the Groups best estimate of the likely committed cash flow.
The balance provisions and concluded that the principles applied were adequate.
held in respect of dilapidation provisions at the end of the year was 3,456,000 2013: 1,689,000.
Going concern The accounts continue to be prepared on a going concern basis.
Information provided by the Finance Director regarding future financial plans, risks and liquidity is presented to the Committee to enable them to determine whether the going concern basis of accounting remains appropriate.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the assumptions used and concluded that the Board is able to make the Going Concern statement on page 42 of the Directors Report.
Accounting implications of planned investments in processes and systems The Company has reviewed its accounting policy in this area and ensured that The Company is making a major investment in the next few years in new process and systems platforms which will result in the recognition of a a clear framework is in place to classify items that are capital in nature correctly.
The Committee has reviewed this framework and has established that the significant intangible asset.
principles are sound and the correct approach is being adopted by management.
The Committee also reviewed the amortisation rates that will be applied to the investment and the point at which amortisation will commence.
Understanding and treatment of exceptional items The accounts include exceptional items in both the current and prior years.
The Committee considered the accounting requirements of IAS1 relating to the separate disclosure of material items of income or expense together with the FRCs guidance on the subject with reference to the costs arising as a result of the strategic review announced in 2013 and the restructuring of in-store bakeries and support operations announced at the start of 2014.
The Committee sought to ensure that the treatment followed consistent principles and that reporting is suitably clear.
The Committee gave careful consideration to the judgements made in the separate disclosure of non-underlying items, both in respect of events occurring in 2014 and also changes in circumstance in respect of provisions relating to events from prior years.
It concluded that separate disclosure should be made of items of expenditure incurred in 2014 relating to the restructuring activity and additional costs incurred in relation to the closure of Greggs moment stores in 2013.
Accounting for defined benefit pension schemes The determination of the defined benefit obligation depends on the selection of Pension scheme liabilities are assessed on behalf of the Company by independent certain assumptions including the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality rates.
The Committee assesses the underlying assumptions to ensure that The net liability held in relation to the defined benefit pension scheme at the end they are appropriate and also discusses the appropriateness of the assumptions of 2014 was 8,518,000 2013: net asset of 55,000. with the external auditor.
Accounting for supplier incentives Supplier incentives and volume rebates are received routinely in the normal The Committee considered a report detailing the Companys accounting treatment course of the business.
Given the well-publicised accounting issues at other of supplier incentives provided by the Finance Director together with a report from retail businesses, the Committee carried out a review of the Companys practice the Head of Business Assurance who made this a key area of focus during the year.
The Company receives around 6 million per annum in rebates and The Committee is satisfied that the Companys accounting treatment in respect supplier funding.
of supplier incentives is appropriate and prudent.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee is responsible for advising the Board on whether The Committee received a report from the Head of Business Assurance who it believes the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, is not involved in the preparation of the annual report and accounts and who balanced and understandable.
conducted an independent review of it.
The following factors were considered during the course of this review: Ensuring that all the statements are consistent with one another: Verifying that figures in the narrative sections are consistent with the relevant financial detail: Identifying any duplication of information: Confirming that bad news is included, as well as good news: and Highlighting any inappropriate use of technical language or jargon.
The Audit Committee considered the feedback from this report when making its recommendation to the Board regarding fair, balanced and understandable.
46 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Audit Committee continued Financial reporting continued The Committee also considered the effectiveness of the audit The Committee also considered other key accounting issues through the reporting from and communications with the auditor and related disclosures in the Groups accounts as follows: and an assessment of the auditors approach to key areas of judgement and any errors identified during the course of the audit.
whether any changes in accounting policy were required following changes in the business or in legislation: The Committee concluded that the audit was effective and that whether the Companys tax policy remains appropriate: the relationship and effectiveness of the external auditor be kept the impact of changes in accounting standards and their under review.
relevance, if any, to the Company: and reports from the Company Secretary and Finance Director Appointing the auditor and safeguards on non-audit services which assess the Companys compliance with Listing Rules.
It is the responsibility of the Committee to monitor the independence and objectivity of the external auditor including External audit the impact of any non-audit work undertaken by it and its Retendering the external audit suitability for re-appointment.
During the year the Committee carried out a comprehensive tender exercise for the provision of external audit services.
The Company has a formal policy to ensure that the provision Careful consideration was given to the firms to be invited to of non-audit services by the external auditor for non-audit work tender, following which the Committee decided that the only does not compromise the auditors independence or objectivity.
firms with the local capability to undertake the audit were the Consequently all use of the external auditor for non-audit work Big Four.
 had been engaged by must be reported to and approved by the Committee and the the Company in a consultancy role which created a conflict of aggregate of such fees will normally be less than 100 per cent interest and so were unable to participate in the tender process.
In circumstances where such non-audit fees Consequently Ernst & Young, Deloitte and the incumbent auditor, are significant relative to the audit fee an explanation would be KPMG, were invited to join the tender process.
provided in the subsequent Audit Committee Report.
In addition, the Audit Committee ensures that the external auditor has its All three firms met the Chief Executive, the Chair of the Audit own policies and is subject to professional standards designed Committee, the Executive Directors and key senior managers to safeguard its independence as auditor.
within the business and were also given access to relevant Company information.
The three firms submitted formal The Audit Committee has reviewed whether, and is satisfied that, proposals which were evaluated along with the feedback from the Companys auditor, KPMG, continues to be objective and the individual meetings and two of the firms were invited to make independent of the Company.
KPMG does perform non-audit presentations to a selection panel comprising the Chair of the services for the Group but the Audit Committee is satisfied Audit Committee and another Committee member, the Finance that its objectivity is not impaired by such work.
The Committee has decided to await the outcome of the UK Governments Director, the Head of Business Assurance and several senior finance managers.
The presentations were scored against consultation and resulting legislation governing such work before deciding whether it is appropriate for KPMG to be considered pre-determined parameters.
The panel concluded that KPMG had the stronger proposal and that it would recommend to the to carry out any non-audit work once such legislation is in place.
Board that KPMG be retained as auditor.
In 2014, non-audit fees paid to KPMG and related KPMG operations amounted to 58,000 which is 41 per cent of The Committee continues to monitor legislative and best practice changes in this area, in particular the UK Government the audit fee for the year and principally related to taxation services and pension scheme audits.
and the Financial Reporting Councils responses to the recent EU Directive and Regulation on statutory audit.
Appointment of auditor KPMG has been the Companys auditor for more than 20 years At the 2014 AGM KPMG Audit Plc was appointed as auditor of the Company.
KPMG Audit Plc has advised the Company that, and the transitional rules in the EU Directive require an initial change of audit firms no later than 2020.
Having reappointed due to an internal reorganisation, it has decided to wind down its audit business and transfer it to KPMG LLP.
KPMG Audit Plc has KPMG in 2014 the Committee expects to change audit firms in accordance with the requirements of the EU Directive.
The notified the Company that it is not seeking reappointment at the AGM and accordingly a resolution for the appointment of KPMG Committee will continue to consider annually whether to conduct an audit tender for audit quality or independence reasons.
LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Assessing external audit effectiveness Risk management and internal control The Audit Committee discussed and agreed the scope of the Internal Control audit with the external auditor and agreed their fees in respect The Committee reviewed the Companys internal control environment of the audit.
to satisfy itself that procedures are in place to ensure that assets are well-protected, authority levels for expenditure are clear, The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit.
segregation of duties exists and performance is regularly It considered the results of external quality inspections of KPMG monitored.
Processes are in place to ensure that key controls by the Audit Quality Review Team.
It sought feedback from are being operated and compliance with these processes is the senior management, by way of a detailed questionnaire, in subject of inspection by the Internal Audit team and review by the respect of the effectiveness of the audit process with particular Audit Committee.
reference to audit planning and design and audit execution.
Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 Whistle-blowing There were 11 events in the year, relating to complaints about individual treatment by line management, product theft and non-compliance with procedures.
The events were reported either directly to the Chair of the Audit Committee by telephone or email, or came in via another external route.
In each case the issues were investigated, a judgement was made and action taken by senior management, supported by Business Assurance and with an appropriate level of discretion.
The outcome of all matters was reported to the Audit Committee during the year.
Risk Management Process The Audit Committee undertakes a review of the risk management process in the Group at least annually.
This process is detailed on page 26, and was reviewed by the Committee to determine the appropriateness of the process in light of the risks identified.
The key areas that the Committee has considered are as follows: Area of focus Action taken Review of Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Committee considered the proposed disclosure of principal risks and uncertainties within the Annual Report which had resulted from the Risk Committees review of the risks facing the Company.
The Committee recommended that some of the risks previously disclosed be removed from the disclosure as they were no longer considered sufficiently serious to merit disclosure.
Structural change and impact on employee relations A detailed report was produced, based on discussions with a range of managers from across the business.
A summary was presented to the Committee, to confirm that all relevant issues had been identified and actions taken were appropriate.
Food safety The Committee reviewed the output from the Retail Audit team to gain assurance that controls were in place to manage the Companys exposure to food safety risks.
Loss of major production site The Committee considered the Groups contingency arrangements, including documentation and testing of plans.
Third party assurance was obtained from the Companys insurers through site inspections.
Internal audit The work of the Internal Audit function is set out in more detail within the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 24 and 25 of this Annual Report.
The team is led by the Head of Business Assurance, supported by the Risk Manager and 16 auditors, the majority of whom work across the retail estate to provide assurance over the Companys retail operations.
The Audit Committee approves the annual plan for the team and monitors progress against that plan.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit team and its level of resource are reviewed by the Committee at least annually.
Committee effectiveness Each year the Committee reviews critically its own performance and considers where improvements can be made.
Allison Kirkby Chair of the Audit Committee 4 March 2015
