38 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance We have a Board of Directors with diverse experience and backgrounds, and an appropriate balance of independent Non-Executive and Executive Directors The Board gave particular time and attention this year to managing a smooth succession for the new Non-Executive Directors, ensuring that the strategy that was introduced in the summer of 2013 was pursued with vigour and that progress against the plan was properly monitored and debated.
At our AGM in May, we asked shareholders to vote by poll, the first time that we have adopted what is now regarded as best practice.
I would like to thank shareholders for adopting this procedural change and, of course, for their support across all of the resolutions that were tabled.
Our two main committees, Audit and Remuneration, have had a quieter year in terms of their need to adopt new legal and governance requirements, and that has allowed them to focus on the ongoing challenges we face in the competitive food-onChairmans introduction the-go sector in which we operate.
The Audit Committee is I am pleased to introduce to shareholders our Governance now considering what changes, if any, should be made to our Report for 2014. practices in order to ensure that we comply with the new version of the Governance Code, which will apply to our financial year There have been a number of changes to the Board this year, beginning 4 January 2015. as Iain Ferguson and Julie Baddeley both left us following the AGM in May.
After considering our strategy, and the needs of In December 2013 it was announced that we had left the FTSE the business both now and over the next few years and the skills 250 Index as a consequence of the review of relative market set which most closely matches those needs, the Nominations sizes of companies.
However, as of December 2014, we Committee evaluated possible candidates.
have been readmitted to that index.
As a result of this, certain provisions of the Corporate Governance Code will again As announced in December 2013, Helena Ganczakowski be applicable.
joined the Board on 2 January 2014.
Having taken further external advice on the market, we then appointed Peter I look forward to welcoming shareholders to the AGM which McPhillips to the Board in March and in May Sandra Turner will be held on 30 April 2015 and to receiving and answering joined us.
Peter brings extensive food manufacturing experience your questions.
and Sandra a supermarket and food-retailing background.
Sandra has also assumed the role of Senior Independent Ian Durant Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Chairman I believe that we have a Board of Directors with diverse experience and backgrounds and an appropriate balance of independent Non-Executive and Executive Directors, which is the basis of our governance structure.
All appointments to the Board are made against a culture within the Company of openness, challenge and debate, and the size of the Board facilitates this.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors serves on each of the three main Board committees and is able to take account of the relationship between the work of the committees.
Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 The Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code Executive, the Non-Executive Directors ensure that the strategies issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The edition of the Code proposed by the Executive Directors are fully discussed and issued in September 2012 applied throughout the 2014 financial critically examined prior to adoption.
This Governance Report, together with information contained elsewhere within the Directors Report, describes The Board schedules six meetings per year and meets on an how the relevant principles and provisions of the Governance ad hoc basis as required.
In 2014 three additional short meetings Code were applied to the Company in 2014 and will be relevant were held to consider the restructuring announced at the to the Company for the 2015 financial year.
beginning of the year, and the stronger trading position and the requirement to issue updated guidance to the market.
In the Annual Report 2013, the Board reported that, as it had fallen outwith the top 350 companies by market capitalisation, Attendance at scheduled meetings held during the year is certain provisions of the Governance Code no longer applied, recorded in the table below, where the number of meetings but that the Board would consider a voluntary adoption of actually attended are shown with the number of meetings that such provisions provided that it would not be unduly onerous the individual could have attended.
The Board took the view that given the short Audit Remuneration Nominations length of service of a number of the Non-Executive Directors, Main Board Committee Committee Committee it was unlikely that undertaking an  Board Number of evaluation would be a sensible use of shareholders funds.
meetings held 6 5 3 2 Consequently the evaluation was undertaken on a questionnaire Ian Durant 6 6 2 2 interview basis effected by the Company Secretary and then Roger Whiteside 6 6 reported to and debated by the Board.
Richard Hutton 6 6 Raymond Reynolds 6 6 The Company was re-elected to the FTSE350 index on 22 Helena December 2014 and intends to hold an  1 Ganczakowski 5 6 4 5 2 3 2 2 evaluation later in 2015.
Allison Kirkby 6 6 5 5 3 3 2 2 2 Peter McPhillips 4 4 3 3 1 1 0 0 In all other respects the Board confirms that it was compliant 3 Sandra Turner 3 3 2 2 1 1 0 0 with the Governance Code throughout the year.
4 Julie Baddeley 2 3 1 3 1 2 1 2 4 Iain Ferguson 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 2 All of the policies and terms of reference referred to in this report are available on the corporate website at: http: corporate.
The Board 4 Resigned on 1 May 2014.
Helena was unable to attend one series of meetings for personal reasons, but had Effectiveness reviewed all papers beforehand and provided a number of observations and questions Under the leadership of the Chairman, the Nominations that were raised by other Directors.
Committee considers the blend of skills and experience that the Directors bring to the Board.
This includes independent and objective experience of food retailing and manufacturing, Where a Director is unable to attend a meeting, the Chairman solicits finance, marketing, property, human resource management his or her views on key items of business ahead of the meeting, and corporate finance to complement the existing skills and in order that all individual views are presented at the meeting.
experience of the Executive Directors.
All Directors are invited to attend the Audit Committee, The Board meets regularly to discharge its duties.
At these and the Chief Executive attends the Remuneration and meetings, it reviews strategy, financial performance against Nominations Committees.
key indicators, resources, risk management and other matters reserved for the Board.
Whilst executive responsibility for In addition, the Non-Executive Directors meet formally twice running the Companys business rests ultimately with the Chief each year and from time to time, as required.
The Board Remuneration Nominations Audit Committee Chief Executive Committee Committee Operating Board Social Responsibility Risk Committee Steering Group 40 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance continued Board modus operandi The output from the review of 2013 led to the following matters The Board has a policy on the separation of the roles of the being included as objectives for 2014: Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman sets the agenda for Board meetings in accordance with a specific A review of the way in which social responsibility was Schedule of Matters Reserved policy which is reviewed and positioned, to include a consideration of the Companys approved annually, and ensures that the Board is supplied, vision and values.
in a timely manner, with information in a form and of a quality The Chairman to be accompanied by a Non-Executive appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Director to gain feedback from investors with a significant shareholding.
The Board considers that it effectively leads and controls the Company.
All Directors take decisions objectively and in the The Directors also considered the Board process and provided interests of the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise comments on what they thought had gone well and areas the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and for improvement.
objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
All Directors receive induction training on joining the Board and regularly Members of the Operating Board who are not Executive update and refresh their knowledge through reading, attendance Directors were again invited to provide feedback on their on relevant courses and or activities outside the Company.
interaction with the Board during the year, to include their relationships with the Non-Executive Directors and levels As part of the process of maintaining an awareness of of support received.
the Companys activities and assessing the ability of the management team, members of the senior management team The resulting Board paper, and Board debate gave rise to are invited to attend Board meetings and or to present papers a series of actions which were incorporated into the Boards to the Board.
This process also affords senior managers the objectives for 2015. opportunity to bring matters to the attention of the Board.
The Chairman meets with the Non-Executive Directors The Board sets itself a rolling agenda, which facilitates agenda at least annually without the Executive Directors present.
planning for scheduled meetings across the year.
In this way The Senior Independent Director meets the Non-Executive the Board monitors its activities and ensures that it is operating Directors annually without the Chairman present to appraise effectively.
Standing items include progress with strategic the Chairmans performance.
There is also generally at least objectives, financial and operational performance, health one meeting held each year between the Non-Executive & safety, food safety and governance developments.
Directors and the Chief Executive.
Diversity Election and re-election of Directors The Board believes it is in the best interests of the Company All of the Non-Executive Directors who will offer themselves to continue to bring women through to the top levels of the for election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting are organisation and, as a result of this belief, a programme which considered by the Board to be independent in character and was launched in 2012 to encourage more women to strive for judgement and to be free from any business or other relationship the most senior positions in the business.
Our gender reporting or circumstance which is likely to affect or to interfere with the is now contained on page 31 of the Strategic Report.
exercise of their independent judgement.
Succession, development and evaluation The Companys articles of association require that all Directors Whilst the Board is satisfied that a process is in place for orderly must retire and seek election at the first AGM following succession to the Board and to positions of senior management, appointment.
Accordingly, Sandra Turner will resign as a Director so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience and offer herself for election at the AGM to be held on 30 April within the Company and on the Board, nevertheless it intends 2015.
Furthermore, the Board has resolved that, in line with to increase the focus on executive development and succession Governance Code provision B.
7.1, all other Directors will be planning in 2015 and beyond.
The Chief Executive meets with subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors in order that succession and development plans can be drawn up for Board Committees Executive Directors and members of the Operating Board.
The Board delegates some of its activities to the following committees, each of which has written terms of reference, All Directors are able to receive training and to take independent which are available on the Companys website.
The Company professional advice at the expense of the Company.
They Secretary acts as secretary to and is in attendance at each also have direct access to the Company Secretary, who is of these committees, and each of the committees is provided responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters.
with sufficient resources to undertake its duties.
Evaluation The Audit Committee currently consists of four The performance of the Board, its Committees and of all Directors independent Non-Executive Directors: Allison Kirkby Chair, is evaluated annually by a formal and rigorous process.
For the Helena Ganczakowski, Peter McPhillips and Sandra Turner.
review relating to 2014, each Director responded to a questionnaire The Committee met five times in the year, and a fuller report agreed between the Chairman and the Company Secretary, and on its activities is set out on pages 43 to 47. independently rated the Boards and its Committees performance against the objectives set at the beginning of the year.
Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41 The Remuneration Committee currently consists of four Relations with shareholders independent Non-Executive Directors: Sandra Turner Chair, The Board ensures that there is effective communication Helena Ganczakowski, Allison Kirkby and Peter McPhillips.
The with individual and institutional shareholders through the Committees main duties which it discharged during the year announcement of regular trading updates, as well as general are set out within the Directors Remuneration Report which is set presentations after announcement of the interim and preliminary out on pages 48 to 63 of this Annual Report.
This includes for results and the posting of results on the Companys website.
information purposes the Boards Policy on Remuneration, which The Board receives reports on any comments received from was approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 1 May 2014. shareholders and market analysts following these presentations.
A separate Executive Director Committee, after discussion with the Chairman, sets the fees for the Non-Executive Directors The Chief Executive and the Finance Director carry out extensive so as to ensure that no Director is involved in setting his or her engagement with institutional shareholders and market analysts, own remuneration.
either meeting them as part of Company presentations and briefings, individual meetings, or on telephone calls.
The Nominations Committee currently comprises Ian Durant Chairman, and all of the Non-Executive Directors.
Following his appointment as Chairman on 15 May 2013, The Committees main functions which it discharged during the Ian Durant undertook to meet with a small number of significant year are to review the balance and constitution of the Board: to institutional shareholders from time to time, and be accompanied advise the Board as to whether Directors should be nominated by one of the other Non-Executive Directors.
One conference for re-election by the members: and to approve and manage the call meeting was held in the year, when Ian was accompanied process for setting the specification for all Board appointments, by Sandra Turner, following her appointment as Senior identifying candidates who meet that specification and Independent Director on 1 May 2014, and Allison Kirkby, making recommendations to the Board on the basis of merit as Chair of the Audit Committee.
and compliance with objective criteria in respect of all new Board appointments.
The Company Secretary and the Companys Brokers draw the attention of the Board to all relevant shareholder In recruiting additional Directors the Nominations Committee communications.
The Board also reviews briefings and defines the role and uses external consultants to assist in comments by analysts in order to maintain an understanding identifying suitable candidates from which the Committee of market perceptions of the Company.
selects a shortlist and conducts interviews.
The final candidate is then subject to formal recommendation by the Committee The Annual General Meeting AGM is well-attended and a short and approval by the Board.
presentation of business performance is given to attendees by the Chief Executive although no non-public sensitive information During the year the Committee recommended to the Board is shared.
The Chairman and the Chairs of the Board the appointment of Peter McPhillips and Sandra Turner as Committees are available to answer any issues raised and any independent Non-Executive Directors.
newly-appointed Directors being available to meet shareholders.
During informal sessions both before and after the meeting, the Throughout its activities, the Committee was supported by the Chairman and all Directors are available to meet with any of the Zygos Partnership.
60 or so individual private shareholders who are in attendance and who wish to ask questions.
This is in addition to the Following appointment, new Directors are subject to an inopportunity given to shareholders to ask questions of the Board depth tailored induction process.
In the case of Non-Executive during the formal meeting, which session is always welcomed Directors, this includes meeting with members of the Operating by those in attendance.
Board, visiting bakeries, shops and offices, and being provided with an extensive Board Handbook which contains key At the AGM the balance of proxy votes cast for and against information and policies that are relevant to the position.
each resolution and the number of abstentions is displayed.
For new Executive Directors, and Non-Executive Directors All substantial issues, including the receipt of the Annual Report for whom the appointment is their first to a UK listed company, and Accounts, are proposed at the AGM as separate resolutions.
the induction includes details of the legal duties and obligations For the first time, at the AGM held on 1 May 2014, all resolutions of being a director of such a company.
were determined by poll, in accordance with best practice, and the Board has decided that this practice will continue.
New Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to provide formal feedback of their first months on the Greggs Board during The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders a Board meeting.
if they have concerns which they have not been able to resolve through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or Risk management Finance Director, or for circumstances where such contact would Details of the Companys principal risks and the management not be appropriate.
of them are set out within the Strategic Report and given in pages 24 and 25.
The Company provides on its website at www.
co. uk a significant amount of information both about its customer The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the offerings in the bakery food-on-the-go market, as well as system of internal control covering all material controls, including detailed information on the governance arrangements.
financial, operational, compliance and risk management systems during the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
42 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance continued Substantial shareholdings Disclosure of information to the auditor At 3 March 2015 the only notified holdings of substantial voting Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval rights in respect of the issued share capital of the Company which of this Directors Report confirms that, so far as they are may have altered since the date of such notification, without any individually aware, there is no relevant audit information of which requirement for the Company to have been informed were: the Companys auditor is unaware: and that they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make Percentage themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to Number of of issued shares held share capital establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
FMR 5,200,200 5.14 By order of the Board Templeton Investment Counsel 5,059,689 5.00 Norges Bank 4,041,681 3.99 Jonathan D Jowett Company Secretary Accountability, audit and going concern The Board acknowledges its responsibility to present a fair, Greggs plc CRN 502851 balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys Fernwood House position and prospects.
In order to assist the Board to comply Clayton Road with the requirements within the Governance Code, the Audit Jesmond Committee was requested to undertake an assessment of the Newcastle upon Tyne Annual Report and to make a recommendation to the Board.
NE2 1TL This request has been enshrined within the Audit Committees 4 March 2015 terms of reference, which are available at: www.
The actions undertaken by the Audit Committee in confirming its advice to the Board included the consideration of a detailed review that had been undertaken by Head of Business Assurance, and reviewing the Annual Report as a whole to confirm that it presents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment.
In considering the advice of the Audit Committee and having reviewed the Annual Report including the contents of the Strategic Report on pages 02 to 35 together with the statutory accounts themselves, the Board duly considers the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
A statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the preparation of accounts is given on page 64.
A statement of auditors responsibilities is given in the report of the auditor on page 67.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts see basis of preparation on page 73.
Additional Information Details of the proposed dividend are set out on page 05, and additional information as required by law is set out on pages 97-98, and is incorporated by reference into the Directors Report.
