Corporate Governance Report continued The Board to their roles, following the performance evaluation as described on The Board considered the independence of the Chairman and each page 63. of the non-executive Directors and subjected Stephen Pettits term Details of Directors biographies appear on pages 56 and 57 and in as a non-executive Director to particular rigorous review.
Details are the Notice of Meeting.
The Board continues to regard Stephen Pettit as independent and considers the Chairman and all The Directors retain responsibility for the formulation of corporate non-executive Directors to be independent of management and free strategy, investment decisions and treasury and risk management from business and other relationships which could interfere with the policies.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the exercise of independent judgment now and in the future.
The Board Boards decision and the Board meets at least six times each year believes that any shareholdings of the Chairman and non-executive with further ad hoc meetings as required.
Directors are issued an Directors serve to align their interests with those of shareholders.
agenda and comprehensive Board papers in the week preceding each Board meeting.
All Directors have access to the advice and Upon appointment and at regular intervals, all Directors are offered services of the Company Secretary as well as there being an appropriate training.
Under the Companys Articles, each Director is agreed procedure for obtaining independent professional advice.
subject to re-election at least once every three years however, since 2011, the Board agreed that each Director shall stand for annual re-election.
The Board confirms that all Directors standing for election or re-election continue to be effective and demonstrate commitment Board meeting attendance During the year attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings was as follows: Committees Overall attendance 1 Board attendance Board Audit Remuneration Nomination % Total meetings 6 3 4 2 2 Geoff Unwin 3 2 1 100% 3 Paul Walker 5 3 1 100% Andrew Williams 6 1 100% Kevin Thompson 6 100% Stephen Pettit 6 3 4 2 100% Neil Quinn 6 100% Jane Aikman 6 3 1 100% Adam Meyers 6 100% Lord Blackwell 6 3 4 1 100% Steve Marshall 6 3 4 2 100% 4 Daniela Barone Soares 6 2 1 90% 1 The first Nomination Committee meeting consisted of the reformulated Nomination Committee appointed for the Chairman succession search comprising four non-executive Directors, led by Stephen Pettit, the Senior Independent Director.
The June Nomination Committee meeting was constituted by the usual members Geoff Unwin, Andrew Williams, Stephen Pettit, Steve Marshall, Norman Blackwell and the Chairman Designate Paul Walker.
2 Geoff Unwin attended all meetings until he stepped down at the July 2013 annual general meeting.
3 Paul Walker attended all meetings from his appointment on 12 April 2013 as Chairman Designate.
4 Daniela Barone Soares was unable to attend one Audit Committee meeting due to conflicting work commitments.
60 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
