Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Committee continued to review our governance structures and the composition of our Board and Executive Board throughout the year.
Iam delighted to have further strengthened our Board and aligned ourExecutive Board with the four market sectors in which we areengaged.
Paul Walker, Chairman, Nomination Committee Responsibilities Nomination Committee members The Nomination Committee is appointed by the Board from the Paul Walker Chairman non-executive Directors of the Group and the Chief Executive.
Andrew Williams The Nomination Committees terms of reference include all matters Stephen Pettit indicated by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The terms of Steve Marshall reference are considered annually by the Nomination Committee and Norman Blackwell are then referred to the Board for approval.
The full terms of reference Jane Aikman appointed 10 April 2014 were reviewed during the year and updated in April 2014 in line with Daniela Barone Soares appointed 10 April 2014 the revised recommendations of the ICSA June 2013 nomination committee terms of reference guidance.
The terms of reference can be found on the Companys website or can be obtained from the Allocation of time % Company Secretary.
The primary responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to: Succession planning 83% regularly review the structure, size and composition including the Composition of Board 11% skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board compared to its current position and make recommendations to the Board Reelection of Directors 6% with regard to any changes: give full consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior executives in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company andthe skills and expertise needed on the Board in the future: and identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
Governance The Nomination Committee was in place throughout the financial year.
It is chaired by the Chairman of the Company who was deemed to be independent on appointment to the Board.
Six of the seven members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors in accordance with provision B.
70 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Key issues and activities As noted on page 60 and on pages 62 to 64, the process of The Committee and the specially formed sub-committee met appointments to the Board is paramount in ensuring the Companys onseveral occasions during the year and considered: performance is maintained and continually improved upon.
The Board search for a new independent non-executive Director was the re-election of all Directors at the July 2013 annual led by our Chairman, Paul Walker.
A global search firm, JCA Group, generalmeeting: which has no other connection to Halma was appointed.
The Board succession planning: considered a wide and diverse range of candidates and the Board external board evaluation: having had the opportunity to meet Roy Twite confirmed his Geoff Unwins proposed retirement: independence upon appointment and was unanimous in its decision Stephen Pettits re-election to the Board and its Committees: to appoint Roy.
Roy Twite, an executive director at IMI plc, will be the nomination and appointment of Paul Walker as a non-executive appointed to the Board effective following the conclusion of the AGM Director and Chairman and his membership of the Nomination and on 24 July 2014.
Roy Twite brings with him very relevant engineering Remuneration Committees as described below : and experience which will be invaluable to Halmas Board discussions.
the nominations and appointments of Jane Aikman and Daniela The Board is in the process of seeking to identify an additional Barone Soares to the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
When the need to appoint a Director is identified, a candidate profile On behalf of the Nomination Committee is developed indicating the skills, knowledge and experience required taking into account the Boards existing composition.
External search consultancies are retained when recruiting non-executive Directors Paul Walker and are used to evaluate internal and external candidates for succession planning.
Chairman 12 June 2014 As disclosed on page 60, the Nomination sub-committee appointed for the Chairman succession search comprised four non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director.
A global search firm, Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann, which has no other connection to Halma was appointed.
A wide range of high calibre candidates was considered for the role.
The Board confirmed Paul Walkers independence upon appointment and was unanimous in its decision to appoint Paul Walker.
Succession planning for the Senior Independent Director was well in hand when Norman Blackwell indicated that his April 2014 chairmanship of Lloyds Banking Group Plc may preclude his continuing as a non-executive Director at Halma.
Similarly, Steve Marshall undertook the CEO role at Balfour Beatty plc in May 2014 and found that he could not continue to devote the time that is necessary as Remuneration Committee Chairman and non-executive Director of Halma.
They will both be stepping down at the conclusion of the July 2014 AGM.
The Committee concluded that in order to ensure continuity and that an appropriate transition process is undergone, with the aim of preserving the Groups culture, Stephen Pettit will remain on the Board until such time as his experience of Halmas culture is embodied in his colleagues and no later than the 2015 annual general meeting.
The Committee subjected Stephen Pettits reappointment to an even more rigorous review to ensure Stephen Pettits independence is not compromised and that the Board supported his reappointment unanimously.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71
