Board of Directors Paul Walker Andrew Williams Kevin Thompson Neil Quinn Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Sector Chief Executive, Location UK Location UK Location UK Process Safety Location UK Paul was appointed non-executive Andrew was appointed Chief Kevin was appointed to the Halma Neil was appointed to the Halma plc Chairman of Halma in July 2013, Executive of Halma plc in February plc Board in 1998.
He became Board in 1998 and is Chief Executive having been appointed to the Board 2005.
He was promoted to Director Group Finance Director in 1997 after of the Process Safety sector.
Paul is non-executive of the Halma plc Board in 2004. joining the Halma Executive Board as joined the Halma Executive Board in Chairman of Perform Group plc and Andrew became a member of the Finance Director in 1995.
Kevin joined 1995 as Divisional Chief Executive.
WANdisco plc and a non-executive Halma Executive Board in 2002 as Halma as Group Financial Controller He became Managing Director of director of Experian plc.
He was CEO Divisional Chief Executive after joining in 1987.
Kevin qualified as a Apollo Fire Detectors in 1992, after at the Sage Group plc from 1994 to Halma in 1994 as Manufacturing Chartered Accountant with Price joining as Sales Director in 1987.
Neil 2010 and has previously served on Director of Reten Acoustics now Waterhouse and is an economics has a material sciences degree from the boards of Diageo plc and HWM-Water, where he became and accounting graduate of Bristol Sheffield University.
Paul qualified as Managing Director in 1997.
He attended the a Chartered Accountant with Ernst & is a Chartered Engineer and a Advanced Management Program at Young, having graduated from York production engineering graduate of Harvard Business School in 2007.
University with an economics degree.
He attended the Advanced Management Program at Wharton Business School, University of Pennsylvania in 2004.
Steve Marshall Stephen Pettit Carol Chesney Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Company Secretary Location UK Location UK Location UK Steve was appointed a non-executive Stephen was appointed a nonCarol was appointed Company Director of Halma in July 2010.
He is executive Director of Halma in Secretary of Halma plc in 1998.
She executive Chairman of Balfour Beatty September 2003.
Previously Stephen joined Halma in 1995 as Group plc and non-executive Chairman was a non-executive director of Finance Manager having spent three of Wincanton plc and Biffa Group National Grid plc, non-executive years with English China Clays plc.
He is a former Chairman of ROK plc, an executive Carol is a non-executive director of chairman of Delta plc, Queens Moat director with Cable & Wireless PLC, a Renishaw plc where she chairs the Houses plc and Torex Retail plc as member of the BT Group plc Equality Audit Committee.
She qualified as a well as a former non-executive of Access Board and a divisional chief Chartered Accountant with Arthur director at Southern Water Services executive with BP PLC.
Stephen has Andersen and is a mathematics Limited.
He was Group Chief an MSc from London School of graduate of Randolph-Macon Executive of Railtrack Group plc Economics and an MBA from Womans College, Virginia.
and prior to that Thorn plc, having INSEAD and is an economics and also served as Finance Director at politics graduate of Cardiff University.
His earlier career included a wide range of corporate and operational roles at Grand Metropolitan plc, Burton Group, Black & Decker and BOC Group.
He is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and a member of its Governing Council.
56 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Adam Meyers Jane Aikman Daniela Barone Soares Norman Blackwell Sector Chief Executive, Medical Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Location USA Location UK Location UK Location UK Adam joined the Halma plc Board in Jane was appointed a non-executive Daniela was appointed a nonNorman was appointed a nonApril 2008 and is Chief Executive of Director of Halma in August 2007. executive Director of Halma in executive Director of Halma in July the Medical sector.
He became a She is Chief Operating Officer and November 2011.
He is non-executive Chairman member of the Halma Executive Chief Financial Officer of Phoenix IT Executive Officer of Impetus The of Lloyds Banking Group Plc and Board in 2003 as Divisional Chief Group plc.
Previously Jane was Private Equity Foundation ImpetusInterserve Plc.
His past business roles Executive, having joined Halma in Finance Director of Infinis Energy PEF.
She is on the advisory board have included non-executive director 1996 as President of Bio-Chem Limited, Wilson Bowden Plc and and a trustee of a number of of Ofcom, the communications Valve.
Adam gained his MBA from Pressac plc.
She spent three years non-listed, social sector organisations regulator, Senior Independent Harvard Business School and is a as an internal audit manager with in the UK and Brazil.
In November Director at both Standard Life Plc systems engineering graduate of the GEC Alsthom and five years in East 2013, Daniela was appointed to the and SEGRO plc, Director of Group University of Pennsylvania.
Asia with Asia Pulp and Paper Co UK National Advisory Board, which Development at NatWest Group Limited.
Jane qualified as a advises the G8 Social Impact andPartner at McKinsey & Company.
Chartered Accountant with Ernst & Investment Taskforce.
Her past Hewas Chairman of the independent Young and has a degree in civil business roles have included Head Centre for Policy Studies from 2000 engineering from Birmingham of Institutional Support at Save the to 2009 and remained a board University.
Children, Assistant Vice President of member until 2014.
Norman was Private Equity and Venture Capital at created a Life Peer in 1997 and BancBoston Capital, Inc. and roles at served as Head of the Prime Goldman, Sachs & Co. New York Ministers Policy Unit from 1995 and Citibank, N. A. Brazil.
Daniela to 1997. has an MBA from Harvard Business School and a BSc in economics from Universidade Estadual fide Campinas UNICAMP, Brazil.
Make-up of our Board as at 29 March 2014 Board tenure number of years Board composition Committee membership 1 2 Audit Nom Rem 0-1 10% Chairman 10% 2-3 10% Executive Director 40% Paul Walker 4-5 20% Non-executive Director 50% Andrew Williams 6-10 20% Company Secretary Kevin Thompson Stephen Pettit 10 40% Nationality Neil Quinn Gender UK 80% Adam Meyers Male 80% USA 10% 3 3 Jane Aikman Female 20% Brazil 10% Norman Blackwell Steve Marshall 3 3 Daniela Barone Soares Chairman Member 1 Nomination 2 Remuneration 3 Appointed in April 2014 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57
