Corporate Governance Report continued Board governance structure Board Key committees Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Other committees Bank Guarantees Acquisitions Share Plans and Facilities and Disposals Committee Committee Committee In recognition of the time required to properly induct new Board A chart setting out the Companys Board and Committees structure Directors and accepting that a maximum of two new appointments is given above with the Board and Committee memberships and per annum is ideal, the Nomination Committee and the Board Directors biographical details shown separately on pages 56 and 57. proposed that Stephen Pettits appointment be extended another The responsibilities of the key Board Committees and the key issues year having already extended it once in 2013 to ensure continuity and activities during 2013 14 are set out in the following Committee and an appropriate transition process is undergone with the aim of reports on pages 66 to 89. preserving the Groups culture while permitting healthy reflection on Investor relations our current structure and processes.
In reaching this decision, the The Board recognises the importance of effective communication with Board concluded that Stephen Pettits independence was not our shareholders.
In regular meetings with shareholders and analysts compromised by his ongoing directorship and the entire Board the Chief Executive and Finance Director communicate the Groups supported his continuing involvement.
Halma also consulted our strategy and results, disclosing such information as is permitted within advisers.
Stephen Pettit will remain on the Board until such time as the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
Such meetings ensure that his experience of Halmas culture is embodied in his colleagues and institutional shareholders representing over 50% of the Companys no later that the 2015 annual general meeting.
issued share capital meet or hold discussions with the Company on As in prior years, the Board also met in February 2014 before the a regular basis.
Major shareholders are also offered the opportunity scheduled Board meeting.
There was a meeting of the Chairman and to meet the Chairman and or Senior Independent Director.
Notes non-executive Directors with the Chief Executive.
This was followed from all investor meetings are circulated to the Chairman with investor by a meeting of the Chairman and non-executive Directors only.
The feedback results from roadshows circulated to the whole Board.
Senior Independent Director also led a meeting with the nonAll shareholders are encouraged to attend the annual general executive Directors without the Chairman present.
The Executives meeting where they can gain a better understanding of the Company.
were also given the opportunity to meet with the Chairman and or Shareholders are able to pose questions to the Board on the matters the Senior Independent Director separately.
The outcome of these put to the meeting, including the Annual Report and Accounts and the meetings was then fed back to individuals by the Chairman, management of the Company.
Major shareholders are also invited to Senior Independent Director or Chief Executive, as appropriate.
briefings following the half-year and annual results.
In February 2014, Committees of the Board the Chief Executive, Finance Director and a Divisional Chief Executive Our Committees are a valuable part of the Companys corporate held a Capital Markets Day at which an update on the Groups governance structure.
The workload of the Committees includes strategy and the new reporting sectors was detailed and the Groups the table of scheduled meetings as well as ad hoc meetings and mergers and acquisitions performance was reviewed.
The content of communications frequently requiring considerable amounts of time.
presentations to shareholders and analysts at results announcements and all announcements are available on the Group website: Halma has six committees and sub-committees of the Board: the www.
Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Share Plans Committee, the Bank Guarantees and The Group website also contains electronic versions of the latest Facilities Committee and the Acquisitions and Disposals Committee.
Annual Report and Accounts, Half-year Reports, biographical Each of these Committees has terms of reference which have been information on Directors and the Executive Board, share price recently reviewed, updated and approved by the Board, copies information, and full subsidiary company contact details as well as of which are available on the website or on request from the links to their own websites.
The website also features the facility to Company Secretary.
request e-mail alerts relating to announcements made by the Group and there is a feedback form to invite suggestions for improvements Minutes of Committee meetings are made available to all Directors to the website and our investor relations activities.
and the Chairmen of each of the three key Board Committees, the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, provide regular updates to the Board.
As of April 2014, all non-executive Directors sit on the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
64 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
