Executive Board Andrew Williams Kevin Thompson Chuck Dubois Chief Executive Finance Director Sector Chief Executive, Environmental & Analysis Location UK Location UK Location USA Andrew was appointed Chief Executive of Halma Kevin was appointed to the Halma plc Board in Chuck was appointed to the Executive Board plc in February 2005.
He was promoted to Director 1998.
He became Group Finance Director in 1997 inApril 2008 and is Chief Executive of the of the Halma plc Board in 2004.
Andrew became after joining the Halma Executive Board as Finance Environmental & Analysis sector.
He joined amember of the Halma Executive Board in 2002 Director in 1995.
Kevin joined Halma as Group theGroup in 1999 as Vice President of Perma as Divisional Chief Executive after joining Halma in Financial Controller in 1987.
Kevin qualified as a PureLLC and was previously President of Diba 1994 as Manufacturing Director of Reten Acoustics Chartered Accountant with Price Waterhouse and Industries.
He earned his MBA from the F. W. Olin now HWM-Water, where he became Managing is an economics and accounting graduate of School of Business at Babson College and holds Director in 1997.
Andrew is a Chartered Engineer Bristol University.
He attended the Advanced aBachelors degree in physics from the College and a production engineering graduate of Management Program at Harvard Business ofthe Holy Cross.
Chuck attended the Advanced Birmingham University.
He attended the Advanced School in 2007.
Management Program at Harvard Business Management Program at Wharton Business School in 2013.
School, University of Pennsylvania in 2004.
Neil Quinn Nigel Trodd Adam Meyers Sector Chief Executive, Process Safety Sector Chief Executive, Infrastructure Safety Sector Chief Executive, Medical Location UK Location Singapore Location USA Adam joined the Halma plc Board in April 2008 Neil was appointed to the Halma plc Board in Nigel joined the Executive Board in July 2003 and is Chief Executive of the Medical sector.
He 1998and is Chief Executive of the Process Safety andis Chief Executive of the Infrastructure Safety became a member of the Halma Executive Board sector.
He joined the Halma Executive Board sector.
He had joined Halma in July 2003 as Chief in 2003 as Divisional Chief Executive, having joined in 1995 as Divisional Chief Executive.
He became Executive of the Process Safety Division.
Nigel is Halma in 1996 as President of Bio-Chem Valve.
Managing Director of Apollo Fire Detectors in 1992, amember of the Chartered Institute of Marketing Adam gained his MBA from Harvard Business after joining as Sales Director in 1987. and a business studies graduate of Thames Valley School and is a systems engineering graduate Neil has a material sciences degree from University.
He relocated to Singapore in April 2012. ofthe University of Pennsylvania.
Philippe Felten Martin Zhang Jennifer Ward Sector Vice President, Medical Director Halma China Group Talent Director Location Belgium Location China Location UK Jennifer was appointed as Halmas first Group Philippe was appointed to the Executive Board in Martin is a member of the Halma Executive Board Talent Director in March 2014.
Prior to joining April 2012 and is Sector Vice President of the and has been an adviser to that Board since Halma, Jennifer spent over 15 years leading HR, Medical sector.
He joined the Group in 1998 as February 2008.
He joined the Group in June 2006 Talent and Organisational Development for Sales Director for BEA Europe and was previously as Director of Halma China and successfully divisions of PayPal an eBay company, Bank Chief Executive of BEA Group.
Philippe completed established Halma China offices in Beijing and ofAmerica and Honeywell.
She has a Masters the Programme for Executive Development at IMD Shanghai.
Martin holds an Executive MBA from degree from Michigan State University and a Lausanne, holds a Bachelor degree in Marketing the University of Texas at Arlington Tongji Bachelor of Science degree from Oregon and Management ICHEC Brussels and is an University Shanghai and a Bachelors degree in State University.
chemical engineering from Chengdu University ofScience and Technology.
58 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
