Corporate Governance Report continued Board constitution Paul Walker met with the Company Secretary to review an induction Halma refreshed the composition and diversity of our Board with pack which included Halmas governance and risk management theappointment of Paul Walker as our new non-executive Director structure, Board evaluations, Board and Committee meeting minutes, and Chairman in April 2013.
The Nomination Committee appointed strategy papers, recent analyst and broker reports on Halma, and for the Chairman succession search comprised four non-executive access to Halmas policies and procedural notes was also provided.
Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, Stephen Pettit.
As well as providing a schedule of meetings with executives and Aglobal search firm, Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann, which has no company visits, Paul Walker also attended the biennial Halma other connection to Halma was appointed.
A wide range of high Innovation and Technology Exposition HITE in 2013 to gain a better calibre candidates was considered for the role and each Director understanding of the Halma group, our strategy, our operating hadthe opportunity to meet Paul Walker ahead of his appointment.
companies, their management teams and their products.
The Board confirmed Paul Walkers independence upon appointment When new non-executive Directors are appointed, Halma tailors and was unanimous in its decision to appoint Paul Walker.
our existing induction and training programme to suit their individual needs and we will similarly be doing so for Roy Twite.
Succession planning for the Senior Independent Director was well in hand when Norman Blackwell indicated that his April 2014 Board diversity chairmanship of Lloyds Banking Group Plc may preclude his The Board reviewed the report of Lord Davies published in February continuing as a non-executive Director at Halma.
Similarly, Steve 2011 on Boardroom Diversity and contributed to the FRC review of Marshall undertook the CEO role at Balfour Beatty plc in May 2014 Gender Diversity on Boards noting its support for the benefits of and found that he could not continue to devote the time that is greater diversity, which is not just gender specific, but relates also to necessary as Remuneration Committee Chairman and non-executive other factors such as market and international experience and Director of Halma.
The Board search for a new independent diversity of thought.
It was agreed by the Board that a manufacturing non-executive Director was led by our Chairman, Paul Walker.
A and technology company such as Halma would have to adopt global search firm, JCA Group, which has no other connection to policies to attract a greater number of females into management Halma was appointed.
The Board considered a wide and diverse roles.
The Board hopes to support these aims through the adoption range of candidates and the Board, having had the opportunity to and implementation of Halmas Diversity Policy detailed on page 45 meet Roy Twite, confirmed his independence upon appointment rather than set quotas.
Halma aims to improve the representation of and was unanimous in its decision to appoint Roy effective following women in senior roles and on the Board of Directors by refreshing the conclusion of the July 2014 AGM.
our policies and reviewing implementation to ensure that they create These matters are discussed on page 64 and in the Nomination and maintain a diverse and inclusive culture.
As at year end, the Board had a total of ten Directors.
The skill Board induction set of the non-executive Directors includes financial, economics, Newly appointed non-executive Directors follow an induction banking, engineering, technology, IT, communications and consumer programme which includes scheduled trips to a variety of companies expertise.
They include eight British, one American and one Brazilian in each of the four sectors.
All new Directors appointed to the Board nationals.
have a comprehensive induction programme tailored to their individual needs.
Board activity throughout the year February June Budget initial Preliminary Results Remuneration Committee proposals Evaluation of prior year objectives Results of Board effectiveness survey and meetings Annual objectives for Group Interim Management Statement Environmental policy annual approval and target setting Risk management review Dividend proposal planning Cyber security Pension fund accounts Assessment of upper quartile performance Special Guarantees guidelines update April Matters Reserved for the Board Budget Chairman and NED fees July HITE and CEO conference objectives Pensions strategy update AGM 2015 Board Calendar AGM trading update IMS PSP awards SIP award consideration TSR performance 62 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
