Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma has the ambition to increase the number of executives Board performance and evaluation basedoutside Europe and the USA to better reflect the proportion The Board considers the evaluation of its performance as a whole ofour revenue generated outside those markets.
The diversity of and that of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees allother employees is detailed on page 45 within the Corporate annually, with each Committee also evaluating its own performance.
The aim of the evaluations is to improve the effectiveness of the Board and its members as well as the performance of the Company.
The Board activity throughout the year 2013 14 Board ensures that an external facilitator is engaged at least every During the year the Board received training and briefing updates third year.
Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review performed the last onour sectors, market assessments and changes, acquisition external review in 2011 12 covering the full Board and Committee opportunities and geographical priorities, succession planning, evaluations.
For 2012 13 and 2013 14, the Company Secretary changes in corporate governance, risk management and compliance, facilitated an internal evaluation of Board performance and that of audits, bribery and corruption, health and safety, environmental the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The Board matters, cyber security, city and shareholder matters, and other will undergo an  review of the Board and its relevant legislative and accounting changes.
The Directors have a programmed schedule of meetings and This years evaluation was conducted in the final quarter of the visitswith the Executive Board, Group companies and Halmas financial year and its outcome was first discussed with the Chairman development programmes to ensure that they are able to engage and subsequently presented to the full Board.
The evaluation results with management and employees at all levels.
The Directors were circulated to the Board in February 2014 and discussed at the alsohave the opportunity to attend the biennial HITE and the April 2014 Board meeting.
The Board members many positive responses indicated their widely held view that ongoing improvements have been made since the 2011 12 external evaluation which concluded that the Board was effective, methodical and thorough in the way it approaches its work.
There continues to be an open and transparent debate and an even contribution from all members of the Board and an active and collaborative approach to performance management reflected in the constructive debates in the Remuneration Committee.
The Board continues to spend a significant amount of time considering risks and controls and was assisted by strong financial information, effective internal and external audit processes and a strong Audit Committee.
Overall, the process confirmed the right blend of behaviours and skills around the Halma Board table although the Board recognises that additional geographic spread of experience and more gender diversity would aid more effective debate.
The Board freely and openly expresses any concerns which results in more considered outcomes emphasising collective responsibility, transparency, clarity and integrity.
The most significant issue arising from the 2013 review surrounded the importance of Chairman and Senior Independent Director succession planning and the preservation of the Groups positive culture during such a transition in these roles.
The Board felt that this Board activity throughout the year was achieved during 2013 14 with the identification of Paul Walker as Chairman-elect and the smooth handover from Geoff Unwin.
October Otherwise, the evaluation noted the Boards continuing recognition of Strategy 3-year plan the importance of the non-executive Directors investing sufficient time Relative attractions of different sectors to enable them to operate with a sound knowledge of the Company Candidates for acquisition disposal and to establish relationships with the executive Directors.
Review progress towards annual objectives External sum of the parts valuation The Board and Executive Board have also introduced more Debt capital structure considerations opportunities for interaction around topics of strategic and Succession planning update management bench operational importance.
November Performance evaluation cycle Half-yearly results PSP vesting update Year 1 Consideration of Board Evaluation process External evaluation facilitation internal external review Year 2 Internal review Year 3 Internal review Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63
