Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee focused on the integrity of the Groups financial reporting including the processes to make our Annual Report and Accounts fair, balanced and understandable, theeffectiveness and appropriateness of our system of risk management and internal controls as well as our internal andexternal audit processes.
Jane Aikman, Chairman, Audit Committee Audit Committee members Responsibilities Jane Aikman Chairman The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the nonStephen Pettit executive Directors of the Group.
The Audit Committees terms Norman Blackwell ofreference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Steve Marshall Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
The terms of reference are Daniela Barone Soares considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred tothe Board for approval.
The full terms of reference were recently updated in April 2014 in line with the revised recommendations of Allocation of time % theInstitute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA June2013 audit committee terms of reference guidance.
The terms of reference can be found on the Companys website or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Financial statements and reports 29% The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: Risk management 19% Internal audit 13% monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group External audit 31% andany formal announcements relating to the Groups financial Other 8% performance and review significant financial reporting judgments contained therein: have oversight of risk management, including the review of the Groups financial, operational and compliance internal controls, aswell as whistleblowing and fraud prevention procedures: monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups Internal During 2013 14, the Audit Committee focused on the integrity of Auditfunction: theGroups financial reporting including the processes to make our make recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put Annual Report and Accounts fair, balanced and understandable, tothe shareholders for their approval at the general meeting, on theeffectiveness and appropriateness of our system of risk management theappointment of the external auditor and the approval of the and internal controls as well as our internal and external audit processes.
remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: I am pleased to present the first Audit Committee Report prepared in review and monitor the external auditors independence and accordance with the newly revised Corporate Governance Code, in objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into which the role of the Audit Committee and its activities during the year consideration the periodic rotation of audit personnel and relevant are further expanded upon, in particular: UK professional and regulatory requirements: and develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the external description of the significant issues that the Audit Committee auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant considered in relation to the financial statements and how these guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the issues were addressed, having regard to the matters external audit firm.
communicated to it by the auditor: and explanation of how the Audit Committee has assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process and the approach taken to the reappointment of the external auditor to enable shareholders to understand why it recommended reappointing our auditor.
During the course of the year, the regular challenge and engagement with management, internal audit and the external auditor, together with the timely circulation of reports and information, has enabled the Committee to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively.
I hope you find this Report helpful in understanding the work of the Audit Committee.
66 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Key issues and activities Training The Committee not only reviews the financial reporting of the The Audit Committee has extended all of its meetings by an hour Company, but spends a significant amount of its time reviewing the toincorporate additional time for risk-related topics and training effectiveness of the Groups internal control process.
Combined with onrelevant topics, for example valuation of acquisitions and the Committees review of the internal and external audit functions, it disposals, financial reporting including additional coverage of is able to obtain sufficient information to discharge its responsibilities.
auditprocedures, scope and methodology, fraud, cyber security, internal control and governance.
More specifically, during the year the Committee reviewed its own effectiveness and looked at its activities as detailed in the table below.
Engagement of the external auditor The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the Groups Audit Committee activities and Companys financial statements.
The audit includes the review and test of the data contained in the financial statements to the extent Financial statements and reports necessary for expressing an audit opinion on the truth and fairness of reviewed the 29 March 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, the the financial statements.
28 September 2013 Half year report and the IMSs issued in July 2013 and February 2014.
As part of these reviews the Deloitte LLP has been the external Auditor of the Group since 2003 Committee received a report from the external auditor on the and a review of the independence of Deloitte LLP is undertaken each audit of the Annual Report and Accounts: year.
At the year end the Auditor formally confirmed its independence reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and and that objectivity has been maintained.
The Committee concluded disclosures made in the Annual Report and financial statements: that the relevant independence continues tobe met.
In addition, considered acquisition valuation methodology: thepartner responsible for the Group audit isrotated at least every review of pension fund accounts: and five years.
Deloitte LLP provides the Committee with relevant reports, Risk management reviewsand advice throughout the year, as set out in their terms considered the output from the Group-wide risk review process ofengagement.
to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks, the Groups changing risk profile and future risk reports: External auditor tendering devoted additional time to adequately address risk management In accordance with UK regulations, the Companys Auditor adheres in the Group: and toa rotation policy based on best practice and a new Group lead export controls.
engagement partner is appointed in place of the previous lead engagement partner once he has completed a term of five years Internal audit in thatrole.
evaluated the effectiveness and the scope of work to be Following a rigorous evaluation of the audit service and a change in undertaken by the Internal Audit function: audit partner in 2010 11, the Audit Committee agreed that a full tender reviewed management responses to audit reports issued during was not required for the 2012 13 audit.
The Committee reconsidered the year: its review during 2013 14 and concluded that a full tender is not reviewed the Groups whistleblowing policy which allows Internal currently required.
In making this assessment the Committee focused Audit to receive, in confidence, complaints on accounting, risk on the robustness of the audit, the quality of delivery of audit services issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters: and the effectiveness, objectivity and independence ofthe Auditor in and its reviews.
reviewed the resourcing of Internal Audit.
The Committee is satisfied that the audit continues to be effective External auditor and non-audit work and provides an appropriate independent challenge to the Groups reviewed, considered and agreed the scope and methodology senior management.
of the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditor: evaluated the independence and objectivity of the external The Committee has noted the revisions to the UK Corporate auditor: and Governance Code introduced by the Financial Reporting Council agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid to FRC in September 2012 and effective for Halmas 2013 14 financial the external auditor for the audit of the 29 March 2014 year and in particular the recommendation to put the external audit financial statements.
out to tender at least every 10 years.
The Committee noted the proposed transitional arrangements with respect to audit tendering tofit the five-yearly cycle of partner rotation.
Governance The Audit Committee was in place throughout the financial year The Committee is satisfied that Deloitte continues to provide an withJane Aikman as the Chair.
All five members are independent effective audit.
The Committee remains supportive of the Codes non-executive Directors in accordance with provision C. 3.1 of the requirement that the audit should be put out to tender at least once Code.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and representatives inevery ten years and intends to conduct its external tendering fromthe external Auditor attend Committee meetings by invitation arrangements before the end of December 2016. inorder to provide appropriate advice.
The Committee meets at Auditor independence leastthree times per year and routinely meets the Auditor without The Groups Policy on Auditor Independence and Services provided theinvolvement of the executive Directors.
The Committee meets by the External Auditor sets out restrictions on the categories of with the Internal Auditor on a regular basis throughout the year.
non-audit services which the external auditor is allowed to provide to TheFinance Director works closely with the Chairman of the Audit the Group, a summary of which is provided in the table below.
This Committee to ensure open communication between them.
The policy is regularly reviewed and states that the Group will only use the Board has designated Jane Aikman as the member of the Audit appointed external auditor for non-audit services in cases where Committee with recent and relevant financial experience.
She is these services do not conflict with the auditors independence.
achartered accountant, is a finance director and has listed companyexperience.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 Audit Committee Report continued The Committee confirms that Deloitte LLP remains best placed by both the Group and the Auditor under which each party makes the toadvise the Group on matters related to tax compliance and the other aware of accounting and financial reporting issues as and when structure of the Group.
The Committee accepts that certain work of they arise, rather than limiting this exchange to the period in which anon-audit nature is best undertaken by Deloitte, and appointments formal audit and review engagements take place.
are made taking into account factors including expertise and fees.
This general approach is supported by a formal annual survey The Committee regularly reviews the amount andnature of the process involving subsidiary and Group management as well non-audit work Deloitte performs.
The Audit Committee is notified as Audit Committee members and attendees.
ofall of Deloittes non-audit services with fees between 50,000 and 100,000.
The policy also sets a fee level per project of 100,000 Surveys are tailored and issued to three distinct groups of respondents: above which non-audit services are subject to a tendering process.
Subsidiary Finance Directors: The above fee levels for non-audit services are also subject to an Sector Chief Executives and Sector Vice Presidents: and annual cap equal to the audit fee.
At each meeting, the Audit Audit Committee members and attendees.
Committee also receives a summary of all fees, audit and non-audit, payable to the external Auditor.
The survey completed by the first group is divided between questions focusing on audit quality and client service.
As this group is involved The audit fees payable to Deloitte LLP during 2013 14 were 759,000 primarily in the execution phase of the audit the responses cover 2013: 740,000 and non-audit service fees were 65,000 2013: practical audit management issues as well as observations made of 307,000.
The principal non-audit service is tax-advisory related.
the integrity and quality of audit field teams.
The second and particularly Asummary of fees paid to the external Auditor is set out in note 6 the third group interact mainly with senior audit management and the to the Accounts on page 116. audit partner and so the survey covers more general audit planning In accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland and wider issues around the audit relationship.
260 and Ethical Standard 1 issued by the Accounting Practices In addition to assessing the effectiveness of the external Auditor the Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external Auditor has Committee recognises that Group management has an important confirmed its independence as Auditor of the Company, in a letter role to play in the overall effectiveness of the external audit process addressed to the Directors.
and the Auditor is therefore asked to conduct its own survey of both Accordingly, the Committee unanimously recommended to the subsidiary and head office companies that Deloitte interacts with.
Board that a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the This survey addresses items such as the timeliness, quality and Companys independent Auditor be proposed to shareholders at reliability of data provided to the Auditor.
the AGM in July 2014 and the Board has accepted and endorsed Taken together the Committee believes that sufficient and appropriate this recommendation.
information is obtained to form an overall judgment on the External audit effectiveness effectiveness of the external audit process.
The effectiveness of the external audit process is assessed by the Risk management and internal controls Committee, which meets regularly throughout the year with the Further details of risk management and internal controls are set out audit partner and senior audit managers.
Key to the overall on pages 28 to 33.
Through monitoring of the effectiveness of its effectiveness of the process is a no surprises approach adopted internal controls and risk management, the Committee is able to maintain a good understanding of business performance, key areas Policy of auditor independence and services of judgement and decision-making processes within the Group.
Prohibited non-audit services Significant issues in relation to financial reporting appraisal or valuation services: matters in 2013 14 financial information systems design and implementation: During the year the Committee considered significant risks and bookkeeping services: issues in relation to the Groups financial statements and disclosures management functions: relating to: executive recruiting and resource services: broker-dealer services: and the assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible legal services.
assets due to the significance of the amounts recorded on the consolidated balance sheet, the number of judgements involved Audit-related services not subject to separate tender if inassessing goodwill and intangible assets for impairment and fees 100,000 thecontinued challenging economic conditions: audits of businesses acquired or to be sold and due diligence the risk that acquisitions are not accounted for correctly in line with services: IFRS 3 Business combinations including the recording of fair value opinions audit reports on information provided by the company adjustments and the identification of acquired intangibles: upon request from a third party: the valuation of any contingent consideration arising on acquisitions advice on accounting policies: in current and prior periods: electronic data processing audits: and the judgements involved in valuing Defined Benefit pension tax services including local tax compliance.
schemes including the discount rate, the mortality assumption Permitted non-audit services, subject to approval andthe inflation level: due diligence services relating to acquisitions with fees in excess the risk around capturing the capitalised development costs of 100,000: inrelation to qualifying products as well as the subsequent public reporting on investment circulars: impairment review based on predicted product launch and liquidation services in respect of redundant subsidiaries or performance: and associate companies: and ensuring the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced tax-advisory fees in excess of 100,000 where the firms existing andunderstandable.
knowledge of the Group structure is preferred.
68 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements These issues were discussed with management at various stages the Committee was briefed on the consultation that was during 2013 14 and during the preparation and conclusion of the undertaken with members of the Defined Benefit schemes financial statements.
After reviewing the presentations and reports regarding the closure of the schemes to future benefit accrual from management the Committee is satisfied that the financial andreviewed the third party report that was prepared by the statements appropriately address the critical judgements and key Groups pension advisers outlining the impact of the closure.
estimates, both in respect of the amounts reported and the Fair, balanced and understandable report disclosures made.
The Committee is also satisfied that the significant and accounts assumptions used for determining the value of assets and liabilities One of the key governance requirements is for the report and have been appropriately scrutinised, challenged and are sufficiently accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee has discussed these issues with the Auditor this standard is met requires continuous assessment of the financial during the audit planning process and at the conclusion of the year reporting issues affecting the Group on a year round basis in addition end audit and is satisfied that its conclusions are in line with those to a number of focused exercises that take place during the Annual drawn by the Auditor in relation to these issues.
Report and Accounts production process.
The Committees process for challenging the assumptions of management and addressing the risks identified includes the These focused exercises can be summarised as follows: following activities: a qualitative review of disclosures and a review of internal considering the appropriateness of reviews conducted of the consistency throughout the Annual Report and Accounts.
This purchase agreements against the related accounting entries review assesses the Annual Report and Accounts against objective and fair value calculations for the acquired opening balances.
criteria drawn up for each component of the requirement individual This involved challenging, where required, assumptions criteria that indicate fairness, balance and understandability as and key judgements underpinning the valuations, and well as criteria that overlap two or more components : benchmarking acquisitions: a risk comparison review, which assess the consistency of the assessing treatments of contingent consideration payment presentation of risks and significant judgments throughout the arrangements against the requirements of IFRS 3: main areas of risk disclosure in the Annual Report and Accounts: focusing on, monitoring regularly and constructively challenging a formal review of all Board and Committee meeting minutes by thereasonableness of the assumptions used in impairment the Company Secretary to ensure that all significant issues are calculations by management and the appropriateness of appropriately reflected and given due prominence in narrative judgements and forecasts used including discount rates, growth reporting: and rates, the level of aggregation of individual cash generating units preparation and issue to the Audit Committee of the key working and methodology applied, and any other associated disclosures papers and results for each of the significant issues and judgments innote 11 to the Accounts: considered by the Audit Committee in the period.
assessing capitalisation of development costs in line with the The Directors statement on a fair, balanced and understandable accounting policy and standards: Annual Report and Accounts is set out on page 59. assessing the assumptions in determining the pension obligations, particularly given recent market volatility and determined whether On behalf of the Audit Committee the key assumptions were reasonable.
These assumptions were also benchmarked against other listed companies and variances highlighted for consideration: and Jane Aikman considering the appropriateness and reasonableness of stated Chairman judgements and conclusions and that reporting was accurate.
12 June 2014 As part of the above process the Committee specifically considered the following: the valuation of contingent consideration payable in respect of the acquisition of MicroSurgical Technology, Inc. MST in the prior year.
Following a review of the expected performance of MST against its contingent consideration earnings targets, management concluded that a significant proportion of the accrued payable should be released to the Consolidated Income Statement as the balance was unlikely to be paid in full.
The Committee challenged the assumptions on which management based its conclusion company forecast and budget data and the impact of this on thecontingent consideration calculation by understanding the risksand opportunities in the forecast and budget data and concluded that, within a range of outcomes, the revised valuation was reasonable: the Committee reviewed the relative value of projects in development and completed projects comprising the capitalised development costs balance and the coverage of these values by expected future cash flows to test the assertion of management that no projects were at risk of impairment: and Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69
