50HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 nominAtion Committee rePort ALAn tHomSon nominAtion Committee CHAirmAn deAr SHAreHoLder worlds pre-eminent specialist recruitment roLe of tHe nominAtion Committee The Nomination Committee has continued to business.
Board appointments will continue The role of the Committee is summarised support the Board during the year in ensuring to be made on merit, and the Committee below and detailed in full in its terms of its composition has the right balance of skills, recognises the benefits of diversity and reference, a copy of which is available experience, independence and knowledge provided we remain true to ourkey principles, on the Companys website hays.
com tobest serve the business and fulfil the we will aim to build on our existing diverse under Corporate Governance.
Boards responsibility to shareholders in the composition in the future.
ever-changing environment in which the The main responsibilities of the Committee Further non-executive appointments to the Company operates.
are to: Board remain under consideration.
With William Eccleshare retiring from the Review the structure, size and ALAn tHomSon Board at the forthcoming AGM, we are keen composition including skills, nomination Committee Chairman to ensure that the profile of the individual knowledge, experience, diversity recruited to take that seat has the right skills 28 August 2014 andbalance of executive and nonand experience to work with the rest of the executive directors of the Board Board in fulfilling its aim for Hays to be the anditsCommittees and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes: Consider succession planning for directors and other senior executives: Committee Member meeting attendance fY14 Identify and nominate for the approval Alan Thomson Chair 2 of 2 of the Board, candidates to fill Board William Eccleshare 2 of 2 vacancies: and Paul Harrison 2 of 2 Keep under review the time victoria Jarman 2 of 2 commitment expected from the Torsten Kreindl 2 of 2 Chairman and the non-executive directors.
Richard Smelt 2 of 2 Pippa Wicks 2 of 2 All members served throughout the year.
Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 50HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 51 membership and meetings search and considers candidates on merit Board appointment criteria are considered The Committee is appointed by the Board.
and against objective criteria ensuring that automatically as part of the Committees appointees have sufficient time to devote approach on succession planning.
The It is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and comprises the non-executive directors, tothe position, in light of other significant Committee believes that limited tenure and the commitments, and no conflicts of interest.
subsequent enforced retirement of directors all of whom are independent, save for the Chairman who was independent on is not always appropriate for sound business A long-list of potential candidates would be leadership.
Accordingly, matters of director appointment.
The names and qualifications drawn up, from which an appropriate number of the Committees current members are set tenure are viewed on a case-by-case basis.
would be shortlisted for interview based upon out in the directors biographies on pages 42 their fulfilment of the appointment criteria.
At present, the Board has not set any specific and 43.
The Committee would then recommended aspirations in respect of gender diversity The Committee meets as required and did so to the Board the appointment of the preferred though it believes that refreshment of the twice during the year andall members were candidate or candidates, if there is more Board should take into account the need to in attendance.
Other regular attendees at than one considered suitable for consider diversity in all forms.
Committee meetings include the Company subsequent appointment.
tenure of non-executive directors Secretary and, on invitation, the Chief During the year the Committee retained JCA Appointments to the Board are made for Executive and Group Finance Director.
Group in respect of the search for a suitable initial terms not exceeding three years and candidate to replace William Eccleshare.
JCA are ordinarily limited to three such terms mAin Committee ACtivitieS during Group is an independent executive search inoffice.
tHe finAnCiALYeAr consultancy and it has no other connection Activities during the year Considered Board succession plans: with the Company.
The biographical details of the current Reviewed the composition of the Board In the year ahead, the Committee will directors can be found on pages 42 and 43. and its Committees: and continue to assess the Boards composition Having reviewed their independence and and how it may be enhanced and will contribution, the Committee confirms that Considered and recommended the consider diversity gender and experience the performance of each of the directors re-election of each director, as and geographic representation and use standing for re-election at the 2014 AGM appropriate, at the AGM.
independent consultants as appropriate to continues to be effective and demonstrates ensure a broad search for suitable candidates.
commitment to their roles, including independence of judgment, commitment Succession planning non-executive director appointmentprocess of time for Board and Committee meetings A key task of the Committee is to keep under The Company adopts a formal, rigorous and and any other duties.
review the Companys succession plans for transparent procedure for the appointment members of the Board over the short, Accordingly, the Committee has of new directors and senior executives with medium and longer term, to ensure theBoard recommended to the Board that, with the due regard to diversity.
Prior to making an remains appropriately balanced between exception of William Eccleshare, all current appointment, the Committee willevaluate the new and innovative thinking and longer term directors of the Company be proposed for balance of skills, knowledge, experience and stability.
The focus during the 2014 financial re-election, at the forthcoming AGM.
diversity on the Board and, inlight of this year has been on identifying a suitable evaluation, will prepare a description of the replacement for William Eccleshare, as well as role and capabilities required, with a view to planning for the succession of other Board appointing the best placed individual for the members whose terms exceed sevenyears.
In identifying suitable candidates, the Committee uses open advertising or the services of external advisers to facilitate the
