44HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 CorPorAte governAnCe StAtement tHe HAYS boArd re-election of directors at the 2014 Agm StAtement of Code ComPLiAnCe Composition of the board In accordance with the Companys Articles Hays plc is subject to the UK Corporate The Board of Hays is currently made up of of Association and the principles of the Code, Governance Code the Code issued by two executive directors and seven nonwith the exception of William Eccleshare all the Financial Reporting Council available executive directors, including the Chairman, Directors of the Company will offer themselves at www.
uk, a revised version of all of whom served throughout the reporting for re-election at the 2014 AGM.
Having which was published in September 2012. period.
Their biographies, including prior received advice from the Nomination As a listed company, Hays is required to experience, are set out on pages 42 and 43.
Committee, the Board is satisfied that each report on how it has applied the principles director is qualified for re-election by virtue Hays Group policy is to hire the best of the Code and this is set out in the of their skills, experience and commitment candidates for all positions at all levels following pages.
The Board is pleased to to the Board.
throughout the business, irrespective of report that Hays has complied with all of gender, including candidates at Board level.
oPerAtionAL governAnCe the provisions of the Code throughout the With two female independent non-executive the management board year ended 30 June 2014 and to the date directors, namely victoria Jarman and Pippa Responsibility for the day-to-day of this document.
Wicks, 22% of the current Board is female management of our business and operations representing 28.5% of non-executives.
rests with the Chief Executive, who operates Further information and statistics on gender through the Management Board the diversity can be found within our Corporate principal executive committee within Hays.
In Responsibility Report on page 34.
The Board performing this role, the Management Board has not set any specific aspirations in respect also has responsibility for monitoring detailed of gender diversity at Board level and performance of all aspects of our business.
supports fully the Code principles in respect The Management Board, which meets of diversity.
However, the Board is of the view monthly, is chaired by the Chief Executive that diversity is less about firm quotas, and and also comprises the Group Finance recognises the benefits of diversity, of which Director, the Company Secretary & General gender is one aspect, and it will continue to Counsel, the Group HR Director, the Group ensure that this is taken into account when Marketing Director, the Group Technology considering any particular appointment, Director and the Managing Directors of the whilst ensuring appointments are made on Groups main operating regions.
Each merit and ability to enhance the performance Management Board member has a clearly of the business.
defined remit, business objectives and board changes during the year financial budget within which they operate.
Board composition is routinely reviewed to Our organisational structure is built around ensure that the balance of skills, knowledge three regions globally: UK & Ireland: Continental and experience of the Hays Board remains Europe & Rest of World: and Asia Pacific.
There were no Regional Managing Directors operate their changes to the Board during the year.
William business through regional boards, which Eccleshare will retire from the Board following comprise key business and functional the conclusion of the Companys Annual managers with specific responsibilities General Meeting AGM on 12November within those regions.
Each business is given 2014, having served for nine years following operational autonomy, as far as possible, his first election by shareholders.
Plans for within a well-established internal control additions to the Boards number are already framework which consists of, among other underway.
Further information can be found things, a Group-wide set of policies and in the Nomination Committee Report procedures, operational delegated authorities on page 50. and policies on anti-bribery and corruption, competition compliance, conduct and ethics and whistleblowing.
boArd ComPoSition boArd gender ComPoSition 78% 67% 22% 22% 11% Female Male Executive Chairman Nonexecutive Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 44HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 45 LeAderSHiP role of the non-executive directors Chairman and Chief executive the role of the Hays plc board Hays non-executive directors have a broad The roles of the Chairman and Chief The Board is collectively responsible to the and complementary mix of business skills, Executive are separate, with a clear division Companys shareholders for the long-term knowledge and experience acquired across of responsibilities between them which is success of the Company.
It sets the Companys sectors and geographies.
This allows them set out in writing: the responsibility for this strategic objectives and determines the risk to provide strong, independent and external separation of duties rests formally with appetite and control framework within which perspectives to Board discussions, which the Board.
The Board complement the skills and experience of the As Chairman, Alan Thomson presides over provides effective oversight of the Company executive directors.
In turn, this leads to a the Board and is responsible for its leadership and its businesses within a robust governance diversity of views being aired at Board and overall effectiveness.
In doing so, he structure that helps achieve the long-term meetings, robust and constructive debate fosters and helps to maintain an effective success of the Company and deliver and optimal decision-making.
At the same working relationship between the executive sustainable shareholder value.
time, it also reduces the likelihood of any and non-executive directors.
The Board also provides leadership of the As Chief Executive, Alistair Cox has responsibility Company and direction for management, A key role performed by the non-executive for the day-to-day management of the ensuring that the necessary financial and directors is the scrutiny of executive Companys business and the implementation human resources are in place for the management in meeting agreed objectives and delivery of the Board strategy.
Company to meet its objectives and it keeps and monitoring the reporting of performance.
under review managements performance in They also ensure that financial controls and This separation of roles enhances the regard to achieving those objectives.
systems of risk management are both rigorous independent oversight of executive and appropriate for the needs of the business.
management by the Board and more closely As we pursue our aim to be the worlds prealigns the Board with shareholders.
It also eminent specialist recruitment business, our The terms and conditions of appointment means that no one individual within the employees across the globe work towards ofnon-executive directors, including the Company has unfettered powers of achieving this by following the four themes in expected time commitment, are available decisionmaking.
our Strategic Pillars, set out on page 16, and forinspection at the Companys registered the Board closely monitors management and office, and a pro-forma letter of appointment Senior independent director its delivery of a sustainable and profitable is also available on the Companys website.
The Board appointed Paul Harrison to the business, ensuring it continues to operate position of Senior Independent Director on During the year, the Board considered the within the right risk-reward culture.
In performing this role independence of each of the non-executive has established a core set of values, which it Paul provides shareholders with someone directors, save for the Chairman who was adheres to and promotes throughout the to whom they can turn if ever they have deemed independent by the Board at the date Group.
These values, which underpin our concerns which they cannot address through of his appointment.
In doing so, it concluded skills, behaviours and way of doing business, the normal channels, for example with the that each non-executive director remained are being Ambitious, being Passionate about Chairman or executive directors.
Similarly, independent of management and free from People, being Expert at what we do and as Senior Independent Director Paul is any relationship that could interfere with the being Inquisitive about the world of work.
available as an intermediary between his exercise of their independent judgment.
These values have helped to engender the fellow directors and the Chairman.
Whilst The Board noted that William Eccleshare was entrepreneurial culture within Hays, which there were no requests from directors or retiring from the Board at the 2014 AGM, some has been critical to our continued success shareholders for access to the Senior nine years after his election by shareholders.
Independent Director during the year, All of Hays directors are believed to act in therole serves as an important check and the best interests of the Company.
balance in Hays governance process.
In thefulfilment of his role Paul ensures he maintains a thorough understanding of the views of the Companys shareholders.
Key roles and responsibilities of these positions, and that of the Company direCtorS tenure AS At 30 June 2014 Secretary, are provided overleaf.
3 yrs 9 mths Alan Thomson 6 yrs 10 mths Alistair Cox 8 yrs 2 mths Paul Venables 7 yrs 2 mths Paul Harrison 9 yrs 7 mths William Eccleshare 2 yrs 9 mths Vicky Jarman 1 yr 1 mth Torsten Kreindl 6 yrs 7 mths Richard Smelt 2 yrs 6 mths Pippa Wicks 46HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 CorPorAte governAnCe StAtement Continued keY roLeS And reSPonSibiLitieS CHAirmAn CHief exeCutive Senior indePendent ComPAnY SeCretArY & Alan thomson Alistair Cox direCtor generAL CounSeL Paul Harrison doug evans Leadership and the effective Day-to-day management Acting as a sounding board Acting as Secretary to the operation of the Board: ofthe Groups business: for the Chairman: Board, its Committees and the Management Board: Chairing the Board and Formulating strategic business Serving as an alternative Nomination Committee: objectives for Board approval contact and intermediary Providing legal and and implementing approved forother directors and governance support to Setting the agenda, style and strategic objectives and shareholders: theBoard as a whole and tone of Board discussions policies: directors individually: including promoting Leading the Chairmans annual openness, debate and Managing and optimising performance appraisal and Ensuring that the Group effective individual contribution: theoperational and financial ultimate succession.
complies with all relevant performance of the business legal, regulatory and Ensuring that all directors in conjunction with the Group governance requirements.
receive clear and accurate Finance Director: information on a timely basis: Fostering a good working Ensuring the effectiveness relationship with the ofthe Board through Chairman: induction, ongoing training and regular evaluations: Chairing the Management Board and developing senior Effective communications talent within the business for with shareholders.
boArd effeCtiveneSS a majority of Board members.
In the case The Board considered the commitments matters reserved for the board of an equality of votes, Hays Articles of of the Chairman and is satisfied that he A schedule of formal matters reserved for Association provide the Chairman with has sufficient time to devote to his Board the Boards decision and approval is available a second or casting vote.
It is acknowledged on our website, hays.
These largely that he intends to step down as Chairman of board commitment relate to matters of governance and business Polypipe Group plc in April 2015: however, the The Board has established a policy where independence from executive Board will keep his commitment under review permitting its executive directors to hold management is important, and include during the intervening period as a matter of only one external non-executive directorship, thefollowing: good governance.
subject to any possible conflict of interest.
Approving financial results and other This ensures that executive directors retain information and support financial, corporate and governance sufficient time for and focus on the Companys The Board meets regularly throughout matters: business, whilst allowing them to gain the year and agrees a forward calendar external board exposure as part of their of matters that it wishes to discuss at Approving material contracts: leadership development.
Standing items, including Approving Group strategy: are permitted to retain any fees paid for such operational, functional and financial reviews services.
Details of fees received by each of and Committee updates are considered Approving appointments to the Board: the executive directors for the year ended at each scheduled Board meeting, with Approving and recommending dividends 31March 2014 the year-end date of the unplanned items such as commercial or as appropriate and deciding dividend relevant companies are shown below: property-related decisions being considered policy: as and when required.
The Chairman, in Director Fee External appointment conjunction with the Chief Executive and Reviewing material litigation: Alistair Cox 68,000 3i plc Company Secretary, plans the agenda for Approving major capital projects, each Board meeting and ensures that Paul venables 53,000 Wincanton plc acquisitions and disposals: supporting papers are clear, accurate, timely While the Company does not have a similar and of sufficient quality to enable the Board Reviewing annually the effectiveness of policy for non-executive directors, their key to discharge its duties.
internal control and the nature and extent external commitments are reviewed each of significant risks identified by All Board directors have access to the year to ensure that they too have sufficient management and associated mitigation Company Secretary, who advises them on time commitment for the fulfilment of their strategies: and Board and governance matters.
As well as Board responsibilities.
Key external the support of the Company Secretary, there Approving the annual budget.
commitments of the Board are included is a procedure in place for any director to take within their biographies on pages 42 and 43.
No changes to the schedule of matters were independent professional advice at the made during the year.
Board decisions are Companys expense in the furtherance of usually by consensus at Board meetings.
their duties, where considered necessary.
On occasion, decisions may be taken by Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 46HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 47 boArd foCuS during 2014 wHAt tHe boArd HAS done in tHe YeAr deveLoPing A SuCCeSSfuL StrAtegY enSuring APProPriAte imPLementing governAnCe And finAnCiALmAnAgement etHiCS And monitoring riSk Attended a Group Strategy Away Day, with members of the Management Board Received and considered regular reports Performed the annual review of the and other senior executives, to consider on the Groups financial performance: effectiveness of internal control and key strategic priorities and challenges the nature and extent of risks identified Approved financial announcements faced across the business: together with mitigation plans: forpublication: Approved the Group strategy and Reviewed regular reports on legal Approved the annual budget: reviewed associated performance: and compliance matters from the Approved dividend policy, payments and CompanySecretary: visited operations in Canada and the UK, recommendations as appropriate: receiving presentations from senior Received formal training updates management on business performance, Met with the Companys financial advisers on corporate reporting, legal and the state of the market, strategy and and corporate brokers: regulatory matters: opportunities: Considered ad hoc property and financeReviewed Board and Committee Reviewed strategy plans and received related transactions.
effectiveness: reports on the operational performance Reviewed and approved changes to for the Groups regions: the terms of reference of the Audit Received reports on technology and and Remuneration Committees: innovation and related industry Reviewed the Directors Conflicts developments: of Interest procedures: Reviewed Group risk.
Reviewed the Companys compliance with the Code.
motivAting emPLoYeeS engAging witH inveStorS buiLding Strong LeAderS Considered the results from TALKback, Received regular updates on views and Considered the tools employed in the the Groups employee engagement feedback from investors: leadership and development strategy: survey: Considered the Companys investor Reviewed the Groups succession plans Considered and approved invitations relations strategy: and assessed risks and options.
under the Companys all-employee share Attendance, by a majority of the Board, plans.
at the Groups Investor Day.
Audit nomination remuneration boArd And Committee AttendAnCe board Committee Committee Committee Alan Thomson 8 of 8 2 of 2 Alistair Cox 8 of 8 William Eccleshare 8 of 8 4 of 4 2 of 2 4 of 4 Paul Harrison 8 of 8 4 of 4 2 of 2 4 of 4 victoria Jarman 8 of 8 4 of 4 2 of 2 4 of 4 Richard Smelt 8 of 8 4 of 4 2 of 2 4 of 4 Paul venables 8 of 8 Pippa Wicks 8 of 8 4 of 4 2 of 2 4 of 4 Torsten Kreindl 8 of 8 4 of 4 2 of 2 4 of 4 board attendance The Board met a total of eight times during Board meetings were held during the year the year.
Seven occasions were scheduled under review.
Board meetings and the eighth was an annual Board and Committee attendance for Strategy Review with the Management Board scheduled meetings during the year under being present.
Seven Board meetings were review are shown above.
held in the UK and one in Toronto.
No ad hoc 48HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 CorPorAte governAnCe StAtement Continued board induction and development Chairman.
All directors completed an will be able to take the relevant decision: in On appointment, each director takes part evaluation questionnaire, which will be taking such a decision the directors must act in a tailored induction programme which is followed by one-to-one meetings with the in a way they consider, in good faith, will be designed to give him or her an understanding Chairman as appropriate.
The questionnaire most likely to promote the success of the of the Companys business, governance not only built on the subjects identified for Company and may impose such limits or and stakeholders.
Elements of the action in last years evaluation but also conditions as they think fit.
The Board has programme include: covered wider subject matter in order to reviewed the procedures in place and assess effectiveness, such as the conduct considers that they continue to operate Senior management briefings to provide of Board meetings: risk: strategy: Board effectively.
There were no actual or potential a business overview, current trading composition and member performance: and conflicts of interest which were required to conditions and strategic commercial issues: wider stakeholder engagement.
Committee be authorised by the Board during the year Meetings with the Companys key advisers effectiveness was also assessed separately.
under review or to the date of this report.
and major shareholders, where necessary: Results were presented to the Board and reLAtionS witH SHAreHoLderS areas for improved operation identified Business site visits across regions: engagement with investors andagreed.
Responsibility for shareholder relations rests A legal and regulatory briefing on the There was general agreement that, overall, with the Chairman, Chief Executive and duties of directors of listed companies: the Board and its Committees continued to Group Finance Director.
They ensure that Details of the Group corporate structure, operate effectively throughout the period.
there is effective communication with Board and Committee structures and The experience of the Board members is shareholders on matters such as governance arrangements and key policies and seen as a key strength: the number of Board and strategy, and are responsible for ensuring procedures: and meetings was considered to be appropriate, that the Board understands the views of with both the flow and availability of major shareholders on such matters.
The latest statutory financial reports and information between meetings supporting management accounts.
The Companys investor relations programme that position: however, there was is supported by a designated Investor The Chairman, in conjunction with the acknowledgement that some benefit Relations team which acts as the primary Company Secretary, ensures that directors may be derived from closer time point of contact with the investor community are provided with updates on changes in management and agenda planning.
and is responsible for managing ongoing the legal and regulatory environment in The Senior Independent Director led a separate relations with investors and shareholders.
These are appraisal of the Chairmans performance with The Board receives regular reports from incorporated into the annual agenda of the his fellow non-executive directors, which took the Investor Relations team.
Feedback Boards activities along with wider business into consideration both the executive and from meetings held between executive and industry updates: the Chairman also non-executive directors views.
management, or the Investor Relations team, keeps under review the individual training and institutional shareholders is also reported needs of Board members.
The Companys Good progress against the action points to the Board.
principal external advisers provide updates identified in the 2013 Board evaluation has to the Board, at least annually, on the latest been made during the year.
These included As a part of a comprehensive investor developments in their respective fields, and a revised approach at the Boards Strategy relations programme, formal meetings are relevant update sessions are included in the Away Day leading to greater Board scheduled with investors and analysts to Boards strategy meetings.
The Company involvement and participation, an increased discuss the Groups interim and final results.
Secretary presents corporate governance focus on talent management and succession In the intervening periods, Hays continues its reports to the Board as appropriate, together planning, and increased dialogue at a Board dialogue with the investor community by with any relevant technical directives issued and below-Board level around enterprise meeting key investor representatives, holding by the Companys auditor.
In this way, each risk management.
investor roadshows and participating in director keeps their skills and knowledge conferences.
Meetings with debt providers, Conflicts of interest current so they remain competent in fulfilling principally the Companys banks, also take Procedures are in place for the disclosure their role both on the Board and on any place on a regular basis.
During the year, the by directors of any interest that conflicts, or Committee of which they are a member.
executive directors and senior management possibly may conflict, with the Companys met with over 350 shareholders and potential board evaluation interests and for the appropriate authorisation shareholders around the world.
Presentations During the 2014 financial year the Board to be sought if a conflict arises, in accordance to analysts are posted on the Companys assessed its own effectiveness through an with the Companys Articles of Association.
com and if you would like internal Board evaluation process, following In deciding whether to authorise a conflict to know more about our relations with the external evaluation conducted last year.
or potential conflict of interest only nonshareholders please contact ir@hays.
The 2014 evaluation was facilitated by the interested directors i. e. those that have no interest in the matter under consideration united Continental north individuAL inveStorS met in fY14 kingdom europe America total Alistair Cox 88 36 19 143 Paul venables 154 0 32 186 Investor Relations team 234 60 59 353 Other senior management 40 13 0 53 Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 48HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 49 In addition to our investor roadshow ACCountAbiLitY Complementing these financial controls is schedule, in November 2013 we held an risk management and internal control a set of Group-wide policies and procedures investor day at which our Executive team The Board has overall responsibility for the addressing non-quantifiable risks.
These outlined their aspirations for the Group on a Groups internal control systems and for include the Groups Code of Conduct and five-year view, and their strategic priorities to reviewing their effectiveness.
This has been Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, deliver on them.
We were able to showcase designed to assist the Board in making better, and whistleblowing arrangements.
The the significant operational and strategic more risk-informed, strategic decisions with a Board regularly receives management and progress we have made in recent years to view to creating and protecting shareholder Committee reports which also form part over 100 people in the investor community.
In practice, the Board delegates the of the internal control system.
task of implementing the Boards policy As a reflection of the success of Hays The Groups internal control procedures are on risk and control to management.
Further investor relations efforts, Hays came first in subject to regular review and provide an support and assistance is provided by an the 2014 Thomson Reuters Extel Survey for ongoing process for identifying, evaluating independent Internal Audit function, best investor relations by a listed company in and managing significant risks.
This is in details of which are provided in the the European Support & Business Services accordance with the Revised Turnbull Audit CommitteeReport.
Additionally, Alistair Cox was Guidance on Internal Control.
The Board ranked first as best Chief Executive in the The Management Board has implemented recognises that such a system has its sector, Paul venables was ranked first as best an enterprise risk management system which limitations in that risk management requires Chief Finance Officer and David Walker, Head allows for a holistic, top-down and bottom-up independent judgment on the part of of Investor Relations, was ranked first as best view of key risks facing the business.
These directors and executive management.
are recorded in a Group risk register, which is Internal controls are designed to manage reviewed at least annually by the Management rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Annual general meeting Board and submitted to the Board thereafter achieve business objectives, and can provide The Board uses the Companys AGM to to enable it to carry out its risk oversight only reasonable and not absolute assurance communicate with investors and welcomes responsibility.
This exercise involves a current against material misstatement or loss.
All shareholders are and forward look at various risks affecting entitled to attend the AGM, at which the In accordance with its regulatory obligations, the business and prioritising them according Board members are present.
The Board views the Board, with the assistance of the Audit to risk magnitude and likelihood.
Risks the AGM as a good opportunity to meet with Committee, carried out an annual assessment covered include operational, business and its smaller, private shareholders.
A summary of the effectiveness of the Groups risk compliance risks as well as financial risks.
presentation of results is given by the Chief management and internal control system Mitigation procedures are put in place and Executive before the formal business of the during the reporting period.
During the course monitoring of these takes place on an meeting is conducted.
All shareholders of its review, the Board did not identify or ongoing basis.
The principal risks currently present can question the Chairman, the hear of any failings or weaknesses that it facing the business are detailed in the Chairmen of the Committees and the rest determined to be significant.
of the Board both during the meeting and of any necessary actions is therefore informally afterwards.
The Board reviews the Group strategy notprovided.
and approves a Group budget for the The Notice of the AGM and related papers are organisation each year.
To ensure that sent to shareholders at least 20 working days performance of the business is in line with before the meeting.
voting on all resolutions the plan, financial and operating reporting at the AGM is by means of a poll, which, procedures are in place.
Comprehensive reflecting the number of voting rights annual budgets and forecasts are approved exercisable by each member, is considered by by the Management Board and business the Board to be a more democratic method divisions.
Monthly progress and variances of voting.
As soon as practicable following are reported to the Management Board the conclusion of the AGM, the proxy votes and subsequently to the Board at each cast, including details of votes withheld, are meeting as part of the control process.
announced to the London Stock Exchange via the Regulatory News Service and published on our website.
