52HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 Audit Committee rePort viCtoriA JArmAn Audit Committee CHAirmAn deAr SHAreHoLder roLe of tHe Audit Committee The work of the Audit Committee has The Committees terms of reference were Monitor the relationship with the continued to keep robust governance and reviewed and updated during the year, a Companys external Auditor, including diligent oversight at the heart of the way copy of which is available on the consideration of fees, audit scope and Hays manages its business and I am pleased Companys website hays.
com under terms of engagement: to present to you the Committees first Corporate Governance.
report prepared in accordance with the Review the effectiveness and objectivity The key responsibilities of the Committee of the external audit and the Auditors revised Code.
are to: independence: While the Board is responsible for the preparation of an Annual Report that is fair, Monitor the integrity of the financial On engagement of the external Auditor, balanced and understandable, the Committee statements of the Company, including review the policy for the provision of supports the Board in meeting that annual and half year reports, interim non-audit services and monitor responsibility, along with ensuring the integrity management statements, and other compliance: of the Groups financial statements and the formal announcements relating to its Monitor and review the Companys financial performance, and reviewing effectiveness of internal control systems.
In so internal control and risk management doing, the Committee reviews the full and half and reporting to the Board on significant systems: financial reporting issues and judgments: year results with both management and the external auditor and reviews the work of Monitor and review the effectiveness of Where requested by the Board, review the Companys Internal Audit function: Internal Audit and other assurance providers.
the content of the Annual Report and This in turn enables the Committee to provide and advise the Board whether, taken as a shareholders with the necessary information whole, it is fair, balanced and Ensure compliance with laws, regulations, for them to assess the Companys understandable and provides the ethical and other issues, including that performance, business model and strategy.
information necessary for shareholders the Company maintains suitable In addition to discharging its financial reporting, to assess the Companys performance, arrangements for employees to raise business model and strategy: concerns in confidence.
internal control and risk management responsibilities, during the course of the year Recommend to the Board for approval the Committee also considered, amongst other by shareholders, the appointment, matters, cyber security, data protection, audit reappointment or removal of the effectiveness both internal and external and externalAuditor: undertook a thorough review of its own terms of reference.
Further detail on the Committees activities during the year under review is provided below.
Committee Member meeting attendance fY14 victoria Jarman Chair 4 of 4 viCtoriA JArmAn Audit Committee Chairman Paul Harrison 4 of 4 28 August 2014 William Eccleshare 4 of 4 Richard Smelt 4 of 4 Pippa Wicks 4 of 4 Torsten Kreindl 4 of 4 All members served throughout the year.
Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 52HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 53 membership and meetings Annual report review mAin Committee ACtivitieS during The Committee is appointed by the Board In addition to its work described here, the tHe finAnCiAL YeAr from its independent non-executive Committee has reviewed the financial and Approved the annual Committee directors.
Biographies of the Committees narrative disclosures in this years Annual programme: current members are set out on pages 42 Report.
It has advised the Board that, in its and 43. view, taken as a whole, the Annual Report Reviewed financial results for isfair, balanced and understandable and publication: The Chairman of the Committee and provides the information necessary for itsfinancial expert, victoria Jarman, is a Considered the external audit plan and shareholders to assess the Groups Chartered Accountant, who also currently reviewed the results of the audit: performance, business model and strategy.
sits on the Audit Committee of fide la Rue plc Approved the Internal Audit plan and and chairs the Audit Committee of Equiniti fair, balanced and understandable reviewed its findings: Group Limited: all Committee members In making its recommendation to the Board are financially literate.
that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, Reviewed the non-audit services is fair, balanced and understandable, the provided by the external Auditor: The Committee discharges its responsibilities Committee enhanced itsexisting robust through a series of scheduled meetings Reviewed the risk management and governance arrangements, which include: during the year, the agenda of which is linked controls framework and its to events in the financial calendar of the Comprehensive Group and subsidiary effectiveness together with the Company.
The Committee met four times accounts process, with written Groups principal risks: during the financial year and all members confirmations provided by the regional Reviewed the performance and were in attendance at those meetings.
senior management teams on the health effectiveness of the external Auditor ofthe financial control environment: The Committee commissions reports, either and considered its reappointment: from external advisers, the Head of Internal Reviews of the Annual Report undertaken Reviewed the performance and Audit, or Group management, as required, to at different levels of the Group and by the effectiveness of the Internal Audit enable it to discharge its duties.
The Group senior management team that aim to function: Finance Director and the Group Financial ensure consistency and overall balance: Controller attend its meetings, as do the Reviewed the Groups whistleblowing External audit review: external Auditor and the Head of Internal arrangements: Audit, both of whom have the opportunity Clear guidance and instruction of the new Carried out a review of the tomeet privately with the Committee requirement provided to contributors: Committees effectiveness and Chairman, in the absence of Group Inclusion of a new additional written reviewed progress on matters arising management.
The Chairman of the Board confirmation that information provided has from previous assessments: and the Chief Executive are also invited to, been done so on a fair and balanced basis: and regularly attend, Committee meetings.
Reviewed the Committees terms of Additional scrutiny by senior management: reference: Additional Committee reviews of the Considered the Code requirements draft Annual Report in advance of the concerning fair, balanced and final sign-off in the context of the understandable: revised Code provision.
Recommended the Audit Committee Final sign-off is provided by the Board, on Report for approval by the Board: and the recommendation of the Committee.
Held discussions with the external Auditor and the Head of Internal Audit without management being present.
54HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 Audit Committee rePort Continued Significant issues considered during Pension accounting by the external Auditor.
To keep acheck on the year Pension accounting is complex and contains this, the Committee has adopted a policy to In reviewing both the half and full year areas of significant judgment, most notably ensure that the provision of any non-audit financial statements, the following issues those in respect of the discount and inflation services by Deloitte does not impair its of significance were considered by the rates used in the valuation of the net deficit independence or objectivity.
Committee and addressed as described.
The Committee reviewed The key features of the non-audit services These matters are described in more detail the pension items, including those relating to policy are as follows: in note 3 to the Financial Statements.
the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised, by discussing a report prepared The provision of non-audit services debtor and accrued income recoverability by management based on work performed provided by the Companys external The recoverability of trade debtors, accrued by the Companys actuary which set the key Auditor be limited to a value of one times income and the level of provisions for bad assumptions used in the calculation of the the prior years audit fee: debt are considered to be areas of significant deficit and related income statement items.
judgment due to the pervasive nature of Any non-audit project work which could The Committee also considered the work these balances to the financial statements impair the objectivity or independence of performed by Deloittes specialist pension and the importance of cash collection in the external Auditor may not be awarded team in testing the assumptions and was the working capital management of the to the external Auditor: and satisfied that the assumptions used and the business.
The Committee considered the disclosures in the financial statements are Delegated authority by the Committee for level and ageing of debtors and accrued appropriate.
the approval of non-audit services by the income, together with the appropriateness external Auditor is as follows: of provisioning, by reviewing previous external Auditor experience of bad debt exposure and the Both the Committee and the Board keep value of services per consistency of judgments made year-on-year.
the external Auditors independence and Authoriser non-audit project The Committee was satisfied that the level of objectivity under close scrutiny, particularly Group Financial provision and the carrying value of debtors in regard to its reporting to shareholders.
Controller up to 25,000 and accrued income is appropriate.
Deloitte has been the external Auditor of Group Finance the Group since listing in October 1989. revenue recognition Director up to 150,000 Professional rules require that the Companys The main areas of judgment in revenue Audit Committee Above 150,000 Audit Partner at Deloitte LLP be rotated recognition relate to i cut-off as we every five years: the current lead partner, recognise permanent placement income Deloitte LLPs fee in respect of its 2013 Stephen Griggs, was appointed following onthe day a candidate starts work, and financial year audit of Hays was 0.8 million.
temporary placement income over the Accordingly, the maximum value of non-audit duration of the placement: and ii the As noted in last years Committee Report, services that Deloitte LLP could have been recognition of temporary contractual the Committee resolved to undertake a full engaged by Hays to provide during the arrangements where we act as principal tender of the Companys external audit financial year 2014 was 0.8 million.
The total onagross basis rather than net basis.
The contract following the 2016 year end results, audit fee for non-audit services provided by Committee discussed and reviewed these when the tenure of the current Audit Partner Deloitte during the 2014 financial year was areas with both management and the Auditor at Deloitte comes to an end.
The main and remains satisfied that Group accounting will keep this position under review during components of the 0.3 million non-audit policies with regard to revenue recognition the year in the light of further regulatory services were as follows: have been adhered to and that judgments developments, including EU audit legislation.
Half year review: 0.1 million: made remain appropriate.
Any recommendation for the appointment of the external Auditor will continue to be Taxation compliance: 0.1 million: and goodwill the subject of rigorous review each year.
The Committee assessed the carrying Tax and other services: 0.1 million.
value of goodwill by reviewing a report Auditor independence and non-audit No single non-audit project undertaken by management which set out the values services policy by Deloitte during the 2014 financial year attributable to each cash generating unit, The Committee believes that the issue of exceeded 150,000.
The Company did compiled using projected cash flows based non-audit services to Hays is closely related not pay any non-audit fees to Deloitte on a on assumptions related to discount rates and to external Auditor independence and contingent basis.
A summary of the fees paid future growth rates.
The Committee recognises that to the external Auditor is set out in note 6 to considered the work undertaken by Deloitte the independence of the external Auditor the Consolidated Financial Statements.
in testing the projections and performing may reasonably be expected to be sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions.
compromised if they also act as the Having reviewed Hays non-audit services After discussion, the Committee was satisfied Companys consultants and advisers.
Having policy this year, the Committee is satisfied that the assumptions used were appropriate.
said that, the Committee accepts that certain that adequate procedures are in place to work of a non-audit nature is best undertaken safeguard the external Auditors objectivity and independence.
Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 54HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 55 effectiveness of the external Auditor employed, the risk mitigation measures The Committee, as part of its overall review The process for reviewing the effectiveness implemented and future risk management of the Groups system of internal control, of the external Auditor underwent a thorough and monitoring.
reviewed the procedures in place during review during the year, largely in response to the reporting period and is satisfied that internal Audit changes in the Code, leading to a change in they are appropriate to the size and scale The Committee oversees and monitors focus designed to enhance the accountability of the Group.
the work of the Internal Audit function, of the Committee to shareholders.
A revised whichreviews key controls and processes Anti-bribery and corruption process for assessing the external Auditors throughout the Group on a rolling basis, Hays has a zero-tolerance approach to bribery performance was implemented which was including resources, scope and effectiveness and corruption.
The Group Anti-Bribery and much broader in both scope and depth and of the function.
Corruption Policy with specific reference to took into account the views of a much wider the UK Bribery Act 2010 is issued to all stakeholder group than had been undertaken The Group Head of Internal Audit has direct employees.
Overall responsibility for, and previously.
It is envisaged that such a deep access to the Committee, and meets regularly oversight of, the Policy lies with the Hays plc dive will be undertaken on a rolling threewith both the Committee andits Chairman Board.
Training is provided to all employees year basis, similar to the external Board without the presence of management to annually in local languages and ongoing evaluation, with an abridged version for consider the work of InternalAudit.
support is provided when and where the intervening years.
The Committee approved the programme of necessary.
In addition, risk assessments are The effectiveness review was conducted work for the Internal Audit function in respect carried out on an ad hoc basis, for example under the guidance of the Committee of the 2014 financial year, which was focused when new countries are under consideration Chairman, on behalf of the Committee, and on addressing bothfinancial and overall risk whether they are considered to be low or incorporated amongst other things a review management objectives across the Group.
high risk or prior to entry into new public of the audit partners, audit teams, planning During the year 38 internal audit reviews sector markets.
The Committee reviewed and execution, Committee support and were undertaken, with the findings reported the effectiveness of the Policy during the communications and Deloittes independence to both the Management Board and the year and concluded that it was sufficient for and objectivity.
Overall feedback was Committee, with recommendations tracked managing the anti-bribery and corruption positive: suggestions to improve efficiency and progresssubsequently reported back risks faced by the Group.
and operation were madewhich have been to theCommittee.
Audit Committee effectiveness discussed and implemented, which were No significant weaknesses were identified The Committee considered its effectiveness largely country-specific.
On the basis of this asa result of risk management and internal in discharging its duties during the year.
The review, the Committee was satisfied with control reviews undertaken by Internal Audit Committee looked at the work ithad carried the performance of Deloitte in the fulfilment during the reporting period.
out during the year and considered that its ofitsobligations as external Auditor and performance during the year was effective oftheeffectiveness of the audit process.
The Committee believes that the Groups when measured against itsterms of reference Accordingly, the Committee has enterprise risk management framework and general audit committee best practice.
recommended to the Board that Deloitte be needs to continue to evolve in accordance Details of the main activities of the Committee reappointed as external Auditor to the Group.
with the growth of the Hays business around and its role and responsibilities have been the world.
Throughout the financial year the risk management and internal control detailed earlier in this Report.
Internal Audit team has been working to The Board is responsible for the adequacy enhance the enterprise risk management The Chairman of the Committee will be and effectiveness of the Groups internal framework and work with the operating available at this years AGM to answer any control system and risk management companies across the globe to further questions on the work of theCommittee.
framework, which in order to fulfil its develop and embed the framework responsibilities the Board has delegated methodology at a local level.
raising Concerns at work In order to establish an assessment from The whistleblowing procedure in place across both a financial and operational control the Group ensures that employees are able perspective, the Committee looks to the work toraise any concerns about any possible of the Internal Audit function, specifically to improprieties in business practices, or other consider whether significant process and matters, in confidence: this is managed and control weaknesses are identified, improved reported through an external third party.
and monitored and thatrisks have been identified, evaluated andmanaged.
The disclosures under this arrangement are investigated promptly by Internal Audit The Committee considered the Groups and escalated to the Management Board risk assessment process, which included and the Committee as appropriate, with coverage across the regions, businesses and follow-up action being taken as soon functions within the Group, reviewing the as practicable thereafter.
effectiveness of the risk methodology
