HellermannTyton 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance report In this Corporate governance report we explain who the members of the Board are, describe their role and responsibilities and provide further insight into how the Board governs the Company to ensure it remains firmly in compliance with the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Corporate governance statement The Board believes that its members have an appropriate mix of skills and knowledge, including relevant international business, engineering The Board recognises the importance of good corporate governance industry and financial experience, which enables them to discharge in creating a sustainable, successful and profitable business.
Details their respective duties effectively.
The Board is of sufficient size, are set out below of the Companys corporate governance procedures meeting the requirements of the business, and no individual or small and application of the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate group of individuals can dominate the Board.
Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012.
A copy of the Code is available online at Chairman www.
David Newlands is the Chairman of the Board and ensures that appropriate communication is maintained with shareholders.
He has The Board considers that the Company has complied throughout the responsibility for the smooth running of the Board and for ensuring period ended 31 December 2014 with all the provisions of the Code.
that all Directors are fully informed of matters relevant to their roles.
He also chairs the Nomination Committee.
The role of the Board Chief Executive The Board is responsible for providing entrepreneurial leadership of Steve Salmon is the Chief Executive and has responsibility for the Company within a framework of prudent controls, which enables implementing the strategy approved by the Board and for the risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board is also responsible for executive management of the Group.
setting the Companys strategic aims, values and standards and for ensuring that the necessary financial, physical and human resources Chief Financial Officer are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and deliver value Tim Jones is the Chief Financial Officer and is responsible for the to shareholders.
financial conduct of the Group.
A number of key decisions and matters are expressly reserved for the Boards attention and can only be approved by the Board.
These have Senior Independent Director been clearly defined in writing and include monitoring and approving Tim Hancock is the Senior Independent Director.
In accordance with the Companys financial results, strategic plans and annual capital and the UK Corporate Governance Code, he is available to shareholders revenue budgets, approving major acquisitions and disposals and if they have any concerns that contact through the normal channels overseeing the Groups systems of governance, risk management of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer has failed to and internal control.
resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Company Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good Non-executive Directors information flows to the Board and its Committees and between The Company has experienced Non-executive Directors on its Board.
senior management and the Non-executive Directors.
The The Board considers John Biles, David Lindsell and Tim Hancock to be appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter independent as they are free from any business or other relationship reserved for the Board.
The Company Secretary is responsible, which could materially influence their judgement and they represent through the Chairman, for advising the Board on all corporate a strong source of advice and independent challenge.
governance matters and for assisting the Directors with their professional development.
This includes regular corporate governance Other than their fees, which are disclosed on page 42, the Chairman and business issues updates, as well as the use of operational location and Non-executive Directors received no remuneration from the visits and the provision of external courses where required.
When Non-executive Directors are considered for appointment, the Nomination Committee will take into Board composition account their other responsibilities in assessing whether they can commit sufficient time to their prospective directorship.
The Board currently has six members: a Non-executive Chairman, two Executive Directors the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer and three Non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered to be independent for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 25 Resignations from the Board Activities of the Board in 2014 Under the terms of a Relationship Agreement between the Company and Doughty Hanson & Co Managers Limited Doughty Hanson, January Doughty Hanson was entitled to nominate one Non-executive Director Matters considered at all Board meetings of the Company at any time for so long as it held at least 10% of the Current trading Companys shares.
Alex Moss was the person nominated by Doughty Hanson to be appointed as Non-executive Director upon the February Potential acquisition opportunities Companys incorporation.
He resigned on 21 March 2014 when Doughty Hanson sold their remaining shareholding in the Company.
Legal and regulatory updates There were no other changes to the Board in 2014.
March Health and safety, and environmental updates Annual election In accordance with the Companys articles of association, the Share register Company ensures that Directors submit themselves for re-election April AGM at least every three years.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Company policies and future Governance Code states that all directors of FTSE 350 companies governance planning should stand for annual election by shareholders and the Company May intends to comply with this provision.
Matters considered during 2014 Considering diversity Draft results and presentation to analysts The Board recognises that gender, nationality and cultural diversity June are important factors when considering the composition of the Board.
The Annual Report Further details of the considerations that are made when reviewing and making recommendations on new appointments to the Board Re-nancing July are provided in the Nomination Committee report on page 28.
Recruitment for a new Non-executive Director Board Meetings During 2014, there were seven scheduled Board meetings, including a Board evaluation and effectiveness August one-day meeting at the Groups Milwaukee location which considered The Groups risk register the Groups strategy.
The table below shows attendance levels at the scheduled Board and Committee meetings held during the year: the Internal controls numbers in brackets confirm how many meetings each Director was September eligible to attend during the year.
Strategic planning Board Nomination Audit Remuneration Business plan and budget for 2015 meetings Committee Committee Committee October David Newlands 7 7 2 2 4 4 4 AGM results and shareholder voting John Biles 7 7 2 2 4 4 4 4 Group restructuring David Lindsell 7 7 2 2 4 4 4 4 November Tim Hancock 7 7 2 2 4 4 4 4 Succession planning Steve Salmon 7 7 2 4 4 Relocation of US distribution centre December Tim Jones 7 7 2 4 4 Establishment of manufacturing facility Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are set out on in South Korea to support growing sales page 39.
The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the registered Board meeting office of the Company during normal business hours and at the place of the AGM from at least 15 minutes before and until the end of the meeting.
HellermannTyton 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance report continued Ongoing development and business training Board effectiveness evaluation All Directors receive comprehensive papers in advance of Board The Board has carried out an internal assessment of the effectiveness meetings on matters to be discussed, including minutes of previous of the Board, including a review of issues relating to the Board as a meetings, and are briefed in depth by use of presentations at the whole and each of its Committees, the performance of the Chairman meetings.
Their understanding of the Groups business is further and the priority of tasks.
The process was conducted through enhanced by additional presentations from senior managers the completion of a questionnaire by the Directors and included an throughout the year and visits to the Companys key locations.
opportunity for each Director to make comments.
The areas covered This year the Directors attended a strategic planning day at the in the questionnaire were the Boards role and its organisation, Companys Milwaukee location, which included tours of the the Board dynamic and relationships, the quality of information flows manufacturing and other facilities and presentations by senior and decision making, performance monitoring and the effectiveness management on the financial performance of specific business units, of each of the Boards Committees.
including details of their competitive position and strategic priorities for The responses were compiled into a report which was agreed with 2015 and beyond.
the Senior Independent Director, who led the evaluation process.
The training needs of Directors and of members of the Boards The report was subsequently discussed by the Board and some areas Committees are formally considered on an annual basis as part of the for improvement were proposed and agreed.
In addition, the wider Board effectiveness review and are also monitored throughout Non-executive Directors met without the Chairman present to evaluate the year.
The Board intends to comply with UK Corporate Governance Code Independent advice guidance that the evaluation should be externally facilitated at least Members of the Board may take independent professional advice in every three years and will engage an external reviewer to evaluate the furtherance of their duties and they have access to the advice and the Boards effectiveness in 2015. services of the Company Secretary and Group Legal Counsel, the Companys legal advisers and external auditors.
Risk management and internal control Committees The Companys corporate governance process is designed to determine the nature and level of risk that the Group is willing to take The Board has established Nomination, Audit and Remuneration in pursuit of its strategy and to ensure that risks are mitigated to the Committees to assist it in carrying out its responsibilities.
The extent required to bring them within the Groups risk appetite and that memberships, roles and activities of these Committees are detailed the system of internal control is effective.
The system of internal control in separate reports: Nomination Committee on page 28, Audit includes clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and Committee on pages 29 to 32 and Remuneration Committee on delegated authority.
The Company has in place risk management and pages 33 to 46.
Each Board Committee has written terms of reference internal control systems in relation to the Companys financial reporting approved by the Board, which are available to view at process and the Groups process for preparation of consolidated www.
These systems include policies and procedures to facilitate the maintenance of records that accurately and fairly reflect Executive Committee transactions.
This is to provide reasonable assurance that transactions The Executive Committee is chaired by the Companys Chief Executive are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial and comprises the senior management team responsible for the daystatements in accordance with IFRS, as appropriate, and to enable to-day management of the business.
These are the Chief Executive, reported data to be reviewed and reconciled, with appropriate Chief Financial Officer: the Group Business Development Manager, monitoring internally and by the Audit Committee.
the Company Secretary and Group Legal Counsel and the senior managers responsible for each segment and industrial market across the globe.
The remit of the Executive Committee is to support the Chief Executive, drive the agreed business strategy forward and facilitate the flow of information across all areas of the business.
Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 27 Business performance is managed closely and the Board and the Directors indemnity Executive Committee have established processes, as part of the normal As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company purchases management of the business, to monitor: and maintains Directors and Officers insurance cover against certain strategic plan achievement: legal liabilities and costs incurred by the Directors and Officers of the Group companies in the execution of their duties.
The Company also financial performance within a comprehensive financial planning, granted an indemnity to each of its Directors in accordance with accounting and reporting framework: Section 232 of the Companies Act 2006 in relation to the Directors capital investment and asset management performance, with exercise of their powers, duties and responsibilities as Directors of the detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment reviews: Company, save to the extent that any such indemnity would be void under the Companies Act 2006. customer data and actions to evolve brands and products to ensure that they continue to be appealing and relevant: and David Newlands risk management, through an ongoing process of regular reports Chairman of the Board from the Groups senior managers to ensure that the significant risks faced by the Group are being identified, evaluated and 27 February 2015 appropriately managed, having regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
In addition, the Audit Committee receives reports from the Internal Audit Manager on the work carried out under the annual internal audit plan.
As part of the monitoring processes set out above, the Board, through the Audit Committee, conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year ended 31 December 2014.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such, it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, the review, in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the Board is not aware of any change in this status up to the approval of this Annual Report.
Shareholder relations The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the Company.
The Company formally updates the market on its financial performance with Interim and Annual Reports in August and March respectively and quarterly updates in April or May and November.
The content of these updates is posted on the Companys investor relations website, together with general information about the Company so as to be available to all shareholders.
The Company has a regular programme of meetings with its major institutional shareholders, which provides an opportunity to discuss, on the back of publicly available information, the progress of the business.
On a more informal basis, the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer regularly report to the Board the views of major shareholders about the Company, and the Senior Independent Director and other Non-executive Directors are available to meet shareholders on request, and are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders.
