Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 29 Audit Committee report Chairmans introduction Audit report I am pleased to introduce my second report as Chairman of the Audit Membership The members of the Committee are John Biles, David Lindsell Committee since my appointment to the Board in February 2013. and Tim Hancock, all of whom are considered by the Board to have This report has been written to offer shareholders an insight into the the recent and relevant financial experience required to oversee the activities of the Committee during the year and provide an overview effective governance of the Groups financial reporting to shareholders.
of how the Committee has reviewed the work of the external auditors Together the Committee examines, challenges and debates the and systems of internal control for effectiveness.
It also gives the appropriateness and adequacy of the Groups financial reporting Committees opinion on the fairness, balance and understandability and disclosures, including the management and supervision of of the Annual Report, when viewed as a whole, and provides greater the Groups system of internal control and business risks and the detail on the programme for internal audit and the Companys risk function and performance of internal audit and the external auditors.
management processes that the Committee oversees.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
In 2014, the Committees focus was on sound financial reporting while strengthening and developing the Groups risk management Number of meetings and attendance and internal audit functions.
In response to these areas of focus the The Committee held four scheduled meetings in 2014.
At the Company has: Committees invitation, meetings are routinely attended by the Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Business re-examined, enhanced and further embedded the Companys Development Manager, Group Finance Manager and Internal Audit risk management processes across the Group: Manager to share their expertise and provide a deeper level of insight conducted internal audits of the Companys business units in into certain key issues.
The Committee also invited the external Sweden, China, Brazil, Japan, South Africa, Australia, Italy, the UK auditors,  LLP, to attend each meeting.
In line and the USA: and with best practice and Company policy, the Committee held separate private sessions with the Internal Audit Manager and external auditors, investigated ethics cases identified through its systems of internal without management present, after the end of most meetings.
control and improved processes where required.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, John Biles reports to the Board Going forward, the action plan is to continue the good work on the principal matters discussed by the Committee.
Outside Audit achieved so far by looking in detail at more of the Companys Committee meetings, John Biles has regular contact with the Chief business operations across the globe, with a further ten internal Financial Officer, Internal Audit Manager and the external auditors to audits planned for 2015.
The Committee will also be closely prepare for upcoming meetings, review their reports to the Committee scrutinising the Companys review of the Groups business disaster and consider policies and practices in detail.
recovery and business continuity plans and overseeing the development of the Companys stakeholder assurance plan and The Committee is currently scheduled to meet four times in 2015 assurance map.
and will convene additional meetings if required.
I look forward to reporting to you on the progress made on these matters.
John Biles Chairman of the Audit Committee 27 February 2015 HellermannTyton 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Audit Committee report continued Annual programme and terms of reference Main activities of the Committee in 2014 The Committee generally meets immediately prior to Board meetings During 2014 and in February 2015, the Committee considered and each year the Committee reviews and adopts an annual and discussed the following key matters of relevance: programme of agenda items, shaped by its terms of reference, with standing topics for discussion at each quarterly meeting.
Financial reporting This maximises the Committees effectiveness in carrying out its The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting responsibilities and working with the Board.
has been to review with management and the external auditors the appropriateness of the interim and annual financial statements The Committees terms of reference are reviewed and approved concentrating on, amongst other matters: annually to ensure that they continue to meet best practice and include all matters required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices: and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The principal responsibilities material areas where significant judgements have been applied or of the Committee are: there has been a significant discussion with the external auditors: monitoring the integrity and form and content of the the clarity of disclosures and compliance with financial financial statements, including Interim and Annual Reports, quarterly reporting standards and relevant financial and governance trading updates, final and half-year results announcements and any reporting requirements: and other formal announcements relating to financial performance: whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of our accounting balanced and understandable, and provides the information policies and practices: necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys strategy, advising the Board on whether the Committee believes that business model and performance.
the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, Reports from management were considered on significant matters balanced and understandable and provides the information and also reports from the external auditors on the outcome of their necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys strategy, reviews.
The Committee challenged  LLP business model and performance: to ensure that they had applied the necessary level of professional reviewing the effectiveness of systems of internal control and scepticism in their work.
management of risk, including approving statements concerning The principal areas of judgement considered by the Committee in internal control and risk management in the Annual Report relation to the 2014 accounts were as follows.
and Accounts: Recoverability of debtors and inventory see Notes 10 and 11 overseeing the relationships with the external auditors: to the financial statements making recommendations to the Board in relation to the external The Committee received reports on the ageing of trade debtor auditors appointment, reappointment and removal at the AGM balances outstanding and reviewed subsequent collections, and setting and approving policy on the engagement of the external payment history and the historical levels of provisioning and was auditors for non-audit work: and satisfied that provisions were calculated on a basis consistent with assessing the performance and reviewing the scope, results and prior years, took account of known problems with customers and effectiveness of internal audit.
The Committee received a report on inventories which confirmed the calculation of provisions for obsolete stock items and any items where holdings appeared excessive.
The basis of calculating inventory provisions is consistent with previous years and, based on historic usage patterns, provisions are considered adequate.
Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 31 Internal control Going concern The Groups internal control framework is based on managements The validity of the going concern assumption used in preparation assessment of risk.
Effectiveness of internal control is monitored by of the Annual Report and Accounts was reviewed in detail.
local management self-certification, management supervision and Appropriate downside sensitivity analysis has been applied to independent review by the Internal Audit Manager.
assumptions used in calculating the net debt profile, committed The annual audit by  LLP includes a review of facility headroom and financial covenants.
There is a reasonable certain financial internal controls with any issues being included as part expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue of their reports to management and the Committee.
The Internal in operational existence.
Audit Manager confirms during each audit visit that actions have been Accounting policies and management representation taken to rectify any matters raised.
The Committee approved the Groups accounting policies and The Committee reviews the arrangements by which employees also approved the representations made by management to the are able to raise any concerns they may have, in confidence, external auditors.
about possible wrongdoing or dishonest or unethical behaviour.
A whistleblowing policy is in place for this purpose and the ethics Fair, balanced and understandable policy protects anyone who comes forward to make such a disclosure.
The Committee reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts 2014, Should any disclosures be made, the Internal Audit Manager, in taken as a whole, in the light of their knowledge of the Group consultation with the Audit Committee Chairman, will decide on and its performance and has concluded that it is fair, balanced the appropriate level of investigation.
The Committee is notified of and understandable and provides the information necessary for all disclosures, results of investigations and actions taken and has the shareholders to assess the Companys strategy, business model power to conduct further enquiries itself or other additional actions and performance, and reported to the Board accordingly.
Risk management Internal audit Senior management are responsible for ensuring that risk The Groups internal audit function is led by the Internal Audit management is integrated into all operations and functions.
The Manager, who reports to the Chief Financial Officer but also has an Groups risk assessment process and the way that significant business independent reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
risks are managed and mitigated are key areas of focus for the The Committee receives summaries of all the internal audit reports Committee in each meeting.
The principal risks are summarised on from the Internal Audit Manager at every Committee meeting page 19. covering areas such as the effectiveness of financial and IT controls.
The Company has made good progress in embedding the risk An internal audit programme for 2014 was approved by the management process within the key manufacturing locations.
A Committee and completed by the Internal Audit Manager to test key standard template risk register is used, which each of the locations has financial processes and controls in operation throughout the Group adapted for its local purposes.
In addition to the headline risks, upon which management places reliance for the mitigation of risk.
emerging risks are identified in the template and commented on.
The External auditing resources were deployed in Japan, China and Brazil individual risk registers are updated by local management throughout during 2014 to assist the Internal Audit Manager with knowledge the year and the Groups risk register is renewed for each Audit of local laws and regulations, as well as language and cultural skills Committee meeting.
Regular updates are made to the individual wherever necessary.
business unit risk registers in order to enhance and demonstrate Where areas of weakness were identified, recommendations for effective risk management throughout the Group.
For example, during improvements in controls were presented to the Committee and fieldwork the Internal Audit Manager reviews the risk register within followed up with management until completed to ensure that all each relevant location and suggests improvement, where required, or actions agreed were taken on a timely basis.
further clarifications in order to enhance the overall reporting.
As a consequence, the risk register for each location now contains greater An internal audit programme for 2015 has been reviewed by the detail about the specific risks for that business location, as well as Committee and is deemed appropriate in scope to fulfil the Groups detailed commentary on the strategy for mitigating those risks.
internal audit strategy of visiting all manufacturing locations at least every two years and sales operations every five years.
An internal audit risk assessment matrix has been developed by the Internal Audit Manager.
It is updated annually and reviewed by the Chief Financial Officer and the Audit Committee.
The Committee reviewed and assessed the internal audit function in 2014 as effective and will continue to monitor and provide direction to its activities in 2015.
HellermannTyton 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Audit Committee report continued External audit Fees Each year at the April and November meetings, the external auditors In respect of the audit for 2014,  LLP and present their audit plans for the interim review and annual audit its international member firms charged the Group 783,000 respectively.
These plans are discussed with the external auditors and 2013: 761,000 for audit and audit-related services.
The Committee appropriate changes from the previous years scope are agreed.
approved the fees for 2014 after considering the scope of the audit carried out this year and being satisfied by  LLP The effectiveness of the external audit process depends on appropriate that the level of fees was appropriate for the amount of work required.
risk identification at the start of the cycle which is reviewed as part of Non-audit services the planning process.
The principal risks identified by the external The Committee regularly monitored and approved the services auditors for 2014 were in relation to provisions against debtors provided to the Group by  LLP and has and inventory.
established a policy and pre-approval requirement for the provision Following completion of the audit,  LLP of non-audit services to ensure that there is no impairment of confirmed that no additional matters had arisen during the audit objectivity and independence.
For this purpose, auditing the which required them to alter their planned procedures.
The accounts of subsidiaries and associates pursuant to legislation and Committee assessed the effectiveness of the audit process based on other services provided pursuant to the legislation are regarded as its interaction with the external auditors and by obtaining feedback audit services.
The pre-approval requirement is subject to annual from management on the effectiveness of the process.
For 2014, review by the Committee.
the Committee was satisfied that there had been appropriate For all non-audit services, any contract in excess of 20,000 must focus and challenge on the primary areas of audit risk.
be approved by the Audit Committee Chairman and any individual Training engagement over 250,000 must be approved by the Committee.
At each meeting, a paper is presented on any new accounting The external auditors are invited to provide services where their developments and any changes in corporate governance requirements position as auditors renders them best placed to undertake the work.
that may affect the Group.
The members of the Committee also In 2014, this included all work required in connection with the attend external training sessions given by the big four firms of auditors simplification of the Groups structure following its UK listing through and other advisers.
the phased movement of group entities from the Luxembourg holding companies, HellermannTyton Alpha S.. r. l and HellermannTyton Beta External audit S.. r. l. to the UK holding company, HellermannTyton Holdings Limited.
Tax, valuation and general accounting work, especially where Appointment  LLP could end up auditing its own work or The independence of the auditors and the effectiveness of the audit where any other conflict could arise, is not permitted to be done by process were assessed by the members of the Committee and the the external auditors and is put out to tender.
There are no contractual Internal Audit Manager.
restrictions on who the Committee can choose as external auditors.
Having reviewed the performance of  LLP in Committee evaluation 2014, the Committee has decided to recommend to the Board that  LLP be reappointed for the 2015 audit and The Committees performance was evaluated within the framework a resolution to this effect will be put to the 2015 AGM.
of the wider Board effectiveness review for 2014 and deemed The external auditors are required to rotate the lead audit partner effective.
This was conducted internally through completion of a every five years and other partners periodically in order to protect questionnaire by the members of the Committee, the Board, the independence and objectivity and provide fresh challenge to the Internal Audit Manager and the external auditors.
The current lead partner, Mrs Rosemary Shapland, has improvement were identified and discussed by the Committee, and completed five annual audits and, therefore, will be standing down will be implemented in the coming year.
and replaced by a new lead partner for the 2015 audit if  LLP are reappointed.
John Biles  LLP have been the external auditors of the Chairman of the Audit Committee Group since 2006.
Having considered the Competition and Markets 27 February 2015 Authoritys final order on mandatory re-tendering published in September 2014 and the associated transitional provisions, the Committee has concluded that the Company will be required to put the external audit contract out to tender by 2017.
