HellermannTyton 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Nomination Committee report Board appointment process Role and terms of reference Before any appointment is made by the Board, the Committee is The primary role of the Nomination Committee is to regularly review tasked to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience the structure, size and composition of the Board and the succession on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepare a description plans for the business, and to make recommendations to the Board of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
on these and related matters.
Accordingly, the Committee routinely: In identifying suitable candidates the Committee will: evaluates and reviews the balance of skills, knowledge and use open advertising or the services of external advisers to facilitate experience on the Board: the search: assesses whether the size, structure and composition of the Board consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds: continues to meet the Groups business and strategic needs: consider suitable internal candidates: examines succession planning for Directors and other senior consider candidates on merit and against objective criteria, taking executives and, in particular, for the key roles of Chairman and care that appointees have enough time available to devote to the Chief Executive: and position: and considers the retirements and appointments of additional and give due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board, including replacement Directors as and when they arise.
Decisions regarding the appointment of Directors are made by the In September 2014, search firm Egon Zehnder was engaged to identify Board as a whole on the basis of objective criteria and the Groups potential candidates for the role of Non-executive Director following longer-term strategy.
the resignation of Alex Moss.
As part of this process, a number Membership of external candidates have been identified and a list of potential applicants is being reviewed by the Committee with a view to During the year, the Nomination Committee was chaired by David conducting interviews and making a recommendation to the Board Newlands and its other members were Tim Hancock, John Biles and for appointment in 2015.
In accordance with the requirements of the UK With regard to Board diversity, including gender diversity, the Company Corporate Governance Code, David Newlands does not chair the has just completed its first full financial year since its IPO and is still Nomination Committee when it is dealing with the matter of evolving in its new arena as a listed company.
The current Board was succession to the chairmanship of the Company.
The Company chosen based on the mix of professional skills and experience that Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
could add value to the Company at the time of IPO.
The Board Number of meetings and attendance recognises the need for appropriate diversity in its membership and, as part of the current Non-executive Director recruitment process, a list The Nomination Committee held two meetings in 2014.
The of potential candidates has been drawn up, which includes female Committee has no fixed meeting schedule for 2015, but will candidates.
Any new Director will be recommended to the Board continue to convene meetings as and when required.
based on the mix of professional skills and experience that can add Only members of the Committee have the right to attend the value to the Company rather than purely to improve diversity.
meetings, but the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer Effectiveness have both been invited to attend Committee meetings in the past to afford greater insight into matters of succession planning and During the year, the Committee carried out an evaluation of its terms Board composition.
of reference and effectiveness through completion of a questionnaire by the Committee members within the context of the wider Board Main activities of the Committee in 2014 effectiveness review.
This process concluded that the Committee Succession planning was effective in terms of its expertise and use of time and that it had The Committee regularly keeps under review the leadership needs of been provided with sufficient resources to carry out its duties.
The the Company and the Group, both Executive and Non-executive, with appointment of another Non-executive Director and the continued a view to ensuring the continued ability of the Group to compete review of the succession plans for the Board and key roles across the effectively in the marketplace.
Over the past year, the Nomination Group were identified as the main priorities for 2015.
Committee has looked closely at the topic of succession planning and the development programme for key senior managers, taking into David Newlands account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and what Chairman of the Nomination Committee skills and expertise may be needed on the Board in the future.
27 February 2015 Looking forward to 2015, the Committee will continue to assess the Groups succession plans, both for the Board and vital management roles within the Group, and work to expand on giving the Board greater exposure to the key senior managers and future talent pipeline across the business.
