Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 GOVERNANCE REPORT Governance in Hikma Message from our Chairman Dear Shareholders and Stakeholders Having taken on the chairmanship during this year, this is my first letter to you regarding governance.
I am pleased to say that I already know many of you and I look forward to meeting more of you.
Here at Hikma, we choose to maintain the highest standards of corporate governance as we believe these underpin the success of the Company in the long-term.
As in previous years, we will continue to provide a genuine understanding of howgovernance supports and protects the Hikma business and we use the key themes oftheCorporate Governance Code as a framework for articulating this narrative.
During 2014 we said goodbye to our dear friends Samih Darwazah, Chairman, and Sir David Rowe-Ham, Senior Independent Director.
We owe both of them a huge debt.
Robert Pickering has kindly taken on the Senior Independent role and he is using his own GOVERNANCE IN HIKMA focused and precise style to continue the development of our Board and investor practices.
Pat Butler joined us in April and has been rapidly learning the Hikma way and engaging 54 Message from our Chairman withmanagement on risk and finance, ready to take on the Audit Committee chair.
55 Highlights of 2014 I am delighted that Pamela Kirby has also joined our Board.
All of us can see the massive 56 The Board value in diversity across the Board, but we have always been committed to maintaining quality 60 Senior Management while expanding diversity.
With Pamela we have advanced both.
64 Board Responsibility The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Group and the Company 65 Chairman and Chief Executive undertakes a rigorous evaluation each year in order to assess how well the Board, its 66 Roles and Responsibilities Committees, the Directors and the Chairman are performing.
Overall I am pleased that the 68 Effectiveness Board continues to function well, though there are particular areas for greater focus for the 70 Meetings year ahead.
This process and its outcomes are developed in more detail on pages 69 to 70.
72 Directors During the year we have continued to promote our Hikma values, which are transparency, 72 Delegation of Authority respect, trust and quality.
These were set by my father as the fundamental values on which our Company is based.
They have helped us grow our business in a sustainable and balanced way since formation and they continue to be our guiding principles.
Said Darwazah, Chairman and Chief Executive 54
