Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 GOVERNANCE REPORT Governance in Hikma Message from our Chairman Dear Shareholders and Stakeholders Having taken on the chairmanship during this year, this is my first letter to you regarding governance.
I am pleased to say that I already know many of you and I look forward to meeting more of you.
Here at Hikma, we choose to maintain the highest standards of corporate governance as we believe these underpin the success of the Company in the long-term.
As in previous years, we will continue to provide a genuine understanding of howgovernance supports and protects the Hikma business and we use the key themes oftheCorporate Governance Code as a framework for articulating this narrative.
During 2014 we said goodbye to our dear friends Samih Darwazah, Chairman, and Sir David Rowe-Ham, Senior Independent Director.
We owe both of them a huge debt.
Robert Pickering has kindly taken on the Senior Independent role and he is using his own GOVERNANCE IN HIKMA focused and precise style to continue the development of our Board and investor practices.
Pat Butler joined us in April and has been rapidly learning the Hikma way and engaging 54 Message from our Chairman withmanagement on risk and finance, ready to take on the Audit Committee chair.
55 Highlights of 2014 I am delighted that Pamela Kirby has also joined our Board.
All of us can see the massive 56 The Board value in diversity across the Board, but we have always been committed to maintaining quality 60 Senior Management while expanding diversity.
With Pamela we have advanced both.
64 Board Responsibility The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Group and the Company 65 Chairman and Chief Executive undertakes a rigorous evaluation each year in order to assess how well the Board, its 66 Roles and Responsibilities Committees, the Directors and the Chairman are performing.
Overall I am pleased that the 68 Effectiveness Board continues to function well, though there are particular areas for greater focus for the 70 Meetings year ahead.
This process and its outcomes are developed in more detail on pages 69 to 70.
72 Directors During the year we have continued to promote our Hikma values, which are transparency, 72 Delegation of Authority respect, trust and quality.
These were set by my father as the fundamental values on which our Company is based.
They have helped us grow our business in a sustainable and balanced way since formation and they continue to be our guiding principles.
Said Darwazah, Chairman and Chief Executive 54 Corporate governance The Board acknowledges that Said Darwazah holding the THE BOARDS TIME positions of Chairman and Chief Executive and the continuation of 1.
Financial 23% 5 1 independent non-executive directors who have served more than nine years requires explanation under the Code, which has been 2.
Operational developments 14% provided in this document.
Hikma is committed to an open dialogue 3.
Questions may be directed to, andfurther 2 4.
Corporate governance 19% information may be requested from, the Company Secretary.
Otherwise, throughout the year and up until the date of this report, 5.
Training 4% Hikma was in full compliance with the Code.
3 PRIORITIES IN 2015 f Reviewing the delivery of our strategic plans that were considered HIGHLIGHTS OF 2014 indetail during 2014 f We made significant strides in developing and implementing of our f Embedding the changes in the Board which are identified above succession plans: Said Darwazah became Chairman and Chief Executive f Further developing and implementing our risk control framework Samih Darwazah retired as Chairman Robert Pickering became Senior Independent Director and f Continuing to contribute to governance practice and thought Chairman of the Nomination Committee leadership throughout our jurisdictions of operation Sir David Rowe-Ham retired as Senior Independent Director f Further advancing our commitment to business integrity through Pat Butler was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and will theimplementation of relevant procedures, policies and training takeover the chairmanship of the Audit Committee in May 2015 f Ensuring an orderly handover of responsibilities from Breffni Byrne Dr Pamela Kirby was appointed as a Non-Executive Director toPat Butler as Chairman of the Audit Committee andjoined the Audit, Remuneration and CRE Committees f Enhanced diversity across the organisation in terms of gender, Dialogue with stakeholders experience and background Hikma is committed to communicating with shareholders and f Further enhanced non-executive oversight of, and relationships with, stakeholders in a clear and open manner.
We take account of senior management the views of our stakeholders in our decision making process f Nominated for the BPT Award for Best Remuneration Disclosure and policy development.
If there are matters on which additional intheFTSE 250 explanation is required, we are always happy to discuss them.
f Continued to promote the Hikma values of transparency, respect, Please contact the Company Secretary in the first instance by writing trustand quality to info@hikma.
The principal ongoing communication with shareholders is f Developed our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption programme through the publication of Hikmas Annual Report and Accounts, f Strengthened our Code of Conduct and associated procedures interim results and interim management statements, together with f Once again reviewed and improved our disclosure policy and practice the opportunity to question the Board and Committees at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and if unable to do so are encouraged to vote Governance principles by proxy.
Copies of presentations made at the AGM are available The Board is committed to the standards of corporate governance on the website after the event, together with the results of the set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the voting.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Committee Markets Law of the Dubai Financial Services Authority.
This report Chairmen remain open for discussion on matters under their areas on pages 54 to 114 describes how the Board applied the Code ofresponsibility, either through contacting Hikma or at the AGM.
and Markets Law during the year under review.
The current Code isavailable at www.
