Corporate governance COMMITTEE REPORTS Nomination Letter from the Chairman Dear Shareholder I am pleased to be writing my first letter to you, having assumed the role previously performed by Sir David Rowe-Ham following his retirement in May.
In the last report we focused on the process behind and the reasons for the change to the chairmanship and SeniorIndependent position.
I am pleased to say that these changes have worked smoothly and we continue to have a Board that functions very effectively.
The relationship between myself, as Senior Independent, and Said Darwazah, as Chairman, is very strong: we meet regularly, listento each other and work together closely to achieve joint aims.
For some time the Board has desired to improve its gender balance, while ensuring that we only appoint the best candidate for the role.
During 2014 we undertook a search process for an additional non-executive with a focus on pharmaceutical experience, to ensure that we NOMINATION REPORT are well positioned for medium-term succession.
We were very fortunate to find Pamela Kirby, who has extensive experience both in the leadership of pharmaceutical organisations and 81 Letter from the Chairman as an independent non-executive.
We were delighted to be able to improve diversity while 82 Our Highlights ensuring that we met our aim of appointing the best candidate.
82 Membership and Attendance Our medium-term succession plans are to allow for the gradual rotation of independent 83 Responsibilities non-executives.
We will bring on board new Directors with a view to ensuring that they are 83 Succession fully inducted into the Company and their roles in advance of the retirement of the Director 83 Appointments they are replacing.
This also allows us to consider the rotation of the Committee chairs over 84 Skills and Experience a longer period, getting to know the individuals better and allowing for the orderly transition 84 Chairman and Chief Executive of these roles.
We are cognisant of the risks of changing too much and too quickly and the 84 Re-election potential to lose Company and market-specific knowledge.
We also realise the potential 85 Diversity independence issues of extended service and I confirm that no Independent Director will serve 85 Board Diversity in excess of 12 years.
We aim to consider Independent director succession further over the course of 2015 and beyond, with a view to enhancing diversity further.
Over the course of 2015 and with the assistance of our executive and human resources department, we will be further developing our executive succession arrangements, expanding the number of positions considered.
As an organisation, Hikma is committed to clear and open communication and, as the Senior Independent Director, I am open at any time to discussion with shareholders should they have matters which they wish to discuss.
Robert Pickering, Chairman of the Nomination Committee 81 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 COMMITTEE REPORTS NOMINATION continued OUR HIGHLIGHTS MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE f Successful transition of the chairmanship and Senior Independent The Nomination Committee consists of four Directors.
Three are Director positions Independent Non-Executive Directors: Robert Pickering, Michael Ashton and Pat Butler.
The fourth is Mazen Darwazah, the Executive f Undertook a non-executive search process leading to the appointment Vice Chairman.
Pat Butler, Independent Non-Executive Director, of Dr Pamela Kirby joined on 1 April 2014.
Sir David Rowe-Ham retired from the chair f Enhanced Board gender diversity on 15 May 2014 and Robert Pickering became the Committee Chairman on that date.
The Committee met six times during the f Inducted two new Non-Executive Directors and commenced the year.
handover of relevant positions Meeting f Further developed our medium-term succession plan Members Member since Attended Potential attendance Robert Pickering Chairman 1 September 2011 6 6 100% f Reviewed the composition, diversity and balance of skills on the Board Michael Ashton 14 October 2005 6 6 100% ALLOCATION OF COMMITTEES TIME Pat Butler 1 April 2014 5 5 100% 1.
Diversity 6% Mazen Darwazah 14 October 2005 6 6 100% 1 2 Sir David Rowe-Ham 14 October 2005 100% 2.
Skills and experience 6% 3 retired 15 May 2014 2 2 5 3.
Independence 6% INTERNAL ADVISERS EXTERNAL ADVISERS 5.
Corporate governance 19% f Chairman and Chief Executive f Korn Ferry f Company Secretary f Odgers Berndtson f VP Human Resources f Lintstock 82 E E T T I M M O C N O I T A N I M O N C O M P SUCCESSION L I A N C E, R E S P O E E N T S I T B I I M L I Corporate governance Responsibilities Succession At the end of 2013 and during early 2014 the Committee consulted shareholders on the appointment of the Chairman and ChiefExecutive, as well as the change to the Senior Independent Director.
The process undertaken was reported in the 2013 Annual Report onpage 79.
During 2014 the Committee further developed the mediumterm succession arrangements for the Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee considered it was important that the medium-term succession plans allow for the gradual rotation of independent non-executives, to allow for a full induction and the transfer of knowledge and relationships.
The Committee has resolved THE BOARD that no Independent Director would serve in excess of 12 years.
COMMITTEES The medium-term plan allows for the orderly transition of Committee chairmanship roles, allowing time to ensure parties on the Board and within management are best placed for the change.
The Committee will implement the changes necessary to ensure that the plan is met over a threeto five-year timeframe and will keep shareholders updated as decisions are made.
Appointments The appointment of Dr Pamela Kirby followed the established and tested Hikma process, which is summarised below.
Korn Ferry were used for the appointment of Dr Kirby.
Korn Ferry did not and does not have any further connection with the Company.
In terms of the The Nomination Committee is responsible for succession planning, process for identifying candidates, the Committee has the necessary including the progressive refreshing of the Board and ensuring authority to advance the search process to the extent that a shortlist that all appointments to the Board are made on objective criteria of candidates or a candidate is proposed to theBoard.
The final and that candidates have sufficient time to devote to their decision on any Director's appointment rests with the Board.
It is also charged with reviewing the While the selection process may differ depending onthe nature of appropriateness of the size, structure and composition of the Board.
the appointment, the main elements of the selection process are: The Nomination Committee terms of reference include all matters f It is led by the Senior Independent Director, in consultation with the indicated by the corporate governance principles and clearly set out Board Chairman its authority and duties.
The Committees terms of reference are f A role and experience profile is established approved and reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
The terms of reference are available on the Hikma website and by contacting f An appropriate process for internal and external search is selected investors@hikma.
f A longlist of candidates is considered by a sub-committee f A shortlist of candidates is created and considered by the Committee f The identified candidates are interviewed f The Committee makes a proposal to the Board 83 APPOINTMENTS M T Y O C A N N D O I E T T A H R I E C N S U M E R TRAINING AND INDUCTION E E T T I M M O C T I D U A Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 COMMITTEE REPORTS NOMINATION continued Skills and Experience Chairman and Chief Executive The broad range of skills and experience of Board members has The Committee and the independent Non-Executive Directors keep greatly assisted in the success of Hikma.
In view of the current under review the position of Chairman and Chief Executive and the succession plans, the Nomination Committee undertook an governance safeguards that were implemented at the time of the in-depth analysis of each role on the Board before considering new combination of roles in May 2014.
The Committee aims to preserve the Boards very broad Directors met regularly during the year without management present spread of experience, which provides the necessary checks and and discussed, among other issues, the safeguards and functioning balances for safeguarding the interests of the Group.
The Independent Directors considered that the Director possesses different skills, the Committee believes that all safeguards are effective and that the combined position continued Directors at Hikma share the following important characteristics: to be appropriate, chiefly due to the nature of the relationship between the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director and f Challenging yet consensual style the culture of considered and consensual approach that is evident f Independence of mind and clarity of thought throughout Hikma.
The Committee noted the Independent Directors position and concluded that the combined position continues f Significant experience at an executive management level tobe appropriate.
f International business exposure Additionally, the Committee considers that across the Board as a Re-election Each member of the Board will submit himself or herself for election whole and on the executive and non-executive teams it is important to ensure at least two members have significant experience in the or re-election as appropriate at the 2015 AGM.
The positions of each Board member were considered in detail during the year following areas: as part of the review of succession arrangements, consideration f Middle East and North Africa, particularly the business and political of independence issues, the Board and Committee evaluation environment processes and the on-going dialogue between the Chairman f US pharmaceutical and regulatory environment  Director.
f Pharmaceutical manufacturing, quality and sales processes f Business ethics and business integrity programmes f Strategy and risk management f UK and international listed environment f Human resources and remuneration governance For further information on the diverse skills and experience ofourcurrent Directors, please see the biographical details onpages56to59.
84 Corporate governance Diversity GENDER DIVERSITY OVERALL Hikma is committed to employing and engaging the best people, 1.
Women 27% 1 irrespective of background, gender, orientation, race, age or 2.
Hikma has always operated a discrimination-free working 73% environment and is committed to gender diversity at all levels and in all areas of its business.
We consider that our diversity continues to be demonstrated by the broad range of people in our organisation.
2 Hikma has a long history of a significant number of women being present in executive management positions, a number of whom have worked for the Company for the majority of their careers.
This is illustrated in the charts accompanying this page.
GENDER DIVERSITY IN EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT The Chief Executives letter to staff for 2015 stated that one of the two strategic priorities is the Advancement of women across 1.
The letter stated that Supporting women to achieve 2.
Men 71% their professional goals is an integral part of the Hikma culture.
Women at Hikma have leveraged their broad capabilities and strong leadership skills to help drive Hikmas growth.
Together we must take the right steps to ensure that women at Hikma have even more 2 input into current and future projects and encourage them to take onmore responsibilities.
European 6% The Committee considered Board diversity at several stages 3 3.
Since the listing of Hikma the Board has excellent 2 diversity in terms of culture, age, background, skills and experience.
The Committee was pleased to be able to improve gender diversity during 2014 and is cognisant of the need to make further enhancements in this area as the succession plan develops over the medium-term.
The Committee requires the external search consultants actively to seek female candidates and ensures that AGE DIVERSITY a significant proportion of long and shortlisted candidates are 1.
The Committee continues to believe that diversity targets 1 4 are inappropriate.
4150 9% For and on behalf of the Nomination Committee 4.
50 8% Robert Pickering, Nomination Committee Chairman 11 March 2015 2 85
