FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 39 Nomination Committee report Membership The committee considered the respective The Nomination Committee is chaired by John skills, experience and capabilities of the Coombe and its other members are Mike Darcey, shortlisted candidates.
Taking into account Ian Durant, Cath Keers, Jacqueline fide Rojas and the advice of JCA Group, the committee John Walden appointed 14 March 2014.
Terry recommended and the Board approved the Duddy stepped down from the committee on appointment of John Walden to succeed 14 March 2014.
Terry Duddy as Chief Executive.
Biographical details of John Walden and Terry Duddy are Meetings shown in the Board of Directors pro les The committee met six times during the year and section on page 33. attendance at those meetings is shown on page 37 of the corporate governance section.
Terry Board committees Duddy did not attend meetings relating to the The committee considered and reaf rmed the appointment of his successor as Chief Executive.
Main activities Board succession planning The committees focus is on strengthening, The committee considered the balance of skills, balancing and understanding the range of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the experience and diversity of the Board and key roles Board and it was agreed that succession planning below Board level.
The Nomination Committee should be reviewed in the current financial year.
is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Board and Development of talent and diversity its committees, on retirements, appointments The committee considered the management of additional and replacement directors and on and development of talent and activities to succession planning.
The committee focused on the importance of developing the Appointment of Chief Executive talent pipeline and the challenge of ensuring The committee led the process that resulted succession plans for key roles.
From a gender in the appointment of John Walden as Chief perspective, as at 1 March 2014, the Company Executive on 14 March 2014.
The key steps in had two female directors representing 29% of this process were as follows: the Board FY13: 29% and 22% of Operating An external search consultancy, JCA Group, Board members were women FY13: 22%.
The was appointed to facilitate and advise upon committee discussed gender diversity in senior the search.
JCA Group has no other management and supported the work taking connection with the Group and is a signatory place to help inform areas of focus including to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for developing measures that enable the Group to Executive Search Firms.
monitor its progress in achieving a diverse The committee considered the knowledge colleague base.
More information on our policy and experience required for the role, taking and approach to diversity can be found in the into account the strategy of the Group and corporate responsibility section of our website, its businesses, and prepared a description of homeretailgroup.
the role and the capabilities and experience required.
A preliminary long-list of potential candidates was prepared by JCA Group from which a shortlist of candidates was identi ed.
The shortlisted candidates were interviewed by each of the committee members.
