Home Retail Group 40 Annual Report 2014 Audit Committee report the period under review, the committee also Chairmans introduction reviewed management of fraud risk and incidences of fraud including the Groups anti-bribery arrangements: reviewed arrangements by which group employees may, in con dence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting, dishonesty, corruption, breaches of business principles and other matters and reviewed the statement in the annual report on the system of internal control.
Fair, balanced and understandable Following the revision to the UK Corporate The Audit Committee has an important role to play in effective reporting to our stakeholders Governance Code, which applies to financial and ensuring high standards of quality and effectiveness in the external audit process.
For the years commencing on or after 1 October 2012, first time, the committee has provided a separate report on its activities.
In line with the the Board asked the committee to advise feedback from investors re ected in the Financial Reporting Lab report on Reporting of Audit on whether the annual report and financial Committees published in October 2013, my intention has been to provide a report that statements, taken as a whole, were fair, focuses on matters relevant to Home Retail Group and the work of the committee during balanced and understandable and provided the the year and to avoid unnecessary standardisation wherever possible.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups business model, strategy and performance.
The committee reviewed the Ian Durant process for preparing the annual report and Chair Audit Committee accounting statements.
This process included the following key elements: Review of new regulations and reporting Membership Main activities requirements with external advisers to The Audit Committee comprises all of the The committee supports the Board in carrying identify additional information and independent non-executive directors and is out its responsibilities in relation to financial disclosures that may be appropriate.
chaired by Ian Durant, whom the Board considers reporting, risk management and assessing Preparation of a detailed timetable and has both recent and relevant financial experience.
It oversees internal audit and allocation of drafting responsibility to Ian Durant is a Chartered Accountant and a former the relationship with the external auditor relevant internal teams with review by Finance Director of Liberty International renamed including the effectiveness of the external audit an appropriate senior manager.
Intu Properties and other companies.
Further and the provision of non-audit services by the Provision of an explanation of the biographical details of Ian Durant are shown in the external auditor.
requirements of fair, balanced and Board of Directors pro les on page 33.
The committee has a structured annual understandable to those with drafting programme developed from its terms of responsibility.
Meetings reference and linked to the Groups financial Monitoring of the integrity of the financial The committee met four times during the year calendar.
The programme includes standing statements and other information provided and attendance at those meetings is shown on items the committee considers at each meeting to shareholders to ensure they represented a page 37 of the corporate governance section.
At as well as topical items on which the committee clear and accurate assessment of the Group's the invitation of the committee chairman, the has chosen to focus.
The committees terms of financial performance and position.
Group Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance reference are reviewed annually and were last Review of signi cant financial reporting Director attend committee meetings.
The Group reviewed in February 2014.
They can be found on issues and judgements contained in the head of internal audit and the external auditors the Groups website homeretailgroup.
also attend meetings of the committee at the Speci c issues considered by the committee Review of all sections of the report by invitation of the committee chairman.
After included the Groups response to risks arising in relevant external advisers.
each of its meetings, the committee met with relation to information and cyber security.
Review by senior manager working group the external auditors and the head of internal At each meeting, the committee considered responsible for the annual report process.
audit, in each case without the presence of reports from the head of internal audit and Review by Operating Board members.
reports on any material litigation or potential Interim progress review of process and report litigation involving Group companies.
During content with Audit Committee chair.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 41 Review of a paper presented to the Inventory provisions Impairment of assets committee which set out to review the Inventory of 902m represents a signi cant A review by management concluded that given contents of the annual report and asset on the Groups balance sheet and is carried the ongoing subdued trading environment, substantiate why it provided a fair, balanced at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net indicators of impairment existed for Homebases and understandable view of the year realisable value takes into account slow moving, store portfolio, but for no other cash-generating under review.
The Homebase store portfolio was also made against inventory losses arising, for therefore tested for impairment, using valueThe committee reviewed the annual report example, due to theft.
The committee in-use calculations, based on projected future and has con rmed it is fair, balanced and considered and concurred with managements cash ows from financial plans approved by the understandable.
assessment of the net realisable value of Board.
The committee concurred with the Financial reporting inventory because the methodology used in conclusion that no impairment charges were The committee reviewed the full-year and calculating provisions against inventory has been required, as the value-in-use calculations half-year results announcement, annual report consistently applied by management, taking into supported the carrying value of Homebases and financial statements and considered reports account previous experience of impairment or store portfolio and 3.0m of previously from the external auditors identifying any inventory losses.
recognised impairment charges were reversed accounting or judgemental issues requiring during the year.
Argos Transformation plan To inform the Boards assessment of whether Onerous lease provisions Given the scale of the Argos Transformation it was appropriate for the Group to adopt the The committee considered the provisions made plan, the committee considered the judgements going concern basis in preparing financial for onerous lease contracts for stores that had made by management when assessing the items statements, at both the half year and full year, either closed or where projected future trading to be reported as exceptional.
The committee the committee considered detailed reviews, income was insuf cient to cover the lower of exit agreed with managements assessment that the based on the Groups financial plans, in relation cost or cost of running the store.
The onerous exceptional items in respect of the Argos to liquidity and solvency taking into lease model is judgemental and dependent on Transformation plan which have been reported consideration the Group's cash position, bank future events such as trading conditions at a in note 9 to the consolidated financial facilities and store card receivables and a range particular store.
The provisions represent statements have been calculated and reported of sensitivities.
managements best estimate of the liability at in accordance with the policy set out in note 3.
Signi cant issues considered by the the balance sheet date based on financial plans committee in relation to the FY14 financial approved by the Board.
The committee agreed Financial Services provisions statements and how these were addressed with the judgements made and conclusions The Groups Financial Services division offers PPI are set out below.
drawn by management, and therefore concluded to its customers.
In response to an industry-wide that the accounting for and recognition of these review by the Financial Conduct Authority, a full Goodwill carrying values provisions was appropriate.
investigation has been undertaken with the The committee reviewed managements support of an independent expert, which will assessment of the carrying value of the Groups Impairment of trade receivables result in a customer redress exercise being goodwill.
In doing so the committee considered Store card receivables of 524m represent a carried out.
As a result, management have the key judgements including the discount rate, signi cant asset on the Groups balance sheet.
increased the provisions taken for customer long-term growth rate, and the projected future The provision for impairment has been redress in respect of financial services products cash ows of each cash-generating unit to which established on a portfolio basis, taking into by 25m during the year, to a total of 37m, of goodwill is allocated, based upon financial plans account the level of arrears, past loss experience which 3m has already been utilised, resulting in approved by the Board.
The committee and defaults based on portfolio trends, and also a provision as at 1 March 2014 of 34m.
These concluded that the projected value-in-use judgements made by management to assess the provisions represent managements best estimate calculations based on these cash ows appropriateness of the provision.
The committee of the liability at the balance sheet date.
supported the carrying value of the Groups concurred with managements assessment and The committee agreed with the judgements goodwill, and therefore that no impairment had judgements and agreed that the provisioning made and conclusions drawn by management, occurred.
Details of the assumptions applied in level was appropriate.
Further details of and therefore concluded that the accounting calculating the value-in-use of the Groups provisions against receivables are disclosed in for and recognition of these provisions was goodwill are set out in note 14 to the note 20 to the consolidated financial statements appropriate.
consolidated financial statements on page 94. on page 99.
Home Retail Group 42 Annual Report 2014 Audit Committee report continued External audit of criteria and were also given the opportunity to not been formally tendered.
The committee is One of the primary responsibilities of the provide comments and explanations.
The results aware of the developments on auditor rotation in Audit Committee is to assess the effectiveness evidenced a positive evaluation of the work of Europe and will monitor the knock-on of the external audit process and make the external auditors and that high standards implications that this may have to the recommendations to the Board in relation to the had been maintained.
The committee reviewed Competition Commission's recommendations appointment, re-appointment and removal of and discussed the findings of the report with on the matter.
Once greater clarity is available the external auditors.
The committee took a the head of internal audit and the lead audit consideration will be given to the auditor number of factors into account in its assessment engagement partner.
However it is the Groups including but not limited to: After taking into account all of the above current intention to review the arrangements on factors, the committee concluded that the rotation of the existing audit partner following The quality and scope of the planning of the external auditors were effective.
In September 2013, the external Taking into consideration the audit strategy auditors presented their strategy for FY14 to Non-audit services and proposed areas of work and the assessment the committee.
The committee reviewed The Group's policy on the provision of non-audit of the effectiveness of the external audit for the and agreed with the external auditors services is that the external auditors may only previous financial year, the Audit Committee assessment of risks.
The committee also provide such services provided these do not discussed and approved the external auditors' reviewed the audit approach including how con ict with their statutory responsibilities and audit fee proposal.
the external auditors planned to evolve the ethical guidance.
These services are: audit to respond to changes in the business Independence Further assurance services where the including the Transformation plan in Argos External auditor independence is an essential external auditors knowledge of the Groups and the external auditors approach to part of the audit framework and the assurance affairs means that they may be best placed assessing materiality for the Group: it provides.
The committee reviews the to carry out such work.
This may include but The quality of reports provided to the independence of the external auditor when is not restricted to shareholder and other committee and the Board and the quality considering their reappointment.
The committee circulars regulatory reports and work in of advice given: has established control procedures to safeguard connection with acquisitions and The level of understanding demonstrated of the objectivity and independence of the external divestments.
the Groups businesses and the retail sector: auditors and to ensure that the independence of Taxation services where the external The objectivity of the external auditors the audit work undertaken by the external auditors knowledge of the Groups affairs views on the controls around the Group and auditors is not compromised.
These procedures may provide support to the Groups tax the robustness of challenge and findings on include a policy on the provision of non-audit position and where this is not the case, areas which required management services overseen by the Finance Director in the work is put out to tender.
judgement: and consultation with the committee chairman: General in other circumstances, the The key messages highlighted in the Public annual con rmation of independence in writing external auditors may provide services Report on the 2012 13 inspection of by the external auditors following a review of provided that proposed assignments which  by the FRCs Audit relevant areas including relationships and exceed financial limits set out in the policy Quality Review Team and the findings investment, services provided to the Group and are put out to tender and decisions to award highlighted for audit committees in the gifts and hospitality: consideration of the work are taken on the basis of demonstrable AQRTs annual report for 2012 13. external auditors' con rmation at a committee competence and cost effectiveness.
meeting: and half-yearly reports to the In addition, a review was undertaken by the committee providing details of any assignments However, certain areas of work are speci cally Group's internal audit department of the and related fees carried out by the external prohibited including work related to accounting effectiveness of the external audit for the auditors in addition to their normal work.
These records and financial statements that will previous financial year.
control procedures are in addition to the Group's ultimately be subject to external audit and Effectiveness was assessed in relation to anti-bribery and gifts and hospitality policies.
management of or signi cant involvement in three areas: robustness of audit: quality of audit: Audit partner rotation forms part of the internal audit services.
The committee and quality of people and service.
A questionnaire arrangements that support independence and chairmans approval is required before the Group was completed by stakeholders within objectivity.
Neil Grimes was appointed in 2011 uses non-audit services that exceed 50,000. management including managing directors of as lead audit engagement partner and Senior the main businesses, members of the risk Statutory Auditor.
The current external auditors, committee and divisional finance directors.
 LLP, were appointed in Respondents were required to score the 2006 and, since that time, the external audit has external auditors performance against a range FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 43 For the period under review non-audit fees At each meeting, the committee considered paid to the Groups auditors, reports from the head of internal audit on the  LLP did not exceed results of all internal audit reviews, signi cant audit fees.
Non-audit services provided by the findings and progress on management actions external auditors were primarily in respect of the agreed from previous audits.
A review of the examinership process undertaken for Homebase effectiveness of internal audit was carried out stores in Ireland and related taxation services.
during the year by way of a questionnaire to The external auditors were engaged to undertake stakeholders.
Having considered the results of this assignment after discussion with the this survey and a number of other factors, committee chairman because of their past including the quality of reporting to the experience in delivering similar services to the committee and impartiality of the internal Group and their cost effectiveness.
The fees in auditors, the committee concluded that internal respect of assignments carried out by the audit was effective.
In February 2014, the external auditor in addition to their normal work committee considered and approved internal in the period under review were: audit's audit plan for FY15.
Risk management The committee has delegated responsibility m from the Board for considering operational, Taxation services 0.1 financial and compliance risks on a regular basis.
Information on the Groups approach to internal All other services control and risk management is set out in the corporate governance section on pages 37 to 38.
Internal audit and control In September 2013 and February 2014, the The Group has an internal audit department and committee reviewed reports on the Group's risk the Group head of internal audit reports jointly management process and risk pro le with to the Chairman of the committee and to the particular focus on those risks classi ed as Finance Director.
The committee agreed the high-level risks by management.
A summary of audit plan to be undertaken by the internal audit the principal risks and uncertainties that could team at its meeting in February 2013 prior to the impact the Groups performance can be found start of the financial year and at each meeting on pages 24 and 25. throughout the year progress against this plan was reviewed.
The plan was assessed on the basis of providing appropriate coverage over the internal control environment to provide the committee with a balanced overview across the Group, taking into account the level of risk and previous coverage.
Additional areas of review were added to the plan as required where circumstances gave rise to an increased level of risk and any changes to the agreed audit plan were reviewed by the committee.
