Home Retail Group 34 Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance Chairmans introduction For the period under review, Home Retail Group plc has complied fully with the main and supporting principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code.
This statement, together with the directors report and the directors remuneration report, provide a summary of the Groups procedures for applying the principles of the Code and the extent to which such principles have been applied.
The Group has The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Group, providing strategic applied the principles of the Code as below.
leadership and oversight by monitoring performance and the management of risk.
In recent years there has been considerable debate about the way in which boards report on their The role and effectiveness of the Board stewardship.
In this corporate governance section, my aim is provide insight into how the The Board is responsible for the long-term Board ful ls its stewardship responsibilities.
success of the Group by creating and delivering A number of new disclosure and reporting requirements have been introduced during the sustainable shareholder value.
The Board seeks period under review.
We have taken the opportunity to review our annual report and have to achieve this through the monitoring of made a number of changes.
These changes included separate reports on the work and performance against strategic objectives and activities of the Audit Committee page 40 and Nomination Committee page 39.
In relation providing oversight of the implementation of to remuneration matters, we had implemented early a number of the changes last year and, plans by management.
By monitoring its this year, the Remuneration Committee has addressed the remaining requirements.
strategy and management of risk, the Board Effective boards exhibit a range of characteristics.
There needs to be the right balance of considers the impact of decisions on wider skills, experience and knowledge, ideally enhanced by a diverse range of backgrounds.
Over the stakeholders including employees, the pension last four years, the representation of these attributes on the Board has been enhanced by our scheme trustee, suppliers and the environment.
John Walden brings to the Board wide-ranging experience of The Board consists of the Chairman, John online retailing both in entrepreneurial and large-scale environments which will strengthen Coombe: Chief Executive, John Walden: Finance the capabilities of the Board.
I believe that the Board is well balanced with our directors Director, Richard Ashton: and four non-executive bringing a broad range of skills and awareness of the challenges which our businesses face right directors: Mike Darcey the Senior Independent now and those they may face in the future as well as the opportunities open to us.
Director, Ian Durant, Cath Keers and Jacqueline Effective boards, also exhibit a culture of openness, challenge and debate, supported fide Rojas.
John Walden succeeded Terry Duddy by constructive relations between executive and non-executive directors and effective as Chief Executive on 14 March 2014. communication channels with other members of senior management.
This has been In order for any board to discharge its duties particularly important in the period under review as we have developed our strategy: and responsibilities effectively, it must comprise monitored performance against strategic objectives: monitored management of risks: the right balance of skills, experience and reviewed remuneration policy and incentive arrangements: and ensured an orderly succession knowledge ideally gained in a diverse range of to a new Chief Executive.
I am grateful to my Board colleagues, both executive and backgrounds.
In addition, directors must exhibit non-executive, and the senior management team for their commitment to this culture and independence of mind, integrity and the courage to effective and constructive engagement.
to challenge constructively when appropriate.
Encouraging diversity within the organisation is an essential driver of long term, sustainable success.
It is important that our colleagues represent a wide range of perspectives John Coombe, appointed to the Board and skills so they can better understand and serve our customers.
This diverse talent pool also in 2006 and as Chairman in 2012, has an helps us to drive innovation and supports us in meeting our strategic goals.
We need to identify in-depth understanding of the Group and and nurture potential at every level in the organisation.
In this corporate governance section its businesses and exceptional experience at on page 36 and in the Nomination Committee report on page 39, we provide information board level of listed companies in a range of on gender diversity across all levels of our organisation.
We will continue to focus on how we industries and as a former member of the UK can make progress in this important area.
Good governance delivers an environment within which innovation and performance can Mike Darcey, appointed in 2010, has worked ourish.
This in turn leads to long-term, sustainable success for the Group and bene ts for all across many industries, including our stakeholders.
I believe we have that environment.
telecommunications and entertainment, and has wide-ranging experience of media and digital technology.
John Coombe Ian Durant, appointed in 2011, has strong Chairman financial and accounting experience combined with extensive knowledge of the FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 35 retail sector and property investment chairing the Nomination Committee and the period under review, the Chairman met with and development.
building an effective and complementary the non-executive directors without the Cath Keers, appointed in 2011, has extensive Board, initiating change and planning executive directors present and arrangements marketing and business development succession on Board and senior management are in place for regular informal meetings with experience, with particular emphasis on appointments.
The Board met mobile applications and e-commerce.
informally on the evening before most scheduled The Chief Executive's responsibilities include: Jacqueline fide Rojas, appointed in 2012, Board meetings and members of the Operating has wide-ranging experience in software developing the strategy of the Group in Board were invited to join these discussions on a technology businesses.
conjunction with the Chairman and the regular basis and to provide updates on their Board and being responsible to the Board for areas of responsibility.
The non-executive directors are determined by the performance of the business consistent Arrangements to ensure that the the Board to be independent and there are no with agreed plans, strategies and policies: non-executive directors are fully informed about relationships or circumstances which could developing and maintaining an effective the business are kept under review.
Upon affect, or appear to affect, a non-executive framework of internal controls over risk appointment, non-executive directors undertake directors judgement.
The Group has in place in relation to all business activities: a full induction programme, meeting the formal procedures regarding con icts of interest, leading the Operating Board and senior management team and visiting stores, which are reviewed on an annual basis.
management team in the day-to-day distribution centres and contact centres across There is a clear division of responsibilities running of the business: the United Kingdom.
Board members continue between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
ensuring that robust management to spend time seeing the business in operation, The Chairman's responsibilities include: succession and management development hearing the views of colleagues from across the plans are in place: and business, attending management conferences providing leadership for and ensuring the ensuring that financial results, business and monitoring developments both in the effective operation of the Board in strategies and, where appropriate, targets market and with our competitors.
conformity with the highest standards and milestones are communicated to the Each of the non-executive directors serves of corporate governance: investment community.
on each of the three main Board committees: supporting the Chief Executive in the audit, remuneration and nomination.
This not development of strategy: In ful lling his responsibilities, the Chief only facilitates the provision of information to promoting and facilitating effective Executive is supported by the Operating the Board and better communication, but it relationships and communications between Board, which includes the Finance Director, also enables Board members to have direct non-executive directors and executive managing directors and directors of the involvement in the key areas of governance directors and members of senior management: shared service functions.
and to take full account of the relationships ensuring effective communication with the The Board has a programme of scheduled between the activities of these committees.
Groups stakeholders including shareholders: meetings and telephone conferences each year and and meets more frequently as required.
During Board Strategic leadership Monitoring of performance against strategic objectives Monitoring management of risk Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee The committee supports the Board in carrying The committee is responsible for making The committees focus is on strengthening, out its responsibilities in relation to financial recommendations to the Board on remuneration balancing and understanding the range of skills, reporting, risk management and assessing policy for executive directors and other members experience and diversity of the Board and key internal controls.
It oversees internal audit and of the Operating Board as well as the specific roles below Board level.
It is responsible for the relationship with the external auditor, remuneration packages for these executives.
making recommendations to the Board on the including the effectiveness of the external audit composition of the Board and its committees, and the provision of non-audit services by the on retirements, appointments of additional external auditor.
and replacement directors and on succession planning.
Home Retail Group 36 Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued Certain matters are speci cally reserved for A review of Homebase initiatives and the The Company Secretary ensures that the the Boards approval and are not delegated to development and implementation of the Board receives regular brie ngs on corporate management.
These include matters relating Homebase Renewal plan including the governance matters and company legislation.
to the Groups strategy: approval of any major rollout of new proposition stores and the In the previous financial year, an independent acquisition: disposals: signi cant capital development of multi-channel capability and formal evaluation of the performance of the expenditure: financial results: and overseeing the risks and opportunities.
More information Board was undertaken by ICSA Board Evaluation.
Groups systems of internal control, governance on our progress is set out in the Homebase ICSA Board Evaluation has no connection with and risk management.
A formal schedule of business review section on pages 1619. the Group.
During the period under review, ICSA matters reserved for the Board is reviewed The development of IT infrastructure and Board Evaluation undertook a follow-up review.
annually and the following speci c service management to complement Each director and each of the managing directors responsibilities have remained unchanged and support the strategic plans of Argos of Argos and Homebase was asked to review a this year: and Homebase.
summary of their original comments on key The development of Financial Services aspects of the Board's performance, including The overall management of the Group, to support the Argos and Homebase Board and Board committee responsibilities: approval of the Groups long-term objectives propositions including the implications of oversight: Board meetings: support for the Board: and commercial strategy, and the review regulatory changes.
More information on our Board composition: how the Board and individual of performance.
progress is set out in the Financial Services directors work together: and outcomes and Determining the nature and extent of business review section on pages 20 and 21. achievements.
In the case of the director who did signi cant risks the Board is willing for the The financial performance of the Group and not participate in the previous years review, ICSA Group to take in achieving its strategic its Operating Companies including financial Board Evaluation met with the director and a objectives.
planning, variances to forecasts and the summary of the discussion was reviewed by the The approval of interim management provision of appropriate financial resources interviewee.
A report on the findings was produced statements, announcements of half-year and to support the strategic plans of Argos and by ICSA Board Evaluation and reviewed by the full-year results, including dividends, and the Homebase.
Based on the interviewees assessments of annual report and accounts.
each topic, ICSA Board Evaluation assessed that, The approval of documentation to be put Other matters considered by the Board included overall, the Board was continuing to perform forward to shareholders at general meetings the launch with eBay of a UK collection service: well.
The Board considered the findings and and all circulars and prospectuses other than the examinership process in relation to recommendations of the follow-up assessment routine documents.
Homebase stores in Ireland: health and safety: including progress on previous recommendations.
The approval of all appointments to the business continuity arrangements: and the Actions to enhance the effectiveness of the Board Board and of the Company Secretary and Groups corporate responsibility strategy, were agreed and are being addressed including the ensuring adequate succession planning for including the Groups approach to human rights.
scheduling of additional opportunities for Board the Board and senior management.
In relation to human rights, the Group maintains members to review and receive updates on digital and applies appropriate policies in relevant areas Each month, the Board received a management developments and a review of succession planning.
of our businesses including our supply chain and information pack that provided detailed Individual appraisals of directors have been in relation to our employees.
The Board also information on the performance of the Groups undertaken by the Chairman.
Under the leadership approved an updated diversity and inclusion businesses.
In advance of each scheduled of the senior independent director, the policy as part of a continued focus on progress in meeting, except on one occasion due to the non-executive directors met without the this important area.
As at 1 March 2014, 24,208 proximity of the previous meeting, the Board Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans 53% of a total colleague number of 45,675 received a comprehensive management report performance, taking account of any views were women FY13: 24,132: 52% and 24 26% that covered the trading and operational expressed by the executive directors.
In line with of 91 senior executives were women FY13: 22: performance of each of the Groups businesses, the requirements of the Code, all directors are 26%.
If statutory directors of corporate entities the Groups financial performance, current required to submit themselves for re-election whose financial information is included in the market expectations of financial performance each year.
Group financial statements are aggregated with and any signi cant developments.
senior executives, 25 26% of the total number Board committees During the period under review, the Board of 97 were women.
29% two out of seven of the The Board has appointed the following has focused on: Board are women.
The Group will continue to committees: Remuneration Committee, The development and implementation of support and encourage increased diversity Nomination Committee and Audit Committee.
the Argos Transformation plan including the across all parts of its business and at every The terms of reference of each of these systems, infrastructure and management management level of the organisation.
More committees are available on the Groups website resources required to deliver the plan and information on our approach in these areas is set at homeretailgroup.
For information on the risks and opportunities.
More information on out in the responsible retailing section on page work of the Audit Committee see page 40, the our progress is set out in the Argos business 22 and in the CR section of our corporate website Nomination Committee see page 39, and the review section on pages 1215. homeretailgroup.
Remuneration Committee see page 44 onwards.
The attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and the Board committees during the period under review was as follows: FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 37 COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Board member meetings Committee Committee Committee Terry Duddy 13 14 1 6 Richard Ashton 13 14 John Coombe 14 14 9 9 6 6 Mike Darcey 14 14 4 4 8 9 6 6 Ian Durant 13 14 4 4 8 9 6 6 Cath Keers 13 14 4 4 9 9 6 6 Jacqueline fide Rojas 13 14 2 4 7 9 5 6 Note: There were no Board changes during the period under review.
On 14 March 2014, John Walden was appointed to the Board.
Terry Duddy stepped down on the same date.
Internal control Risk assessment decisions that are signi cant, either because The Board has overall responsibility for the The Board considered and reviewed the of the value or the impact on other parts of Groups system of internal control.
The system Groups strategy, including the Argos the Group, are taken at an appropriate level.
is designed to safeguard the assets of the Group Transformation plan and Homebase The Group has implemented appropriate and help ensure the reliability of internal and Renewal plan, taking into account the risks it strategies to deal with each signi cant risk external financial reporting.
The purpose of this was willing for the Group to take in achieving that has been identi ed.
These strategies system is to help manage and control risk rather its strategic objectives.
include internal controls, insurance and than eliminate it.
The Board has reviewed the During the period under review, the Groups foreign currency hedging.
effectiveness of the key procedures which have risk standards were updated, including a The Group sets out principles, policies and been established to provide internal control.
statement on the Groups willingness or standards to be adhered to.
These include The Board con rms there is in place an tolerance for different categories of risk.
risk identi cation, management and ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Current and longer-term emerging risks in reporting standards, ethical principles and managing the signi cant risks faced by the relation to the Groups strategy and the practice and accounting policies.
Data Group, including risks relating to environmental, delivery of the strategy including any risks that consolidated into the Groups financial social and governance matters.
This process was could threaten the Groups solvency or statements is reconciled to the underlying in place throughout the period under review and liquidity were identi ed and reviewed by financial systems.
A review of the up to the date of approval of this annual report management on the basis of the likelihood and consolidated data is undertaken by and meets the requirements of the FRC guidance impact of these risks materialising, followed by management to ensure that the true position entitled Internal Control: Revised Guidance for the review of the risk committee and Operating and results of the Group are re ected Directors.
This process is overseen by a risk Board.
This takes place on a bi-annual basis, through compliance with approved committee chaired by the Finance Director and facilitated by the risk assurance manager.
comprised of all divisional finance directors, The risks identi ed through this process were the director of Group treasury and taxation, the then reported to the Audit Committee, with Information and communication Company Secretary, the risk assurance manager particular focus on those risks classi ed as The Group has a comprehensive system and the Head of Internal Audit.
The risk high-level risks by management.
The of budgetary control, including monthly committee met six times in the period schedule of high-level risks was used as the performance reviews by the Operating under review.
basis for the programme of internal audit Board.
The Operating Board also reviews The Audit Committee has kept under review and assurance.
a range of financial and nonfinancial the effectiveness of this system of internal The Audit Committee has delegated performance indicators.
These indicators control and has reported regularly to the Board.
responsibility from the Board for considering were regularly reviewed to ensure that they As part of the process that the Group has in place operational, financial and compliance risks remain relevant and reliable.
to review the effectiveness of the internal on a regular basis and received its annual The Group has whistleblowing procedures in control system there are procedures designed to report on the controls over these risks.
This place for employees to report any suspected capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, included risks arising from environmental, improprieties.
and to ensure that necessary action is taken to social and governance matters.
Monitoring remedy any failings that may be categorised by A range of procedures was used to monitor the Board as signi cant.
Control environment and control activities the effective application of internal control The key procedures which were operational The Group has established procedures for in the Group, including management in the period under review were as follows.
delegating authority which ensure that Home Retail Group 38 Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued assurance through con rmation of also available should shareholders have concerns compliance with standards, and independent which contact through the normal channels of assurance through internal audit reviews and the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the review by specialist third parties.
Finance Director has failed to resolve, or for The internal audit departments which such contact is inappropriate.
responsibilities include reporting to the All directors, including the chairmen of the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of Audit, Nomination and Remuneration internal control systems, with a particular Committees, intend to be present at the Annual focus on those areas identi ed as being the General Meeting and be available to answer greatest risk to the Group.
Voting at the Annual Follow-up processes were used to ensure General Meeting will be by way of a poll by there was an appropriate response to members present at the meeting and, following changes and developments in risks and each vote, the level of proxies lodged on each the control environment.
resolution, the balance for and against the resolution and the number of votes withheld will Relations with shareholders be displayed.
The results of voting at the Annual The Board recognises the importance of General Meeting will also be available on the communicating with its shareholders and does Groups website at homeretailgroup.
com so in a number of ways, including the provision as soon as possible after the meeting.
of information in the annual report and on the Group's website, the Annual General Meeting and the processes described below.
Although the majority of shareholder contact is with the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, supported by management specialising in investor relations, it is the responsibility of the Board as a whole, led by the Chairman, to ensure that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
Meetings with investors have been held throughout the year with roadshow activity following the full-year and half-year results announcements.
John Coombe has held meetings with a number of shareholders during the period under review.
Cath Keers, as chair of the Remuneration Committee, has also engaged with larger shareholders on remuneration matters.
Additionally, during the year, the Board obtained an independent insight into the views of major shareholders by commissioning research from a third-party adviser across a balanced sample of investors.
These shareholders controlled some 41% of the Companys issued share capital.
The findings of the research were presented to the Board by the third-party adviser.
Through these processes the Board is kept abreast of key issues.
Shareholders have a direct line of communication to the Chairman, particularly if there are areas for concern, whether it be about performance, strategy or governance.
The senior independent director is
