Governance Directors 54 | HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements 1 3 4 1 3 4 JM Barry Gibson 62 Stella David 51 Appointed to the Board in April 2004 and appointed Appointed to the Board in November 2010.
Currently as Chairman on 1 April 2010 following a year as Chief Executive Officer of William Grant & Sons Senior Non-Executive Director.
Also Non-Executive having joined them in 2009 following more than Chairman of Harding Brothers Holdings Ltd and a fifteen years with Bacardi Ltd where she undertook a Non-Executive Director of SSP Group Ltd.
Previously number of roles culminating in four years as Global Group Retailing Director at BAA plc, Group Chief Chief Marketing Officer.
Currently a Non-Executive Executive of Littlewoods plc and Non-Executive Director of C&J Clark Limited, she also spent seven Director of Somerfield plc, National Express plc and years as a Non-Executive Director at Nationwide William Hill plc.
1 2 3 Richard Harpin 49 Ben Mingay 49 Founder and Chief Executive Officer of HomeServe Appointed to the Board in January 2012.
Currently which was set up in 1993 as a joint venture with Managing Partner of Smith Square Partners, an South Staffordshire Group.
Appointed to the independent corporate finance advisory firm.
Previously a brand manager He has more than twenty years experience as a with Procter & Gamble, followed by management corporate finance adviser and, prior to co-founding consultancy with Deloitte and his own company.
Smith Square Partners, he was a Managing Director of Hawkpoint Partners Ltd and Credit Suisse First Martin Bennett 45 Boston Europe.
He is also a Non-Executive Director Appointed as Chief Executive Officer of the UK of AIM-listed Alternative Networks plc.
business in January 2014, following two years as 1 2 3 4 Group Chief Operating Officer and three years as Mark Morris 54 Group Chief Financial Officer.
Previously Finance Appointed to the Board in February 2009.
Previously Director of the UK business, having been Finance in audit, business advisory and corporate finance Director of the Warranties business and Commercial with Price Waterhouse before joining Sytner Group Director.
Prior to joining HomeServe in 2003, he plc as Finance Director, later becoming Managing spent three years as Group Finance Director of Director.
Currently Senior Non-Executive Director of Clarity Group and ten years at Arthur Andersen LSL Property Services plc and a former Non-Executive where he qualified as a Chartered Accountant.
Director of Christian Salvesen plc and Maxima Holdings plc.
Johnathan Ford 44 5 Appointed as Chief Financial Officer in September Tom Rusin 45 2012.
Previously the Group Finance Director of NWF Appointed as Chief Executive Officer, HomeServe Group plc, an AIM listed specialist agricultural and USA in July 2011.
Previously at Affinion Group where distribution group.
Prior to joining NWF in March he undertook a number of roles culminating in 2009 he spent four years at HomeServe, firstly as three years as President and Chief Executive Officer Group Commercial Director and later as Finance of Affinion Groups North American Division from Director of the Emergency Services Division.
Before joining Affinion, he owned Just joining HomeServe he was Head of Corporate for Travel Inc.
He was previously a Non-Executive Finance at Kidde plc.
Director of The Ambassadors Group.
1 2 3 4 Ian Chippendale 65 Anna Maughan 44 Appointed to the Board in January 2007 and as Appointed Company Secretary in July 2008 following Senior Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2010. twelve years as Assistant Company Secretary.
Also a Currently an independent Director of Alleghany Trustee of, and Secretary to, the industry wide Water Corporation and Chairman of Allen and Allen Companies Pension Scheme.
Previously Chairman of RBS Insurance, Key: Group Chief Executive of the Direct Line Group of 1 Non-Executive companies, Chief Executive of Privilege Insurance 2 Audit Committee Chairman: Mark Morris 3 and Chairman of the Insurance Division of Provident Nomination Committee Chairman: Barry Gibson 4 Remuneration Committee Chairman: Ian Chippendale Financial plc.
5 Member of Executive Committee only HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 | 55
