Governance Corporate governance report Board meetings Up to ten regular meetings are held each year to review and monitor current and forecast performance.
Regular reports on monthly performance and other matters of importance to the Group ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with the information necessary to make informed judgements.
In addition, the Board has an annual strategy meeting, also attended by senior operational management, to devise and discuss the Companys medium and long-term strategic focus and management development strategy.
Regular formal and informal presentations are given and meetings held in order to inform Directors of issues of importance affecting the Group.
Occasionally, meetings of the Board are held at the Companys operating sites other than Walsall, in order to afford the Board, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, the opportunity to meet with local management.
Attendance at meetings All Directors are expected to attend all Board and relevant committee meetings.
Details of attendance by Directors at meetings during the year are set out in the table below.
Directors who were unable to attend specific meetings reviewed the relevant papers and provided their comments to the Chairman of the Board or Committee.
Any Director who misses a meeting will, as a matter of course, receive the minutes of that meeting for reference.
Audit & Risk Remuneration Board Committee Committee Number of meetings held 10 4 3 Meetings attended R Harpin 10 M Bennett 9 J Ford 10 J King 10 J M B Gibson 10 3 I Chippendale 9 4 3 S David 9 3 B Mingay 9 4 M Morris 10 4 3 Board development The Board actively encourages all Directors to deepen their knowledge of their roles and responsibilities and to gain a clear understanding of the Group and the environment in which it operates and has adopted a formal policy on the induction and training of Directors.
Newly appointed Board members are required to undergo an induction programme, which includes obtaining a thorough understanding of the Groups various operations, and they have the opportunity to receive formal training from external providers if they wish.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors have met with various members of the Groups management teams and external advisers.
