Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements The Board is led by the Chairman, Barry Gibson.
The Chairmans responsibilities are clearly defined in a written specification agreed by the Board and which makes clear the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
They include the smooth running of the Board, effective communication between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the general progress and long-term development of the Group.
During the year, in addition to the Chairman, four independent Non-Executive Directors Messrs Chippendale, Mingay and Morris and Mrs David with extensive business, finance and marketing backgrounds, provided the Board with a breadth of experience and with independent judgement.
Ian Chippendale served as the Companys independent Senior Non-Executive Director.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, each Director is subject to election by the Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting immediately following their appointment, and is subject to re-election every year thereafter.
Short biographies of each of the Directors including their membership of committees may be found on page 55.
The beneficial interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company and the options held as at 31 March 2014 and 20 May 2014 are set out in the Remuneration report.
None of the Directors serving at the year-end had a beneficial interest in the share capital of any subsidiary company.
Succession planning There is a clear need to ensure that there is an appropriate pool of talented and capable individuals to fill senior roles and a succession planning process has been established across the Group to facilitate this.
Each business and corporate function prepares and maintains succession plans with the support of local and Group HR and with input from the Group Chief Executive.
The Executive Committee reviews the plans in detail twice a year and the Board reviews the high level plan at least annually.
The identification and development of our people remains a key focus across the Group.
Diversity The Board is committed to ensuring that it is appropriately diverse.
It is supportive of the aspiration of the Davies Report to promote greater female representation on corporate boards.
Although no target has been set in respect of the percentage of women on the Board, when seeking to recruit for Board positions we ensure that long lists include women candidates.
The Board also believes that a diversity of experience and psychological profile is important around the board table.
We seek to ensure that there is a balance of skills and experience and in respect of non-executive positions, we ensure that candidates from a wider pool are considered, including those with little or no listed company board experience.
