Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Advice for Directors The Board has established a formal procedure for Directors wishing to seek independent legal and other professional advice, and all members of the Board have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Relationships with shareholders The Board, on the Companys behalf, recognises the need to maintain an active dialogue with its shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer meet regularly with institutional investors and analysts to discuss the Companys performance and all shareholders have access to the Chairman and independent Senior Non-Executive Director, who are available to discuss any questions which they may have in relation to the running of the Company.
The Board encourages shareholders to attend the Annual General Meeting and is always willing to answer questions, either in the meeting itself or, more informally, afterwards.
In addition, shareholders may contact HomeServe direct, either through the website or by telephone.
The Board recognises the need to ensure that all Directors are fully aware of the views of major shareholders.
Copies of all analysts research relating to the Company are circulated to Directors upon publication.
The Board receives a monthly Investor Relations report which includes an analysis of the Companys shareholder register as well as any feedback received from shareholders and analysts.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the strategic report, as are the principal risks and uncertainties.
In addition, the strategic report includes, amongst other things, cash flow and financing information.
The Directors have reviewed the Groups budgets, forecasts, cash flows and the financial impact of the conclusion of the FCA investigation and UK matters, and have concluded that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In addition, the Directors have considered the carrying value of goodwill and other assets and have concluded that there is no impairment of these assets.
Internal controls The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit & Risk Committee has a key role to play in overseeing internal controls and advising the Board thereon.
More detail in respect of the role of the Audit & Risk Committee is provided in the report of that committee.
