Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Board evaluation The Board has implemented a formal process for reviewing its own effectiveness, that of its Remuneration and Audit & Risk committees and its individual members.
In addition, it continued to ensure that regular meetings of the Non-Executive Directors were held without the Executive Directors, and at least once a year, without the Chairman present, in order to evaluate his performance.
An external Board evaluation process was completed during FY12 by Lintstock Limited.
Directors completed evaluation questionnaires and these were followed up by individual interviews with Lintstock who then compiled a formal written report summarising the Directors views and containing recommendations to improve the effectiveness of the Board further.
Lintstock presented this report to the Board in February 2012.
During FY14, Directors again completed evaluation questionnaires and these were used by Lintstock to compile a further report which was considered by the Board in February 2014.
The Board concluded that it was operating effectively, although a number of recommendations for further improvement were approved including the creation of a more detailed forward looking programme for the Board to ensure that the Directors, particularly the Non-Executives, had more exposure to the businesses and to key members of management.
A full external evaluation process, including interviews, will be completed in FY15.
Committees The Board operates a number of committees to which it has delegated certain specific responsibilities, each of which has formally adopted terms of reference.
These comprise the Nomination, Audit & Risk and Remuneration Committees.
The terms of reference of each of the Boards committees are available on request from the Company Secretary and are on the Companys website.
The membership and activities of the Audit & Risk Committee and Remuneration Committee are detailed in the reports of those committees.
Nomination Committee Members J M Barry Gibson Chair Ian Chippendale Stella David Ben Mingay Mark Morris HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 | 59
