Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Advice for Directors The Board has established a formal procedure for Directors wishing to seek independent legal and other professional advice, and all members of the Board have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Relationships with shareholders The Board, on the Companys behalf, recognises the need to maintain an active dialogue with its shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer meet regularly with institutional investors and analysts to discuss the Companys performance and all shareholders have access to the Chairman and independent Senior Non-Executive Director, who are available to discuss any questions which they may have in relation to the running of the Company.
The Board encourages shareholders to attend the Annual General Meeting and is always willing to answer questions, either in the meeting itself or, more informally, afterwards.
In addition, shareholders may contact HomeServe direct, either through the website or by telephone.
The Board recognises the need to ensure that all Directors are fully aware of the views of major shareholders.
Copies of all analysts research relating to the Company are circulated to Directors upon publication.
The Board receives a monthly Investor Relations report which includes an analysis of the Companys shareholder register as well as any feedback received from shareholders and analysts.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the strategic report, as are the principal risks and uncertainties.
In addition, the strategic report includes, amongst other things, cash flow and financing information.
The Directors have reviewed the Groups budgets, forecasts, cash flows and the financial impact of the conclusion of the FCA investigation and UK matters, and have concluded that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In addition, the Directors have considered the carrying value of goodwill and other assets and have concluded that there is no impairment of these assets.
Internal controls The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit & Risk Committee has a key role to play in overseeing internal controls and advising the Board thereon.
More detail in respect of the role of the Audit & Risk Committee is provided in the report of that committee.
HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 | 61 Governance Corporate governance report The Board has delegated the day-to-day management of the Company to the Group Chief Executive and the other Executive Directors.
The system of internal control is designed to manage and mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The issues identified in the UK business in FY12 indicated that there had been a breakdown in certain internal controls which gave rise to exceptional one-off expenditure.
As reported last year, the Board commissioned a thorough review of the issues which was led by the Group Chief Executive and the Group Assurance Director.
The Board considered the outcome of this review and agreed a number of specific actions.
In addition to the general internal review, a number of specific reviews of the UK business were undertaken by external advisers.
A business improvement programme was established in FY12 consisting of a number of focused workstreams which have now been completed.
The Board remains committed to ensuring that the Company learns from the experiences in the UK business and has sought to ensure that the learnings are shared and policies and procedures strengthened across all territories.
A review of regulatory compliance outside the UK was undertaken during the year and action plans to address the issues identified were agreed by local management and discussed by the Audit & Risk Committee.
Good progress has been made in respect of the action plans.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Company.
This has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The key elements of the control framework and review processes in place across the Group are as follows: The Groups strategy is set by the Board and three year business plans, annual budgets and investment proposals for each business are formally prepared, reviewed and approved by the Board.
The Groups management operates a formal process for identifying, managing and reporting on operational and financial risks faced by each of the Groups businesses.
Risks are reviewed in detail at local risk committees and, on an overall basis, by the Group Risk Committee and the Audit & Risk Committee.
The Group Risk Committee meets quarterly and reviews a register summarising the significant risks faced by the businesses or the Group as a whole, the likelihood of those risks occurring and the steps being taken to minimise or otherwise manage those risks.
Quarterly updates are provided to the Audit & Risk Committee and the Board.
The Audit & Risk Committee meets four times a year and reviews the risk register in order to advise the Board on current risk exposures and future risk strategy.
More detail is provided in the report of the Audit & Risk Committee.
62 | HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements A clearly defined organisation structure is in place with clear lines of accountability and appropriate division of duties.
The Groups financial regulations specify authorisation limits for individual managers and for local Boards of management, with all material transactions being approved by the Board.
Weekly telephone meetings of the Executive Committee monitor day to day performance, and full Executive Committee meetings are held at least eight times a year at which the Directors report on the progress of the companies or discipline for which they are responsible and share best practice.
Consolidated financial results, including a comparison with budgets and forecasts, are reported to the Board on a monthly basis, with variances being identified and understood so that mitigating actions can be implemented, where appropriate.
The consolidated accounts are reviewed by the Executive Directors and verified by the finance team.
The accounts are then considered by the Audit & Risk Committee which makes a recommendation in respect of their approval to the Board.
The Board then reviews and approves the accounts prior to the announcement of the half year and annual results.
At the end of the year, the Executive Directors compile a report identifying the key risks faced by the Group.
This report is considered by the Audit & Risk Committee and by the Board before the Annual Report and Accounts is approved.
The Group has a dedicated Internal Audit function and a formal audit plan is in place to address the key risks across the Group.
Appropriate treasury policies are in place.
A whistle blowing policy allows employees, franchisees and sub-contractors who wish to raise any issues of concern relating to the Groups activities to do so on a confidential basis by contacting an external hotline.
A mechanism exists to extend the Groups formal risk management processes to any significant new business acquired or established immediately upon acquisition or start-up.
In this way, the Board is able to confirm that the necessary process has been operated by the Group for the whole of the year.
As required by the Turnbull Guidance, the Board, supported by the Audit & Risk Committee, carries out an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
By Order of the Board JM Barry Gibson Chairman 20 May 2014 HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 | 63
