Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Report of the Audit Committee CHAIRMAN AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETINGS 55 Richard Pennycook Attendance No.
of meetings MEMBERS Richard Pennycook 4 4 Mark Allen Mark Allen 4 4 Tiffany Hall Tiffany Hall 4 4 Michael Wemms Michael Wemms 4 4 Denotes Chairman Only the attendance of members of this committee is shown, although other directors, where appropriate, have often also attended at the invitation of the chairman of the committee.
The Chairman of the Board along with the Chief Executive, Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, Group Finance Director, Head of Risk and Internal Audit, representatives from the Finance function and senior representatives of the external auditors are regularly invited to attend all or part of our meetings as and when appropriate.
The Audit Committee reserves the right to request any non-members to withdraw from any meeting.
COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE FUNCTION In compliance with the Code and the Committees terms of The Board is dependent on the Audit Committee to review the reference, during the year the Audit Committee comprised Groups internal financial controls, to assess the work and wholly of independent non-executive directors.
Subject to independence of the external auditor, the effectiveness of successful annual re-election to the Board, and as provided the internal audit function and risk management processes, by the UK Corporate Governance Code, appointments to and to ensure the integrity of financial reporting.
As such it is the Audit Committee are for a period of three years and are crucial that the Committee conducts itself in an informed and extendable by two additional three-year periods.
Committee membership is reviewed as part of the annual The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that the review of Board effectiveness.
This years review concluded Groups financial systems provide accurate and up-to-date that the current mix of financial and commercial experience of information, that the Groups published financial statements the Audit Committee, and that of its advisors, is such that the represent a true and fair reflection of this position and for Committee can effectively exercise its responsibilities to the ensuring the effectiveness and rigorousness of the internal Group in relation to risk and controls.
control framework on behalf of the Board.
The Committee is permitted by its terms of reference to obtain More detail on the specific responsibilities of the Audit independent external advice at the Groups expense.
Committee is set out within this report.
Report of the Audit Committee continued COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN reviewing the Going Concern report, in the context of the 56 longer-term viability of the business, prior to consideration The Chairman of the Audit Committee is responsible for by the Board: determining the Committees agenda and for maintaining the key relationships between the Groups senior management, ensuring that information flows from the senior Head of Risk and Internal Audit, the Company Secretary and management and external auditors are such that the senior representatives of the external auditor.
To that end, he is information received by the Committee is complete, also responsible for ensuring that key audit issues are reported accurate, timely and robust: to the Board in an effective and timely manner and that they monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups are reported to shareholders via this report.
internal audit function: making recommendations to the Board in relation to Richard Pennycook was Chairman of the Committee throughout the appointment of the external auditor and approving the year.
Richard is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered the remuneration and terms of engagement of the Accountants in England and Wales.
He is currently the Group external auditor: CEO of The Co-operative Group and was a Finance Director for reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence over 20 years, most of that time as a Public Company Finance and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, Director.
Richard is also Chairman of the Audit Committee taking into consideration relevant UK professional and at Persimmon PLC, the FTSE 100 house builder.
As such the regulatory requirements: Board considers that he had the requisite recent and relevant financial experience during the year to satisfy Provision C. 3.1 of reviewing the external auditors audit risks and Audit the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Committee reports: and developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into The Committee is responsible for reporting to the Board, account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of identifying any matters in respect of which action or non-audit services by the external audit firm.
improvement is needed, making recommendations as to the steps to be taken and monitoring the effectiveness of any As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has resulting activity.
It is also responsible for: concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference during the period and has ensured the independence monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of and objectivity of the external auditors.
the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein although the Board as a whole remains responsible for determining whether the Annual Reports and Accounts as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable : reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and internal control systems: reviewing the Groups risk management processes, systems and reports although the Board as a whole remains responsible for overseeing the overall risk profile of the business : Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW OF ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR TO DISCHARGE ITS DUTIES 57 Financial Reporting and External Audit Reviewing the Groups annual report and accounts, the half-yearly financial report published in July 2014 and the interim management statements.
As part of this review the Committee received a report from Deloitte on their audit of the annual report and accounts and review of the half-yearly financial report which took into account the Groups key risks and going concern considerations: conducting a separate review of the audit of the French business: reviewing the processes necessary to ensure that the Board is able to confirm that the annual report and accounts are fair, balanced and understandable: considering the processes in place to generate forecasts of cash flow and accounting valuation information, including the choice and consistent use of key assumptions.
A description of the Groups significant accounting policies can be found in note 2 of the consolidated financial statements on pages 73 to 77: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls with specific reference to controls in place on a divisional basis and reviewing the disclosures made in the annual report and accounts on this matter: receiving reports from the external auditors on the conduct of their audit, their review of accounting policies, areas of judgement and their comments on risk and the effectiveness of internal controls: reviewing the proposed plan of work presented by the external auditors, including audit risks, terms of engagement and fees: undertaking an assessment of the qualification, expertise and resources, and independence of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process.
This included consideration of a report on the audit firms own quality control procedures and the audit firms annual transparency report: assessing the risk of a possible withdrawal of the external auditors from the market: and holding confidential sessions with the independent auditors and the head of internal audit in the absence of executive directors and Company executives.
Internal Audit and Control Reviewing the processes used by the Group for identifying, evaluating and mitigating risks: receiving reports from the Internal Audit function on its work and monitoring the status of actions taken in response to its findings: receiving reports from the Internal Audit function on the controls in place to mitigate fraud risk: receiving reports from our divisional Finance Directors in respect of the control environment within their divisions, including an information systems control update from : consideration of business continuity management and impact assessment on mission critical activities: receiving a presentation from the Head of Risk on the risk environment: assessing the coverage of independent assurance by reviewing the Group assurance map: reviewing business continuity management provisions: and reviewing activity reported under the Groups whistleblowing policy.
Governance External review of effectiveness as an Audit Committee as part of the Boards evaluation process: consideration of the results of the BIS Cyber Governance Health Check Tracker Report: receiving updates from the external auditor on latest governance practices for Audit Committees and changes in statutory reporting requirements: considering information in relation to audit tendering: reviewing directors conflicts of interest: and reviewing the Committees terms of reference and recommending that they be approved by the Board.
Report of the Audit Committee continued We invite senior management from the business to come and talk about the financial controls in their business areas.
During 2014, 58 the Director of Commercial Finance and Head of Compliance of the Trade division presented on the control environments in their area.
As in previous years, experts from Deloitte were invited to update the Committee on recent developments in the areas of governance, accounting and reporting.
All members of the Committee are members of the Deloitte Academy which provides in depth updates on financial and reporting matters.
AREAS OF SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL JUDGEMENT CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR The Committee recognises that some areas of accounting require judgements to be exercised.
In relation to the Group, the principle areas of judgement relate to recoverability of trade debtors, inventory obsolescence, and actuarial assumptions.
It is the policy of the Board that a conservative approach be taken in all areas requiring judgement.
The Audit Committee considered the following key areas of significant financial judgement during the year: Recoverability of trade debtors Given the make-up of the receivables Mitigating actions: ledger being a high number of relatively The Committee received updates from and challenged management on the small accounts, the recoverability of trade debtor ageing profile, provisioning levels and the level of bad-debt write-off.
debtors and the level of provisioning for The Committee received reports from the Head of Internal Audit and Risk in bad and doubtful debts were regularly relation to managements treatment of credit control and the collection of reviewed by the Board.
The Committee also reviewed the work done by the external auditor on trade receivables to confirm both existence and recoverability and considered the need to continue to review the rate of provisioning in light of the reduction in the level of bad-debt write-offs.
Valuation of Inventory The valuation of inventory, including the Mitigating actions: existence of obsolete and excess stock The Committee reviewed and challenged the management reports used to value and the appropriateness of the judgements and confirm the existence of inventory.
applied within the obsolescence provision They also received reports from the external auditor on inventory in considering were regularly considered by the Board.
the appropriateness of provisions held against the carrying value of inventory, having regard to the age of discontinued lines and volumes of continuing lines relative to the expected usage.
The Committee invited divisional management to attend one meeting in order to provide more in depth analysis on specific trends identified in the presentation received from the Head of Internal Audit.
Actuarial assumptions The Committee considered and approved Mitigating actions: the appropriateness of the actuarial T he Committee reviewed reports from the Pensions Sub-Committee and valuations for the defined benefit pension external auditor which considered the appropriateness of the assumptions.
scheme prepared for compliance with I n addition to receiving reports, the Chairman of the Audit Committee is a the relevant accounting and disclosure member of the Pensions Sub-Committee and he attended all meetings of the requirements and the assessment of the Sub-Committee during the year.
All members of the Audit Committee have appropriateness of the assumptions used.
a standing invitation to the Pensions Sub-Committee where the actuarial valuations are assessed.
All of the matters considered above were discussed with the Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, Group Finance Director and the external auditor.
The Committee was satisfied that each of the matters set out above have been fully and adequately addressed by the Executive Committee, appropriately tested and reviewed by the external auditor and the disclosures made in the annual report and accounts were appropriate.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 EXTERNAL AUDITOR To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, 59 we reviewed: The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors external audit in line with relevant ethical standards and independence and objectivity: guidance.
The current policy sets out the categories of nonaudit services which the external auditors will and will not be the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and allowed to provide to the Group, subject to fide minimis levels.
any variations from the plan: All relevant fees proposed by the external auditors must be the perceptions of the auditor and audit process from key reported to and approved by the Audit Committee.
management personnel in the finance function: the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in their During the year, the external auditors continued to provide tax handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and advice relating to the Groups obligations in respect of former the content of the external auditors report on internal control.
MFI properties and its overseas subsidiaries.
The Committee reviewed the ongoing nature and cost of this work during the Details of Deloitte LLPs fees for audit and non-audit work year and approved the continued involvement of Deloitte LLP during 2014 are included in note 7 to the financial statements in this regard as it was concluded they were best placed to on page 80.
No services were provided by the external auditor supply such tax services in a cost effective manner due to the pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
Given the specific experience and qualifications of the individuals providing such nature of the fees incurred, and having reviewed the safeguards services, their knowledge of the Group and its tax affairs and Deloitte LLP has in place to protect their independence as the best interests of the Group were served by engaging them.
auditors, we are satisfied the non-audit work has not impaired their independence.
Auditor independence and fees The Committee recognise that auditor independence is an The Audit Committee also has a policy in relation to the essential part of the audit framework and the assurance employment of former members of the external audit team.
To fulfil our responsibilities regarding the This policy states that, whilst the Group would not normally independence of the external auditors, the Committee employ a former member of the external audit team, if undertook a comprehensive review during 2014 encompassing appropriate, individual cases may be considered by the the following: Chairman of the Committee and Chief Financial Officer.
review of the independence of the external auditors and the Audit tender arrangements which Deloitte LLP have in place to identify, The external audit was last tendered in 2002.
This resulted report and manage conflicts of interest: in a change to the Groups external auditor, with Deloitte review of the changes in key external audit staff for the current LLP replacing the previous incumbent audit firm.
The Audit year and the arrangements for the day to day management Committee is mindful of the provisions relating to audit of the audit relationship.
The lead statutory audit partner last tendering in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the changed in March 2012 at the end of the 2011 year-end audit FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees to put the external audit in accordance with the ethical standards: contract out to tender at least every ten years.
consideration of the effectiveness of the external auditors through a review of their plan of work and the outputs The FRC guidelines provide that audit tendering should arising from the audit: normally fit the five year cycle of lead audit partner rotation.
Our current lead audit partner has now completed three years consideration of the overall extent of non-audit services of a five year cycle.
Taking this into account, and on the basis provided by the external auditors, in addition to case by of our work above, we concluded that the independence case approval of the provision of non-audit services as criteria under the relative standards continued to be met appropriate: and and accordingly it was not necessary to tender for the audit consideration of the likelihood of a withdrawal of the work at this time.
The Committee has therefore unanimously auditor from the market and note taken of the fact that recommended to the Board that a proposal be put to the there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice shareholders at the Annual General Meeting that Deloitte of external auditors.
LLP be reappointed as external auditor and that the directors be authorised to fix their remuneration.
At the year end the external auditor formally confirmed their independence and objectivity had been maintained.
Report of the Audit Committee continued INTERNAL AUDIT THE YEAR AHEAD 60 The Committee also facilitates the Board in its fulfilment of its It is anticipated that the Committee will meet three times in responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and 2015 in conjunction with the annual reporting cycle.
I will be plans of the Internal Audit department.
During the year, available at the Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2015 to we reviewed: answer any questions about the work of the Audit Committee.
Internal Audits programme of work and progress made By order of the Board against planned activity: Richard Pennycook results of key audits and other significant findings including Audit Committee Chairman the adequacy and timeliness of managements response: 25 February 2015 the level and nature of assurance activity performed by Internal Audit: and staffing, reporting and effectiveness of divisional audits.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the During the year, the Committee considered the effectiveness UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committees terms of of the Internal Audit function and the Internal Audit three-year reference were approved at the meeting of the Committee in plan.
The Committee concluded that the function remained November 2014. effective, well-led and had a well-defined remit.
An independent review of the Internal Audit function was last undertaken by To view the Audit Committees full terms of  in 2012.
An external review of this reference please refer to the Companys website: function is conducted every five years.
com The Groups whistleblowing policy contains arrangements for the Head of Internal Audit to receive, in confidence, complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters for reporting to the Audit Committee as appropriate.
Issues raised and investigated under this policy were formally reviewed during the year.
The Committee reviewed and approved the Groups whistleblowing policy during the year.
