Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Report of the Nominations Committee CHAIRMAN NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE MEETINGS 61 Will Samuel Attendance No.
of meetings MEMBERS: Will Samuel 5 5 Mark Allen Mark Allen 5 5 Tiffany Hall Tiffany Hall 5 5 Richard Pennycook Michael Wemms Richard Pennycook 5 5 Michael Wemms 5 5 Denotes Chairman Only the attendance of members of this committee is shown, although other directors, where appropriate, have often also attended at the invitation of the chairman of the committee.
COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE FUNCTION In accordance with its terms of reference, the Nominations The Committee keeps under review the size, composition and Committee consists of five members: the Chairman of the structure of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board, who in accordance with provision B.
2.1 of the Code Board for all new appointments and reappointments.
also chairs the Committee, and all of the independent nonexecutive directors.
In recent years, the Board as a whole has chosen to consider executive succession planning rather than delegate it to the Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Nominations Committee.
However, other individuals such as the Chief Executive and external advisors may be invited to attend for all or part of any meeting, as and when appropriate.
Appointments to the Committee are for a period of up to three years, which can be extended for two further three-year periods, provided the director remains independent.
Report of the Nominations Committee continued The Nominations Committee played an active role during 2014.
During the year the Committee met five times to consider: 62 non-executive succession planning and management: the renewal of Mark Allens non-executive director contract: the Boards policy on diversity: the format and scope of the 2014 Board evaluation process: the reappointment of directors at the 2014 AGM: and the performance of the Committee and the appropriateness of the Committees terms of reference.
In addition, the Committee played a central role in determining the organisational changes announced on 30 May 2014.
The appointment of Mark Robson as Deputy Chief Executive, in addition to his role as Chief Financial Officer, was the result of the extensive work undertaken by both the Board and Nominations Committee on organisational development.
Recognising the additional operational responsibilities taken on by Mr Robson, the Committee was also instrumental in increasing the finance responsibilities of Theresa Keating, already a member of the Executive Committee, and her appointment as Group Finance Director.
These changes were made as part of the continuing development of the Company to enable future growth.
During the year the Board continued to work with leadership consulting firm Heidrick and Struggles to undertake a detailed talent management evaluation programme on both the members of the Executive Committee and the next tier of Senior Managers.
The Board remain committed to ensuring there are no skills gaps at Executive or Senior Manager level and that there is a robust talent pipeline in support of the Executive.
Heidrick and Struggles has no other connection with the Company.
NON-EXECUTIVE TENURE STATED FIGURES ARE TO 27 DECEMBER 2014 Michael Wemms Tiffany Hall Mark Allen Richard Pennycook 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Years on Board Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 The Nominations Committee remains committed to a programme of reviewing and refreshing the non-executive membership of the 63 Board to ensure that there is sufficient balance between the introduction of fresh perspective and ensuring continuity and stability.
Where possible, the Board will ensure a phased transition of non-executives in order to avoid wholesale changes to the make-up of the Board to the possible detriment of the Company.
DIVERSITY Boardroom diversity The Board recognises the importance of ensuring that there is diversity of perspective, background and approach in its management team and on its Board.
Since the business was established in 1995 it has sought to enable individuals to progress within the organisation regardless of age, gender, background or formal qualifications.
We have appointed one female director and two male directors to our Board since May 2010, which means that currently 14% of Board members are women.
We believe that it is in the interests of the business and of its shareholders for us to build a stable, cohesive and representative Board.
Whilst the setting of targets on particular aspects of diversity may be relevant in many cases, we feel that this could be given inappropriate focus within the context of a smaller board resulting in the possible overlooking of certain well-qualified candidates.
The Nominations Committee will continue to seek diversity of mindset as well as of gender and background when considering new appointments in the period to 2016.
More widely, we are committed to developing a long-term pipeline of executive talent that reflects the diversity of Howdens business and its stakeholders.
Employee diversity policy The Group promotes the importance of diversity and adopts an Equal Opportunities Policy under which training and career development opportunities are available to all employees, regardless of gender, religion or race.
The Group is committed to meeting the code of practice on the employment of disabled people and full and fair consideration is given to disabled applicants for employment.
It aims to do all that is practicable to meet its responsibility towards the employment and training of disabled people and welcomes, and considers fully, applications by disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
It is also the Groups policy to retain employees who may become disabled while in service and to provide appropriate training.
Report of the Nominations Committee continued Gender statistics 64 A Group-wide breakdown of gender statistics for all employees at 27 December 2014 is as follows: Female Male % of Female employees employees Total employees Board 1 6 7 14.3% 2013: 14.3% Executive Committee members including directors of the main Board 2 5 7 28.6% 2013: 37.5% Executive Committee members excluding directors of the main Board 2 3 5 40.0% 2013: 50.0% Senior Management group 19 85 104 18.3% 2013: 20.2% Group Total 1,983 5,523 7,506 26.4% 2013: 25.8% T he Senior Management Group includes employee Grades 13 on the Hays evaluation basis and divisional, regional and area sales managers.
It does not include members of the Board or the Executive Committee.
Executive Committee members Executive Committee members Board including directors of the main Board excluding directors of the main Board Senior Management group Group Total Male Female The Nominations Committee reviews these gender statistics against Office for National Statistics ONS averages each year and, in relation to gender diversity in the Board, against other FTSE250 company averages.
Similarly, where other data is available, this is presented to the Committee in order to determine whether there are any implicit diversity issues.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 APPOINTMENT PROCESS 65 With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and related legislation.
DIRECTOR INDUCTION Working with the Company Secretary, new directors undertake an induction programme tailored to the needs of the individual.
However, they will generally include a number of site visits and meetings with members of the Executive Committee, key employees and advisors.
Site visits include our manufacturing sites, our distribution centre and depots.
New directors will also be provided with a mixture of documentation including company publications, Board materials and some formal information on the role and responsibilities of UK listed company directors.
The Groups induction programme for newly appointed directors will continue to be centred on familiarisation with the Groups operations, key individuals and external advisors.
ONGOING TRAINING The Chairman meets with individual directors annually to discuss, amongst other things, individual training and development needs.
Ongoing training and development for the directors includes attendance at formal conferences and internal events as well as briefings from external advisors.
Directors are also encouraged to attend external seminars and briefings as part of their continuous professional development.
The non-executive directors are also encouraged to meet with Howdens employees at all levels in order to maintain a broad purview of the business.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS As stated in the Corporate Governance report, all of the directors will retire at the Annual General Meeting AGM in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and each will offer themself for re-election in accordance with Article 118 of the Articles of Association.
In proposing their re-election, the Chairman confirms that the Nominations Committee has considered the formal performance evaluation in respect of those directors seeking re-election and the contribution and commitment of the directors that are required to offer themselves for re-election.
He has confirmed to the Board that their performance and commitment is such that the Company should support their re-election.
In relation to Michael Wemms re-election at the 2015 AGM, the Board is aware that during November 2015 Mr Wemms tenure as non-executive director of the Company will exceed nine years.
As a result of this, the Nominations Committee undertook a rigorous review of Mr Wemms position and concluded in its recommendations to the Board that Mr Wemms remained independent in both character and judgement, and that he continued to provide invaluable experience and insight in his capacity both as non-executive director and Senior Independent Director.
No director was able to vote in respect of their own re-election when consideration was given to director re-election at the AGM.
Information on the directors service agreements, options and interests of the directors and their families in the share capital of the Company is set out in the separate Directors remuneration report on pages 32 to 48.
Details of indemnity provisions made for the benefit of directors are given in the Corporate Governance report on page 51.
By order of the Board Will Samuel Nominations Committee Chairman 25 February 2015 To view the Nominations Committee full terms of reference please refer to the Companys website: www.
com Statements of the directors in connection with this Annual Report and Accounts GOING CONCERN In preparing the parent company financial statements, the 66 directors are required to: The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position select suitable accounting policies and then apply them are set out in the Chairmans statement on pages 8 to 9, the consistently: Chief Executives statement on pages 10 to 13 and the Review of operations and finance on pages 14 to 19.
The Review of make judgements and accounting estimates that are operations and finance describes the financial position of the reasonable and prudent: Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, borrowing facilities, and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing been followed subject to any material departures disclosed its commercial and financial risks.
The Groups financial risk and explained in the financial statements: and management objectives and its exposures to credit risk and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis liquidity risk in relation to financial instruments are described unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will in note 28 to the financial statements.
The Group meets its day to day working capital requirements In preparing the Group financial statements, International through cash generated from operations, and, if required, by Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: utilising an asset-backed lending facility of 140m.
The current facility expires in July 2016. properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a The Groups forecasts and projections have been stressmanner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and tested for reasonably possible adverse variations in economic understandable information: conditions and trading performance.
The results of this testing provide additional disclosures when compliance with the show that the Group should be able to operate within the level specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users of its current facility and covenants.
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and After making due enquiries the directors have a reasonable financial performance: and expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going a going concern.
concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, any time the financial position of the Company and enable directors remuneration report and the financial statements in them to ensure that the financial statements comply with accordance with applicable law and regulations.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking Company law requires the directors to prepare financial reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and statements for each financial year.
Under that law the other irregularities.
directors are required to prepare Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards The directors are responsible for the maintenance and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the integrity of the corporate and financial information included IAS Regulation and have chosen to prepare the parent company on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 AUDIT INFORMATION AND AUDITORS 67 Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts confirm that: so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT We confirm to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group and Company, and the undertakings including the consolidation taken as a whole: the Annual Report and Accounts includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company and the undertakings including the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face: and the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups and Companys performance, business model and strategy.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 25 February 2015 and is signed on its behalf by: Matthew Ingle Chief Executive Mark Robson Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer 25 February 2015
