Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate governance report STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE THE BOARD 49 The Company remains committed to the principles of Role corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate The business of the Group is managed by the Board who Governance Code the Code for which the Board is may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the accountable to shareholders.
provisions of the Articles of Association, the Companies Act and any ordinary resolution of the Company.
Throughout the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2014, the Company has been in compliance with the provisions, including The Board has responsibility for the overall management and the main and supporting principles as set out in the Code, performance of the Group.
They are collectively responsible for applicable to accounting periods commencing on or after challenging and assisting in the development of strategy and 1 October 2012. ensuring that there are sufficient resources in place to meet the strategic objectives which have been set.
Examples of how the main and supporting principles have been applied are set out below and in the Remuneration report and The directors are also responsible for determining the nature Committee reports.
The Board received a formal update in and extent of significant risks and maintaining sound risk September 2014 on the amendments made to the Code by the management and internal control procedures throughout FRC during the year and continue to apply the Code in the spirit the Group.
The Board reviews the performance of and provides counsel INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN to the senior management in their day to day running of the business, and is ultimately responsible for the safeguarding of The financial, strategic and organisational progress made shareholders interests and ensuring its own effectiveness.
during 2014 was facilitated by a stable and effective Board The Board is also responsible for protecting the culture and with clearly defined responsibilities.
Our priority is to ensure the values of the business, a role particularly pertinent to Howdens long-term sustainability of the Company has absolute primacy where integrity, respect and recognition are fundamental and we have therefore invested time and effort during the year tenets of the business.
on strategic and organisational development.
As a Board we are acutely aware that we must remain vigilant in ensuring that Decisions reserved for consideration by the Board are the requisite structural safeguards are in place to protect the detailed in a schedule which is reviewed annually and was last interests of our key stakeholders and realise the full potential reviewed and approved in January 2015.
These key matters of the business.
include decisions about strategy, acquisition and disposals, risk management and internal control, capital projects over a I have stated previously that, as a locally empowered, defined level, annual budgets, Group borrowing facilities and entrepreneurial business, Howden Joinery is dependent consideration of significant financial and operational matters.
on a strong, effective and consistent governance culture The Board also considers legislative, environmental, health & throughout the business, and this remains the case.
Howdens safety, governance and employment issues.
has a distinctive and clearly defined culture which has been a principal cause of its success.
Our core values are based Board composition around personal accountability, fair dealing, respect for others The Board is structured to ensure that there is a clear and recognition of effort.
We insist on the importance of distinction between the strategic functions of the Board and keeping our promises and we put direct, personal relationships at the operational management of the Company.
The Board the heart of our business.
Safeguarding and sharing the culture currently comprises two executive directors, the Chairman and and values of the business is a primary function of the Board.
Details of the individual directors can be found on page 28 to 29.
The Board is responsible for leading the corporate governance agenda and the purpose of this report is to set out in detail Will Samuel was the non-executive Chairman during the the structure of the Board, the Groups approach to risk and whole period.
internal control, and to provide some detail on our shareholder base and share capital structure.
Each of the Boards principal Committees has a dedicated report and therefore any information relating to Audit, Remuneration or Nominations Committee matters can be found therein.
Corporate governance report continued Executive directors Attendance at the Committee meetings of the Board are set out 50 Matthew Ingle continued in his role as Chief Executive during in the individual committee reports.
In addition to his role as Chief Financial Officer, Mark Robson was promoted to Deputy Chief Executive in May If a director is unable to attend a meeting, they are 2014 and as such assumed responsibility for the day-to-day nevertheless provided with all the papers and information management of the business.
Mr Ingle was appointed to the relating to the meeting and are encouraged to discuss the Board in 1998: Mr Robson in 2005. issues arising directly with the Chairman and executive directors.
The non-executive directors also met twice during Non-executive directors the year without the executive directors present.
The non-executive directors have been selected for the diversity of their backgrounds as well as their personal Division of responsibilities attributes and experience.
The current board members bring a The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and wide range of skills and experience to the Board and all actively clearly defined.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for contribute in discussion.
leadership of the Board and has a pivotal role in creating the conditions for individual director and board effectiveness The Board considered that the following directors were deemed including ensuring a culture of openness and debate in to be independent during the period: the boardroom.
The Chairman is responsible for setting the Boards agenda and works closely with the Company Mark Allen Secretary in this regard.
He ensures that adequate time for Tiffany Hall discussion is afforded to all agenda items at meetings.
It is Richard Pennycook also the responsibility of the Chairman to ensure effective Michael Wemms Senior Independent Director communication with the shareholders.
The executive directors are responsible for satisfactory execution of the policies and The Chairman, Will Samuel, was considered to be strategy agreed by the Board.
independent on appointment as outlined in the Code.
At all times during the period the Company adhered to provision In accordance with the Code, the Board has established Audit, B.
1.2 of the Code which provides that at least half of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees, each with defined Board excluding the Chairman must be independent and to terms of reference.
The membership of the Committees and the provisions of the Code relating to the composition of the their terms of reference are reviewed annually and are available Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
on the Groups website, www.
The work of each of the Committees is considered in individual The Board is proposing that all of the directors will be subject to reports in this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Group has an Executive Committee comprising those Attendance members detailed on page 127.
The principal purpose of The Board holds regular meetings and receives accurate the Committee, which meets at least twice a month, or more and timely information.
During 2014, the Board held seven frequently if required, is the implementation of the Groups formal Board meetings and a number of other meetings and strategy and operational plans.
The Committee monitors the teleconferences to discuss and review progress on issues operational and financial performance of the business, as well affecting the Group during the year.
as being responsible for the optimisation of resources and the identification and control of operational risk within the Group.
of meetings Pensions Committee and Disclosure Committee Will Samuel 7 7 The Board has also established a Pensions Committee dealing Matthew Ingle 7 7 with matters associated with the Groups pension scheme the Mark Robson 7 7 work of this Committee can be found in its annual report on the Mark Allen 7 7 Groups website at www.
com and a Tiffany Hall 7 7 Disclosure Committee which considers matters which could Richard Pennycook 7 7 give rise to an obligation to make a market announcement Michael Wemms 7 7 under the FCA Listing Rules.
denotes Chairman This table above shows the number of meetings individual directors could have attended taking account of eligibility, appointment and retirement dates during the year and their actual attendance.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Board evaluation SHAREHOLDERS AND SHARE CAPITAL 51 During the year, the Board agreed that the 2014 evaluation Relations with shareholders would be undertaken by the Senior Independent Director, with The Board considers its relationship with both institutional support from the Company Secretary.
The last Board evaluation and private investors to be important and readily enters into was undertaken by Internal Audit Limited, an external dialogue with investors.
On behalf of the Board, the Company consultant, in accordance with provision B.
has consulted extensively with its principal shareholders The evaluation was undertaken following the September Board during the course of 2014 in relation to the ongoing progress meeting and was conducted within a methodology previously of the Company and also in relation to identifying appropriate agreed with the Board.
This comprised a series of interviews executive incentive arrangements.
The Company is aware of with all Board members and focused on the following areas: the stewardship obligations of institutional investors as set out in the UK Stewardship Code and will continue to work with its the size, balance and dynamics of the Board: institutional investors to ensure that they are able to satisfy these requirements.
an overview of protocol, debate and decision making at Board and Committee meetings: Both of the executive directors, the Chairman, and a number the performance of individual directors: of non-executive directors met with shareholders during the organisational development at Board and senior year and all of the directors make themselves available for management level: meetings with shareholders as required.
the Boards approach to strategy and to risk governance: The Companys updated corporate website the oversight by the Board of financial and operational www.
com includes a specific performance, and of the issues around resources, people, investor relations section and provides an effective channel behaviour and culture: for communication with existing and potential investors.
The company secretarial support and Board information: and Board receives regular reports from the Deputy Chief Executive shareholder focus.
and Chief Financial Officer with regard to relations with the major shareholders and developments and changes in their The evaluation report was presented to the Board by the Senior shareholdings.
The Board also commissions regular feedback Independent Director in February 2015 and the Board reports from the Companys joint brokers, UBS and JP Morgan accepted its findings.
Subsequent to the review, the Chairman Cazenove.
and Company Secretary implemented a number of recommendations to better facilitate and safeguard effective Substantial shareholdings behaviours at Board level.
As at 25 February 2015, the Company had been notified in accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency It should be noted that there is a formal procedure to allow Rules, of the following voting rights as a shareholder of all directors to take independent external advice if and when the Company: necessary at the Companys expense.
In addition, working with the Chairman, the Company Secretary is responsible for Percentage of ensuring that Board procedures are followed and all directors issued share have access to his advice and services.
capital voting rights Blackrock Inc 9.99% In line with the Boards stated policy, and in accordance with provision B.
6.2 of the Code, the 2015 evaluation exercise is Standard Life Investments Ltd 9.94% scheduled to be undertaken internally.
Legal & General Group Plc 4.97% Odey Asset Management LLP 4.95% Directors indemnity & insurance Schroders Plc 4.86% In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Company has provided indemnities to the directors to the extent permitted by Jupiter Asset Management Ltd 4.55% the Companies Act in respect of liabilities incurred as a result Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Ltd 4.11% of their office.
In addition the Company maintains appropriate insurance cover against legal action brought against it or its The percentage interest is as stated by the shareholder at the subsidiaries, directors and officers.
Neither the indemnity nor time of notification and current interests may vary.
insurance provides cover in the event that the director is proved to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Corporate governance report continued Annual General Meeting Should such consent not be forthcoming, a change of control 52 The 2015 Annual General Meeting AGM is to be held at UBS would trigger a mandatory repayment of the entire facility.
Investment Bank, 1 Finsbury Avenue, London, EC2M 2PP on The directors are not aware of any agreements between the 6 May 2015 at 11:00am.
Company and its directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs The AGM provides shareholders with an opportunity to discuss because of a takeover bid.
the Groups progress and operations directly with the Board.
At the AGM, the Company proposes separate resolutions on Acquisition of the Companys own shares each substantially separate issue and the numbers of proxy As at 27 December 2014, the directors had authority under votes cast for and against each resolution are made available the shareholders resolutions of 8 May 2014 to purchase to shareholders when voting has been completed.
The notice of through the market 64,644,470 of the Companys ordinary the AGM is sent to shareholders at least twenty one clear days shares at prices ranging between 10p and the higher of before the meeting.
a 105% of the average middle market quotation for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in Daily Official List for the five business days immediately office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
and b an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest Share capital current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from Details of the issued share capital, together with details of the London Stock Exchange Trading System.
The authority the movements in the Companys issued share capital during expires at the conclusion of the next AGM or within 18 months the year are shown in note 23.
The Company has one class of from the date of passing.
ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Directors and their interests Details of the directors in office on 27 December 2014 are There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor shown on pages 28 to 29 and their share interests on page 43. on the transfer of shares which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing EMPLOYEES legislation.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution The average number of employees and their remuneration are of the shareholders.
shown in note 8 to the financial statements.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between At the year end, the Group had 7,506 employees 2013: 6,601 holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions throughout the United Kingdom and overseas and strives to on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
engage its employees wherever possible in its business goals by means of regular regional and local staff meetings.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 26.
Shares held by the Howden Joinery Group Plc Employee Share The Board remains committed to linking reward to business Trust abstain from voting.
No person has any special rights of budgets and targets thereby giving employees the opportunity control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares to share in the financial success of the Group.
In keeping with are fully paid.
the structure of the business, the Company is committed to applying this policy locally, and as a result, staff of all levels There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter regularly benefit from achieving local targets throughout or terminate upon a change of control such as commercial the year.
The Board also recognises employees for their contracts, bank loan agreements and employee share plans.
contribution through the use of employee incentive plans and The only one of these which is considered to be significant in share plans within overall remuneration.
terms of likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole, is the bank facility as described in note 20 which requires majority lender consent for any change of control.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 RISK AND INTERNAL CONTROL An ongoing process for the effective management of risk 53 has been defined by the Board and is embedded throughout The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal the various tiers of the organisation.
It is operated in the control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role of following stages: management is to implement Board policies on risk and control.
Such a system is, however, designed to manage rather than Each operating division and central function identifies key eliminate the risks of failure to achieve business objectives.
In risks through the adoption of both a bottom-up and toppursuing these objectives, internal controls can only provide down process.
These key risks are regularly reviewed by the reasonable assurance against misstatement or loss.
The UK senior management team in each division.
The key risks to Corporate Governance Code recommends that the Board at each business areas objectives are identified and scored least annually reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of for probability and impact.
The key controls to manage the internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance risks to the desired level are identified.
A local database of risks and controls is maintained within The Board has conducted reviews of the effectiveness of the each operating division and central service function.
This system of internal controls through the processes described is consolidated into a central register which becomes the below and is satisfied that it accords both with the Code and key risk register for the Group.
The Group Risk department with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board has not identified or been facilitates the identification of these risks and provides an advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to independent appraisal of the interpretation of the scoring be significant: therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary mechanism, to ensure that the key risks are brought forward actions has not been considered appropriate.
The Executive Committee then reviews the key risks to assess the effectiveness of the risk A description of the Groups principal risk and uncertainties management strategies.
can be found on pages 20 to 21 of the Strategic Report.
The senior management team within each operating division and within the central functions are responsible for the Risk management ongoing review of their functions risk registers.
The Board can confirm that, for the 2014 financial year, and Regular reporting on internal and external changes that up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, affect the risks or their importance to the business, and there has been an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating any risk occurrences, are reported upwards through their and managing the significant risks faced by the Group which is register to the Executive Committee.
reviewed regularly by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Key risks and their management and any areas for Guidance.
Under the guidance of the Deputy Chief Executive and improvement are regularly reported to and discussed Chief Financial Officer, it is the responsibility of the Executive at the Executive Committee.
Committee to review the effectiveness of the risk management process and internal controls on behalf of the Board.
The A review of the risk process and risk management systems Executive Committee regularly reports to the Board on how risks is undertaken by the Audit Committee annually.
In addition, there is a mechanism in place to Overall risk is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole report significant control breakdowns or risk occurrences to the and as such key risks arising within the business are Executive Committee.
formally discussed by the Group Board every six months.
In order to gain assurance that the Groups risk process is effective a periodic review of both the Audit and Risk Process is conducted by an appropriately qualified and experienced external assurance service provider.
This is conducted every five years and was last undertaken during 2012 by .
In 2014,  were engaged by the Company to provide assurance that existing risk management process and framework remained appropriate not only on a contemporary basis but also for a future business, taking into account long-term strategic goals and growth plans.
The review included consideration of the changing risk environment and key risks to growth.
Corporate governance report continued Internal control 54 The Group has an established framework of internal controls, which includes the following key elements: The Board reviews Group strategy and the executive management are accountable for performance within the agreed strategy.
The Group and its subsidiaries operate control procedures designed to ensure complete and accurate accounting of financial transactions, and to limit exposure to loss of assets or fraud.
Measures taken include physical controls, segregation of duties in key areas and periodic Internal Audit reviews.
The Audit Committee meets regularly and its responsibilities are set out in the Audit Committee Report.
It receives reports from the Internal Audit function on the results of work carried out under an annually agreed audit programme.
The Audit Committee has full and independent access to the internal and external auditors.
The Internal Audit function facilitates a process whereby operating entities provide certified statements of compliance with specified and appropriate key financial controls.
These controls are then cyclically tested by Internal Audit to ensure they remain effective, and are being consistently applied.
The Audit Committee will annually assess the effectiveness of the assurance provided by the internal and external auditors.
Every five years, an external assessment is undertaken with regard to the assurance provided by the Internal Audit department.
An external review was last undertaken by  in 2012.
By order of the Board Will Samuel Chairman 25 February 2015
