STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 77 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Composition and Frequency of Meetings OUR WORK DURING 2014 CONTINUED TO FOCUS ON THE The Committee currently comprises the independent non-executive INTEGRITY OF THE GROUPS FINANCIAL REPORTING, THE Directors of the Company: John Nicholas Committee Chairman, INDEPENDENCE AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL Annell Bay, Jay Glick and John Hofmeister.
AND INTERNAL AUDIT ACTIVITIES, THE GROUPS RISK Following completion of his three year term of appointment, Andrew MANAGEMENT PROCESSES AND ASSESSING THE GROUPS Szescila retired from the Committee on 15 September 2014.
Annell Bay and INTERNAL CONTROLS.
WITH NEW LEGISLATION NOW Jay Glick were appointed to the Committee on their appointment to the Board of Directors on 2 February 2015.
PUBLISHED BY THE EUROPEAN UNION CONCERNING THE TENURE OF EXTERNAL AUDITORS, HUNTING WILL Mr Nicholas has a professional accounting qualification and is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience: further details can be found UNDERTAKE A FORMAL TENDER PROCESS DURING 2017. in his biographical summary set out on page 47.
John Nicholas The Committee met four times during the year and operates under written Chairman of the Audit Committee terms of reference approved by the Board, which are published on the Companys website.
Following publication of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code in September 2014, the Committee terms of reference were revised, following approval by the Board, with new procedures being considered to ensure compliance with the Codes recommendations.
The Committee normally meets in March, April, August and December, and the attendance record of Committee members during the year is noted on page 53.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, internal and external auditors are normally invited to attend meetings.
During the year, the Committee reviewed its effectiveness and the Committee Chairman reported these findings to the Board.
Responsibilities The principal responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: monitor and review reports from the executive Directors, including the Groups financial statements and Stock Exchange announcements: provide to the Board a recommendation about the Annual Report and Accounts including whether they are fair, balanced and understandable: monitor and review the Groups systems of internal control: assess the effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control: review reports from the Groups external auditors: review reports from the Groups internal auditors, including details of the internal audit programme and its scope: monitor corporate governance and accounting developments: monitor the Groups Bribery Act compliance procedures: consider and recommend to the Board the reappointment of the external auditors: agree the scope and fees of the external audit: monitor and approve engagements of the external auditors to provide non-audit services to the Group: and review the external auditors independence, effectiveness of the audit process and assess the level and quality of service in relation to fees paid.
Training During the year, the Committee was briefed by  LLP on the evolving regulatory environment, in particular the legislation related to auditors rotation.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 78 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Review of the 2014 Financial Statements review of early drafts of the Annual Report and Accounts: The Committee reviews final drafts of the Groups Report and Accounts for regular review and discussion of the financial results during the year both the half and full year.
As part of this process, the performance of the including briefings by Group finance and operational management: and Groups major divisions is considered, with key judgements, estimates and receipt and review of reports from the external and internal auditors.
accounting policies being approved by the Committee ahead of a recommendation to the Board.
The Committee advised the Board of its conclusion that the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and The principle significant issues reviewed by the Committee in connection understandable at a meeting of the Directors on 3 March 2015. with the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts were as follows: External Audit Goodwill Impairment Review The external auditors present reports at the March, April, August and The year-end balance sheet includes Goodwill of $440.6m.
This represents December meetings for consideration by the Committee.
In March, a full approximately 31% of the Groups net assets.
The Committee reviewed the year report is considered ahead of publication of the Groups Annual Report carrying value of Goodwill by examining a report from the Group Financial and Accounts: in April an internal control report is presented, following the Controller which set out the values attributable to each cash generating year-end audit and in August an interim report is presented which includes unit, the expected value in use based on projected cash flows and the key the proposed full year audit scope and fee.
An update to the full year plan economic assumptions related to growth rates and discount values.
The was presented at the December meeting.
The Audit Committee considers Committee also considered the work undertaken by the auditors in testing the reappointment of the auditors annually at its March meeting and the projections.
The Committee discussed the appropriateness of the makes a recommendation to the Board.
The Committee normally meets assumptions and challenged both the discount rates and the factors used with the external auditors without executive Directors present at the end to consider whether a reasonable change in assumptions may indicate of each formal meeting.
After discussion, it was satisfied that the assumptions, the impairment of goodwill relating to the Hunting Electronics and Drilling The external auditors full year report includes a statement on their Tools cash generating units and the disclosures in the accounts were independence, their ability to remain objective and their ability to appropriate.
The Committee considers and assesses this independence statement on behalf of the Board, taking into account the Oil and Gas Exploration and Development Asset Impairment level of fees paid particularly for non-audit services.
The Committee reviewed the valuation of estimated reserves held within the Groups exploration and production segment.
The Committee was The effectiveness of the audit process is considered throughout the year informed by a report from the reserves engineer and also considered the with a formal review at the April meeting of the Committee.
The appropriateness of the future prices for oil and gas.
After considering the assessment considers the following matters: valuation model, including the impact of recent weakness in oil prices, the the auditors understanding of the Groups business and industry sector: Committee was satisfied that the reported impairment of oil and gas the planning and execution of the audit plan approved by the reserves was calculated appropriately.
Committee: the communication between the Group and audit engagement team: Taxation the auditors response to questions from the Committee including In view of the international spread of operations the Committee monitors during private meetings without management present: the incidence of tax risk, tax audits and provisions held for taxation.
The the independence, objectivity and scepticism of the auditor: Finance Director briefs the Committee on developments during the year.
responses to a formal questionnaire on conduct of the audit from the senior financial managers of the Group: Exceptional Items Charged to the Consolidated Income Statement a report from the Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller: The Group accounts have historically reported a middle column within and the Consolidated Income Statement which includes amortisation and finalisation of the audit work ahead of completion of the Annual Report exceptional items.
The Committee considered the accounting policy and Accounts.
definition of exceptional items and the items included within this column to ensure consistency of treatment and adherence to policy.
The In addition, the Committee reviewed and took account of Financial Reporting Council reports on  LLP.
After Committee also reviewed the calculation and composition of each exceptional item and has satisfied itself that they are reported appropriately.
considering these matters, the Committee was satisfied with the effectiveness of the year-end audit.
In addition to receipt of detailed briefings and supporting reports from the  LLP and its predecessor firms have been auditors central finance team on these principle significant issues, the Committee engages in discussion with the Groups external auditors.
to the Group since the Companys formation on 7 August 1989 and under the firms audit partner rotation rules, the current Senior Statutory Auditor The Committee has reviewed the financial statements together with will rotate off the audit following completion of the 2018 Statutory audit.
The Committee has considered the European Union legislation enacted on commentary contained within the Strategic Report set out on pages 4 to 44 and believes that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is 16 June 2014 relating to external auditors rotation and intends to complete a tender process during 2017 in order to ensure a full twelve month period fair, balanced and understandable.
In arriving at this conclusion the Committee undertook the following: of independence before appointment of the selected firm as auditors effective 1 January 2019.
The Company has commenced a process of Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 79 engaging other firms to undertake non-audit assignments in order to made during the reporting period.
The Groups internal audit function assess the quality of each firm and its people as part of the early reviews local compliance with the Bribery Act and reports control preparations for the tender process.
This included Deloitte, KPMG and Ernst improvements and recommendations to the Audit Committee and Young who have undertaken non-audit assignments for the Group.
The Committee closely monitors fees paid to the auditors in respect Code of Conduct of non-audit services, which are analysed within note 8.
In 2014, fees for The Groups Code of Conduct contains policies and procedures covering non-audit services totalled $0.5m and included taxation services how the Group conducts business and maintains its relationships with amounting to $0.4m and other services of $0.1m.
The scope and extent of business partners.
The Code of Conduct is available on the Groups website.
non-audit work undertaken by the external auditors is monitored by, and, above certain thresholds, requires prior approval from the Committee to Whistleblowing ensure that the provision of such services does not impair their The Companys Senior Independent Director, John Hofmeister, is the independence or objectivity.
primary point of contact for staff of the Group to raise, in confidence, concerns they may have over possible improprieties, financial or otherwise.
The Board received copies of all reports submitted to the Audit Committee.
In addition, the Group engages the services of Safecall Limited, to provide Internal Audit an independent and anonymous whistleblowing service available to staff The Audit Committee receives reports from the Internal Audit department across all of Huntings operations.
and reviews the internal audit process and effectiveness as part of the Groups internal control and risk assessment programme.
An annual All employees have been notified of these arrangements through the programme of internal audit assignments is reviewed by the Audit corporate magazine, Group notice boards and the Groups website.
The Committee met with the head of internal audit without the presence of the executive Directors on three occasions during the year.
Internal Controls The Group has an established internal control environment, which was in operation throughout the year.
The Audit Committee monitors these arrangements on behalf of the Board, this review includes a report John Nicholas submitted three times a year on the principal risks facing the Group Chairman of the Audit Committee and the mitigating controls against those identified key risks.
The Group 5 March 2015 level report is based on submissions from all subsidiaries in the Group.
All subsidiaries undertake formal self-assessment risk reviews, a minimum of three times a year, on their internal control environment.
These reviews are available to the Audit Committee and encompass the identification of the key business, financial, compliance and operational risks facing each unit, together with an assessment of the controls in place for managing and mitigating these risks.
Additionally, risks are evaluated for their potential impact on the business.
Following publication of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, existing review procedures are being updated and formalised to ensure the Committee can assess and monitor the effectiveness of the Companys systems of risk management and internal control, and report to the Board on its findings during 2015.
Bribery Act Compliance In compliance with the UK Bribery Act, Hunting has procedures in place, including the publication of Bribery and Corruption policies and detailed guidelines on interacting with customers, suppliers and agents, including specific policies for gifts, entertainment and hospitality.
Senior managers across the Group are required to report their compliance activities, including an evaluation of risk areas.
The Group has completed a screening exercise to identify relevant employees who face a heightened risk of bribery with all relevant personnel completing a formal training and compliance course, in line with the Groups procedures.
The Audit Committee reviews the compliance procedures relating to the Bribery Act at its April and December meetings, which incorporate risk assessments completed by each business unit and gifts and entertainment disclosures Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts
