CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 52 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT UK Corporate Governance Code IT IS WITH PLEASURE THAT I INTRODUCE TO YOU OUR This report, which has been approved by the Board, details the Companys CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FOR 2014. compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code as issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in 2012 and how the principles of the Code have been applied during the year.
THE COMPANY IS REPORTING ITS GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE UNDER THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company was compliant with the Codes provisions throughout the CODE THE CODE PUBLISHED IN 2012, WITH year, except with regard to the Codes recommendation to put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years and in regard to the ADDITIONAL MEASURES CURRENTLY BEING number proportion of independent non-executive Directors comprising INTRODUCED TO ALIGN WITH THE REVISIONS TO THE membership of the Boards subcommittees following Andrew Szescilas retirement from the Board on 15 September 2014 and Annell Bay and John CODE PUBLISHED BY THE FINANCIAL REPORTING Jay Glick being appointed to the Board on 2 February 2015.
Both new directors bring a wealth of industry experience which will be Richard Hunting, C. B. E. invaluable as we continue to expand our global operations.
With these Chairman appointments Hunting has increased its number of independent non-executive Directors, and made progress in addressing the recommendations of Lord Davies on board diversity.
Following clarification of European Union legislation regarding the length of tenure permitted for a Companys external auditor, the Board has agreed, following consultation with the Audit Committee, to plan for a change of external auditor.
During 2017 a formal tender process will be undertaken to select and appoint a new external auditor.
From this process a firm will be selected on merit and will assume the role of external auditor with effect from 1 January 2019.
To aid the transition process the new firm will shadow the 2018 year end audit alongside  LLP.
 LLP will not be invited to participate in the 2017 tender process.
Compliance with the principles relating to Directors remuneration is reported within the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 56 to 76 and the activities of the Audit Committee are reported on pages 77 to 79.
Board Composition and Committee Membership The Board of Directors currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and four independent non-executive Directors, including the Senior Independent Director.
The Directors, together with brief biographical details, are identified on pages 46 and 47.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive is set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
This composition, with a separate Chairman and Chief Executive, ensures a balance of responsibilities and authorities.
All independent non-executive Directors are appointed to the Companys Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Non-executive Directors letters of appointment include details of their duties and expected time commitments.
Excluding the Chairman, 66% of the Board is currently comprised of independent non-executive Directors.
Mr Hunting, the Companys non-executive Chairman, is not regarded as independent, given his former executive positions since joining the Company in 1989.
Between 15 September 2014 and 2 February 2015, 50% of the Board comprised of independent non-executive Directors.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 53 The Company has procedures in place to deal with potential conflicts On appointment to the Board, each Director receives an introduction to of interest.
Actual and potential conflicts of interest are reviewed, with the Group tailored to their experience and needs including site visits.
All appropriate authorisation sought if a conflict arises prior to the appointment Directors have access to the Company Secretary and to independent of any new Director or if a new conflict arises with an existing Director.
In professional advice, at the Companys expense, in the furtherance of their accordance with the Articles of Association, only non-conflicted Directors duties.
Directors are encouraged to maintain their skills and knowledge to are involved in the authorisation process.
The Board is of the view that best practice standards and, where appropriate, attend update training these procedures operated effectively throughout the year.
The Group courses on relevant topics.
During the year, the Chairman held meetings operates a decentralised management structure to allow for rapid with the non-executive Directors without the executive Directors present responses to its global business environment.
A framework of controls and also met each individual Director to discuss training and development with discretionary limits and powers for local management is contained requirements.
The Company Secretary, through the Chairman, is responsible for keeping Appointment and Replacement of Directors the Board informed of Corporate Governance developments and Rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out in the maintaining corporate awareness of legislative and regulatory changes.
Directors are appointed by the Board The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee and are subject reserved for the Board.
to election by the Company by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of ordinary shareholders.
The Company may also remove a Director.
Annual Performance Evaluation Additional details of the workings of the Nomination Committee are During 2014, the Board completed an internal performance evaluation set out on page 55. exercise, which comprised of a detailed questionnaire on its operation and practices and that of the subcommittees of the Board.
The findings from Following the Codes guidance on the election of Directors, all members the questionnaire were presented by the Chairman to the Board at its of the Board submit themselves for re-election at each Annual General March 2015 meeting.
Meeting AGM of the Company.
The performance of the Chairman was evaluated by the non-executive The non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a three year term Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director.
The independent with subsequent reappointment conditional upon an appraisal and review non-executive Directors evaluated the performance of the individual process.
Letters of appointment for each of the independent nonexecutive Directors, with feedback being provided to the Chairman and executive Directors and non-executive Chairman are available from the then to the respective Directors.
The performance of the non-executive Company upon request and their terms of appointment are summarised Directors and that of the subcommittees of the Board was assessed by the on page 67.
Details of the executive Directors service contracts are set out executive Directors.
As recommended by the Code, the Board appoint external facilitators every Prior to the appointment of a non-executive Director, the Nomination three years to complete a Board performance evaluation.
The next external Committee undertakes an evaluation of the Boards requirements to ensure evaluation will take place during 2015. the balance of skill and experience is maintained to fulfil the Groups strategy.
In the case of a non-executive Director being reappointed, Board and Committee Meetings the Code recommends a particularly rigorous evaluation with specific The Boards powers and authorities under which they act and as detailed consideration being given to the need to regularly refresh the Board and in the Companys Articles of Association are contained within the Report to continued independence.
of the Directors on pages 48 to 51.
The Board normally holds six formal meetings each year.
Meeting dates are set a year in advance.
Attendance by each of the Directors at Board or subcommittee meetings during 2014 is detailed below.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 6 4 4 4 Number of meetings attended actual possible : Richard Hunting 6 6 4 4 Dennis Proctor 6 6 4 4 Peter Rose 6 6 John Hofmeister 6 6 4 4 4 4 4 4 John Nicholas 6 6 4 4 4 4 4 4 Andrew Szescila to 15 September 2014 4 4 3 3 2 2 3 3 Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The duties and responsibilities of the Board and its subcommittees are Reporting and Consolidation all subsidiaries submit detailed financial formally agreed by the Board in writing.
information in accordance with a preset reporting timetable.
This includes weekly, bi-monthly and quarterly treasury reports, monthly management Matters specifically reserved for the Board include, but are not limited to, accounts, annual budgets and two-year plans, together with half year and the following: annual statutory reporting.
The Groups consolidation process is maintained compliance with UK Company Law and the UKLAs Listing Rules: and updated with regular communication, including distribution of a review and assess the effectiveness of the Groups system of risk Group manual to all reporting units.
The Group monitors and reviews new management and internal control: UK Listing Rules, Disclosure and Transparency Rules, accounting standards, approve all major Stock Exchange announcements: interpretations and amendments and legislation and other statutory approve the full and half year financial statements, including the requirements.
Subsidiary reporting entities are supported by instruction declaration of dividends: from Group and structured training.
All data is subject to review and consider the Groups commercial strategy and approve the annual assessment by management through the monitoring of key performance budget: and ratios and comparison to targets and budgets.
The content and format of consider recommendations of the Board subcommittees including reporting is kept under review and periodically amended to ensure Board remuneration, appointments and their terms of reference.
Board papers are always circulated in advance of meetings.
These include Strategic Planning and Budgeting strategic plans and annual budgets detailed financial reports on the Groups activities, reports on each containing comprehensive financial projections are formally presented operating division, health and safety, risk management and investor to the Board for adoption and approval and form the basis for monitoring relations reports.
In addition, the meetings held in March and August focus performance.
Clearly defined procedures exist for capital investment on the full and half year results respectively and the meeting in December proposals and authorisation.
focuses on the budget for the following financial year.
Quality Assurance most of the business sectors within which the Group During the year, the Board reviewed the major Stock Exchange operates are highly regulated and subsidiaries are invariably required to announcements issued by the Group, including the full and half year be accredited, by the customer or an industry regulator, to national or results, and concluded that the information presented was a fair, balanced international quality organisations.
These organisations undertake regular and understandable assessment of the affairs of the Group.
audits and checks on subsidiary procedures and practices ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements.
During 2014, the Board reviewed the Groups strategy to evaluate the development and growth of the Company, in particular its plans for During the year there were no material changes to the internal control further international growth and facility investment.
Internal Control Institutional Shareholders The Board acknowledges its responsibility for monitoring the Groups The Company uses a number of processes for communicating with system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness as required by shareholders, including stock exchange announcements, the annual and the Code.
The internal control system, which has been in place throughout half year reports and webcasts, trading statements and the AGM to which 2014 and up to the date of approval of these accounts, is an ongoing all shareholders are invited.
In addition, the Chief Executive and Finance evolutionary process designed to identify, evaluate and manage the Director meet on a one-to-one basis with all principal shareholders at least significant risks to which the Group is exposed.
These systems of internal twice a year, following the Groups half and full year results, or when control are designed to manage rather than eliminate risks, therefore they requested to update them on Group performance and strategy.
The Board only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material is in turn briefed by the Chief Executive, when appropriate, on matters misstatement or loss in the financial statements and of meeting internal raised by shareholders.
During 2014, the Remuneration Committee concluded a consultation The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of process with the Companys major institutional shareholders to discuss and internal control for the period covered by these financial statements, the agree the Directors Remuneration Policy and new Hunting Performance key features of which are as follows: Share Plan, which was subsequently approved by shareholders at the AGM of the Company held in April 2014.
Management Structure within operational parameters set by the Board, management is delegated to the executive Directors.
Subsidiaries operate The Chairman and Senior Independent Director also met with a number within clearly defined policies and authorities contained within a Group of shareholders to discuss strategy, governance and other matters.
manual under a decentralised management structure.
All senior Their comments were passed on to the Board by the Chairman.
The management changes require the prior approval of the Chief Executive.
non-executive Directors are also available to meet shareholders.
The Companys major shareholders are listed, together with the information required under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 7.2.
6, within the Report of the Directors on page 50.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 55 Board Committees Remuneration Committee The Board has three main Committees to which it delegates responsibility The Remuneration Committee comprises solely the independent nonand authority, the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
executive Directors of the Company.
Andrew Szescila retired as Chairman of the Committee on 15 September 2014 and John Hofmeister succeeded him as Audit Committee Chairman.
On 2 February 2015, Annell Bay and Jay Glick joined the The Audit Committee comprises exclusively of the independent nonRemuneration Committee, following their appointment as Directors.
executive Directors of the Company and is chaired by John Nicholas.
Details of the Audit Committees activities are contained within its report on pages The Committee convened four times during the year and has written terms 77 to 79. of reference approved by the Board which are published on the Groups website.
The terms of reference were amended in the year, following Nomination Committee publication of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code.
Members of the Committee are Richard Hunting Committee Chairman, Dennis Proctor and the independent non-executive Directors.
The During the year, the Committee reviewed its effectiveness and the Committee has written terms of reference approved by the Board, which Committee Chairman reported these findings to the Board.
are published on the Groups website.
The role of the Committee includes leading the process for Board appointments and determining the terms of Details of the Committees activities are contained within its Report on new appointments.
The Committee also considers succession planning pages 56 to 76.
The Report follows the new disclosure requirements which takes into account the experience, balance and skills required of published in 2013 and contains a Statement from the Chairman of the Board members.
The Committee met four times during 2014 to consider Remuneration Committee, the Directors Remuneration Policy and an Board and Committee appointments.
In April 2014, the Committee met to consider the reappointment of By Order of the Board Richard Hunting as the Companys non-executive Chairman.
Following an evaluation led by John Hofmeister, Huntings Senior Independent Director, the Committee approved Mr Huntings reappointment for a further two year term from 1 August 2014.
Andrew Szescila retired from the Board on 15 September 2014.
A process to Richard Hunting, C. B. E. recruit two new independent non-executive Directors was undertaken, Chairman which followed Huntings recruitment and diversity policies and resulted in 5 March 2015 the appointment of Annell Bay and Jay Glick to the Board on 2 February 2015.
Ms Bay and Mr Glick have been appointed for a three year term from 2 February 2015.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, they will retire and offer themselves for reappointment by the Companys shareholders at the AGM to be held in April 2015.
In 2012, the Company issued its gender diversity policy for new Director appointments.
Huntings diversity policy commits the Group to: an embedded culture of equal opportunities for all employees, regardless of gender: require external recruitment consultants to submit their diversity policies to the Group prior to appointment: ensure that external consultants appointed by Hunting provide candidate shortlists comprising of an appropriate gender balance for consideration by the Nomination Committee: a target of at least one female Director of the Company when practicable: and a periodic review by the Nomination Committee of its progress in complying with the Davies Reports recommendations.
As part of the process to appoint Annell Bay and Jay Glick, Boyden Associates were appointed to assist with the recruitment process and the above procedures were followed and documented by the Nomination Committee.
Boyden Associates has no other connection to the Company.
Following the appointment of Annell Bay, Hunting is more aligned to the recommendations of the Davies Report.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts
