Corporate governance report Chairmans introduction It is with pleasure that I present our Corporate governance report.
On behalf of the Board and the Group as a whole we believe in strong governance, a high standard of ethics and our corporate responsibility.
It is my role to ensure we regularly review and continue to develop our corporate governance arrangements in line with the best practice guidelines provided by the Governments Department for Business Innovation and Skills.
The Board actively focuses on pursuing the success of the Group, developing its strategy and monitoring its implementation whilst at the same time maintaining a strong relationship with all stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, partners and our employees.
At our Board meetings during the year we have had open and frank discussions on the structure of our Board meetings to ascertain how we utilize the time of the Board to improve the business operationally and to deliver the strategy of the Group.
As part of this process we appointed Independent Audit Limited to carry out a Board effectiveness evaluation and there are some positive actions from this process which will enable the Board to run more smoothly going forward, further details are provided on pages 48 to 49.
This report explains how the Board and its Committees function to provide appropriate guidance and support to the business while behaving within the letter and spirit of good corporate governance principles.
The membership of the Committees and their Chairmen have changed in recent years and have been faced with new provisions and guidelines from the Companies Act 2006, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 and 2012.
As a Board we have discussed and overseen the management of risk.
This is achieved by identifying the significant risks to the business and how we can mitigate the risks going forward.
This is outlined in more detail in our Strategic Report on pages 30 to 31.
The Board has improved its approach to risk by concentrating largely on the risks that could impact our business by greater than 10 million or may cause significant reputational damage and this new process will ensure that the Board focuses on the strategic risks that need to be addressed in the business.
On page 46 of this Report we give detail of compliance with the Code, the structure and composition of the Board and Committees, the responsibilities of the Board as a group and for individual roles, the Board meeting structure and the date of our AGM.
Changes to the Board and succession planning As part of our planned and continuing evolution of the Board there are a number of planned changes to the Board.
In July 2014 I informed the Board that I wish to retire as Chairman of the Group.
I made it clear that I would remain in my role while the Group found, hired and installed my successor.
The Board via the Nomination Committee appointed a third party to assist in finding my replacement and we are conducting an extensive search, led by the Senior Independent Director.
It has been a great privilege to serve as Chairman of the Group and I have greatly enjoyed my time on the Board.
I wish the Group well under new chairmanship and every success for the future.
David Hurst-Brown will also be retiring from the Board at the AGM.
On behalf of the Board I would like to express our deep appreciation to David for his excellent, wide ranging contributions during his tenure.
We offer our sincere thanks and wish him well for the future.
The Board continues to reflect a balance between technology sector, commercial, financial and general business skills, with a highly experienced international team leading the business in both executive and non-executive roles.
Reports from the various Board Committees and details of their current composition are covered in more detail in their respective section of this report.
During 2013 14, the Board played an important role in guiding and overseeing the Group through a number of acquisitions and monitoring the performance of the Group in the challenging and competitive economic environment.
The Board also provided clear strategic direction and ensured that the Groups standards of conduct met its expectations.
The roles and specific expertise of the current members of the Board are set out in the Biographies section on pages 38 to 39.
44 Diversity There are changes to the composition of the Board in the pipeline as mentioned on page 44.
The current structure of the Board comprises of two executive directors, a non-executive Chairman, and five non-executive directors.
At the year end all directors were male 100%.
The Board recognize that diversity is important to the role for a successful Board but must also consider all appointments on merit.
As part of our approach to diversity we are actively considering the appointment of a female non-executive director to address the balance on the current Board.
The diversity of the Board broadly reflects the gender diversity of the Groups workforce as a whole since we largely employ engineers and engineering is regrettably mainly a male occupation.
The Board noted the publication of Lord Davies Review into Women on Boards in February 2011 and the proposals published by the European Commission in November 2012 the latter includes an objective that 40% of non-executive directors should be women by 2020.
We believe that diversity should be considered broadly, as well as focusing on gender.
It is important to achieve the correct balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board.
We will continue to make appointments on merit and also to value diversity in its broadest context.
The Groups strategy The Group has gone through enormous change both organically and by acquisition in accordance with the Groups strategy.
In December 2013 the Board and EMB along with other key employees attended an offsite strategy meeting.
The next strategy meeting is set for December 2014 and will continue to develop the long-term strategy of the business.
More detail is given in our Strategic report on pages 3 to 36.
Ethics All executives and employees are required to comply with the Groups Code of Conduct.
This ensures all employees worldwide are aware of the UK Bribery Act 2010 and carry out their duties with integrity and honesty.
I believe that the Group benefits from a strong Board though we will continue to look for opportunities to further strengthen and diversify, as discussed on page 44.
With my pending retirement from the Board, I would like to thank my fellow Board members and our employees for the excellent support given to me over the past eighteen years and would like to thank you, the shareholders and all stakeholders.
Geoff Shingles Chairman 24 June 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial report 45 Corporate governance compliance Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Group has complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 and 2012, both the main principles and the supporting principles, throughout the year and to the date of this report.
We explain in the reports below how we applied the provisions and principles of the Financial Conduct Authority Listing Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, and the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 and 2012.
Further explanation to how the main principles have been applied is set out below and in the Directors Remuneration Report and Audit Committee Report.
The role of the Board The Board is accountable to shareholders for the proper conduct of the business and its long-term success.
It has ultimate responsibility for the activities of the Group including its overall direction, strategy, risk management, governance and performance.
In order to meet that responsibility it ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place, and that it is supported in its activities by its various Committees, EMB and senior managers.
The authority delegated by the Board to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees to carry out certain tasks, are defined in each Committees Terms of Reference.
Further information on the responsibilities of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are set out in their reports on pages 50 to 71.
Matters specifically reserved for the Board to make decisions on include, but are not limited to, the following: Group long-term strategy: Group major business decisions: Group-wide business and financial review including annual budget: major capital expenditure, acquisitions, disposals and investments: review of the internal financial control and risk management systems: consider recommendations of the sub-committees of the Board including Board remuneration, Board appointments and their terms of reference: the approval of interim and annual financial statements: and treasury management.
The Board will delegate other operational matters to the EMB for its review with other senior managers of the business to enable them to make appropriate divisional decisions.
The composition of the Board The Board currently consists of eight members: the non-executive Chairman, the CEO, the CFO and five non-executive directors.
Division of responsibilities The Group has a traditional Board structure with a unitary Board comprising the non-executive Chairman, executive and non-executive directors.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees are made up of independent non-executive directors and they, together with the Nomination Committee, report to the Board.
The EMB reports to the CEO and the divisions and functions report to the EMB.
In accordance with the Code there is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO, which have been set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The written roles are available to view on the Groups website.
Role of Chairman Geoff Shingles has led the Board as Chairman since 1996.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
He sets the agenda for the Board and ensures that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information, giving sufficient time to review all agenda items thoroughly including strategic issues.
He promotes a culture of openness, debate and facilitates constructive relations between executive and non-executive directors.
He is also responsible for ensuring that the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole.
In order for him to effectively discharge his duties he works closely with the Company Secretary.
He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
The Chairmans other professional commitments listed on page 38 have not changed during the year and the Board are satisfied that they continue not to interfere with the performance of his duties for the Group.
In accordance with best practice he is taking no part in the appointment process to find a new Chairman.
46 Role of Chief Executive Officer The Chief Executive Officer, Sir Hossein Yassaie, is responsible for proposing, developing and implementing the Groups strategy and commercial targets as agreed by the Board.
He is responsible for the day-to-day management of the business.
He carries out his duties in consultation with the Chairman, the Board and EMB which in turn are responsible for the commercial and operational activities of the Group.
He holds weekly meetings with the CFO and EMB to ensure the Group is actively managing the overall strategy of the business.
He regularly holds meetings with the Groups customers, potential customers and partners for executive discussions on current and future business.
He is also responsible, with the EMB, for implementing the decisions of the Board and its Committees.
Role of the Senior-Independent Director SID David Anderson acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other directors when necessary.
He is also the Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
He has been actively leading the search for a replacement for the Chairman.
More detail is given in the Nomination Committee Report on page 54.
He also makes himself available to shareholders if they have concerns where contact through the normal channels of Chairman, CEO or CFO have failed to be resolved or for which such contact is inappropriate.
During the year he met with some of the larger institutional shareholders of the business.
Role of the Company Secretary The Company Secretary under the direction of the Chairman ensures good flow of information within the Board and its Committees and to senior management.
He is also responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters and is on hand to offer advice and services should any director require it.
The Company Secretary attends all Board and certain Committee meetings.
During the year the Company Secretary facilitated the Board effectiveness evaluation.
The Board as a whole decides on the appointment or removal of the Company Secretary.
Role of non-executive directors The non-executive directors have a wealth of experience, business knowledge and are appointed to constructively challenge senior management and provide input to meet agreed goals, objectives and to ensure the integrity of financial information.
The role is described in more detail within the Financial Reporting Council Code.
During the year the Board considered the independence of each on the non-executive directors against the criteria specified in the Code and took particular care to assess the independence of both Ian Pearson and David Hurst-Brown.
Ian and David were appointed as nonexecutive directors of the Company in 1998 and 2000, respectively, and have therefore been connected with the Group for more than 9 years.
The Board acknowledged that they do not meet the independence criteria specified by the Code but agreed that both directors continue to contribute significantly through their individual skills and considerable knowledge of both the Group and the industry.
The Board believes that they provide continuity and overall balance whilst continuing to demonstrate a strong independence of management in the manner in which they discharge their responsibilities as directors.
Following a performance review the rest of the Board believes that they remain both independent in character and judgement and that they will continue to be effective and demonstrate commitment.
Accordingly, the Board considers that Ian Pearson and David Hurst-Brown are independent non-executive directors.
As stated previously David Hurst-Brown is resigning from the Board at the AGM in 2014.
The Board agrees that the remaining non-executives meet the independence criteria specified in the Code.
Furthermore, no institutional investor has raised concerns over their independence.
Induction and professional development The existing induction process is being formalized, following a recommendation from the Board effectiveness evaluation.
The induction procedure for all new appointments to the Board is designed to enhance the directors knowledge of the industry in general and their understanding of the Groups operations and performance, and importantly the Group culture.
The induction programme consists of the following: one-to-one meetings with the Chairman, CEO and CFO and meetings with the remaining Board members: meetings with EMB and senior management to discuss Group operations: attendance of strategy meetings: and visiting regional and international offices.
In accordance with the Code the Chairman regularly reviews and discusses the development needs with each director.
Each director is fully aware that they should take responsibility for their own individual development needs and take the necessary steps to ensure they are wholly informed of regulatory and business developments.
Strategic report Directors report Financial report 47 Activities of the Board The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout the year which are supplemented by unscheduled meetings which are held when urgent business decisions are needed, such as relating to acquisition activity.
The Board papers are circulated electronically in advance of each meeting.
At each meeting certain regular reports are presented which are: CEO delivers a full business update with focus on the semiconductor market, a business summary for each division, the Groups relationships with current and potential partners, licensing updates, units shipped, potential acquisitions and key business issues and actions: CFO gives the year to date financial results, latest financial projections, investor relations activity and analysts forecasts: The Board reviews the status of the Groups long-term strategy, and Company Secretary provides updates covering governance, share price data, risk management reporting and shareholder analysis.
In addition the Board meets periodically with senior management from the Groups Technology and Pure divisions in order to review the strategic direction of the business.
This has typically been held on an annual basis.
The main objectives of the strategy session are to assess and decide upon the key technologies, products and markets for the business to develop by assessing the potential returns against the risks.
The result is a common vision of the future aspirations of the business and an understanding of the function and goals that each division has to achieve the strategy.
Divisional business plans are built around executing the strategic plan.
The CEO and CFO also attend weekly and monthly meetings of the EMB, where each member provides an up to date operational report in which progress against plan is reviewed to ensure that this is in line with the Groups strategic and business targets.
They will then provide feedback to the Board at the next scheduled meeting on any areas of significant interest.
Activities during the year During the year in addition to the above the Board was actively involved in monitoring: integration of MIPS which is now an effective operating unit within the Group.
Acquisitions of Posedge and Kisel: the on-going redevelopment of our headquarters in Kings Langley and the construction of a datacentre together with a new regional office in the US: the launch of the new Jongo range of products: and investments in partners.
Appointment to the Board There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
More detail is given In the Nomination Committee Report on page 54.
Commitment The directors allocate sufficient time to the Group to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Board evaluation The Board undertook its first external Board evaluation on its effectiveness.
This exercise was conducted by an external provider, Independent Audit Limited, who held detailed individual discussions with all members of the Board.
The findings were reported to the Board in March 2014 and were the subject of detailed discussion by the Board in April 2014.
Neither the Group nor any individual director has any connection with Independent Audit.
The 2014 evaluation covered: Board composition and dynamics: the Boards role: the operation of the Board: and the operation of each of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The overall conclusion was that individual Board members are satisfied that the Board works well and operates effectively in an environment where there is constructive challenge from the non-executive directors.
They are also satisfied with the contribution made by their colleagues and that Board Committees operate properly and efficiently.
48 There are a number of areas for further consideration and action in 2014 including: the size, composition and mix of the Board: succession planning both within the executive team and the non-executive directors: the number, scheduling, duration and location of Board meetings: increased visibility of progress against the strategic objectives: more active involvement with members of the EMB who will present regularly to the Board to ensure the Board are fully aware of the status of the operational divisions: and a continuing programme of development sessions teach-ins for the non-executive directors in order to provide them with a more detailed appreciation of possible strategic and technological developments.
Conflicts of interest All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation in which they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Group.
The Group has put in place procedures for the disclosure and review of any conflicts or potential conflicts of interest which the directors may have and for the authorization of such conflict matters by the Board.
In deciding whether to authorize a conflict, or potential conflict, the directors have regard to their general duties under the Companies Act 2006.
The authorization of any conflict matter, and the terms of authorization, may be reviewed at any time and are reviewed formally by the Group on an annual basis.
There have been no conflicts of interest raised in the year.
Board and Committee meeting attendance Tenure Board Audit Remuneration Nomination years Committee Committee Committee Geoff Shingles 20 8 9 5 6 2 2 Hossein Yassaie 19 9 9 3 6 2 2 Richard Smith 3 9 9 5 5 3 6 2 2 Andrew Heath 2 9 9 3 5 6 6 2 2 Gilles Delfassy 2 9 9 1 5 5 6 2 2 David Anderson 3 9 9 5 5 6 6 2 2 David Hurst-Brown 13 7 9 3 5 4 6 2 2 Ian Pearson 16 8 9 4 6 2 2 Denotes attendance by a director, who is not a member of the Committee, at a Committee meeting, as requested by the Chairman of the Committee.
Strategic report Directors report Financial report 49
