Audit Committee report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the report for the Audit Committee for 2013 14.
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board and is established to monitor the integrity of financial information and to provide assurance to the Board that the Groups internal financial controls and risk management systems are appropriate and regularly reviewed.
Its terms of reference are agreed annually by the Board and are set out on the website.
The Audit Committee continues to focus on ensuring that the Groups systems and controls are operating effectively and are evolving in line with the Groups growth.
A fuller insight into the role, activities and composition of the Audit Committee is provided below.
David Anderson Chairman of the Audit Committee 24 June 2014 Role of the Audit Committee The main duties of the Audit Committee include but are not limited to the following: to ensure that the financial statements of the Group are fair, balanced and understandable: consider annually whether there is a need for an internal audit function: review the Groups internal financial controls and risk management systems: develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditor: make recommendations to the Board in relation to the external auditors regarding approval of their remuneration, terms of engagement, appointment, re-appointment or removal: review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process: to report to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities: monitor the Groups whistleblowing procedures to ensure that appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to be able to raise confidence matters of possible impropriety, with suitable subsequent follow-up action: and ensure directors expenses are of a reasonable business nature and authorized appropriately.
In the financial year, the Audit Committee fulfilled its duties under its terms of reference and discharged its responsibilities primarily by: reviewing the Groups draft half-yearly and full year results prior to Board approval: focussing specifically on the accounting associated with the acquisitions of Posedge and Kisel: reviewing the draft Interim Management Statements during the year: assessing the external auditors independence and objectivity: reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups financial statements, which include key areas of scope of work, terms of engagement and fees: reviewing the external auditors report on the results of their year-end audit: reviewing the structure of the Group following the acquisitions of the past few years: reviewing the Groups arrangements for the security and patent protection of its intellectual property: reviewing the Groups system to identify and manage risk: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal risks over financial reporting: and reviewing and updating the Audit Committees terms of reference.
The full written terms of reference of the Audit Committee can be located on the Groups website www.
50 Committee composition The composition of the Audit Committee changed during the year and consists exclusively of independent non-executive directors.
Gilles Delfassy and Andrew Heath joined the Audit Committee during the year as replacements for David Hurst-Brown and Ian Pearson.
The Audit Committee comprised the following directors: David Anderson Chairman Gilles Delfassy Andrew Heath The Audit Committee met five times in 2013 4.
The primary purpose of each of the meetings was to plan the annual audit process, to discuss the changes required in financial reporting, to review the half-year accounts and to review the full year accounts.
Other matters were dealt with as necessary.
Attendance at meetings is shown on page 49.
The external auditors KPMG, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and key members of the Group finance team are also invited to attend meetings.
In accordance with UK Corporate Governance Code provision C. 3.1 the Board should satisfy itself that at least one member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has considered this requirement and, taking into account the financial background of the Chairman of the Audit Committee, David Anderson, it is satisfied that this requirement has been met and that the Audit Committee has sufficient experience to fulfil its obligations in an effective manner.
Significant issues that the Audit Committee considered in relation to the financial statements The Audit Committee considered the key accounting judgements underlying the preparation of the financial statements focussing specifically on: Significant Issues Issue Description Work performed by Audit Committee Revenue recognition Revenue recognized is determined by The Audit Committee has satisfied itself with the including non-cash revenue percentage of completion, achievement of internal procedures performed by management milestones and schedule of invoicing.
Some to ensure revenue is recognized appropriately contracts are signed in exchange for equity in and in accordance with applicable standards.
the customer's business rather than cash.
Valuation of goodwill Goodwill increased in the year with acquisitions.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the Goodwill is material to the Group and require accounting associated with the acquisitions and impairment reviews regularly.
considered any need for impairment at the year end based on current factors.
Other Issues Issue Description Work performed by Audit Committee Valuation and classification of The Group continues to hold strategic The Audit Committee has considered the investments investments, required to be considered for classifications and any need for impairment at correct accounting treatment as a trade the year end based on current factors.
Valuation of inventory The Pure division holds significant stock The Audit Committee has satisfied itself with the balances at the year end.
internal procedures performed by management to ensure stock provisioning at the year end is appropriate.
Accounting for income tax There remains some complexity in the tax The Audit Committee has reviewed the findings including deferred taxation structure of the Group and the accounting for of the specialists engaged to perform our tax income tax and recognition of deferred tax losses.
Strategic report Directors report Financial report 51 Recoverability of debtors The nature of the Group's business means that The Audit Committee has satisfied itself the Group continues to hold significant debtors with managements regular assessment of at any point.
outstanding debtors and how they manage the relationship with those outstanding debtors as required.
Accounting for share Share based payments is a complex and The Audit Committee has reviewed the findings based payments technical area which we engage specialists to of the specialists engaged to perform the current assist in calculating the fair values to attribute to year share based payment work.
Disclosures in the The Group acknowledges that there have The Audit Committee is in regular dialogue with annual report been significant changes to the disclosure management and the external auditors over the requirements of the annual report this year disclosures presented in the annual report and with changes directed by The Companies Act makes recommendations for changes where 2006 Regulation 2013, The UK Corporate appropriate.
Governance Code 2012 and the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.
Risk management and internal control The Audit Committee have conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems as part of the annual risk review.
A Board discussion took place on the assessment of risk and concluded that although the Audit Committee had a key role in the monitoring of risk management the prime responsibility for risk management remained with the Board and not with the Audit Committee.
During the year EY performed a review of the Groups VAT compliance.
No major compliance risks were identified, but a number of minor changes have been implemented to further strengthen the VAT compliance environment.
Internal audit In addition under the Code the Audit Committee is required to monitor and review the effectiveness of internal audit activities.
The Group does not have a separate internal audit function and the Audit Committee reviewed whether this was still suitable in the financial year.
They concluded that the Group was still sufficiently small and that controls were sufficiently robust not to require a separate function and advised the Board of this.
As the Group continues to grow the Audit Committee will continue to review the requirements for its own internal audit function.
External audit process At the start of the audit cycle, KPMG presented their audit strategy, identifying their assessment of the key risks for the purposes of the audit and the proposed scope of their work.
KPMG reports to the Audit Committee at both the half and full-year setting out their assessment of the Groups judgements and estimates in respect of these risks and the adequacy of the reporting.
The Audit Committee meets with KPMG in private at least once a year.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the scope of the audit is appropriate, all significant accounting judgements have been challenged robustly and the audit has been effective.
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups relations with the external auditor.
During the year the Audit Committee approved the terms of engagement and remuneration to be paid to the external auditor and agreed the scope and approach of the audit.
52 Audit tendering KPMG has been the Groups external auditor since 1994.
Whilst the Group has not formally tendered the audit since then, the Audit Committee undertakes an annual review of the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the audit firm in considering whether to recommend the reappointment of the external auditors at the AGM.
The Audit Committee has been monitoring the debate on external audit tendering and has noted the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code introduced by the FRC in September 2012 and, in particular, the requirement contained in the Guidance on Audit Committees to put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
The new Code became effective for the Group on 15 September 2013.
The Audit Committee has also considered the subsequent proposals of both the UK Competition Commission and the European Commission, in particular the transitional arrangements which if implemented would require KPMG to stand down in 2020.
The Audit Committee will continue to monitor developments in this area.
Aside from the Commission rules above there are no contractual obligations currently restricting the current or future choice of external audit firm.
Tudor Aw was appointed as Group Audit Partner in 2010, and under the requirement to rotate this position every 5 years, is due to rotate off the Groups audit after completing the 30 April 2015 financial year audit engagement.
Non-audit services and maintaining auditor independence The Group currently has a policy in place for the provision of non-audit services provided by the external auditor.
The policy highlights the importance of independence and objectivity and states that non-audit services can only be provided where these are guaranteed.
In the financial year KPMG did not perform any non-audit work.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external auditor, the Audit Committee considered the auditors overall work plan including the role of the senior statutory auditor and key audit staff and the overall extent of non-audit services.
In order to assess effectiveness the Audit Committee reviewed the arrangements to maintain auditor independence and the auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan including the proposed resources to execute the plan were consistent with the scope of the audit engagement.
The Audit Committee has reviewed and is satisfied with the effectiveness and independence of the external auditor.
Reappointment of auditor The business of KPMG Audit Plc is in the process of being transitioned to KPMG LLP.
Accordingly, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG LLP be proposed for appointment by shareholders as the Groups external auditor at the forthcoming AGM.
Evaluation of the work of the Audit Committee As part of the Board evaluation by Independent Audit, which is referred to in the Corporate Governance section of the annual report, the working of the Audit Committee was reviewed.
Independent Audit made various recommendations in particular addressing the level of executive attendance at meetings, the role of the Company Secretary in supporting the Committee and the number of issues which the Audit Committee needs to address.
The Audit Committee found the evaluation helpful and actions have been taken to reflect the recommendations.
Strategic report Directors report Financial report 53
