Nomination Committee report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee report.
The principal role of the Nomination Committee is to consider, and recommend for approval to the Board, the appointment of suitable people as directors of the Group and to lead the process for such appointments.
During the year, the Committee continued to develop its succession plans for executives and non-executive directors.
As part of this process we have taken into account their respective tenures of office, analysing the skills which were either missing or could be missing in future and how different personalities would fit our Board.
We are very clear that we must continue to appoint the best candidates but we will show an increasing emphasis on recruiting candidates from more diverse backgrounds and with international experience.
Since I announced to the Board my intention to retire, David Anderson SID is leading the Committee in its search for a suitable replacement for myself as Chairman of the Board.
An independent consultancy, EgonZehnder Consulting LLP, has been appointed to conduct the search after a competitive tender process.
We are making good progress with EgonZehnder preparing a short list.
I am committed to remain in position until a suitable replacement is securely in place.
As is good practice I am not participating in the process to identify my successor as Chairman.
The Committee is mindful of the diversity agenda in its candidate selection process.
We did respond to the Davies Report on women on Boards in 2012.
We are committed to improving diversity at all levels in the Group but always making appointments based purely on merit especially at the most senior levels of our organization.
We recognize the importance of gender diversity in the boardroom and the valuable contribution that women make in achieving the right mix of skills, experience and knowledge.
Role of the Nomination Committee The main duties of the Committee include but are not limited to the following: Lead the process for Board appointments and make recommendations to the Board: Consider succession planning at senior levels within the Group and ensure an appropriate balance of skills and experience: Evaluate the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Board: and Consider diversity issues.
Composition of the Committee Geoff Shingles Hossein Yassaie Andrew Heath David Anderson Gilles Delfassy The Committee continues to support the Groups management and leadership development programme for the executives and senior management.
It is considered essential in support of the Groups strategy and continued development.
Hossein Yassaie joined the Committee in October 2013 in order to ensure that there was a better balance between executive and non-executive directors on the Committee.
Geoff Shingles Chairman of the Nomination Committee 24 June 2014 54
