Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Boards Corporate Governance Report Set out below is the Boards formal report on Corporate Governance and separate reports from the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Board gender at the year end Board balance at the year end UK Corporate Governance Code - Compliance statement Men 8 The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of 3 corporate governance and confirms that throughout the Women 2 1 year ending 31 December 2014 the Company has applied the principles of good governance contained in the 2012 6 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and complied with its best practice provisions as set out below, and in the 1 Chairman Directors Report and other cross-referenced sections of this 3 executive directors Annual Report.
6 non-executive directors We welcome the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2014, which is applicable to IMI from January 2015.
We have also started to take account of the associated Independence of non-executive directors new FRC guidance on risk management, internal control The five current non-executive directors are all free from any and related financial and business reporting, also published business or other relationship which could materially interfere last September.
A description of the main features of the with the exercise of their independent judgement.
All nonCompanys internal control system and other regulatory executive directors meet the criteria for independence under matters can be found on pages 143 and 144 of the Directors the Code and are regarded by the Board as independent of Report.
Risk management systems and principal risks and executive management.
The Chairman, Roberto Quarta, was uncertainties are summarised on pages 30 to 33.
Information also regarded as independent at the date of his appointment on corporate responsibility can be found on pages 26 to 27. to the Board.
The non-executive directors are from varied backgrounds and bring with them a wide range of skills and experience of senior management in commerce and industry The Board in various parts of the world.
Composition Dates of appointment At the end of the year the Board comprised ten directors: the Chairman: the Chief Executive: six independent non-executive Name Date of appointment Date of current letter Anticipated expiry of of appointment current term directors: the Finance Director and one operational executive director.
Currently the Board comprises ten directors: the Phil Bentley 1 October 2012 16 June 2014 31 December 2014 Chairman: the Chief Executive: five independent non-executive Carl-Peter Forster 1 October 2012 16 June 2014 30 September 2015 directors: the Finance Director and the Finance Director Anita Frew 2 March 2006 26 February 2015 7 May 2015 designate: and one operational executive director.
Ross McInnes 1 October 2014 14 October 2014 30 September 2017 Birgit Nrgaard 6 November 2012 16 June 2014 5 November 2015 Ross McInnes joined as a non-executive director on 1 October Roberto Quarta 1 June 2011 25 June 2014 1 November 2017 2014.
Daniel Shook was appointed as an executive director Bob Stack 13 June 2008 26 February 2015 12 June 2016 from 1 January 2015 and will become Finance Director on 1 March 2015.
Meetings and use of Board time Martin Lamb retired as a director at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Phil Bentley retired as a non-executive director The Board met on nine occasions during the year including on 31 December 2014. four quarterly reviews, strategy discussions and meetings convened for special purposes as the need arose.
In line with the Code, all continuing directors submit themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meetings.
Anita Frew and Douglas Hurt will retire at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Following the retirement of Anita Frew at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Bob Stack will become the senior independent director.
48 IMI plc Corporate Governance Report contd Key Board activities in 2014 Board and Committee attendance 2014 As the year opened, IMI became a more focused specialist flow Director Board Audit Nominations Remuneration control business with the completion of the $1,100m 690m Meetings Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings disposal of the Retail Dispense divisions.
The Board undertook a thorough process of mapping out the next stage of the 9 4 5 4 Groups development under the new executive leadership team.
Roberto Quarta 9 - 5 4 As a result, the latest strategic thinking was set out in the interim Phil Bentley 7 4 - results announcement in August 2014 and is now reflected in Carl-Peter Forster 9 4 - 4 this Annual Report.
Anita Frew 9 4 5 4 i Ross McInnes 4 1 - Highlights of other Board activity in 2014 included: ii Birgit Nrgaard 9 3 - 4 Progress with Board succession Bob Stack 9 - 5 4 Mark Selway 9 - 5 - New Finance Director appointed Douglas Hurt 9 - - - New non-executive with a strong financial background iii Martin Lamb 0 appointed to take up the chair of the Audit Committee Roy Twite 9 - - - Search for a new Chairman commenced i Full attendance from appointment in October 2014 Organisation ii Full attendance as joined the Audit Committee in March 2014 - New management and organisation structures established iii Retired as a director in May 2014 for the three divisions and corporate centre - New role and composition for the Executive Committee Induction and continuing development programme approved A formal induction process for new directors has been well Brand exercise established for several years and is the responsibility of the - Rebranding of the businesses and refresh of the Chairman with support from the Chief Executive and Company corporate branding Secretary.
This process was refreshed in the year to reflect Growth and process investments changes in Group businesses and management structure.
- Growth investments made in new products and business Business familiarisation is at the core of induction and continuing IT systems development for non-executive directors at IMI is based around gaining an understanding of the business and getting to know - New core process disciplines introduced across a broad the wider management team.
There is also a committee spectrum including for lean, project management, internal induction process designed to brief new committee members controls, legal & compliance and human resources on the relevant committees activity and the issues it faces.
- Announcement of the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther During and after induction, directors are required to visit to complement our control valve businesses in our business units around the Group and, most importantly, Critical Engineering division to meet face-to-face with senior operating management and key corporate staff.
Non-executive directors continue to become familiar with the businesses during and after induction and there is regular contact between management and non-executive The Boards time directors during site visits, formal meetings and events.
Corporate Governance Appropriate coaching and access to training and other 5% Operational performance continuing professional development is available to all directors and plans Risk, Legal and Compliance and all directors participated in appropriate updates during the 30% 10% year at Board and committee meetings.
Major investments 15% Strategy Board evaluation 25% In line with the Code, the Board has agreed that the Chairman Financial 15% should arrange an externally facilitated evaluation process, normally at least once every three years.
In 2013 such a process was postponed due to the Chief Executive transition and a full, externally facilitated Board evaluation exercise was conducted in 2014.
The evaluation was facilitated by Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent Board Evaluation, a specialist consultancy that Standing committees of the Board has no other business relationship with IMI.
A comprehensive The standing committees of the Board are shown below and brief was given to the assessment team by the Chairman, include the Audit Committee, the Nominations Committee Roberto Quarta, and the Chief Executive, Mark Selway, and the Remuneration Committee.
Each of these committees in September 2014.
The evaluation also observed Board operates under written terms of reference which clearly and committee meetings in October 2014. set out their respective delegated responsibilities and authorities.
The full terms of reference of these committees In October and November 2014, detailed interviews were were updated in the year and are part of the Corporate conducted with every director.
In addition, representatives Governance Framework which appears on the IMI website.
of Independent Board Evaluation interviewed members of the The committees report to the Board on their work, normally senior management team and advisers.
All participants were through their respective chairman, quarterly or more frequently interviewed according to a set agenda, tailored for the IMI as appropriate.
Draft conclusions were discussed with the Chairman and subsequently reviewed with the whole Board at its Separate reports from the following committees appear as meeting in December 2014 with the lead evaluator present.
follows: Audit Committee on pages 52 to 54: Nominations Following the Board meeting the evaluation team gave Committee on pages 55 and 56 and Remuneration feedback to committee chairmen on the performance of each Committee on pages 57 to 79. committee.
Anita Frew as the senior independent director received the report on the Chairman which she discussed with him, and Roberto Quarta received a report with feedback on individual directors which was discussed with them.
The Chairmen of the three non-executive Committees each received a report from the external evaluation exercise and reviewed that with their Committee.
Following a period of considerable change, the appetite among Board members is for selective continuous improvement rather than major change.
Board members noted some areas for development over the coming year and the report contained recommendations to address those areas, including monitoring the change-programme within the businesses: increasing the amount of UK plc experience on the Board without diluting its highly-valued international diversity: and strengthening the Nominations Committee-led areas of succession-planning for the Board itself and talentmanagement throughout the Group.
Specific actions were then agreed to address development areas, including: introducing governance support training for all first-time UK plc board members, tailored to the individuals needs: reviewing the Board education programme to develop board members knowledge: establishing a Board skills matrix, agreed by the Nominations Committee: and considering ways of strengthening Board contact with senior management.
The Board received the findings of the evaluation in December 2014 and after review the directors confirmed that the Board is fulfilling its responsibilities appropriately and that the Board and its committees were effective and that each continuing director demonstrated a valuable contribution.
50 IMI plc Corporate Governance Report contd Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Ross McInnes Roberto Quarta Bob Stack Chairman Chairman Chairman Membership: Membership: Membership: Anita Frew Anita Frew Anita Frew Birgit Nrgaard Bob Stack Roberto Quarta Carl-Peter Forster Birgit Nrgaard Carl-Peter Forster Four meetings Five meetings Four meetings Main responsibilities: Main responsibilities: Main responsibilities: Financial reporting Board and committee composition Define and recommend the remuneration policy for approval by shareholders Oversight role in relation to financial statements Succession plans for Board and senior management and corporate roles Determine the individual remuneration packages Reviewing significant areas of judgment and for the most senior executives within the policy accounting policies Search for and recommendation to be put to shareholders for approval of candidates for appointment as non-executive Advising the Board on whether the draft Annual directors, Chief Executive and other executive Set annual and long-term incentive metrics and Report is fair, balanced and understandable director positions awards and determine the outcomes with support Monitoring announcements in respect of financial from the Companys auditor and Audit Committee Diversity policy and monitoring of progress performance Report on remuneration matters and constructively Review and recommendation of proposals for engage with shareholders Financial controls and risk the assignment of major executive responsibilities and appointment and removal of divisional Assess risk in respect of remuneration and Monitoring the effectiveness of internal business leaders incentive structures in particular financial controls Reviewing financial risk including fraud risk Oversight of internal audit Managing the external audit process, its objectivity, effectiveness and cost Reviewing the system for confidential whistleblowing and the reports received Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Executive Committee In addition to the Annual Report, the Company issues preliminary results and interim results announcements, as The Executive Committee is the primary management well as two interim management statements between results Committee.
The IMI website includes recordings of The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive certain key presentations made by senior management, and consists of the Finance Director, the Divisional Managing recent Annual and Interim Reports, interim management Directors, the Group Business Development Director, Paul statements, other corporate announcements and links to Roberts, the Group Human Resources Director, Geoff Tranfield the websites of the Groups businesses.
The Company has and the Legal & Compliance Director and Company Secretary, arranged a dealing service for the convenience of shareholders John OShea.
Senior executives and line managers from with Equiniti details are shown on page 156.
A sponsored around the Group are regularly called upon to attend meetings Level 1 American Depositary Receipt programme has been of the Executive Committee.
The Committee meets monthly established for which Citibank, N. A. acts as depositary and more often as may be required, and all members attended details can be found on page 156. all but one or two meetings during their tenure in the year.
The Board as a whole seeks to maintain a balanced The Executive Committee is the senior management body understanding of the issues and concerns of major and as part of its broad remit set by the Chief Executive it shareholders and to assist them in the stewardship of their monitors and manages performance, reviews progress against investments.
Dialogue is maintained with shareholders strategic objectives, considers business management issues and the executive directors meet regularly with institutional and formulates budgets and proposals on strategy, policy investors.
The Chairman routinely meets with investors and and resource allocation for consideration by the Board.
the senior independent director is also in communication with The Committee is not a committee of the Board.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have primary responsibility at board level for investor relations and The Executive Committee plays a key part in the risk report to the Board on shareholder issues at least quarterly.
assessment, risk management and monitoring processes They are supported by the Investor Relations Director.
and receives regular reports on health and safety, compliance and legal and corporate affairs.
The main annual risk review Financial analysts notes are circulated to the directors and meeting of the Committee was attended by Roberto Quarta, regular feedback reports for the Board from the Companys the Chairman, and it had further risk updates in the year with brokers are supplemented by periodic, independent surveys detailed follow up reports to the Board.
of major investors views, the most recent of which was in 2013.
The Chairman, senior independent director and other Investor relations non-executives meet with major shareholders upon request and several meetings of this type took place during the year.
The Annual General Meeting is regarded by the Board as There were also consultations with the larger shareholders an important opportunity to meet and communicate with and institutional shareholder representative bodies in respect shareholders, particularly private investors.
The 2014 Annual of remuneration matters and new incentive plans to be put General Meeting was chaired by the Chairman, and attended forward for shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual by the chairmen of the standing committees of the Board and General Meeting.
all of the other directors.
The Chairman encouraged debate and questions at the formal meeting and informally during Information about share capital, substantial shareholdings, refreshments afterwards.
voting and other rights of shareholders, directors appointments, removal and powers is set out in the Each substantially separate issue was put to the 2014 Annual Directors Report on pages 141 to 144.
General Meeting as an individual motion and the meeting was invited to adopt and approve the financial statements and the Directors Report for 2013.
Separate resolutions for By order of the Board the approval of the Directors Remuneration Report and the John OShea Directors Remuneration Policy were also put to the meeting.
Company Secretary Notice of the 2014 Annual General Meeting was issued more than twenty working days in advance and the level of proxy 26 February 2015 votes lodged for and against each resolution, together with details of abstentions, were disclosed at the meeting and are shown on the IMI website.
The Board values its good relations with shareholders and all resolutions proposed at the 2014 Annual General Meeting received strong support with all votes well above 90% in favour in each case.
