52 IMI plc Audit Committee Report in respect of the Annual Report.
We continued to improve Dear Shareholder the Annual Report and, in particular, to ensure a clearer link from our strategy through to KPIs and Principal Risks and I am pleased to present my first report as Chairman of the Audit Uncertainties.
Other work undertaken in connection with this Committee and would like to thank Phil Bentley for his excellent included a benchmarking review of how IMI addressed the stewardship of the Committee and his kind support during our new requirements and associated best practice guidance, handover period.
the advance submission of draft Annual Report content to the Committee in December 2014, followed by a draft submission Composition of the Audit Committee three weeks before becoming final to allow ample time for I chair the Audit Committee.
I am a career Finance Director comments and improvements.
and have significant recent and relevant financial experience Financial controls continued to be a key focus area for the including as chair of the Audit Committee at Faurecia SA and Committee and during the year management made further Eutelsat Communications.
Anita Frew and Carl-Peter Forster significant progress in strengthening controls and addressing were members of the Audit Committee throughout the year.
action points raised by the external auditor and internal assurance Birgit Nrgaard joined on 1 March 2014.
A new internal control declaration process was a member and Chairman of the Committee until 31 December introduced, which requires six monthly sign-off on core areas 2014, at which time he retired.
I joined the Committee on 1 of financial control and compliance by the managers of each October 2014 and became its Chairman on 1 January 2015. business unit.
The Committee was pleased to see the new All of the Committee members are regarded by the Board as Executive management continuing to drive the improvements independent non-executive directors.
in controls across the business.
Ernst & Young agreed with The Committee generally asks the Chairman, the Chief managements assessment that the level of control effectiveness Executive, the Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller across the Group remains high at 95% and has improved and the Group Assurance Director to attend its meetings but compared to 2013.
Separately, Ernst & Young reported that a holds at least part of several meetings each year alone with further five businesses achieved 100% effectiveness for a sample the external auditor and with the Group Assurance Director.
Furthermore, Group Assurance validated The Committee has the powers to call on any employees to managements assessment as part of their financial control audits.
The Secretary to the Committee is also the A new Chief Risk Officer, reporting to the Chief Executive, joined Director of Legal and Compliance.
IMI in February 2015 and will assume functional responsibility for internal audit.
Main areas of activity in 2014 The Audit Committee met four times in 2014.
Significant Oversight of financial reporting accounting issues reflected in the 2014 financial statements The Committee acts in an oversight role in respect of the Annual include accounting for several businesses disposed of in 2014, Report and announcements with financial content that are exceptional restructuring costs, impairment of goodwill and prepared by executive management.
The Committee received intangible assets arising from acquisitions, revenue recognition, reports on the annual and interim financial statements from the provisioning for taxation, pensions accounting and inventory external auditor who attended its meetings.
The matters of judgement involved in these issues work included reviewing the financial statements, accounting are described in more overleaf.
policies, significant issues of judgement and, as described The Committee remit calls upon it to advise the Board in below under the section headed Internal Audit, looking at relation to the fair, balanced and understandable requirements the effectiveness of internal financial controls and assurances.
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Significant judgements related to the arose as a result of this arrangement and confirmation that financial statements this arrangement and the appropriateness of the actuarial assumptions used and agreed with managements assessment.
Accounting for businesses disposed of As discussed on page 4, the Group disposed of the Retail Inventory valuation Dispense businesses on 1 January 2014, the Eley business The Committee reviewed the judgments applied to standard on 4 October 2014 and AFP on 23 October 2014.
Each costing valuations and provisions against excess and obsolete disposal resulted in a gain, which the Committee reviewed inventory and concurred with managements assessment.
and were comfortable with managements calculation.
External audit independence and performance review Exceptional restructuring costs The Committee approved the proposed external audit Following guidance issued by the Financial Reporting approach and its scope based on the size and level of risk Council, the Committee challenged management on the of the entities concerned.
The Committee also approved the appropriateness of the classification of certain items as internal audit programme.
The Committee takes a risk based exceptional, notably restructuring costs.
The Committee and approach to audit and other assurance activity.
management agreed that for the 2014 results, only individually significant restructuring projects would be disclosed as The Committee considered the independence and objectivity exceptional.
As a result, only the costs associated with the of the external auditor.
In assessing auditor independence the closure of IMI Components and IMI Norgren UKs factory move Committee had regard to best practice guidance for Audit are disclosed as exceptional.
The Committee also debated the Committees and required the auditor to confirm that its ethics appropriateness of the other items disclosed as exceptional in and independence policies complied with the requirements of the 2014 results and agreed with managements assessment.
the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit work is Impairment of goodwill and intangibles arising established and monitored by the Committee and requires from acquisitions approval by the Chairman of the Committee for any nonThe Committee reviewed the assumptions and calculations audit engagement where fees exceed 150,000.
The policy used in the assessment of any impairment of goodwill and does not allow work to be placed with the auditor if it could intangibles assets and was comfortable with them.
In particular, compromise auditor independence, such as, functioning in the Committee reviewed the carrying value of goodwill and the role of management or auditing its own work.
Non-audit other intangibles relating to IMI Remosa.
The Committee fees paid to the auditor were 0.3m 2013: 0.2m, which agreed with managements assessment that the projected represents 11% of the audit fee and demonstrated the tight future cash flows for IMI Remosa did not support the carrying control which is maintained in this area.
We are of the view that value of the goodwill, that the full carrying value would be the level and nature of non-audit work does not compromise unlikely to be realised on the open market and therefore an the independence of the external auditor.
impairment charge of 27m was appropriate.
Benchmarking of the audit fees was conducted to ensure that Revenue recognition these are appropriate and competitive and the Committee The Committee discussed the timing of revenue recognition on approved the proposed audit fees payable to Ernst & Young.
some of the Groups larger contracts.
In addition, this is an area We formally reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit of audit focus and accordingly Ernst & Young reported on this process.
The Committee adopted a formal framework by way matter to the Committee.
of a questionnaire to review the effectiveness of the external Provisioning for taxation auditor.
The framework is completed annually by each member of the Committee and by the Finance Director.
Feedback was The Group pays taxes in various countries which requires also received from the Chief Executive, the Group Financial the interpretation of complex tax laws in these jurisdictions.
Controller, Group and Divisional Management.
The feedback Accordingly, both the amounts expected to be payable and the from this process was considered by the Committee and was period in which settlement is likely to be made are reassessed provided to the external auditor.
As a result of this exercise the from time to time.
The Committee received reports from Committee believes the performance has been satisfactory management outlining the rationale for the provisions held and the external auditor is considered to be effective.
In addition, this is an area where Ernst & Young particular the quality of the audit work continues to improve.
engage their tax experts to review the appropriateness of these Further improvement actions were identified and plans have provisions, and provides reports to the Committee.
been put in place to address these, including the continuity Pensions accounting of audit team members and continuing to shorten the lines of communication between the auditors Group team, the As detailed on page 125, during the year the Group split its component audit teams and the Groups local operations.
existing UK Pension Fund into two newly formed pension schemes.
The Committee reviewed reports from management to determine the appropriateness of the accounting that 54 IMI plc Audit Committee Report contd Auditor choice, tenure and tendering Compliance hotline The Committee recommended and the Board approved the The Committee also reviews the operation of the independent proposal to re-appoint Ernst & Young as the external auditor compliance hotline for reporting concerns, oversees the more at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Ernst & Young significant reports received and how these are investigated was first appointed as auditor in 2009 following a competitive and followed up.
We believe that the hotline process and tendering process after which it replaced the previous auditor, investigations are effective and proportionate action is taken KPMG.
The term of appointment is annual and there are no in response.
contractual restrictions on the Committees choice of auditor.
To maintain the objectivity of the audit process, the external Independent Committee evaluation audit partner responsible for the Group is rotated within Ernst The Committee reviewed its own performance and terms of & Young at least every five years and the current Senior reference and received positive feedback from the externally Statutory Auditor has been in place for two years and will facilitated evaluation exercise carried out in respect of the Board change following completion of the 2017 audit.
Succession and each of its standing committees.
planning includes having a second partner in place on the audit The Committee approved the foregoing report on its work.
New regulations for audit tendering and rotation of audit firms have been introduced which require mandatory tendering after ten years i. e. by 31 December 2019 and a change of Yours faithfully audit firm by 31 December 2029, assuming in each case that Ross McInnes Ernst & Young remains in place as auditor until 2019 and 2029 Chairman of the Audit Committee respectively.
The Committee reserves the right to run a tender for the audit role at any time but, if not conducted earlier, it will 26 February 2015 be undertaken in advance of the regulatory deadline at the end of 2019.
Currently, the Committee intends to run the audit tender in 2017, to coincide with the current lead audit partners rotation and in advance of the regulatory deadline at the end of 2019.
We will of course keep the matter under regular review.
Internal audit The Committee also receives reports from and monitors the work of the internal audit function, known as Group Assurance.
The appointment of a new Chief Risk Officer, reporting to the Chief Executive, is intended to accelerate the extension of internal audit into compliance and other areas of non-financial audit activity.
The separation of internal audit from the finance function is also seen as a positive move and it now reports through the Director of Risk to the Chief Executive instead of to the Finance Director.
Group Assurance will retain its reporting line to the Committee.
Assurance work is primarily directed towards financial control audits but has broadened into other areas including major business change project planning and implementation.
The principal projects reviewed in 2014 were major computer systems implementations in Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering, manufacturing rationalisation exercises in Germany and significant capital projects in the US and Italy.
Group Assurance reviewed project management, governance and the ability to achieve the business objectives.
These reviews have identified opportunities for process and project management improvements, and will help to facilitate sharing of best practice for future projects.
