Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Nominations Committee Report Review of time commitments and contributions Dear Shareholder Appointments of non-executive directors are made on the basis Main areas of activity in 2014 of a standard form letter of appointment.
Each non-executive director and I, as Chairman, were appointed on the basis of In 2014, the Committee spent a substantial part of its time a stated minimum time commitment judged appropriate by the on executive talent development and succession planning.
The Committee considers that the time given by A confidential global search process was commissioned by each non-executive was sufficient.
Anita Frew took the lead in the Committee to find a new Finance Director.
Russell Reynolds reviewing the governance and other implications for IMI of my was engaged to assist with this process and also with the proposal to become Chairman of Smith & Nephew plc from search for a non-executive director as a successor to the April 2014, which was then approved by the Board.
I have outgoing chair of the Audit Committee.
Russell Reynolds also since stepped down from the boards of Foster Wheeler AG provided services in respect of recruitment for certain senior and Rexel SA.
executive positions below Board level.
Committee members interviewed a range of candidates for both roles and the Succession planning Committee made recommendations to the Board for the appointments of Daniel Shook, as Finance Director, and Ross As a Committee we are keen to develop more formal skills McInnes, as a non-executive director and Chairman designate mapping and to put in place a structured, medium term plan for of the Audit Committee.
This activity will be progressed in due course by the Committee under the new Chairman.
We reviewed talent The Committee also reviewed the composition of the Board development and succession planning for the top 250 roles in and its committees.
It recommended changes in executive the Group with the support of the Group Human Resources responsibilities, endorsed the change in Divisional Managing Director and we were encouraged to see the progress that has Director for Precision Engineering and supported the changes been made given the strong emphasis on good process and to the composition of the Executive Committee.
The Board cultivating a pipeline of high calibre talent.
approved all of the recommendations made by the Committee for the appointment of directors.
Diversity Following the announcement in December 2014 that I would The Board recognises the benefits a diverse pool of talent can be stepping down as Chairman, with Board endorsement Anita bring to a boardroom and remains committed to increasing Frew has been leading the process for the selection of my diversity in the businesses by voluntary measures.
We will successor supported by Bob Stack, non-executive director, continue to review the composition of our management teams and Mark Selway.
I am not involved in the process for selecting and the Board to ensure that we have the right mix of skills and or appointing my successor.
experience while maintaining our effectiveness and execution capabilities.
At Board level, there are seven nationalities, two of Members the non-executive directors are female and there is a broad mix Anita Frew, Bob Stack, Mark Selway and I are members of of backgrounds and experience.
the Nominations Committee and all of us were members In 2014 the Board approved a diversity and inclusion policy throughout the year.
Mark Selway stepped down from the which applies to all IMI employees, contractors and agency Committee on 26 February 2015 as he felt that it would reflect workers, both direct and indirect via third parties.
emerging best practice if he did not continue as a member of the Committee.
56 IMI plc Nominations Committee Report contd The policy is designed to take a broad approach to diversity and inclusion in order to reflect the UK legislative framework of the Equality Act 2010.
IMI is committed to being compliant with the local legal and best practice frameworks in the countries in which it operates and therefore the application of the Diversity and Inclusion Policy will reflect the legal context in the jurisdictions in which it is applied.
We are committed to ensuring that all employees and workers are treated fairly in an environment which is free from any form of discrimination with regard to the nine protected characteristics outlined in the Equality Act 2010, which are age, religion, race, sex, disability, gender reassignment, marriage civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity and sexual orientation.
Our policy is to recruit the very best people to execute our strategic priorities and to reflect the diverse nature of the global footprint of the business, reflecting the location of our customers and markets.
We will continue to seek a diverse pool of the best quality candidates to draw from, both internally and when recruiting externally, to maximise the continuing effectiveness of the Company.
In line with our recruitment practices, the Group produces diverse shortlists for internal and external vacancies and specifically requests this of external providers, with the aim of encouraging and promoting diversity.
At the same time, the Committee has agreed to measure progress on diversity metrics including gender and nationality mix although specific targets have not been set.
In 2014 the mix of male and female employees across the Group was as follows: All Managers Senior Board Employees Managers Directors Female 3,308 222 99 2 Female % 26 19 16 20 Male 9,221 963 504 8 Male % 74 81 84 80 As part of the Performance Management process in 2015, each Divisional Managing Director will agree objectives aimed at improving diversity in their area and our Executive Committee will undertake a training session on diversity and inclusion.
The Committee reviewed its own performance and terms of reference and received positive feedback from the externally facilitated evaluation exercise carried out in respect of the Board and each of its committees.
The Committee approved the foregoing report on its work.
Yours faithfully Roberto Quarta Chairman of the Nominations Committee 26 February 2015
