Corporate Governance Report COMMITTED TO GOOD GOVERNANCE DEAR SHAREHOLDER I am pleased to present the 2014 Corporate Governance Report.
The aim of the report is to demonstrate how the Board operates in a clear and transparent manner to enable stakeholders to assess whether the Directors, as stewards of the Company, have performed their duties, within the context of the Companys values and governance framework, to promote the long-term success of the Company.
The report follows the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code for ease of reference.
Board composition and succession planning During 2014 the Board focused on composition and succession planning, with the recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director, Coline McConville, who was appointed on 1 June 2014, and the new Group Chief Executive, Stefan Bomhard, who joins the Group on 1 April 2015.
Further details of Stefans appointment can be found in my statement on page 18 and details of Colines appointment and the recruitment process can be found in the Nominations Committee report on page 55.
Andr Lacroix leaves the Group in March 2015.
He has successfully led the Group since Key activities during 2014: 2005 and I would like to thank him on behalf of the Board and shareholders for his leadership and commitment.
External Board evaluation Board changes Recruitment of the Group In March 2015, Simon Borrows announced that he will not seek re-election as a Chief Executive Non-Executive Director at the Annual General Meeting.
I would like to thank Simon for his support and sound advice to the Group over the last five years and on behalf of Recruitment of a the Group wish Simon the very best in his busy and successful role as Chief Executive Non-Executive Director of 3i Group plc.
Annual strategy review meeting Board effectiveness Overseas board meeting A key aspect of the Boards effectiveness is the Board evaluation which, this year, was in Singapore performed by an external evaluator.
Key areas of the evaluation reflected the Boards focus on composition and succession planning highlighting the importance of these areas.
Details of the evaluation process are given on page 51.
Board Committees The Nominations Committee led the recruitment process for the new Group Chief Executive and Non-Executive Director and the Committee continues to monitor the composition of the Board to ensure it has the right mix of skills, experience and diversity to deal with the future opportunities and challenges facing the Group.
The Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee have dealt with an ever changing regulatory environment and continued developments in corporate governance, with particular focus on the significant risks facing the Group for the Audit Committee and Directors remuneration for the Remuneration Committee.
An overview of each of the Committees activities during the year is given in this report.
I hope you will find this report helpful in understanding the Boards commitment to the Companys values when carrying out its activities.
Statement of Code Compliance Provision D. 2.1 of the Code requires the Company to have at least three independent Non-Executive Directors as members of the Remuneration Committee.
With the appointment of Coline McConville on 1 June 2014, the Board complied with this provision and was fully compliant with the Code as at 31 December 2014.
Details of compliance with Code provision C. 3.7 are given in the Audit Committee Report on page 54.
The information required under DTR7 is given on pages 46 to 57 and forms part of the Report.
Ken Hanna Chairman 46 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Leadership The role of the Board is to create long-term shareholder value for the benefit of all stakeholders.
In order to achieve this, the Board is responsible for agreeing the long-term strategy of the Group, and for monitoring the implementation of the strategy and the performance of the Executive Committee within a framework of controls.
The Board is also responsible for reviewing those controls to ensure that they enable risk to be assessed and managed appropriately.
Details of how the Group generates and preserves value are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 41.
Board and Committee meetings The Board has a defined set of responsibilities and accountabilities which are set out in the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, which can be found on the website www.
Key areas of focus for the Board during the year were: Strategy, People, Business Development and M&A opportunities, Annual Operating Plan, Final and Interim dividend and share buy back programme Updates from key markets, Internal Controls review, Group Risk review, Pensions update and Tax update Approval of the 2013 full year results and 2014 interim results, Assessment of long-range forecasts performance against plan, review of monthly financial statements Board evaluation, re-appointment of auditors, Annual General Meeting The Board meets five times per year and attendance at the Board meetings and Committee meetings is shown in the table below.
Remuneration Nominations Board Meetings Audit Committee Committee Committee CR Committee Name Attended scheduled Attended scheduled Attended scheduled Attended scheduled Attended scheduled Vicky Bindra 5 5 1 1 1 1 3 3 Simon Borrows 5 5 4 4 2 2 Alison Cooper 5 5 4 4 0 1 Andr Lacroix 5 5 1 1 3 3 Ken Hanna 5 5 2 2 2 2 3 3 John Langston 5 5 4 4 1 1 John McConnell 5 5 Coline McConville 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 Nigel Northridge 5 5 2 2 1 1 Till Vestring 5 5 2 2 2 2 The meetings are structured to allow sufficient time to discuss and review financial and operational performance, achievement of objectives, development of strategy and the assessment of risk and internal controls.
The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its Committees.
The Committee structure can be found on page 48 and the Committee reports can be found on pages 53 to 57.
In addition to the meetings held at the Head Office in London each year, the Board holds an overseas meeting which in 2014 was held in Singapore, and an off-site two-day strategy review meeting.
Overseas Meeting Annual Strategy Meeting The annual overseas Board meeting gives the Directors an The annual strategy review meeting enables the Directors opportunity to gain a deeper understanding of the Groups to review, monitor and approve the Groups strategy within operations and to meet colleagues within the business.
the context of a changing business environment and to They are a key element of the on-going training and consider global economic, market and industry trends and development of Non-Executive Directors.
the opportunities and challenges facing the Group.
The Singapore meeting had the following agenda The annual strategy meeting had the following agenda over over two days: two days: Singapore market update Lexus Boutique Inchcape Advantage People Strategy update Inchcape Advantage Site visits to Lexus and Brand partner update Board Evaluation results Toyota Retail Centres Site visit at Toyota Central Capital Structure update Parts depot Lexus Boutique and Talent Review Toyota World Customer Dinner with Singapore Portfolio Strategy and experience tour management team Business Development Toyota World More information on More information on Inchcape Advantage Inchcape Advantage Inchcape Advantage on page 14 on page 14 www.
com 47 Corporate Governance Report continued Roles and responsibilities In accordance with the Code, the roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are split.
The Chairman is responsible for running the Board and the Group Chief Executive is responsible for running the day-to-day operations of the Group.
Their key responsibilities are set out below: Ken Hanna Andr Lacroix Simon Borrows Chairman Group Chief Executive Senior Independent Director To lead an effective Board by To develop the Groups To act as a sounding board providing direction and focus strategy and business plans for the Chairman.
and promoting open and for approval by the Board.
To serve as an intermediary constructive debate.
To run the Groups to other Directors.
Ensuring that Directors receive day-to-day operations.
To be available to shareholders information that is accurate, Report to the Board on should they have concerns which relevant and timely.
performance, implementation have not been resolved through Responsibility for composition of strategy and significant normal channels.
of the Board to ensure that the developments.
To hold an annual meeting of members have the right mix of To lead the Executive Committee Non-Executive Directors to evaluate skills, knowledge and experience.
in implementing strategy and the performance of the Chairman To chair the Nominations managing risk and the internal Committee and membership control framework.
To regularly engage with shareholders on the Groups activities and progress against objectives.
Board and Committee structure The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its Committees.
The chair of each Committee reports to the Board on the matters discussed at the Committee meetings prior to each Board meeting.
All Directors have access to Committee papers and presentations.
Inchcape plc Board Collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company Remuneration Audit Nominations Corporate Committee Committee Committee Responsibility Remuneration Policy Financial Reporting Board Composition Committee CR Strategy Incentive Plans Risk Management Succession Planning CR Policy Performance Targets Internal Controls Diversity Committee Report page 58 Committee Report page 53 Committee Report page 55 Committee Report page 57 Executive Committee Responsible for implementing the Groups strategy within the organisation to create shareholder value iPOM Committee Risk management See page 35 48 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Executive Directors are generally permitted to hold one Non-Executive Directors non-executive position as long as it does not lead to conflicts It is the role of the Non-Executive Directors to bring a wide range of interest or undue time commitment.
During the year Andr of experience, knowledge and skills to the Board.
Between them Lacroix was the senior independent director of Reckitt Benckiser the Directors have extensive operational, financial, retail and Group plc and John McConnell was a non-executive director consultancy experience gained throughout their careers and and Audit Committee chairman of UBM plc.
Details of the fees in their current roles.
Their biographies, which give details of past paid during the year to Andr Lacroix and John McConnell for and present appointments, can be found on pages 42 and 43. these roles can be found in the Directors Report on The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for bringing Remuneration on page 73. independent judgement to the Boards discussions on strategy, Commitment performance and risk, for monitoring and challenging the The time commitment required by Non-Executive Directors is set performance of the Executive Committee and the Groups out in their Letter of Appointment and is reviewed annually by the businesses, and for reviewing the effectiveness of risk Nominations Committee to ensure that it remains appropriate.
management and the systems of internal control.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors and the Senior Independent Director and the Board tenure Nationality Non-Executive Directors meet without the Chairman annually.
During the year it was agreed that the Non-Executive Directors would complete an annual skills assessment.
It is anticipated that the assessment will be discussed and reviewed by the Nominations Committee to assist with the scheduling of the progressive refreshment of the Board over time and to ensure the Group has the right structure, skills and diversity of experience in place for the effective management of the Groups strategy and creation of long-term shareholder value.
Further details can be found in the Nominations Committee Report on pages 55 to 56.
3 years 4 French 1 German 1 3 6 years 4 Irish 1 Australian 1 Effectiveness 6 years 2 American 1 British 5 Composition of the Board The Board consists of the Chairman, two Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors.
Coline McConville was appointed to the Board in June 2014 and is a member of the Remuneration, Gender split Industry background CR and Nominations Committees.
All Non-Executive Directors are considered independent in accordance with the Code.
Appointments to the Board The Nominations Committee is responsible for evaluating the composition of the Board and nominating suitable candidates to the Board to fill any vacancies.
The Nominations Committee Report can be found on pages 55 to 56.
The Company recognises that its Board members may be invited to become Directors of other companies and that this additional Female 2 Financial 5 Consultancy 2 Male 8 Retail 2 Technology 1 experience is likely to benefit the deliberations of the Board.
com 49 Corporate Governance Report continued Development New Directors receive a tailored induction programme designed to ensure that they have sufficient knowledge of the business and the context in which it operates.
Coline McConville received a formal induction in 2014 split into two parts.
The first part of the induction was designed to introduce Coline to key members of management and consisted of one-on-one meetings.
The second part of the induction consisted of site visits designed to introduce Coline to the retail and distribution businesses and enable her to gain a deeper understanding of how the business operates.
Coline McConvilles induction: Who Area of focus Ken Hanna The Board, its Committees, history of the Group and its values.
Chairman Andr Lacroix Strategy, overview of operational businesses, analyst and Group Chief Executive investor engagement.
John McConnell Financial review, capital structure and policies, iPOWER.
Group Finance Director Tamsin Waterhouse Directors duties and regulatory rules, governance and Group Company Secretary Board administration.
Tony George Key management, succession planning, remuneration Group HR and Business Development Director policy and business development strategy.
Chris Davies Operational financial review, reporting systems and processes.
Group Financial Controller Gavin Robertson Risk management, assurance processes and internal controls.
Group Audit Director Stphane Chatal Overview of the Groups IS strategy and structure.
Group Chief Information Officer Ken Lee Brand, marketing, internal and external communications and Group Marketing and Communications Director Inchcape Advantage.
George Ashford Melbourne site visit at Bespoke Rolls-Royce, McLaren, Chief Executive Officer Australasia Aston Martin, Subaru Docklands and Mentone.
Sydney site visits to BMW Parramatta, Subaru North Shore, Bespoke Alexandria and Alexandria dealerships.
John Langston, who was appointed as a Non-Executive Director The Group Finance Directors report will typically cover financial in 2013, visited the Groups Hong Kong business, Crown Motors, results, capital structure and regular updates on iPOWER.
during the year to further increase his knowledge of the Groups The regional updates typically include updates on business operations.
This included site visits to Jaguar Land Rover, Toyota, model, market and regional performance and strategic outlook.
Lexus, Ford, the Inchcape Shared Services Office and Executive Committee members and other senior management the Lexus and Toyota Service Centres in Hong Kong.
attend meetings throughout the year to present on specific Information and support issues.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring the Agendas and supporting papers are distributed to the Directors Board has access to relevant and accurate information.
one week prior to meetings to allow time for sufficient review and The Board agendas are agreed in advance by the Chairman are distributed electronically.
and Group Chief Executive and include regular items such as In addition to the information supplied for Board and Committee reports from the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance meetings the Directors also receive a monthly financial update Director and Investor Relations.
Regional updates, designed to which gives the latest financial position by region.
give a deeper view of the markets, are given throughout the year The Group Company Secretary also supports the Board by by the Market Chief Executive or Managing Director.
providing advice and services, including access to independent The Group Chief Executives report typically covers the Groups advice, and ensures that an accurate record of all the meetings performance, updates on share price and shareholders, and committee meetings is taken.
If a Director has any concerns colleague and talent updates and business development.
about the Company or any of the decisions being taken, this would be recorded in the minutes.
No such concerns were raised in 2014.
50 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EVALUATION To ensure the effectiveness of the Board, an independent announced on 30 January 2015.
Further details of succession external evaluation was carried out during 2014 by planning and the recruitment process can be found in the Dr Tracy Long of Board Review Limited.
Nominations Committee Report on page 55.
The evaluations methodology encourages an iterative The evaluation concluded that the Board is effective in dealing conversation about three inter-related aspects of the Boards with todays challenges: the quality of decision making and effectiveness: the Board environment culture, dynamics, contribution is positively influenced by a strong culture and composition, tenure, the work of the Board strategy and composition, a thoughtful approach to the work and an efficient operations, risk and control, performance management, use of time.
stakeholder communication, and the use of time, process Further challenges identified during the evaluation were: and information planning and allocation, and consisted of: Area to be One-on-one interviews with each Director and the Group addressed Action by the Board Company Secretary, attendance by Dr Long at a Board and Succession Preparation of the succession plan for Committee meeting and a review of the information supplied planning the Chairman for those meetings An analysis of strengths, priorities and challenges and Board Development of a Board refreshment plan subsequent recommendations composition taking into account existing competencies.
Individual feedback meetings A review of Committee composition.
All Non-Executive Directors subsequently Collective Board discussion at the Annual Strategy appointed to the Nominations Committee Review meeting Leadership Dedicated meetings on executive performance The main topic raised by the review related to succession development planning for the Group Chief Executive.
With a tenure Align view of strategy with tailored executive approaching ten years, the Board wanted to ensure that internal succession planning and external candidates were kept under review in the event Increase Non-Executive Directors exposure that the Group Chief Executive resigned.
Andr Lacroix to executives and other layers of management announced his resignation on 30 September 2014 and after a comprehensive recruitment process led by the Chairman and a Search Committee, the appointment of his successor was Board Review Limited has no other connection to the Company.
Re-election is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can In accordance with the Code, all Directors will stand for only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting material misstatement or loss.
AGM apart from Andr Lacroix who leaves the Group in During the year the Board reviewed the risks facing the Group March 2015 and Simon Borrows who will not be seeking as identified in the risk management process and how those re-election.
At the 2014 AGM, shareholders voted to elect risks are being assessed, monitored and managed.
This process or re-elect all Directors.
is designed to enable the Board to gain an understanding of the key risks within the business and how they are being managed.
Accountability Financial and business reporting The Board conducted its review of the Groups system of risk The Board is responsible for presenting a fair, balanced and management and internal control processes, including financial, understandable assessment of the Groups position and operational and compliance controls, during the year.
A statement of the Directors responsibility for the have been no significant changes in 2014 and the Board has financial statements, the going concern statement and the concluded that the Groups internal system of controls over statement by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report, financial reporting was effective during the year.
taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable The principal risks facing the Group and the risk management are set out on page 74 to 75. structure in place to monitor and manage those risks are given The statement by the auditors about their reporting on pages 35 to 37. responsibilities is given on pages 137 to 141.
Audit Committee and Auditors Internal controls and risk management The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Audit The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring the Groups Committee.
The Audit Committee regularly reports its findings system of internal controls is sound and the Executive Committee to the Board to enable the Directors to carry out an annual review is responsible for ensuring that the internal control systems and of the effectiveness of risk management and internal control procedures are implemented across the Group and updates are systems.
The Audit Committees Report is on pages 53 to 54. regularly reported to the Board.
The Groups minimum controls Remuneration are a set of consistent and prescriptive risk-led controls designed The Board has delegated remuneration matters to the to drive consistency in controls throughout the Group, to address Remuneration Committee.
Details of the Companys remuneration common control gaps identified in internal and external policy, how this was implemented during the year and the work of audit reports and to ensure that the required level of control the Remuneration Committee can be found on pages 58 to 73. is configured into the iPOWER system.
The internal control system www.
com 51 Corporate Governance Report continued Marketing and innovation presented by Patrick Lee, Relations with shareholders Chief Executive Officer, North Asia and China: The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Investor Relations Director hold regular meetings World Class Customer Service and Retail Standards presented with institutional investors throughout the year through a by Ken Lee, Group Marketing and Communications Director comprehensive investor relations programme.
The programme and Connor McCormack, Chief Executive Inchcape UK: includes site visits, roadshows and conferences.
During the Dealer Network Development presented by Tony George, year approximately 230 institutions met with management Group HR and Business Development Director and Aris Aravanis, to discuss the Group and its objectives.
Managing Director Greece and the Balkans: and Shareholders are also kept informed of Company performance Performance Management presented by Bertrand Mallet, through regular press releases.
These are made available to Chief Executive Officer Belgium and George Ashford, the London Stock Exchange and on the Companys website.
Chief Executive Officer Inchcape Australasia.
Presentations were held for analysts on the Groups annual and half yearly results.
Recorded conference calls are also The presentations can be downloaded from the website held for analysts on the release of Interim Management www.
These presentations and calls are published on Constructive use of the AGM the Companys website so that both private and institutional The AGM gives shareholders an opportunity to meet the investors or potential investors have access to the information.
Board and ask any questions they have regarding the Group.
The Board is provided with regular updates on the views The Board encourages participation of private shareholders at raised by the Companys investors.
the AGM: however, the Board understands that it is not always The Company held a capital markets day, Formula Inchcape, on possible for shareholders to attend.
For this reason, a prepaid 29 April 2014 at Brands Hatch.
Leading equity and debt investors reply envelope is sent to shareholders to enable them to give and analysts were invited to hear presentations from the their views should they be unable to attend the AGM in person.
Executive Committee covering the Groups unique global The Company complies with the Code as it relates to voting, operations, the focus on delivering operational excellence and the proposal of separate resolutions on each substantially the delivery of sustainable growth.
Investors also had the separate issue and the attendance of the Committee Chairmen opportunity to drive various models from our UK brand partners at the AGM.
Details of the voting at the AGM are available on the Brands Hatch Indy circuit alongside qualified instructors.
The agenda for the day included: The Group is committed to reducing its impact on the environment Inchcape business proposition and earnings model and encourages shareholders to receive communications presented by Andr Lacroix, Group Chief Executive: electronically to reduce paper usage.
Shareholders can also register for news alerts via email.
Please visit the website Supply and working capital management presented www.
com investors for more information.
It is important by John McConnell, Group Finance Director: for shareholders to receive communications in the form most Market intelligence and forecasting presented by Stphane appropriate to their needs and they can change the way they Chatal, Group Chief Information Officer, and Koh Ching Hong, receive information at any time.
Managing Director Singapore: Investor relations calendar Retail Conference Dec Jan Roadshow Nov Feb Retail Conference Roadshow Singapore Investor Day Annual Results Audiocast & presentation Interim Management Statement Oct Mar Throughout the year Roadshow Audiocast 1:1 meetings and Inchcape Advantage Formula Inchcape site visits held Apr Sep Capital Markets Day Retail Conference Roadshow Interim Management Statement Roadshow Roadshow Annual General Meeting Aug May Jul Jun Roadshow Auto Conference Interim Results Retail Conferences Audiocast & presentation 52 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Audit Committee Report Committees responsibilities Monitor the integrity of the financial statements and formal announcements Review and recommend to the Board the approval of the annual and half yearly reports Review the Groups accounting policies Review significant financial issues Review the financial and operational risks, policies and risk management Monitor the effectiveness of internal control systems and risk management Monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function Monitor the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors Approve the policy for non-audit services Recommend the re-appointment and approve the remuneration of the external auditors Committee membership Whistleblowing John Langston Chairman Simon Borrows DEAR SHAREHOLDER Vicky Bindra During the year, in addition to the routine business of the Committee, there was additional Alison Cooper focus on the effectiveness of internal controls.
The Groups businesses completed a Vicky Bindra joined the Committee self-assessment questionnaire on minimum controls which required markets to assess in July and attended his first meeting controls within their businesses.
This was calibrated with site visits by the Internal Audit in November.
The results and any mitigation plans were presented to the Committee for its The Committee members are all consideration during the year.
As discussed in the governance report on page 46, the Board undertook an external The Board considers John Langston, evaluation during 2014 and as part of this process the external evaluator attended the who is also chairman of the Audit Audit Committee meeting in July.
The results of the evaluation were positive and it was Committee of Rexam PLC and was noted that the Audit Committee continues to run effectively.
previously Finance Director of Smiths Group plc and is a chartered Financial reporting accountant, to have recent and The Committee is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and relevant experience.
for reviewing accounting policies and disclosures in the financial reports.
During the year the Committee reviewed the final and interim accounts and considered the key audit Committee meetings risks, accounting treatment and judgements identified during the audit as well as the The Committee meets four times per recommendations made by the external auditor.
The most significant issues considered year to coincide with the financial by the Committee and the actions taken by management are given on page 54. calendar.
The Committee invites the Risk management and Internal Control Chairman, Group Chief Executive, The Group has well-established risk management and internal control systems in place Group Finance Director, Group Audit and the Committee reviewed these during the year.
Internal controls over the financial Director and external auditor to reporting framework are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the attend its meetings.
reliability of financial reporting as well as the preparation of the financial statements in Other Senior Executives such as the accordance with IFRS.
The Group Audit Director attends each Committee meeting and Group Financial Controller and Group updates the Committee on the Groups risk register, assessments and mitigation plans.
Tax Director attend during the year to present to the Committee.
The Groups approach to risk management and the principal risks facing the Group are set out on pages 35 to 37.
Internal Audit The Committee reviewed and approved the Internal Audit Plan.
The plan sets out the audit approach for the year, the allocation of resources and the number of audits to The Committees terms of reference be undertaken.
The internal audit covers a wide range of operational, financial and can be found on the website IT processes.
At each subsequent meeting the Group Audit Director reports to the www.
com about us Committee on the status of the audits being carried out throughout the Group and governance the mitigation actions being implemented where gaps have been identified.
The Group Audit Director also meets with the Committee without the presence of management, External Audit The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the re-appointment of the external auditor and for approving their remuneration, terms of engagement and scope of work.
com 53 Audit Committee Report continued Significant Issues Issue Action taken Impairment Management prepared a detailed impairment review paper on the goodwill in the Group for both the half and full year of goodwill accounts.
The Committee challenged the methodology and sensitivity analysis used by management.
The Committee also considered the independent review by the external auditor.
Given the macroeconomic uncertainty in Russia, the Committee received a presentation from management summarising managements assessment of the carrying value of assets in Russia at year end and, after reviewing the assumptions, concluded that the impairment recommended by management was appropriate.
The Committee concluded that the goodwill carrying amounts shown in note 11 on pages 111 to 112 of the financial statements were appropriate and it approved the disclosures.
Minimum The Minimum Control Framework the Framework was developed in 2013 and implementation across the Group began Control in 2014.
The Frameworks objective is to identify the core risks which could impact the integrity of the financial statements Framework and provide consistent mitigating controls which all entities must adopt.
The controls are both automated and, where necessary, manual.
The status of the implementation of the Framework is reviewed by self-assessments which are completed by all operating entities and then reviewed and calibrated via on-site audits by Group Internal Audit.
During the year, the Committee was updated on the implementation of the Framework and in particular on core drivers and potential mitigating actions against the key gaps identified in the self-assessments.
The Committee reviewed the results and agreed the action plan to address gaps whilst the Framework is being fully embedded.
iPOWER The iPOWER strategy was developed to deliver the Customer 1st strategy in a consistent manner across the Group via the systems adoption of consistent global processes within two global systems platforms, SAP and CDK.
Inherent within the programme will be the progressive move towards a shared service environment in all markets.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the progress of the roll out including the completion of Singapore, Hong Kong and Peru and two further service centres in the UK.
The external auditor presented its findings on the UK Retail operations move to the shared service model with early 2015 seeing the completion of the move from circa 110 self-accounting dealerships to four finance centres and adapted its audit plan to review the systems implementation in other markets.
The Committee discussed the findings and agreed the parameters for the 2014 audit.
External auditor appointment The external auditor reports annually on its independence.
The Committee noted the update to the Code which states that Their quality control procedures are targeted at the threats to the external audit should be put out to tender every 10 years.
their independence and include partner reviews, partner rotation  LLP PwC have been the Groups and rigorous post audit review, and the findings are presented auditors for over 20 years and the current audit partner to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee discussed the completes his fifth audit this year and therefore the audit partner matters raised and confirmed that it is their view that the external is required to rotate in 2015. auditor remained independent and objective.
The Committee considered putting the audit to tender during the Non-audit services year: however, the Committee agreed that in light of the change The Committee reviews the policy for the provision of non-audit in Chief Executive in 2015 it would recommend that PwC be services each year.
The policy is designed to ensure that the re-appointed for a further year and that a new audit partner external auditors objectivity and independence are not would be appointed.
The Committee felt that this approach compromised by earning a disproportionate level of fees for would offer consistency for the new Chief Executive during his non-audit services or for performing work that by its nature, first year in office.
Following the introduction of the audit tendering may compromise the external auditors independence.
provisions of the Code, the Committee will consider annually The level and nature of non-audit fees are considered as part whether the audit should be put to tender.
of the year-end and half-year Audit Committee review to ensure The external auditor also meets with the Committee without that the policy is being adhered to.
The current policy is to the presence of management.
maintain a 1:0.5 audit to non-audit fee ratio.
The Committee is responsible for authorising the provision of non-audit services Effectiveness and Independence of the External Auditor by the external auditor and a breakdown of the fees can be In order to assess the effectiveness of the external auditor the found on page 99 in note 3.
Non-audit fees relate mainly to Committee reviews the scope and quality of the audit, the tax services.
independence of the external auditor throughout the year and the level of non-audit fees.
The Committee also considers Whistleblowing the results of PwCs client satisfaction survey which is completed The Group has a whistleblowing procedure in place which by key members of the management team.
The survey aims to allows staff to confidentially raise any concerns about assist the Committee in its review of the effectiveness of the audit business practices.
process and consists of a questionnaire in which respondents are asked a number of questions about the service received giving a score as to how important that aspect of the service is to them and a score as to whether the auditor has met expectations.
Respondents are also asked to appraise the partner and manager on each team and to give feedback on how the auditor can John Langston improve their service.
PwC present the feedback and proposed Audit Committee Chairman actions for further improvement to the Committee.
After discussion and due consideration the Committee confirmed that it is satisfied with the effectiveness of the external auditor.
54 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Nominations Committee Report Committee responsibilities Review the size, structure and composition of the Board: Evaluate the skills, knowledge and experience of the Board including diversity: Review the independence of the Non-Executive Directors: Review time served by the Non-Executive Directors: Review time commitment required of the Non-Executive Directors: Recommend the election or re-election of Directors at the Annual General Meeting: and Review policy on multiple board appointments.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER During the year the Committee focused on Board composition and succession planning.
The report below sets out how the Committee dealt with these issues along with the routine business of the Committee.
Committee membership Board appointments Ken Hanna Chairman We added to the strength of the Board during the year with the appointment of Simon Borrows Coline McConville.
Coline brings to the Board a wealth of experience both from her Vicky Bindra roles at Clear Channel International Limited, LEK Partnership and McKinsey & Co and Alison Cooper her other non-executive positions which include TUI Travel where she was Chair of the John Langston Remuneration Committee for three years before its merger with TUI AG in December Coline McConville 2014.
Coline was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee upon Nigel Northridge appointment and her full biography can be found on page 43.
Till Vestring Non-Executive Director recruitment process the Non-Executive Directors were When vacancies arise it is the role of the Committee to prepare an appropriate appointed to the Committee in description of the role and the capabilities required and to identify suitable candidates.
The Committee also has a responsibility to ensure that when filling vacancies there Committee meetings is integrity in the appointment process, balancing the requirements of the business The Committee held two scheduled and expertise required with a fully transparent recruitment process.
Egon Zehnder were meetings during 2014 and an appointed to assist with the search for a new Non-Executive Director.
They prepared additional two ad hoc meetings.
a list of suitable candidates against a skill set agreed by the Committee.
The consultants were also required to include a diverse selection of candidates in line with the Groups diversity policy.
The Committee met with suitable candidates, some of whom met with the other Board The Committees terms of reference members as part of the interview process, and after due consideration the Committee can be found on the website recommended the appointment of Coline to the Board for approval.
com about us Group Chief Executive recruitment process governance The Nominations Committee led the recruitment process for a new Group Chief Executive.
To assist this search the Board appointed a sub-committee of the Nominations Committee, the Search Committee, to lead the recruitment process.
The Search Committee consisted of Ken Hanna, Simon Borrows, John Langston and Nigel Northridge and its remit was to: Prepare a description of the role and the specific criteria required for the role of Group Chief Executive: Appoint Inzito Partnership to assist in identifying potential candidates for the role: Meet with the external search consultants to evaluate the potential candidates: Agree a shortlist of candidates to be considered by the Nominations Committee.
The Nominations Committee met with the potential candidates and as a result of the interview process agreed that Stefan Bomhard was the preferred candidate and recommended to the Board that Stefan be appointed as the new Group Chief Executive.
The Inzito Partnership and Egon Zehnder do not have any connection with the Company other than as recruitment consultants.
com 55 Nominations Committee Report continued Succession planning the policy on multiple board appointments and confirmed A strong succession plan is key to the evaluation of the that the Directors had complied with the policy during attributes required of the Directors.
During the year the the year.
The Committee approved the appointment of Committee requested that all Directors complete a skills selfJohn McConnell as a non-executive director of UBM plc assessment to identify where the Board can be strengthened in January 2014.
Further details of additional directorships and what skills gaps may arise when the Non-Executive Directors held by the Executive Directors can be found on page 42. complete their terms.
The analysis will be discussed and reviewed Diversity policy by the Committee to assist with the scheduling of the progressive The Committee recognises the benefits of having a diverse refreshment of the Board over time and to ensure the Group has Board and sees increasing diversity at Board level as an essential the right structure, skills and diversity of experience in place for element in delivering the Groups strategy and objectives.
the effective management of the Groups strategy and creation The Company believes that a truly diverse Board will include of long-term shareholder value.
The survey will also identify any and make good use of differences in skills, regional and training and development needs of the Non-Executive Directors.
industry experience as well as background, race and gender.
These differences will be considered in determining optimum Composition of the Board and its Committees composition of the Board and when possible should be The Nominations Committee recommended to the Board several balanced appropriately.
All Board appointments are made changes to the membership of the committees.
As a result the on merit and in the context of the skills and experience Board approved the following: needed for the Board to be effective.
Vicky Bindra was appointed to the Audit Committee in July: Throughout the recruitment process of both the Group Coline McConville was appointed to the CR Committee Chief Executive and Non-Executive Directors, the Committee in November.
considered diversity in line with the statement above when selecting suitable candidates.
As a result of findings from the external Board evaluation carried out during the year, it was also agreed that all Non-Executive Directors should become members of the Nominations Committee.
The Board felt that this will further strengthen the Committees processes in regard to succession planning for the future composition of the Board.
In addition, at the beginning of the year it was agreed that Andr Lacroix would cease to be a member of the Committee and he stepped down in July 2014.
The new Group Chief Executive will not become a member of Ken Hanna the Nominations Committee when he joins the Group but will Chair of the Nominations Committee be able to attend Committee meetings upon invitation.
Vicky Bindra and Till Vestring both completed their initial three year term as Non-Executive Directors during the year.
The Committee evaluated their performance and commitment to the role and recommended that they be appointed for a further three year term subject to re-election by shareholders at the AGM.
Independence, time commitments, election and policy on multiple board appointments During the year the Committee reviewed: the independence of the Non-Executive Directors and recommended to the Board that it should determine that they remain independent in accordance with the Code: the time served by the Non-Executive Directors and confirmed that it was satisfied that all Directors had met or exceeded the time commitment required: the performance of each Director and concluded that each Director continues to be effective and demonstrate commitment.
The Committee recommended to the Board that each Director stand for election or re-election at the AGM: and 56 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corporate Responsibility Committee report Committees responsibilities Develop the Groups CR strategy and monitor external developments Review the Groups CR policy Monitor the Groups CR risk exposure Review and approve the CR report DEAR SHAREHOLDER During the year, the Committee reviewed its five core areas: communities, environment, customers, people and brand partners in line with the Groups Corporate Responsibility CR policy.
The Corporate Responsibility Report the CR Report on pages 38 to 41 provides a more detailed overview on the work carried out by the Group within these areas in 2014.
Regulations introduced in the UK last year required listed companies to report on their energy usage.
As such, CO data collection was also a focus for the Committee during 2 Committee membership the year and the robustness of the data collection processes was reviewed and Vicky Bindra Chairman assessed by the Committee.
Ken Hanna As 2014 is the second year of data collection, the Committee will begin to plan a Coline McConville Group-wide CO strategy to be rolled out across the business in 2015.
2 Andr Lacroix The Committee is responsible for approving the CR Report which last year contained Tony George additional disclosures such as the CO emissions as discussed above and further 2 Coline McConville was appointed disclosures on diversity throughout the Group.
As part of the Groups risk management in November 2014. processes embedded throughout the Group, environmental, social and governance risks are identified and mitigated appropriately.
The Groups risk management process Committee meetings and the principal risks facing the Group can be found on pages 35 to 37.
The Committee held three meetings Our People continued to be passionate about our CR mission to promote Mobility with during the year.
The activities of our employees across the Group within the communities in which they operate are truly inspiring.
The Committee was pleased to focus its attention on the continuing work of the Mother and Child Rehabilitation Centre MCRC in Ethiopia which was the charity of The Committees terms of reference the year for colleagues at the London head office for 2014.
MCRC has grown over the can be found on the website years to offer support, education and safety for children in Addis Ababa.
com about us governance Further examples of the work carried out at MCRC and the community work across the Group can be found in the CR Report and also on the website at www.
The Committee will continue to assess the CR programme and this will be a focus for early 2015 to enable the Group to build further on the progress made to date.
The full CR Report is set out on pages 38 to 41 and forms part of the Strategic Report.
Vicky Bindra Chair of the CR Committee www.
