04 82 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 83 04 Corporate governance report Introduction and compliance with How the Board operates being independent as they are the UK Corporate Governance Code Structure and role of the Board both directors of TFCPL and were New governance arrangements were The Board is structured to ensure nominated by, and represent, the adopted by the Company at the time effective management, control Principal Shareholder.
of the IPO to enable compliance with and direction of the Group, the requirements of the Code.
Prior providing entrepreneurial leadership, The Board is committed to the to the IPO the ICL Board, the Groups determining the Groups values highest standards of corporate previous governance company, was and standards and ensuring that governance and maintaining a committed to achieving high and its obligations to its shareholders sound framework for the control relevant standards of corporate and stakeholders are understood and management of the business.
governance and complied with many and met.
Upon Admission the Board formally The Board has an appropriate adopted a schedule of matters During the period since Admission to balance of an Independent Nonreserved for its decision and the date of this report, we have executive Chairman, four these include: complied with the provisions of the Independent Non-executive Code in full, save in relation to the Directors, two Non-executive Group strategy, structure period to 26 March 2014 during which Directors and two Executive and capital: time less than half the Board Directors.
The names and biographies excluding the Chairman were of these Directors can be found in the annual budget: Independent Non-executive Board of Directors section on pages Directors.
The Directors have a wide and financial reporting and controls was announced at Admission and our current range of financial, corporate, and shareholder communications: search for an additional Independent risk, policy-making and sector Non-executive Director was experience and knowledge, which system of internal control and completed on 27 March 2014 when enables the Board and its committees risk management: we announced the appointment of to discharge their duties and Baroness Sally Morgan, thus effecting responsibilities effectively.
major capital projects, contracts, compliance with provision B.
1.2 of the acquisitions or investments: and Code.
The Board took the view that The Board keeps its membership, and this initial non-compliance was that of its committees, under review, corporate governance.
justified, as it was important to select to ensure that an acceptable balance the right candidate for the position, is maintained and that the collective This schedule of matters reserved with the requisite skills, experience, skills and experience of its members will be reviewed on an annual basis independence and knowledge to continue to be refreshed.
It is and is available via our website complement the existing Board.
satisfied that all Directors have www.
The Board also sufficient time to devote to their roles delegates matters to Board The Code is published by the FRC and that undue reliance is not placed committees.
and can be found on the FRCs on any one individual.
Day-to-day management of the The Board determines whether business is delegated to the CEO and Non-executive Directors are the Executive Management Team, independent.
The Chairman satisfied whose performance is assessed by the independence test on his the Board.
Alan Bryce, Chris Cole, Ray King and Baroness Sally Morgan are all considered by the Board to be independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board does not regard Mike Kinski and Radu Gruescu as
