04 98 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 99 04 Nomination committee report Chairmans statement overseeing the Board performance I am pleased to present the Companys evaluation process: first Nomination Committee the Committee report for the year ended reviewing the time required from 31 March 2014, which covers the Non-executive Directors: and activities and achievements of the Committee since IPO and its aims for considering Directors conflicts 2015.
The Committees focus since of interests.
IPO has been on building a Board with the right balance of diversity, Diversity and approach to Ian Marchant knowledge and experience, whilst Board appointments Chairman also ensuring sufficient independence.
Board appointments are made on Nomination Committee merit and against objective criteria, Composition taking into account the benefits of Since its formation in November 2013, diversity on the Board, and regardless the Committee has consisted of Ian of gender, race, religion, age or Sally was appointed following an Marchant as Chairman, Chris Cole disability.
In identifying suitable Senior Independent Director, Alan candidates, the Committee may use external search managed by Korn Ferry.
As part of the recruitment Bryce and Ray King, with Baroness open advertising or the services of Sally Morgan becoming a Committee external advisers, and considers process candidates met with the Chairman, the Senior Independent member when she joined the Board candidates from a wide range of on 27 March 2014.
Mike Kinski, a backgrounds to ensure a Director, the CEO and Mike Kinski.
Nominee Director of the Principal comprehensive search.
Shareholder, may be invited to attend Radu Gruescu was appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director Committee meetings.
The Company The issue of diversity was discussed Secretary acts as Secretary to by the Board in March 2014 and on 7 February 2014, following nomination by notice in writing by the Committee.
a formal policy was adopted available on the Companys website the Principal Shareholder under the Relationship Agreement, in Responsibilities www.
com, following a The Committees responsibilities recommendation by the Committee.
accordance with the process explained in the Appointment and replacement include: The Board diversity policy reflects that the Board recognises the of Directors section of the Additional information for shareholders section considering and making benefits of diversity, including recommendations to the Board gender diversity, in all of its activities.
Radu Gruescu was a member of the ICL Board pre-IPO, in respect of appointments to the Board, the Board committees The appointments of four has significant knowledge of the business and was the choice and the chairmanship of the Independent Non-executive Directors Board committees: to the Board, prior to the formation of of the Board as a replacement to Damian Darragh upon his retirement.
the Committee, were made by the regularly reviewing the structure, Board using an independent external Neither open advertising nor an external search consultancy was used size and composition of the Board search consultancy, Korn Ferry, which and evaluating the balance of skills, has no other connection with the in relation to Radu Gruescus appointment, as the Committee knowledge, independence, Company.
Diversity was taken into experience and diversity on the account when constituting a Board considers that the Principal Shareholders contractual right under Board, making recommendations with varied backgrounds and to the Board on any changes experience prior to Admission.
the Relationship Agreement renders a search process inapplicable regarding regarded as necessary: Board diversity has since been enhanced by the appointment of such nominee appointments.
The same principle applied to the appointments considering succession planning Baroness Sally Morgan as an for Directors and other senior Independent Non-executive Director of Mike Kinski and Damian Darragh in March 2014, and the Board now as representatives of the Principal executives, taking into account the skills and expertise that will be has 11% female representation.
needed on the Board in the future: 04 100 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 101 04 Nomination committee report continued Before an appointment is made by changes to membership of Board were only formed during the year, a the Board, the Committee evaluates committees for recommendation formal evaluation has not been the balance of skills, knowledge, to the Board: and undertaken in the year under review.
independence and experience on the The Committee plans to undertake a Board and, in light of this evaluation, the following appointments: formal and rigorous evaluation in prepares a description of the role and autumn 2014, the results of which will capabilities required for a particular an additional Independent be reported in our 2015 annual appointment including, in the case of Non-executive Director, report.
The Non-executive Directors, non-executive appointments, an Baroness Sally Morgan: and led by the Senior Independent assessment of the time commitment Director, will be responsible for the expected.
As part of this process Radu Gruescu as a Principal Chairmans performance evaluation, candidates disclose all other time Shareholders nominee nontaking into account the views of the commitments and, on appointment, independent Non-executive Executive Directors.
undertake to inform the Board of Director, replacing Damian any changes.
Meetings The Committee has met once since The Board will continue to embrace The Committees aims for 2015 Admission and the members diversity, but has chosen not to set Board and senior executive attendance record is set out in the any measurable objectives for the succession planning: corporate governance report on time being due to the recent listing page 88. of the Company.
The Committee review of Board structure, will discuss and agree annually any size and composition: The Chairman of the Committee measurable objectives for achieving reports on the Committees diversity on the Board and review of leadership needs: proceedings at the following Board recommend them to the Board for meeting and, once approved, the adoption.
The Board aims to increase review of time required from minutes of each Committee meeting the proportion of women on the Non-executive Directors: are circulated to all members of the Board over the medium-term.
In Board, unless it would be addition to Board diversity, we review progress against the Board inappropriate to do so in the opinion believe in promoting diversity at all Diversity Policy and consider any of the Committee Chairman.
levels of the organisation and further measurable objectives including details of our workforce diversity are whether a target should Terms of reference set out on page 68. be set in relation to female The Committees terms of reference representation on the are reviewed annually by the Board : and The Committees activities Committee and then by the During the financial year, and since Board.
They are available on Board evaluation.
its formation on 1 November 2013, the Companys website.
the following key matters were The Board recognises the importance considered, and approved, by the Committee: of conducting an annual performance evaluation of the effectiveness of the the policy on Board diversity for Board, its committees, its Chairman and its individual Directors.
However, recommendation to the Board Board Diversity Policy : as the Board and the Committee
