04 80 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 81 04 Corporate governance report Good corporate governance is essential for every successful sustainable business and is seen as a key area of focus for the Infinis Group.
I believe that the Welcome to our first corporate business has a mindset of doing governance report, which emphasises what is right, which guides the importance of corporate business decisions.
governance at Infinis and explains how this functions for the benefit of Under my leadership the Board the Company and its shareholders.
manages, controls and directs the Group, and determines its values As a FTSE-250 listed company, Infinis and standards.
The Directors is subject to the UK Corporate constructively challenge remains relevant and focused on Governance Code the Code.
I am management, which, led by the achieving Infinis strategy and pleased to report, personally, on how CEO, is responsible for running the improving the business.
The Board the Codes principles relating to the business, driving performance and recognises the importance of keeping role and effectiveness of the Board value creation.
A boards composition our membership, and that of our have been applied.
is key to its effectiveness.
We believe committees, under review, to ensure our Board has the diversity and that an acceptable balance is The Companys current governance the mix of skills, experience, maintained and to ensure progressive arrangements have been in place independence and knowledge of the refreshing of the Board.
In the next since Infinis IPO in November 2013.
Company to enable us to discharge financial year the Board will review its The Board is committed to our responsibilities successfully.
effectiveness and put in place a maintaining the highest standards of Those Non-executive Directors, who comprehensive succession plan to corporate governance within the have no previous experience of the build on, and formalise, our Company and maintaining a sound sector in which the Company succession planning work to date.
framework for the control and operates, have spent a considerable management of the business, as we amount of time with the Executive Ian Marchant believe that good governance Directors and their teams familiarising Chairman underpins the success of a company themselves with the business and and creates and preserves building relationships.
shareholder value to the benefit of other stakeholders.
Good governance However, the Board will not stand is an essential feature of a well-run still.
At this early stage in our life as a company.
The Companys business public company, it is important that has a long embedded strong platform we continue to develop our Board of good governance, with many structures, processes and procedures aspects of the Code being complied to ensure that our governance
