04 90 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 91 04 Corporate governance report continued This is in accordance with the Since Admission, investor and analyst provisions of the Code, which provide conference calls have been held that the Board is responsible for following the release of the half year determining the nature and extent of results in November 2013 and the the significant risks it is willing to take interim management statement IMS in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board is kept The Board provides oversight to help regularly updated on shareholder ensure that the Group maintains views through monthly reporting of sound risk management and internal investor relation activities.
Representatives of the Company have met a number of shareholders A review of the Groups risk via investor conferences and after our management approach is further February IMS statement.
Our brokers discussed in the risk management regularly meet with the Board to section on pages 38-43.
Our provide their views on our market The Chairman maintains an open Investors views in relation to press releases in response to events The Board provides governance and remuneration are or routine reporting obligations.
management of each principal risk and investor feedback.
The Company relationship with the Groups major oversight to help is explained on pages 40-43. ensures it maintains contact with shareholders and offers them the sought ahead of the AGM and This is supported by the provision of summarised to the Board.
Chris Cole, information to shareholders on our new and existing shareholders opportunity to meet to discuss ensure that the Relations with shareholders through individual and group governance and corporate matters the Chairman of the Remuneration website, in particular the Investors Group maintains Committee, held discussions with section www.
All The Board gives communication with meetings and participation in directly and to ascertain their views.
shareholders high priority and takes relevant investor conferences.
All Directors have the opportunity to a number of key institutional information reported to the market sound risk investors and the Principal via a regulatory information service a proactive approach in the attend scheduled meetings with management understanding of shareholder The Chairman ensures that shareholder major shareholders and are expected Shareholder on the Companys draft also appears as soon as practicable remuneration policy, ahead of its on our website through a direct link.
Regular dialogue with the views are discussed at Board to attend meetings if requested by and internal Principal Shareholder was maintained meetings and that communication major shareholders.
The Senior presentation at the First AGM.
We will use the AGM to communicate This corporate governance report by the Infinis Holdings group during with shareholders and other Independent Director attends its time as a private company.
At each sufficient meetings with a range of with private and institutional was approved by the Board on major shareholders to listen to their shareholders and welcome 18 June 2014. preparing for IPO, the Chairman, CEO meeting the Board receives an and the CFO met with and briefed update on presentations to investors views in order to help develop a participation.
A presentation will be balanced understanding of the issues given to shareholders at the AGM by Samantha Calder potential investors about the Groups and any communication from operations and prospects.
This shareholders to ensure that all and concerns of major shareholders.
the CEO and all Directors will be Group Company Secretary No information is shared which is not available to answer questions both 18 June 2014 involved one-to-one and group Directors have an understanding of meetings, conference calls and visits their views.
The views of the Principal available to shareholders generally.
formally at the meeting and informally afterwards.
Since Admission the Shareholder are expressed through Company has continued a dialogue its Nominee Directors.
shareholders will vote on separate resolutions on substantially separate with shareholders, including the Principal Shareholder and other issues via a show of hands, with the results being announced to the major shareholders, to gain an understanding of their views in market and displayed on our website at the conclusion of the AGM.
Formal communication channels, other than the AGM, with shareholders are also used, including the annual report and accounts and regulatory news announcements and
