04 92 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 93 04 Audit committee report Chairmans statement Role of the Audit Committee I am pleased to report on the activities The Audit Committee operates within of the Audit Committee the the terms of reference set by the Committee in the Companys first Board and in accordance with the year of listing on the London Code and FRC guidance.
The main duties are to: Since my appointment as Chairman of the Committee on 1 November review the Groups financial 2013, my fellow Committee members statements and the Ray King and I have met formally on two appropriateness of the underlying Chairman occasions.
We have worked with the accounting policies, judgments Audit Committee Management Team and the external and estimates: auditor KPMG LLP to ensure that we quickly became familiar with the monitor the effectiveness of the key areas of financial reporting and Groups system of internal controls, internal control and risk management.
including financial controls and Work carried out by the former All participants have made valuable those related to the risk of fraud: Audit Committee before the IPO contributions to these early meetings: In the period up to the IPO, as I thank them for this and look forward assess the Groups policies and explained in the corporate to building on this good foundation in procedures regarding bribery and governance report on page 82, the the coming year.
whistle-blowing: former audit committee of the ICL Board supervised financial reporting I am joined on the Committee by review the Groups key business and internal controls of the Group.
The composition of the former three other independent Nonrisks prior to their consideration executive Directors, Chris Cole, by the Board: committee is set out on page 88.
The former committee met twice Alan Bryce and Baroness Sally Morgan.
Radu Gruescu, a Nominee monitor the scope, resources and last year, on 4 June 2013 and 6 September 2013, to review the Director of the Principal Shareholder, effectiveness of internal audit: and is invited to attend Committee financial statements of the Infinis Holdings group for the year ended meetings.
The Company Secretary oversee the relationship with the acts as Secretary to the Committee.
external auditor, including: 31 March 2013 and quarter ended 30 June 2013, respectively, the latter As Chairman I have recent and relevant financial experience through terms of engagement: being prepared for the Groups Prospectus issued for the purpose my past roles as a former CEO and CFO.
Invitations to attend meetings independence, objectivity of the IPO Infinis Holdings being the former holding company of the are extended to the external auditor, and effectiveness: the Group Chairman and other Infinis group.
Directors, the Group Financial remuneration: Controller, the internal auditor and The IPO As part of the IPO process the new the Company Secretary.
Regular applying the Group policy private meetings of the Committee in respect of non-audit Infinis Energy plc Board was responsible for confirming that Infinis are held with both the external services: and auditor and the internal auditor had procedures in place which met the requirements of the Financial without management being present.
making recommendations to I also have private meetings with the the Board on the appointment, Position and Prospects FPP guidance issued by the ICAEW for external auditor and internal auditor.
reappointment or removal of the external auditor, before the purposes of listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The FPP comprised The Committee met for the first time being put to shareholders in on 20 February 2014 as described general meeting.
a self-evaluation by Infinis of the internal controls which allow the below.
We also met on 16 June 2014, primarily to consider the annual Directors to discharge their responsibility to have established report and accounts.
There was full attendance at both meetings.
procedures that provide a reasonable 04 94 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 95 04 Audit committee report continued impairment review was also a focus items identified as one-off, to ensure lead partner is due to rotate off basis for them to make proper future internal audit workplans: The Committee confirms that it judgments on an ongoing basis as to considers the annual report and of the external auditors, and they too that they merited disclosure as the audit.
KPMG LLP has been the have reported to the Committee.
exceptional, and concluded that auditor of the Infinis Holdings Group the financial position and prospects accounting policies for the accounts as a whole is fair, of the applicant and its group.
2013 14 accounts: balanced and understandable and The Committee questioned EBITDA before operating exceptional since its formation in 2006.
The audit management regarding the costs and adjusted net income have has not previously been put to provides the information necessary The report was reviewed by KPMG KPMG LLPs engagement terms for shareholders to assess the judgments made and concluded that been fairly stated.
tender and there are no contractual intangible assets were not impaired obligations restricting the LLP as accounting advisors.
It and fees: Groups business model, strategy covered high level reporting, and performance.
and approved the disclosures in the External audit Committees recommendation of financial statements.
In evaluating external auditor an external auditor.
forecasting and budgeting, KPMG LLPs confirmation management reporting, significant of independence: The Committee reviewed all effectiveness, the Committee, at their Presentation of underlying profit meeting on 16 June 2014, discussed During the year Infinis incurred transactions, potential financial significant issues concerning the exposure and risk, strategic projects KPMG LLPs audit plan and financial statements and considers During the year ended 31 March 2014, performance with both management significant fees to KPMG LLP with Infinis undertook two significant and the external auditor using an respect to the provision of non-audit and initiatives, financial accounting areas of key audit risk: that the key areas of financial and reporting, and the IT judgment are as follows: transactions which resulted in objective checklist which included: services.
Total fees incurred were material one-off exceptional costs 4.7 million of which 0.5 million environment.
The report summarised policies designed to ensure auditor the internal controls which provide independence in relation to goodwill and intangibles the IPO and the refinancing of the quality of the audit plan were for the provision of audit ten operational wind facilities.
outlined at the start of the audit: services, and 4.2 million for noncomfort over accounting risks non-audit work carried out by the impairment: and validity, valuation, completeness, auditor and controls over In order to provide a balanced audit services.
Fees for non-audit view of underlying performance, execution against that plan: services included 4.1 million for the cut-off and disclosure.
No material recruitment of former KPMG LLP presentation of underlying profit.
staff: and these exceptional costs have provision of transaction services been separately disclosed, and the quality of the reporting of key relating to the Listing of the Group, The Committees approach to Infinis published its Prospectus for audit tendering.
assessing these key areas of financial non-GAAP measures included issues and risks, and the which were performed by teams in the financial statements which appropriateness of work independent from the audit team.
the IPO on 4 November 2013, and the judgment is explained below and, interim results of the Group for the six Following the year end, the where applicable, in the auditors exclude their impact.
undertaken to address them: The Audit Committee has concluded that the provision of these services months to 30 September 2013 were Committee met on 16 June 2014, report on page 129. published on 29 November 2013. primarily to consider the annual The Company considers EBITDA to performance during both formal did not compromise the be the Groups main profit indicator.
Committee meetings and regular independence of KPMG LLP as For both of these reports, the Audit report and accounts, the key financial Key areas of financial judgment Committees duty to review the judgments therein, the auditors Goodwill and intangibles impairment This measure has been presented on informal meetings with the external auditor of the Group.
an adjusted basis in the financial Committee Chair: Excluding the impact of the provision financial statements and significant report and auditor effectiveness.
Infinis has goodwill of 150 million reporting judgments was satisfied by and intangible assets of 333 million statements, removing the impact of of these transaction services, fees for the one-off refinancing and IPO the auditors own independence non-audit services were less than 0.1 the Board as a whole.
Both reports The process to ensure that the at 31 March 2014.
These assets are are available on the Companys Committee, and then the Board, are assessed annually for any impairment.
related operating costs and called assessment: and million and the Audit Committee is EBITDA before operating satisfied that the provision of these website at www.
satisfied with the overall fairness, The assessment requires balance and clarity of the annual considerable judgment, taking exceptional items.
management feedback arising services was conducted by teams account of future operational and from the audit.
independent from the audit team Work carried out by the new Audit report and accounts has been Committee since the IPO underpinned by: financial plans.
Key assumptions A further KPI, adjusted net income, and did not compromise the include landfill gas volumes, wind represents the result of the The Committee has, taking these independence of the external auditor.
At its first meeting on 20 February 2014 the Audit detailed guidance issued to capacity and yield, flow rate of water, Statement of Comprehensive matters into account, satisfied itself growth rates, power price and Income before the impact of with the effectiveness of the external Following Listing, the Committee Committee considered: contributors at operational level: appropriate selection of cash amortisation and impairment auditor and has recommended to the implemented an Auditor generating units and discount rate.
of intangible fixed assets, total Board that KPMG LLP be reappointed Independence policy, under which the Committees terms a verification process dealing of reference: with the factual content of the exceptional items and tax thereon.
as external auditor to the Company at the Committee is able to satisfy itself Forecast plans used in the the AGM.
that there are no factors which may reports: and key business risks: impairment models were approved The Board believes that these impinge on the independence and by the Board.
The Committee non-GAAP measures assist the Following current draft EU and UK objectivity of the external audit comprehensive reviews undertaken internal audit charter, 2013 14 at different levels in the Group, received a detailed report on the reader of the financial statements competition commission decisions on process.
The policy restricts outcome of the impairment review in assessing the underlying audit tendering, Infinis intends to employment of former employees of internal audit coverage and the including the Directors and senior effectiveness of internal controls: management that aim to ensure performed including the key performance of the Group.
tender its audit in the medium-term, the external auditor and the provision assumptions and sensitivities.
The The Committee reviewed the possibly in 2016 when the current of non-audit related services.
04 96 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 97 04 Audit committee report continued The policy separates non-audit into the issues raised.
Internal audit two distinct categories those that follows up on the implementation of are prohibited and those that may be recommendations and reports permitted.
Prohibited services include progress to senior management and a number of areas where it is the Committee.
The Committee inappropriate for the auditor to reviews the findings of the internal perform services such as preparing audits completed during the year and accounting records, carrying out has reviewed the totality of work internal audit work upon which the performed by internal audit both external auditor may place reliance in-house and outsourced and and performing management concluded that sufficient audit functions.
For permitted non-audit coverage had been obtained.
services, delegated authorities are in place to ensure the expenditure on The Committee has agreed to non-audit fees does not compromise engage Grant Thornton LLP to auditor objectivity and independence.
provide internal audit coverage in 2014 15.
The engagement partner will The policy will be reviewed when the attend Audit Committee meetings by new EU controls come into force.
invitation and the Group Financial Fees paid to KPMG LLP for both audit Controller will provide ongoing and non-audit services are disclosed contact and supervision.
The in note 6 in the accounts.
Committee believes this will provide access to a better range of skills and Internal Audit more flexible resourcing than is The Committee has responsibility for available internally.
monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function and for appointing and discharging the persons responsible for this area.
Internal Audit plan and undertake audits of the business in a systematic way, in accordance with the plan agreed with the Committee, to ensure that the overall control environment within the business is appropriate, effective and complies with the Groups controls and procedures.
Internal audit reports include recommendations to improve internal controls together with agreed management action plans to resolve
