GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT OBJECTIVE To be responsible for corporate reporting, risk management and internal control procedures, and for maintaining the relationship with the Companys external auditor.
COMMITTEE COMPOSITION The membership of the Committee is set out on pages 70 and71.
TheCommittee met three times during the year to 31December 2014 and all meetings were fully attended by themembers apart from one meeting missed by Cindy Rose due to a long-standing business commitment.
It meets as appropriate with the Executive Directors and management, aswell as privately with both the external and internal auditors.
During the year the Committee received sufficient, reliable and timely information from the senior managers to enable it to fulfil CHAIRMAN its duties.
Dr Brendan ONeill OTHER MEMBERS GOVERNANCE The Committees Chairman, Dr Brendan ONeill, is a qualified John Davis, Cindy Rose, Gareth Bullock Management Accountant and has extensive experience of SECRETARY Audit Committee procedures.
John Davis is a qualified Rupert Hopley Chartered Accountant and until November 2010 was the ChiefFinancial Officer of Yell Group plc renamed Hibu plc inJuly 2012.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee The meetings of the Committee are structured to investigate the Committee for the financial year ended thekey accounting, audit and risk issues that are relevant to 31 December 2014.
One of the core requirements of the theGroup.
The varied experiences of its members assist in UK Corporate Governance Code the Code is for the providing a challenging environment in which these issues are Annual Report and Accounts to provide a fair, balanced discussed.
The Group Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit and understandable assessment of the Groups financial and Head of Group Tax attend all or part of its proceedings reporting, internal control policies, and procedures for inorder to provide information to, and be questioned by, the the identification, assessment and reporting of risk and Committee.
The composition of the Committee was reviewed during the year and the Board and Committee are satisfied that these remain effective.
The Committee devotes thatit has the expertise and resource to fulfil its responsibilities significant time to each of these matters.
effectively, including those relating to risk and control.
The Committee acknowledges that the Code was revised in September 2014 and is applicable to accounting DUTIES periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
The The Committees terms of reference are available on the Committees terms of reference were revised in February Companys website.
The Committees terms of reference allow 2015 to take account of the changes.
We will set out our it to obtain independent external advice at the Companys compliance with the revised Code in next years report.
No such advice was obtained during 2014.
The Committee is responsible for: The Committees agenda for 2014 has included the usual review of our financial results and controls, our business reviewing the content of the Annual Report and Financial operations and their management of risk.
Further details Statements and advising the Board on whether, taken as a are included in this report.
The Board considers that whole, it isfair, balanced and understandable and provides the Committees members have broad commercial the information necessary for shareholders to assess the knowledge and a suitable mix of business and financial Companys performance, business model and strategy: experience.
The existing experience of John Davis, monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements Cindy Rose and myself was supplemented in 2014 and any formal announcements relating to the Groups by the addition of Gareth Bullock to the Committee.
performance: He has broad experience, as detailed on page 71.
DR BRENDAN ONEILL CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE www.
com 86 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process reviewing the Groups system of controls and its and evaluating the external auditor: effectiveness.
In particular, it approves the annual Internal making recommendations to the Board in relation to the Audit plan and reviews the work done by Internal Audit appointment, reappointment and remuneration of the andactions which are agreed following the work: external auditor: approving the decision to continue with an outsourced ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Group Internal Audit function, and overseeing the reappointment and the external auditor is maintained, including setting ofKPMG LLP in this role: policyfor and reviewing non-audit related services and fees: reviewing the Groups systems to identify and manage annually reviewing the Groups system of internal controls risks including regular consultation with the Head of and the process for identifying, evaluating and managing the InternalAuditand in particular the operation of the significant risks faced by the Group.
These responsibilities GroupsRiskCommittee : are principally carried out through the Risk Committee reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups tax policies whoseactivities are overseen by the Chairman of the Audit andtax risks: and Committee on behalf of the Board: reviewing post-acquisition reports on integration and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit performance of significant recent acquisitions compared function and for approving, upon the recommendation of toplans.
theGroup Chief Executive, the appointment and termination FINANCIAL REPORTING AND SIGNIFICANT of the head of that function: and JUDGEMENT AREAS monitoring the Groups whistleblowing procedures to ensure In assessing the appropriateness of the financial statements, that appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to the Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies be able to raise in confidence matters of possible impropriety, have been adopted and whether management have made with suitable subsequent follow-up action.
The Committee reviews accounting papers prepared by management which provide ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR details on the main financial reporting judgements.
The During 2014, the Committee fulfilled its duties under its terms Committee also reviews reports by the external auditor on the ofreference and discharged its responsibilities primarily by: full year and half-yearly results which highlight any issues with respect to the work undertaken on the audit.
During the year reviewing the Groups draft full year and half-yearly results end process, the Committee concentrated on the following statements prior to Board approval and reviewing the significant judgement areas: external auditors detailed reports thereon, in particular reviewing the opinions of management and the auditor Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets: inrelation to the carrying values of the Groups assets: The Committee considered whether the carrying value of reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups goodwill and intangible assets held by the Group should be accountingpolicies: impaired.
The judgement in relation to impairment largely reviewing the impact on the Groups financial statements relates to the assumptions underlying the calculation of the ofmatters such as the adoption of new or amended IFRSs: value in use of the cash-generating units being tested for recommending to the full Board, which adopted the impairment.
This involves considering whether the five year recommendation, the reappointment of Deloitte LLP operating profit forecasts produced by management are astheGroups external auditor: achievable, the overall macro-economic assumptions which reviewing and recommending to the Board the audit fee underlie thevaluation process and the discount rates used.
andreviewing non-audit fees payable to the Groups The Committee principally addressed this matter using externalauditor: reports received from management outlining the headroom reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the on theimpairment testing.
Groups financial statements, which included key areas ofscope of work, key risks on the financial statements, confirmation of auditor independence and the proposed audit fee, and approving the terms of engagement for theaudit: www.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 87 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Recoverability of long-term receivables: To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external auditor, the Committee reviewed: The Committee considered whether the long-term receivables held by the Group were recoverable.
As the external auditors plan for the current year, noting the described in Principal Risk Factors on pages 62 to 65, the roleof the senior statutory audit partner, who signs the audit Group has a small number of long-term external loans where report and who, in accordance with professional rules, has the recoverability of the capital and interest payments is not held office for more than five years, and any changes dependent on the financial success of those external parties inthe key audit staff: over the coming years.
Since the majority of the repayment the arrangements for day-to-day management of the terms are over a long period of time, assessing the future auditrelationship: recoverability of the long-term receivables involves a report from the external auditor describing their judgement.
The Committee addressed this matter by arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts challenging management on their assumptions and then ofinterest: and requesting reports on the receivables where they felt further the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the explanation was required.
external auditor, in addition to its approval of the provision ofnon-audit services by the external auditor that exceed Accounting for acquisitions: thepre-approval threshold.
The Committee notes that there is judgement involved in To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, identifying and valuing the consideration and the assets theCommittee reviewed: acquired in a business combination or in the acquisition of businesses trade and assets.
The Committee addressed this the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors matter by challenging management on their assumptions and independence and objectivity: methodology supporting the fair value of intangible and net the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan assets acquired for each significant acquisition in the year.
andany variations from the plan: the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in their EXTERNAL AUDITOR handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and The Committee is also responsible for the development, the content of the external auditors reporting on implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on internalcontrol.
The policy assigns oversight responsibility for monitoring the independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements to the Committee, and day-to-day responsibility to the Group Finance Director.
It states that the external auditor is jointly responsible to the Board and the Committee and that the Committee is the primary contact.
Thepolicy also sets out the categories of non-audit services which the external auditor will and will not be allowed to provideto the Group, subject to fide minimis levels.
com 88 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Following the above, the Committee has recommended to the POLICY ON NON-AUDIT SERVICES Board that Deloitte LLP is reappointed as the Groups external PROVIDED BY THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR auditor at the 2015 AGM.
Deloitte LLP has been the Groups PERMITTED NON-AUDIT SERVICES, SUBJECT external auditor since 2004 when the last external audit tender TO APPROVAL UNDER THE POLICY was carried out.
The Committee considers that the relationship Acquisition or disposal advice and support with the external auditor is working well and remains satisfied Financial information systems design and implementation with its effectiveness.
The external auditor is required to rotate Appraisal or valuation services the senior statutory audit partner responsible for the Group Actuarial services andParent Company audits every five years.
The current Internal Audit outsourcing services which are restricted seniorstatutory audit partner is Anthony Morris.
There are no totheprovision of specialist resources where the external contractual obligations restricting the Groups choice of external audit team will not place reliance on their own work auditor.
The Committee has reviewed the requirements of the Tax compliance, tax planning and tax advisory work, Code andthe non-binding suggested transitional arrangements following an appropriate tender process: subject to in theFinancial Reporting Council guidance relating to the new Committee Chairman pre-approval for significant contracts provision for FTSE 350 companies to put the external audit and annual review of overall amounts contract out to tender at least every 10 years.
The Committee Expatriate tax work, subject to Group HR approval and has concluded that its current intention is to conduct a Committee Chairman pre-approval for significant contracts re-tender process in 2016, but will review whether to initiate and annual review of overall amounts are-tender process in 2015 if it feels it is necessary.
Other assurance services no pre-approval is required where it is in the normal course of the auditors work to The Group has in place a policy for the provision of non-audit perform such activities services by the external auditor.
This policy provides that the firms services may only be provided where auditor objectivity PROHIBITED NON-AUDIT SERVICES and independence may be securely safeguarded and where Bookkeeping or other services related to accounting the fees payable either in respect of the assigned work or recordsor financial statements overall in any year do not exceed the amount of fees payable in Consultancy services related to the implementation respect of its audit work.
The Committee considers that certain ofmanagement information systems non-audit services should be provided by the external auditor Appraisal or valuation services are prohibited where given its existing knowledge of the business and is therefore significant subjectivity is involved as the auditor may themost efficient and effective way for non-audit services to havetoaudit their own work becarried out.
The fees paid to the external auditor for both Legal services if these are related to significant audit and non-audit services can be found in Note 8 to the Groupmatters Consolidated Financial Statements.
Tax services on a contingent fee basis Non-audit services, other than audit-related services, provided Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by by the external auditor during 2014 related to Corporate DR BRENDAN ONEILL Finance services with respect to the listing of the new UKCHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE domiciled ultimate Parent Company.
All of these services 12 February 2015 werebelow the Groups pre-approval threshold.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 89
