GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT THE BOARD Informa PLC is the ultimate holding company of the Group andis controlled by its Board of Directors.
On 30 May 2014, pursuant to a scheme of arrangement the Scheme under Article 125 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991, Informa PLC became the new parent holding company ofthe Informa Group of companies.
Prior to that date, the Company was not subject to the UK Companies Act 2006: however, the Board considered it appropriate to provide shareholder safeguards which were similar to those that applyto a UK registered company and those in place prior tothe effectiveness of the Scheme were consistent with the relevant provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER With the exception of Gareth Wright, the Directors were elected The Board recognises that it is accountable to or re-elected on 23 May 2014.
On the effective date of the shareholders for its standards of governance and is Scheme, the Company continued to have the same Board and therefore committed to the principles of corporate management team as Old Informa had immediately prior to the governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance effectiveness of the Scheme.
Code the Code published in September 2012.
The Board, chaired by Derek Mapp, is currently made up of two An amended version of the Code was issued in Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors.
Their September 2014 which is applicable to accounting biographies are set out on pages 70 and 71.
The Board was periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014: the delighted to appoint Gareth Wright as Group Finance Director Company will report on its compliance with the 2014 on 9 July 2014.
Currently, two out of the nine Board members version of the Code in its 2015 Annual Report and 22% are female.
As a company listed on the The Boards main roles are to create value for shareholders, to London Stock Exchange, Informa is subject to the provide entrepreneurial leadership for the Group, to approve the Listing Rules of the FCA and seeks to comply with Groups strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary the provisions of the Code and relevant institutional financial and human resources are made available to enable shareholder guidelines.
those objectives to be met.
The Board also reviews the risk The Board is pleased to report that Informa has management and internal control systems on an ongoing basis.
complied with all of the provisions of the Code during The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, 2014 and up to the date of this document.
This report through the Chairman, on all governance matters and all describes how Informa has applied the main provisions Directors have access to his advice and services.
Together, this report, the Audit Committee Report, the Nomination Committee Report and the Remuneration Report on pages 90 to 107 explain how Informa has applied the principles and supporting principles of good governance set out in the Code.
In accordance with the Code, the Audit Committee has provided assurance to the Board that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and all the matters that have been brought to the attention of the Board during the year have been reflected in the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
com 78 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD THE ROLES OF THE CHAIRMAN, GROUP CHIEF A schedule which sets out the matters reserved for the Boards EXECUTIVE AND SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the approval is reviewed annually with the last review conducted in Board, the Group Chief Executive and the Senior Independent February 2015.
The specific responsibilities reserved for the Director comply with the guidance from the UK Institute of Board include, but are not limited to: Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA and as responsibility for the overall management of the Group: suchare clearly defined.
These are set out in writing, have approving the Groups long-term objectives and beenapproved by the Board and are available on the commercialstrategy: Companys website.
approving the Groups annual operating and capital As Chairman, Derek Mapp leads the Board and is responsible expenditure budgets: for setting its tone and agenda and ensuring its effectiveness.
reviewing operational and financial performance: He is also responsible for ensuring that Directors receive approving major acquisitions, disposals and capital projects: reviewing the Groups systems of internal control and accurate, timely and clear information and for effective communication with shareholders.
He promotes a culture of riskmanagement: openness and debate to facilitate the effective contribution of reviewing the environmental, health and safety policies Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between oftheGroup: approving appointments to, and removals from, the Board theExecutive andNon-Executive Directors.
He also acts on the results of the Board performance evaluation by leading on the and of the Company Secretary: implementation of any required changes to the Board and its approving policies relating to Directors remuneration: and Committees, including the recognition of the strengths and any reviewing the dividend policy and determining the amounts ofdividends.
perceived weaknesses of the Board, and, where appropriate, proposes new members be appointed to the Board or The Board has delegated the following activities to the proposes the resignation of Directors.
The Chairman holds Executive Directors: periodic meetings with Non-Executive Directors without the Executives present.
the development and recommendation of strategic plans forconsideration by the Board that reflect the longer-term Stephen A. Carter was appointed Group Chief Executive on objectives and priorities established by the Board: 1January 2014, having previously been CEO-Designate from implementation of the strategies and policies of the Group 1September 2013, and he has the responsibility of running asdetermined by the Board: theCompany.
As Group Chief Executive, Stephen has direct monitoring the operating and financial results against charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable plansand budgets: to the Board for its operational and financial performance.
He monitoring the performance of acquisitions and investments isprimarily responsible for implementation of the Companys against plans and objectives: strategy, including ensuring the achievement of the Groups prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human budgets and optimising the Groups resources, and he also resources: and hasprimary responsibility for managing the Groups risk profile, developing and implementing risk management systems.
identifying and executing new business opportunities, and for management development and remuneration.
The Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board is available atwww.
Dr Pamela Kirby stood down as Senior Independent Director on 23 May 2014 and she was replaced in this role by Gareth Bullock.
Gareth is available to meet shareholders on request and to ensure that the Board is aware of any shareholder concerns not resolved through existing mechanisms for investor communication.
He acts as a sounding board for theChairman and, if and when appropriate, serves as an intermediary for the other Directors.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 79 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INDEPENDENCE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF THE BOARD The Board includes independent Non-Executive Directors AND ITS COMMITTEES whoconstructively challenge and help develop proposals on The Board utilises a formal and rigorous process, led by the Chairman, for the annual evaluation of the performance of strategy and bring strong, independent judgement, knowledge theBoard, its principal Committees and individual Directors.
and experience to the Boards deliberations.
The independent Directors are of sufficient calibre and number that their views On appointment, the Directors are made aware that their carry significant weight in the Boards decision-making performance will be subject to evaluation.
The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, meet at Directorsto be independent in character and judgement.
leastannually to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Thereis an agreed procedure in place for the Directors to obtain independent professional advice, at the Groups Following significant changes to the Board composition at the expense, should they consider it necessary to do so in order beginning of 2014, an external Board evaluation was conducted tocarry outtheir responsibilities.
The Directors contracts are towards the end of the year facilitated by Independent Board Review, a division of Independent Audit Limited.
Independent available for inspection at the registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at theAGM.
Audit Limited has no other connection with the Company.
Theevaluation, which was fully independent, was undertaken INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT by means of: On appointment, the Directors receive relevant information observation of a Board meeting: about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters a review of Board and Committee papers for the 12 month reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and period up to September 2014: and membership of the principal Board Committees, the Groups individual interviews with each Director, the Company corporate governance policies and procedures and the latest Secretary and several senior executives along with the financial information about the Group.
This is supplemented by external audit partner.
introductory meetings with key divisional and Group function senior executives who provide detailed information about the The results of the evaluation were presented in a report, which Company, the relevant markets, the business units and their was discussed with the Chairman and then presented to the trading.
Finally, on appointment and from time to time, the Board.
The report covered the topics of: Directors are reminded of their legal and other duties and Board composition and dynamics, both as a whole and obligations as a Director of a listed company.
onan individual basis: Throughout their period in office, the Directors are regularly the purpose of the Boards role in relation to strategy, risk, updated on the Groups business and the environment in which financial and operational performance, resourcing and it operates, by written briefings and by meetings with senior stakeholder focus: executives, who are invited to attend and present at Board succession planning: and meetings from time to time.
They are also updated on any the mechanics and quality ofBoard meetings.
changes to the legal and governance requirements of the The effectiveness of each principal Board Committee was Group and those which affect themselves as Directors and alsoassessed separately.
areable to obtain training, at the Groups expense, to ensure they are kept up to date on relevant new legislation and The evaluation report concluded that overall, following the changing commercial risks.
Board restructure, the Board was making clear progress andbecoming increasingly effective.
Certain key areas were Regular reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in identified as having scope for further development, although atimely manner in preparation for Board and Committee itwas acknowledged that most of these areas had already meetings.
These papers are supplemented by any information been identified by Informa for further consideration in the near specifically requested by the Directors from time to time.
The Board will monitor progress throughout 2015.
TheNon-Executive Directors receive monthly management reports from the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director which enable them to scrutinise the Groups and managements performance against agreed objectives.
com 80 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS RE-ELECTION frominstitutional shareholders.
Following meetings held The Articles provide for all Directors to be subject to annual withshareholders after the half-yearly and full year results re-election at the AGM.
The performance evaluation of the announcements, the Board is provided with feedback from Board concluded that each Director remains effective and theExecutive Directors, the Director of Investor Relations, committed to their role.
In addition, as a result of the evaluation, Corporate Communications and Brand, the Groups the Board is satisfied that each Non-Executive Director remains stockbrokers and its public relations advisers on investor independent, including John Davis who has served more than perceptions.
The Companys stockbrokers reports on the nine years on the Board.
With the exception of Gareth Wright, Group are also circulated toall Directors, as are monthly reports who will stand for election, all Directors will stand for re-election of significant changes inthe holdings of larger investors.
The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders to ask questions and to meet with the Directors.
The number of proxy votes for, RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS against or withheld in respect of each resolution is disclosed at The Company is committed to maintaining good the AGM and a separate resolution is proposed for each item.
communications with investors and has a full-time Director The Company aims to give as much notice of the AGM as ofInvestor Relations, Corporate Communications and possible and at least 21 clear days notice, as required by the Brand.
Derek Mapp as Chairman, Gareth Bullock asSenior Articles.
In practice the documents are sent to shareholders Independent Director and Chairman oftheRemuneration noless than 20 working days before the AGM.
Committee provide the Board with feedback on any issues raised with them by shareholders.
The Groups corporate website at www.
com provides awide range of information about the Group which is of interest Financial information is reported externally on a quarterly basis.
to both institutional and private investors.
This includes all TheGroup Chief Executive and Group Finance Director give announcements made by the Company to the FCA, as well as presentations on the half-yearly and full year results in face-tovideo recordings of the interim and annual presentations made face meetings with institutional investors, analysts and the to analysts, and details of the Groups businesses and sectors media, which are also accessible via webcast on www.
In 2014, presentations were held in London, Edinburgh, New York and Boston.
After the release of the Interim DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Management Statements in respect of the first and third The Articles include provisions covering Directors conflicts quarters, the Company holds conference calls with institutional ofinterest and allow the Board to authorise any matter that investors, analysts and the media.
would otherwise involve a Director breaching his duty to avoid Whilst it is no longer a requirement under the Listing Rules to conflicts of interest.
The Company has procedures in place to deal with a situation where a Director has a conflict of interest.
issue Interim Management Statements, it is the intention of the Board to issue trading updates in 2015 in order to keep investors As part of this process, the Board will endeavour to: fully appraised of the trading performance of the Company.
consider each conflict situation separately on its particularfacts: In addition to these presentations, the Executive Directors have frequent discussions with institutional shareholders on a range consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the Articles: of issues, including governance and strategy, affecting the keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations granted by Directors and the scope of any approvals given: and Groups performance.
In November 2014, an investor regularly review conflict authorisations.
presentation was held to update investors and analysts on theimplementation and progress of the Companys Growth In 2014, none of the Directors had any unauthorised conflicts Acceleration Plan.
Meetings are also held with the Groups ofinterests.
The Board acknowledges that Dr Brendan ONeill largest institutional shareholders on an individual basis following is aNon-Executive Director of Towers Watson Inc. and Towers the announcement of the Groups half-yearly and full year Watson are advisers to the Remuneration Committee.
results and on other occasions.
In addition, the Group responds to individual ad hoc requests for discussions www.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 81 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Risk assessment a risk assessment is embedded into INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT Following a comprehensive strategic review, a new operating theoperations of the Group and a risk register is submitted model was implemented during the financial year.
As detailed tothe EMT and the Board for approval.
Each business unit inthe Strategic Report, the Group is now structured as four considers the significant risks to its business and to the achievement of the proposed plan.
In doing so, each unit Divisions: Academic Publishing, Business Intelligence, Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & Networking.
Each considers risk in terms of probability of occurrence and Division isgiven operational autonomy, as far as possible, potential impact on performance, and mitigating actions, withinan internal control framework.
control effectiveness and management responsibility are identified to address these risks.
The responsibility for the day-to-day management of these Divisions rests with the Group Chief Executive, supported by The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups the Executive Management Team EMT.
During 2014, the system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, risk management and the Groups high EMT, which includes the CEO of each of the four Divisions, metweekly by call and monthly physically to consider the level internal control arrangements.
The Audit Committee implementation of Group strategies, plans and policies, monitor hasbeen charged by the Board with oversight of the above operational and financial performance, and manage risks.
mentioned controls for the period and they have considered thefollowing in determining the overall effectiveness of the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal Groups risks and associated control environment: control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is The Risk Committee, a sub-committee of the Audit designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Committee, reports on the effectiveness of risk management, achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement governance and compliance activity within the Group.
The concept of reasonable assurance recognises Committee comprises the Group Chief Executive and a thatthe cost of control procedures should not exceed the cross-section of senior officers and managers of the Group, and ischaired by the Group Finance Director.
Committee supports the Board in its consideration of The Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating currentand forward-looking material business risk and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
A programme of deep dive reviews of each of process was in place throughout 2014 and up to the date theprincipal risk factors of the Group is in place, with each ofapproval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, principal risk factor discussed and evaluated in detail at least andis in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance Internal once a year by the Risk Committee.
These principal risk Control: Guidance forDirectors on the Combined Code factors are discussed in more detail on pages 62 to 65.
The Audit Committee has approved a schedule of work to be undertaken by the Groups nominated external auditor during The key features of Informas internal control and risk the period and receives reports on any issues identified in management systems in relation to the financial reporting thecourse of their work, including internal control reports process include: oncontrol weaknesses.
Any identified issues are reported Business planning all business units produce and agree totheAudit Committee and are tracked until conclusion.
an annual business plan against which the performance of The Audit Committee has approved a schedule of work to the business is regularly monitored.
beundertaken by the Groups Internal Audit team during Financial analysis each business units operating theperiod and receives reports on any issues identified in profitability and capital expenditure are closely monitored.
respect of the Groups business processes and control Management incentives are tied to financial results.
These activities over the Groups key risk areas, including following results include explanations of variances between forecast up on the implementation of management action plans to and budgeted performance, and are reviewed in detail by address any identified control weaknesses and reporting executive management on a monthly basis.
Key financial anyoverdue actions to the Audit Committee.
information is reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
KPMG LLP is engaged to provide the Group with Internal Audit Group Authority Framework the framework provides services and act as Head of Internal Audit.
The Board confirms clear guidelines for all business units of the approval limits that no significant failings or weaknesses have been identified forcapital and operating expenditure, and other key from the reviews performed by Internal Audit.
com 82 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS BOARD MEETINGS AND COMMITTEES At each meeting the Board receives information regarding current trading, business unit performance, financing, potential acquisitions and investor relations analysis.
At certain times of the year the Board reviews anddiscusses budgets, capital expenditure, risks, financial statements and strategy.
The Board is also provided with updates, when appropriate, on aspects suchas changes inlegislation and the business environment, in addition to regular investor feedback.
Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of reference approved by, the Board, and all Board and Committee minutesare circulated as soon as possible after each meeting.
Thenumber of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings attended as a member by each Director during theyear are set out below: Audit Remuneration Nomination Scheduled Board Committee Committee Committee meetings of 8 meetings of 3 meetings of 5 meetings of 2 Derek Mapp 8 2 Stephen A. Carter 8 1 Gareth Wright 5 Gareth Bullock 7 3 2 Geoffrey Cooper 7 5 2 Pamela Kirby 2 2 John Davis 8 3 5 2 Dr Brendan ONeill 8 3 5 Cindy Rose 7 2 2 Helen Owers 8 5 1 Gareth Wright was appointed to the Board on 9 July 2014.
2 Pamela Kirby stepped down from the Board and Remuneration Committee with effect from 23 May 2014.
Separate reports from the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees can be found on pages 84 to 107.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by RUPERT HOPLEY COMPANY SECRETARY 12 February 2015 www.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 83
