GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT OBJECTIVE To ensure that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Boardand its Committees.
GOVERNANCE All the members of the Nomination Committee the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
DUTIES The Committees terms of reference are available on theCompanys website.
The Committees principal responsibilities include: reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board: CHAIRMAN giving full consideration to succession planning for Directors Derek Mapp and senior executives, taking into account the skills and experience needed on the Board in the future: OTHER MEMBERS identifying, and nominating for approval by the Board, Dr Brendan ONeill from 1 January 2015 candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: Gareth Bullock from 23 May 2014 evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, Cindy Rose from 23 May 2014 experience and diversity of the Board prior to any John Davis until 31 December 2014 appointment to the Board: Dr Pamela Kirby until 23 May 2014 keeping under review the leadership needs of the organisation, both Executive and Non-Executive: SECRETARY reviewing the results of the Board performance evaluation Rupert Hopley process that relate to the composition of the Board: and annually reviewing the time required from .
ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR During the year the Committee met twice to address changes to Board and Committee composition.
The resignation of AdamWalker as Group Finance Director at the end of 2013 resulted in a search for a successor which was conducted byJCA, an independent search consultancy.
Following a review of a number of candidates this Committee recommended to the Board that Gareth Wright was the most suitable candidate.
His appointment on 9 July 2014 brought about a smooth transition given his prior knowledge and experience within theGroup.
Dr Pamela Kirby stepped down from the Board and this Committee after nine years service on 23 May 2014 and herrole as Senior Independent Director was filled by Gareth Bullock.
Both Gareth Bullock and Cindy Rose joined the Committee in May.
com 84 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS At the 2015 AGM, John Davis will have served more than nine BOARD AND EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY years on the Board, having been elected at the 2006 AGM.
The Company operates a successful business based on Aspart of the annual review of the Board members and the aproven track record of equal opportunity and reward for independence of the Non-Executive Directors, the other performance.
Around 57% of our employees are women members of the Committee particularly reviewed his 3,798out of a total of 6,627 and they account for around engagement and participation at the Board and Committee 30%of the senior managers 17 out of a total of 56 within the meetings, and his relationship with the Executive Directors.
Further information on diversity Inthe light of his constructive but challenging engagement in within the Group can be found in the Corporate Responsibility those meetings, and taking into account the changes in the Report on page 69.
Executive Directors in 2014, the Committee determined that At Board level, we believe that the current representation, heis still independent, notwithstanding the length of his tenure.
asatthe date of this report, of two female Non-Executive So as the Company and the Board can continue to benefit Directors 22% is acceptable given the current size of the fromhis skills, experience, independence and knowledge, Board.
However, we remain committed to our targets around JohnDavis will seek re-election as a Director at the 2015 AGM.
the representation of women on the Board.
Our Board If re-elected, he will stand down from the Board at the 2016 composition and size are kept under constant review, so as to AGM.
It has also been agreed that he stand down from the ensure we have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, Nomination Committee with effect from 31 December 2014 diversity and knowledge of the Group within our independent andthat Dr Brendan ONeill join the Committee with effect .
ACTION PLAN FOR 2015 The Committee also reviewed its terms of reference and Continue to review succession planning for the Board discussed the composition and the mix of skills, knowledge, andforkey roles Group-wide experience and diversity of the Board.
Identify future talent pipeline Develop initiatives for Directors EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE Provide Group-wide exposure for Non-Executive Directors DIRECTOR SEARCHES The Committee uses the services of specialist search Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by consultants to seek suitable external candidates for DEREK MAPP appointment to the Board and its Committees.
The Committee CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE identifies the specific experience and skills that the Company 12 February 2015 islooking for and then works with the search consultants to identify suitable candidates who match those criteria.
External candidates, together with any internal candidates, are then interviewed by the Committee and the successful candidate is proposed by the Committee to the Board for approval.
During the year the Committee was supported by JCA in the Group Finance Director search and JCAis entirely independent of theCompany.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 85
