54 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 CONTINUED ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE AND STRATEGY Methodology We operate in over 50 locations with a combined workforce of approximately We quantify and report our organisational greenhouse gas emissions according 1,600 staff.
Due to our diversity of activities the Company recognises it has to ISO 14064-1:2006 and have utilised the UK Government 2013 Conversion some impacts affecting the local and global environment.
However, it should Factors for Company Reporting in order to calculate CO equivalent emissions 2 be noted that the satellite industry and our own business is low on the scale of from corresponding activity data.
We have also taken certain data used for carbon generators.
compliance with the CRC Energy efficiency Scheme.
Our environmental impacts include the use of natural resources, the In order to improve monitoring and management of our climate change consumption of energy and water, the production of a variety of waste, as well impact, we established a global environmental data programme during 2014 as staff and visitors who travel extensively.
in collaboration with an external organisation Carbon Credentials.
This has improved oversight around our energy consumption and increased the quality All energy, fuel and waste management are controlled by the Business and availability of performance information for decision-making.
This will Environment team which is based in London.
also allow us to set emissions reduction targets and monitor performance by location going forwards.
GREENHOUSE GAS GHG EMISSIONS This section has been prepared in accordance with our regulatory obligation to Reporting boundaries and limitations report greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to Section 7 of The Companies Act We consolidate our organisational boundary according to the operational 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
We are control approach and have adopted a materiality threshold of 10% for GHG reporting our greenhouse gas emissions from our global operations.
As a result, emissions from locations with less than 15 staff on-site have been reasonably estimated as immaterial and are thus excluded During the 2014 financial year, we emitted a total of 20,145 tCO e from fuel from our GHG disclosure.
Emissions for all significant sites have been disclosed, 2 combustion and operation of our facilities Scope 1 direct and electricity which includes Perth Australia, London UK, Burum The Netherlands, purchased for our own use Scope 2 indirect.
This is equal to 44.1 tCO e per Pamalu USA and Batam Indonesia.
2 Million Megabytes of IP over our BGAN Network.
We have also chosen to voluntarily report Scope 3 emissions arising from our business travel.
The GHG sources that constitute our operational boundary for the 2014 reporting period are: The table below shows our tCO e emissions for the years ended 31 December 2 2014 and 2013: Scope 1: Natural gas combustion within boilers, gasoil combustion within generators, road fuel combustion within vehicles, and fugitive refrigerants from air-conditioning equipment: Scope 2: Purchased electricity consumption for our own use: and tCO2e emissions 2014 2013 Scope 3: Business travel.
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Scope 1 1,198 1,396 Assumptions and Estimations Electricity, heat, steam and cooling In some cases, missing data has been estimated using either extrapolation purchased for our own use Scope 2 18,947 17,932 of available data from the reporting period or data from 2013 as a proxy.
Total Scope 1 and 2 20,145 19,327 Furthermore, due to an incomplete 2013 dataset, we have also restated last tCO e per million megabytes of IP 2 years emissions gures.
This allows us to make a more accurate performance over our BGAN Network 44.1 57.0 comparison between 2013 and 2014.
Other indirect emissions Scope 3 3,361 2,905 ENVIRONMENT IMPROVEMENT IN 2014 We regularly look for opportunities and initiatives to drive down consumption in the London ofce where the largest contingent of staff is based.
The projects As can be seen above, since 2013 our absolute emissions have increased by below summarise the work carried out in 2014.
This is principally due to the introduction of new satellite services and an expanded ground network, as well as an increase in the availability and quality 1.
Carbon reduction energy efficient controllers tted to main air handling of data from our international locations as a result of the implementation units which provide fresh and conditioned hot or cold air to the ofce.
of our global environmental data programme during 2014.
Modications to boilers and pipe work to improve efficiency.
Further works London Head Ofce location also increased due to the slight rise in electricity to improve operational savings have been implemented during 2014. consumption, compounded by a higher emission factor as a result of greater 3.
Stagger plant on off times.
This was enhanced during 2014 with the coal power supply to the UK grid in 2014. installation of high efficiency motors and soft start inverter controls to all main air conditioning plant, giving exibility to optimise daytime run conditions.
We have initiated a rolling programme to change GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS where practical.
This programme has continued with an increase in numbers being installed and savings being made.
Total emissions 2014 tCO e Emissions intensity tCO e 5.
Install movement sensors in common areas to switch lighting on off.
2 2 This has been further enhanced during 2014 with the addition of daylight Scope 1 sensors in key work areas.
Alterations to existing, obsolete, lighting control system to eliminate excessive Scope 3 57.0 on times.
This was ongoing during 2014 to optimise existing savings.
Extensive use of our Building Management System to efficiently control 44.1 the building operating times in terms of occupancy and temperature control.
Continuation of this strategy is providing savings.
Installation of adiabatic system to improve efficiency of air-cooled Scope 2 condensers.
Enhancements to how this is managed have enabled 18,947 additional efficiency benets.
2013 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 55 COMMERCIAL WASTE RULES GOVERNING DIRECTORS APPOINTMENTS In the London ofce and its major sites Inmarsat continues to be progressive Rules governing Directors appointments are provided on page 60 of the in its approach to waste management.
Recycling is managed locally in the Corporate Governance Report.
larger sites with the separation of plastics, paper and non-recyclable materials.
The 2015 plan is to develop a reporting mechanism to reect the volumes of DIRECTORS POWER recycled materials in the larger ofces.
Details of Directors powers are provided on pages 58 and 59 of the Corporate Governance Report.
In the head ofce in London which is the single largest ofce for the Group, we do not send any waste to landll and this policy has been in place since 2009.
DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS We separate our waste into three streams: recyclable, non-recyclable and A full list of the individuals who were Directors of the Company during the financial condential waste.
Condential waste is shredded and pulped and reused in year ended 31 December 2014 is set out below: paper products.
The non-recyclable material is incinerated and converted to electricity and all other waste is recycled.
In 2014 Inmarsats contractors Andrew Sukawaty, Rupert Pearce, Tony Bates, John Rennocks, Stephen Davidson, collected 57 tonnes of waste from the London head ofce site for processing.
Janice Obuchowski, Kathleen Flaherty, General C. Robert Kehler Rtd, Sir Bryan Carsberg, Abe Peled, Simon Bax.
Rtd Admiral James Ellis Jnr and Rick Medlock TRAVEL were Directors for part of 2014.
Inmarsat continues to voluntarily report its Scope 3 travel emissions.
Centralisation of the travel management activities has continued across Details of each Directors interests in the Companys ordinary shares and share the Group and our travel agencies supply the emission data.
awards held are set out in full on pages 81 and 82.
The Scope 3 emissions reported by our travel agencies and our internal travel Details of the Directors conicts of interest policy are provided on pages 58. team account for 60% of the Groups travel.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The articles of association can be amended by special resolution of the Details of principal risks and uncertainties are provided on pages 27 and 28. shareholders.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AUDITOR Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, Each of the Directors has confirmed that: including hedging policies and exposure of the entity to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash ow risk are given in notes 3 and 32 to the consolidated i so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which financial statements.
the Companys Auditor is unaware: and ii the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Director to make him herself aware of any relevant audit information and The Group continues to invest in new services and technology necessary to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
to support its activities through research and development programmes.
This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the POLITICAL DONATIONS provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
During the year, no political donations were made.
It remains the policy of the Company not to make political donations or incur political expenditure.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the Company and to However, the Directors recognise that occasions arise where it may be in the authorise the Board to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the best interests of shareholders for the Company to be able, if appropriate, to 2015 AGM.
participate in public debate and opinion-forming on matters which affect its business.
To avoid inadvertent infringement of the requirements of the 2015 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Companies Act 2006, shareholders are asked annually to give authority The Annual General Meeting will be held on 6 May 2015 at 10.00am at 99 City at the Annual General Meeting for the Company to make political donations Road, London EC1Y 1AX.
The Notice of Meeting which sets out the resolutions and to incur political expenditure.
to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM is enclosed with this Annual Report.
INTERESTS IN VOTING RIGHTS By order of the Board As at 5 March 2015, the Company had been notied, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following significant interests: ALISON HORROCKS FCIS EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND COMPANY SECRETARY Percentage of voting 5 March 2015 rights over ordinary shares of 0.0005 each Lansdowne Partners Limited 11.44% BlackRock Inc 6.71% Aberdeen Asset Managers 4.42% MassMutual Life Insurance Company 4.01% Artemis Investment Management 3.22% Note: Voting rights are based on the information we believe is a disclosable interest to the Company, adjusted for the issued share capital as at 5 March 2015.
56 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THE BOARD COMPOSITION Our Board comprises Directors drawn from a wide range of professional backgrounds.
All our Directors bring strong judgement to the Boards deliberations.
In 2014 and in early 2015 we have made great progress to appoint additional Non-Executive Directors who are becoming fully up to speed with how the Company operates and its business.
We took the decision to appoint these additional Directors while retaining the expertise of our existing Directors thus enabling us to have an orderly retirement process of longer-serving Board Directors over the coming years.
In 2014 we appointed Retired General C. Robert Kehler and in 2015 we have appointed Robert Ruijter and Dr Hamadoun Tour.
At the beginning of 2015, I also became Non-Executive Chairman.
We also welcomed Tony Bates as our Chief Financial officer in June 2014.
I have detailed later on in the report some changes in one of our Board Committees.
As at 5 March 2015, the composition of the Board is two Executive Directors, 10 Non-Executive Directors and a Non-Executive Chairman.
With the exception ANDREW SUKAWATY of Mr Bates and General Kehler, all Directors apart from those joining in 2015 CHAIRMAN served throughout the year.
The names of the Directors on our Board, their relevant skills and experience CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION are set out in their biographical details and can be found on pages 50 to 52.
Your Board manages the Inmarsat business in a transparent, open and honest manner.
We achieve this by maintaining high standards of corporate The composition of the Board and its various Committees is regularly reviewed governance.
The Board is ultimately responsible to shareholders for all our and evaluated so as to reect the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity of which activities: for delivering our strategy and financial performance, for efficiently gender is one component, experience and the ability of Directors to provide using our resources and for social, environmental and ethical matters.
sufficient time to full their Board responsibilities.
The Board approves the Groups governance framework with the Board In succession planning for the Board and within the Group, the Board takes committees contributing their specialist focus to key areas such as remuneration into account the need for diversity generally, and is in support of the principle policy, internal controls and risk management.
of encouraging women in the Company as noted in its existing policy.
The Board has not set express diversity quotas or measurable objectives for implementing Our governance framework includes the changes introduced by the updated its policy.
Although there is no specic percentage commitment for women on UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, the Large and Medium-sized the Board or in senior manager roles, it is the Board and managements intention Companies and Groups Accounts and Report Amendment Regulations that female talent, as one element of diversity, is encouraged within the business.
The Board is diverse in terms of the range of nationality and international experience of its members.
The Board currently has two female Non-Executive We also include a statement made by the Directors, on page 83, that Directors, representing, as a percentage, 15% of the full Board as at 5 March they consider the Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and 2015: this gure is reduced compared to the percentage in 2014 which was 22% understandable.
The processes including financial controls and reporting, and because of the increase in board size while we go through a transition period of risk management, which underpin and support our confidence in making this bringing on new Directors and the retirement of existing ones.
Across our business statement, are long-established and embedded into our business.
In addition, of approximately 1,600 employees, female employees represent approximately our Internal Audit Department reviewed the narrative sections of the Annual 30%, with 25% presence on the Executive Management Board and 18% on the Report.
In line with its terms of reference, a subset of the Disclosure Committee wider leadership team excluding contingency workers which is a group comprising also reviews the Annual Report to ensure it contains all necessary disclosures to generally direct reports to the Executive Management Board members.
The fairly present the Companys and the Groups financial condition and results of percentage of females on the Executive Management Board and wider leadership operations.
Our external auditors review the narrative sections of the Annual team represent the denition as set out in the UK Government BIS requirements.
Report to identify any material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our Board members receive drafts of the Annual Report in sufficient time to HOW THE BOARD OPERATES facilitate their review and input.
To ensure effective corporate governance, your Board has structured its governance framework as set out below.
As Chairman I am able to call on a broad and diverse range of skills and experience from all my Directors: the blend of experience, nationalities and range The Board has established Committees to assist it in exercising its authority.
of cultural experience within the Board is valuable to us as we full our duties to The permanent Committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration and manage the business.
Each Committee has Terms of Reference under which authority is delegated by the Board.
A copy can be found on our website at The information on the following pages will help you understand how your Board www.
Reports of the Committees can be found on pages 62 has run the Company, managed risks, monitored control, and how decisions have to 82. been taken.
ANDREW SUKAWATY CHAIRMAN 5 March 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 57 BOARD COMMITTEES CHAIRMAN ANDREW SUKAWATY Key objectives: Leadership, operation and governance of the Board Setting the agenda for the Board INMARSAT PLC BOARD 13 DIRECTORS: THE CHAIRMAN, TEN INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TWO EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Key objectives: Responsible for the overall conduct of the business Setting strategy AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE CHIEF EXECUTIVE 5 INDEPENDENT NON- 5 INDEPENDENT NON- 5 INDEPENDENT NONRUPERT PEARCE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND CHAIRMAN JOHN RENNOCKS STEPHEN DAVIDSON AS CHAIRMAN AS CHAIRMAN ANDREW SUKAWATY AS CHAIRMAN Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: Oversight and review of Oversight and review of Oversight and review Management of the business financial risk management, remuneration, bonus and of Board and senior Implementation of strategy audit and internal share plan issues management appointments and policy control issues and succession planning Read more on page 62 Read more on page 66 Read more on page 65 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD 12 MEMBERS MADE UP OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS, BUSINESS UNIT PRESIDENTS, GROUP FUNCTION HEADS.
CHAIRMAN: RUPERT PEARCE Key objectives: To focus on strategy, financial performance, succession planning, business growth, organisational development and support of group-wide policies 58 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED ROLE OF THE BOARD KEY ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Our Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Inmarsat Groups the Group business.
It is the primary decision-making body for all material matters affecting the Group.
It provides leadership and guidance, and sets our strategic direction.
CHAIRMAN ANDREW SUKAWATY Our Board is ultimately accountable to the shareholders for: The role of the Chairman is set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
the performance and proper conduct of the business: He is responsible for: being responsible for the long-term success of the Company, having regard for the interests of all stakeholders: and effective leadership, operation and governance of the Board: being responsible for ensuring the effectiveness and reporting on our system ensuring the effectiveness of the Board: of corporate governance.
setting the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions: and ensuring Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
Responsibility for implementing strategy within the Groups operations and for day-to-day management of the business is delegated to the Chief Executive In addition Mr Sukawaty also fulls other responsibilities including: officer who, as part of the Executive Management Board team, cascades this fullling a company representative role with various international responsibility through the Group.
A list of team members is provided on page 17. organisations and also with government departments for market access opportunities in key BRIC countries.
A formal schedule of matters specically reserved for decision or consideration by the Board as a whole has been agreed by the Directors.
This schedule covers areas such as: CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RUPERT PEARCE the Groups business strategy and long-term plans: major capital projects: The role of the Chief Executive is set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
investments: and He is responsible for: acquisitions and divestments.
the day-to-day management of Inmarsats operations and its The Board has an annual rolling plan of items for discussion which is reviewed financial results: formally at Board meetings and adapted regularly to ensure all matters reserved recommending the strategic objectives for the Inmarsat Group, to the Board, with other items as appropriate, are discussed.
There is an established for debate, challenge and approval by the Board: procedure for the review of the agenda in advance of each Board or Committee responsibility for ensuring we meet the milestones for our key meeting.
At each Board meeting there is a detailed report on current trading from programmes with a priority to target revenue growth and deliver the Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer and full papers are provided on enhanced returns to shareholders: and matters where the Board will be required to make a decision or give approval.
chairing the Executive Management Board.
Where appropriate, specic responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees or to committees convened for special purposes.
Mr Pearce is the Board sponsor for environmental and social governance, community investment, and other corporate social responsibility matters.
Specic annual items for review include an update on the Companys policies for compliance with the Bribery Act, and the US Foreign and Corrupt Practices SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Act FCPA requirements and health and safety.
As part of our commitment to JOHN RENNOCKS preventing bribery and establishing a culture that does not tolerate corruption wherever and in whatever form it may be encountered, we have a formal The Senior Independent Director is responsible for: Board-approved anti-corruption policy, which was updated as part of good practice in 2014.
We have appropriate procedures in place, in line with guidance acting as a sounding board for the Chairman: provided by the Ministry of Justice to ensure compliance with current legislation.
serving as an intermediary for the other Directors: A summary of our anti-bribery policy is included on our website.
reviewing the Chairmans performance with the Non-Executive Directors: being available to discuss issues or concerns from our shareholders where INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS they have been unable to resolve them through existing channels for Directors and Ofcers insurance cover has been established for all Directors investor communications: and and Ofcers to provide cover against their reasonable actions on behalf of convening regular meetings of the Non-Executive Directors.
In accordance with our articles of association and to the extent permitted by the laws of England and Wales, Directors, the Company Secretary and Mr Rennocks also acts as Deputy Chairman.
certain employees who serve as directors of subsidiaries at the Groups request have been granted indemnities from the Company in respect of liabilities incurred COMPANY SECRETARY as a result of their ofce.
Neither our indemnity nor the insurance provides cover ALISON HORROCKS in the event that a Director is proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
No amount has been paid under any of these indemnities during the year.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and its Committees and in doing so she: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Company has in place procedures for managing conicts of interest assists the Chairman in ensuring that all Directors have full and timely and is aware of any potential conict through an annual review of the other access to all relevant information: commitments of its Directors.
We are satisfied these do not conict with their assists the Chairman by organising induction and training programmes: duties as Directors of Inmarsat and consequently there were no conicts of assists the Chairman with the annual Board evaluation procedure: interest identied during the year.
The Companys articles of association contain is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed provisions to allow the Directors to authorise potential conicts of interest so and advises the Board on corporate governance matters: and that a Director is not in breach of his her duty under company law.
Should a administers the procedure under which Directors can, where appropriate, Director become aware that they have an interest, directly or indirectly, in an obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense no existing or proposed transaction with the Company, they are required to notify requests for external professional advice were received during the year.
this to the Company Secretary.
Directors have a continuing duty to notify any changes to their conicts of interest to the Company Secretary and any changes are noted in the conicts register.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 59 INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The use of the electronic portal for the Directors to access Board and Committee The diverse experience and backgrounds of the Non-Executive Directors ensures papers has proved very effective.
At each meeting, the Chief Executive officer and that they can provide a strong independent element on the Board, to debate, Chief Financial officer provide reports to the Board and several senior executives, and constructively challenge management both in relation to the development by invitation, present updates on strategy and focus on specic parts of the Groups of strategy and review of the Groups operational and financial performance.
This way the Board is given exposure to the next layer of management at the Executive Management Board level and often from their direct reports.
This To determine their independence, all Non-Executive Directors are reviewed is helpful to the Board as it supplements the discussions it has regarding planning by the Board annually against any circumstances relevant to their current or for management succession.
All Committee Chairmen report verbally on the ongoing independence as set out in the Code.
Following such review, the Board proceedings of their Committees at the next Board meeting.
Meeting proceedings considers all the Non-Executive Directors to be independent and free of any and any unresolved concerns expressed by any Director are minuted by the circumstances that could materially interfere with their ability to provide a strong Company Secretary.
and valuable contribution to the Boards deliberations, or which could interfere with the individual Directors ability to also act in the best interests of the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors meet annually and on an ad-hoc basis, without the Chairman and other Executive Directors in attendance, to assess the Chairmans At the 2015 AGM, several of our Directors will have served for 10 years.
The Board performance, discuss Board balance, monitor the powers of individual Executive has considered the matter carefully and believes that these Non-Executive Directors and raise any issues between themselves as appropriate.
Directors continue to demonstrate the qualities of independence and judgement in carrying out their roles.
Their length of service, resulting experience and As part of its regular Board meeting schedule, the Board also holds a two-day knowledge of the Company is of great benefit to the Board and these three strategy meeting each year at which it considers the future direction of the Directors Messrs Rennocks and Davidson and Sir Bryan Carsberg will all stand business.
Strategy sessions are attended by several senior executives who for re-election at the 2015 AGM.
The subject of their independence will be kept present on specic agenda items.
Elements of the business strategy are under review.
reviewed regularly at Board meetings.
It is the intention that after the 2015 AGM, Simon Bax will be appointed as The Company recognises the importance of electronic information, systems and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with Stephen Davidson stepping network security cyber security.
We are increasingly required to be compliant down from the Chairman role but remaining a member of the Committee and a with, or align to, various legal, contractual and regulatory standards and codes Director of the Company.
We expect that our newer Non-Executive Directors will of practice relative to information security governance and the preservation of have been able to benefit from the experience of our longer-serving Directors the condentiality, integrity and availability of customer or internal data and through the phased retirement plans we will be putting in place.
To ensure we can meet these business and geopolitical requirements, a multi-standards compliance programme is underway ensuring compliance with, EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD among others, UK, US and international cyber security standards that include The Chief Executive chairs the Executive Management Board which meets on ISO27001 2, NIST-800-53 and PCI-DSS.
This is part of a broader programme a weekly basis.
As part of its remit, this team focuses on the Companys strategy, supported by a dedicated cyber security team whose primary role is to safeguard financial reviews and long range business planning, the competitive landscape, the Company to meet its legal and regulatory obligations, maintain business operational updates from all areas of the business, risk review and organisational continuity and limit damage to business interests by preventing and reducing development.
The Executive Management Board includes the Executive the occurrence of security incidents and their impact upon business operations.
Directors, the Business Unit Presidents and the key functional heads.
The names of the management team are shown on page 17.
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE The attendance of the Directors at the Board meetings held in 2014 is shown GOVERNANCE AND CONDUCT OF BOARD MEETINGS in the table below.
Robert Ruijter and Dr Hamadoun Tour joined the Board on Our Board meets as often as necessary to effectively conduct its business.
Attendance at Committee meetings During the year, the Board met eight times, with one of those meetings being is shown in the relevant Committee reports.
The first meeting in 2015 was held in the ofce of a business in the US which had been acquired in January 2014 and provided the Number of scheduled Board meetings held and meeting Board with additional exposure to this part of our business.
The rest of the attendance in 2014 meetings in 2014 were held in the UK.
Key management are invited to attend all Board meetings to present on specic business issues which will include Percentage Meetings Attendance operations update for each of the Business Units and central services divisions which will focus on commercial, technology and operational matters.
Andrew Sukawaty Chairman 8 8 100% Unscheduled supplementary meetings also take place as and when necessary.
Rupert Pearce 8 8 100% a Tony Bates 5 5 100% In instances where a Director is unable to attend Board or Committee meetings, Simon Bax 8 8 100% any comments which he or she may have arising out of the papers to be Sir Bryan Carsberg 8 8 100% considered at the meeting are relayed in advance to the relevant Chairman or the Stephen Davidson 8 8 100% Company Secretary who would then report to the Board or Committee thereon.
b Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd 2 2 100% Kathleen Flaherty 8 8 100% c General C. Robert Kehler Rtd 6 6 100% Janice Obuchowski 8 8 100% Abe Peled 8 8 100% John Rennocks 8 8 100% a Appointed on 2 June 2014 b Resigned on 4 March 2014 c Appointed on 6 May 2014 60 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED INDUCTION AND ON-GOING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT The Board was asked specically to consider how they felt they had contributed To ensure that each Director receives appropriate support on joining the as individuals during the year as well as to identify key areas where the Board had Board, they are given a comprehensive, formal and tailored induction been a significant driver in the decision-making process.
They cited a number of programme organised through the Company Secretary, including the provision examples such as the support for the aviation business expansion.
of background material on the Company and briengs with each of the Executive Management Board.
These meetings will ensure that the on-boarding process During the year, the Senior Independent Chairman met with the Non-Executive for a new Director provides a view of each area of the business with the Directors and discussed the performance of the Chairman: and each of the opportunity for further discussion as appropriate.
Each Directors individual directors commented as part of the evaluation exercise on the Chairmans experience and background is taken into account in developing a programme performance.
The Chairman meets the Non-Executive Directors on an tailored to his or her own requirements.
The induction programme was reviewed individual basis at least once a year.
and updated during 2014 for General Kehler when he joined the Company.
The elements of induction will also be reviewed to cater to the requirements Key elements arising from the 2014 Board evaluation review are as follows: of the two Non-Executive Directors who joined the Board in 2015.
Additional focus on succession planning for Executive Directors and For professional ongoing development, the Board receives presentations senior management: relevant to the Companys business and updates on any changes in legislation Broaden the strategy discussion content for the two-day Board meeting which may affect the Companys operations.
The Company Secretary supplies and include additional targeted strategic discussion at Board meetings all Directors with information on relevant legal and best practice.
As part of their as appropriate: annual performance evaluation, Directors are given the opportunity to discuss Greater visibility as to customer satisfaction and how it is measured: and training and development needs.
Directors are expected to take responsibility for Plan for a retirement cycle for longer-serving Non-Executive Directors.
identifying their training needs and to take steps to ensure they are adequately informed about the Company and their responsibilities as a Director.
The Board EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS is confident that its members have the knowledge, ability and experience to The Board believes, in principle, in the benefit of Executive Directors accepting perform the functions required of a Director of a listed company.
Non-Executive Directorships of other companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for the benefit of the Company.
All such appointments require the prior BOARD EFFECTIVENESS approval of the Board and the number of appointments is limited to two.
Details As in 2013, for 2014, the Board undertook a formal evaluation of its own of these directorships can be found in their biographies on page 51 and details performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors during the of the fees paid to them can be found on page 77 of the Remuneration Report.
year, led by the Company Secretary.
The Code requires that the Company conduct an externally facilitated evaluation every three years and the 2012 APPOINTMENT AND REAPPOINTMENT Board performance evaluation was facilitated by Duncan Reed of Condign Board The Directors may appoint additional members to join the Board during the year.
Consulting Ltd. An evaluation by an external provider will be undertaken in 2015.
Directors appointed in this way will, upon the recommendation of the Board, offer themselves for election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment.
The evaluation process consisted of a questionnaire sent out in advance to The reappointment of Directors is subject to their ongoing commitment to Board each Director and a meeting occurred between the Company Secretary and activities and satisfactory performance.
All Directors will stand for reappointment each Non-Executive Director to review the questionnaire and discuss any other annually in accordance with the provision of the Code.
The outcome of the review was first discussed with the Chairman Committee confirmed to the Board that the contributions made by the Directors and then shared with the full Board as an agenda item at the Board meetings offering themselves for reappointment at the 2015 AGM continues to benefit the in March 2015.
The full output from the evaluation was presented in a report Board and the Company should support their reappointment.
Non-Executive to all of the Directors, with collective and individual feedback being provided.
Directors are appointed initially for three years and all Non-Executive Directors may not, unless agreed by the Board, remain in ofce for a period longer than six The review concluded that Board meetings had good debate and discussion years, or two terms in ofce, whichever is the shorter.
with the right level of question and debate leading up to a decision being made.
The Directors all felt that the Non-Executive Directors who had joined in 2013 As already set out earlier in this report on page 59, three of our Non-Executive and part-way through 2014 had settled well and were contributing effectively Directors, John Rennocks, Stephen Davidson and Sir Bryan Carsberg, are being to Board discussion.
There was strong endorsement of the new CFO and supported by the Board for re-appointment as independent Non-Executive appreciation of the experience and knowledge he was bringing to managing Directors even though they will have served for 10 years.
We will also be putting the finance function, proposing and adopting new financial reporting and his forward for election at the 2015 AGM three additional Non-Executive Directors: contribution to streamlining processes across different business areas.
The Board General C. Robert Kehler Rtd, Robert Ruijter and Dr Hamadoun Tour, and Tony confirmed its full support for the transition of Mr Sukawaty from Executive Bates as an Executive Director.
Chairman to Non-Executive Chairman and continued to applaud his style and approach for how he facilitated a culture of openness, honesty and collegiality.
As advised in our 2013 Annual Report, Mr Bates joined the Company and was The relationship between the Chairman and CEO was also noted as being very appointed as a Director and our CFO on 2 June 2014.
The appointment followed effective and supportive of their respective roles to ensure the best outcome for an external search undertaken by Russell Reynolds Associates, which was led by the business was always forefront of decision making.
Continuing to engage with the CEO reporting to the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
senior management in a formal Board meeting setting as well as informally outside the Board meetings was felt to be of benefit supporting succession discussions.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Non-Executive Directors continue to be highly supportive of all the Executive Details of the Companys remuneration policy and Directors remuneration are management team.
contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 82.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 61 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders Shareholders are welcome at the Companys AGM where they will have an to ensure that its strategy and performance are understood and that it remains opportunity to meet the Board.
The notice of the AGM is sent to all shareholders accountable to shareholders.
The Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Chairmen of the Audit and the that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place, whilst the Chief Remuneration Committees, together with as many Directors as possible, will Executive officer and Chief Financial officer ensure that the views of shareholders attend the 2015 AGM and be available to answer shareholders questions.
Voting are communicated to the Board as a whole.
The Board ensures that the on all resolutions at the AGM is on a poll.
The proxy votes cast, including details Companys strategic plans have been carefully reviewed in terms of their ability of votes withheld, are disclosed on our website and announced to the UK Listing to deliver long-term shareholder value.
In September 2014, the Company held Authority through a Regulatory Information Service immediately after the an Investor Day which was attended by investors, bankers, and other interested meeting.
Facilities are provided for shareholders to vote electronically either parties.
The presentations covered the Companys major business opportunities through Electronic Proxy Voting or through CREST.
with presentations from each of the key business areas.
Positive feedback as to the content and provision of information was received: a copy of the presentation INTERNAL CONTROLS has been made available on the Companys website.
This audited 2014 Annual The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and maintaining Report will be made available to shareholders and all results are posted on the the Groups system of internal controls and it receives regular reports from Companys website, as are presentations made in respect of the full-year results.
management identifying, evaluating and managing the risks within the business.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, The Company has undertaken regular investor roadshows in the UK and the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable overseas and presentations were also made after publication of the Preliminary and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Results in March 2014 and are planned for March 2015.
Investor and analyst Committee reviews the system of internal controls through reports received conference calls took place after the announcement of each set of quarterly from management, along with those from both internal and external auditors.
There is an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings Management continues to focus on how internal control and risk management between the Executive Directors and institutional investors, fund managers and can be further embedded into the operations of the business and to deal with analysts.
At these meetings, a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, areas of improvement which come to managements and the Boards attention.
performance, management and governance, are discussed within the constraints of information which has already been made public.
The Board is aware that The Company has an established Disclosure Committee with responsibility for institutional shareholders may be in more regular contact with the Company reviewing and approving controls and procedures over the public disclosure of than other shareholders, but care is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive financial and related information and other procedures necessary to enable the information is released to all shareholders, institutional and private, at the Chairman, Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer to provide their same time in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority requirements.
certications in relation to publicly disclosed information.
The Chairman, Andrew Sukawaty, and Senior Independent Director, John The Board and the Audit Committee have carried out a review of the Rennocks, are available to shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be effectiveness of the system of internal controls during the year ended raised through the normal channels or if such concerns have not been resolved.
31 December 2014 and for the period up to the date of approval of the Arrangements can be made to meet with either of them through the Company consolidated financial statements contained in the Annual Report.
Other Non-Executive Directors may be asked to participate in covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance investor meetings and have done so.
controls and risk management systems.
The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary have been, or are being taken to remedy any significant During 2014, there continued to be ongoing communications through a failings or weaknesses identied from its review of the system of internal control.
combination of face-to-face meetings, phone calls and email correspondence This has involved considering the matters reported to it and developing plans with many investors regarding remuneration issues.
The Remuneration and programmes that it considers are reasonable in the circumstances.
The Committee Chairman shared a forward vision of the key elements of the 2014 Board also confirms that it has not been advised of material weaknesses in Remuneration Policy with many of the Companys significant and inuential the part of the internal control system that relates to financial reporting.
shareholders, as well as several proxy agencies.
The Company also sought comments on the proposed change in position of the Chairman, moving from The key elements of the Groups system of internal controls, which have been in an Executive to Non-Executive position and received positive feedback which place throughout the year under review and up to the date of this report, include: was relayed to the Board at its September Board meeting to allow the Board Risk management: an overarching risk management policy is in place which to take a decision to recommend the change in Chairman position which was sets out the tolerance for risk within the Group and how this is measured then announced to the London Stock Exchange.
Further information on the across identied macro and business risks.
As required by the policy, Companys Remuneration Policy is contained in the covering letter from the management operates a risk management process to identify, evaluate Remuneration Committee Chairman, in the Remuneration Policy and Annual and report significant risks within the business and to report to the Board Report on Remuneration on pages 66 to 82. on how those risks are being managed.
Risks are highlighted through a number of different reviews and culminate in a risk register, monitored by The Board obtains feedback from its joint corporate brokers, J. P. Morgan Risk Committees across the Group, which identify the risk area, the probability Cazenove and Credit Suisse, on the views of institutional investors on a of the risk occurring, the impact if it does occur and the actions being taken non-attributed and attributed basis.
Any concerns of major shareholders would to manage the risk to the desired level.
All the risk registers are reviewed by be communicated to the Board by the Executive Directors.
As a matter of senior management and provided quarterly to the Board and to the Audit routine, the Board receives regular reports on issues relating to share price and Committee.
Details of the risk process and key risks are shown on pages 26 trading activity, and details of movements in institutional investor shareholdings.
to 28 in the Strategic Report.
The Board is also regularly provided with current analyst opinions and forecasts.
62 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Management structure: there is a clearly dened organisational structure REPORTS OF THE BOARD COMMITTEES throughout the Group with established lines of reporting and delegation of authority based on job responsibilities and experience.
Within the businesses, REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE senior management meetings occur regularly to allow prompt discussion of All members of the Audit Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors relevant business issues.
A process of self-certication is used where Directors and the majority have significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
and senior managers are required to detail and certify controls in operation The Board is confident that the collective experience of the Audit Committee to mitigate risk in key process areas.
The Directors also review and approve members enables them, as a group, to act as an effective Committee.
annually, that risk management processes are in place.
Financial reporting: monthly management accounts provide relevant, reliable The table below shows who makes up the Audit Committee and their attendance and up-to-date financial and non-financial information to management and at meetings during 2014.
Robert Ruijter joined the Committee with effect from the Board.
Analysis is undertaken of differences between actual results and the 1 February 2015. annual budget on a monthly basis.
Annual plans, forecasts, performance targets and long range financial plans allow management to monitor the key business and financial activities, and the progress towards achieving the financial Percentage objectives.
The annual budget is approved by the Board.
The Group reports Name Audit Committee attendance quarterly based on a standardised reporting process.
John Rennocks Chairman 4 4 100% Information systems: information systems are developed to support the Sir Bryan Carsberg 4 4 100% Groups long-term objectives and are managed by professionally staffed Stephen Davidson 4 4 100% teams.
Appropriate policies and procedures are in place covering all Janice Obuchowski 4 4 100% significant areas of the business.
Contractual commitments: there are clearly dened policies and procedures for entering into contractual commitments.
These include By invitation, the meetings of the Audit Committee may be attended by the detailed requirements that must be completed prior to submitting proposals Chairman, Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial officer and the Head of Internal and or tenders for work, both in respect of the commercial, control and risk Audit.
The Deloitte LLP Deloitte audit engagement partner is present at all management aspects of the obligations being entered into.
New business Audit Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters relating plan approval processes and a new procurement process have been to the audit.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets regularly with the introduced which will further strengthen the review of contractual internal and external auditors.
commitments before any such commitment is agreed to.
Monitoring of controls: the Audit Committee receives regular reports from the internal and external auditors and assures itself that the internal control AUDIT COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES environment of the Group is operating effectively.
There are formal policies and procedures in place to ensure the integrity and accuracy of the The Audit Committee has particular responsibility for: accounting records and to safeguard the Groups assets.
significant capital projects and acquisitions and disposals require Board approval.
There are monitoring the financial reporting process: formal procedures by which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns about the adequacy and effectiveness of the operation of internal controls possible improprieties in financial and pensions administration and other and risk management: matters often referred to as whistleblowing procedures.
A new worldwide the integrity of the financial statements.
This includes a review anonymous whistleblowing programme was introduced in 2014.
Arrangements of significant issues and judgements, policies, and disclosures: are in place for proportionate and independent investigation and appropriate keeping under review the scope and results of the audit and its follow-up action with the results being reported to the Audit Committee.
cost effectiveness: consideration of managements response to any major external OVERALL SUMMARY STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE or internal audit recommendations: and The Company is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
being assured of the independence and objectivity of the internal The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the year, complied and external auditor.
with the provisions of the Code as currently in effect save as noted below.
During 2014, Mr Sukawaty was Executive Chairman.
He did not meet the Following publication of the revised version of the Code, which applies to financial independence criteria on appointment.
He was appointed Chairman in December years commencing on or after 1 October 2012, the Board requested that the 2003 and assumed the additional role of Chief Executive officer at the Boards Committee advise whether it believes the Annual Report and Accounts, taken request in March 2004.
On 1 January 2012, the roles were split and Mr Sukawaty as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information continued as Executive Chairman.
From 1 January 2015, Mr Sukawaty became necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business Non-Executive Chairman.
He is not considered independent.
Although the Code model and strategy.
The Committees terms of reference have been amended to recommends that the Chairman is independent on appointment, the Board reect this, and have been generally updated to reect best practice, and can be unanimously believes that Mr Sukawatys wide experience means that he remains found on our website.
extremely well qualied to lead the Company as its Chairman and has the skills and experience to ensure that the Board continues to function effectively.
The There is a forward agenda used for the years activities which focuses on: Senior Independent Director, John Rennocks, plays a key role within the Company on any matters which may be raised of a governance nature and was responsible review of the annual financial statements and the results of the annual for the discussions regarding the change in role for the Chairman which became external audit and review of the external auditors quarterly and interim effective in 2015. review work and relevant quarterly and interim financial reporting and the external audit plan: RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS review of risk management reports: and An overview of the Groups framework for identifying and managing risk, review of internal audit plans and findings and recommendations.
both at an operational and strategic level, is set out on pages 26 to 28 in the Strategic Report.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 63 The Audit Committee ensures that the external audit process and audit quality Audit Committee significant accounting matters are effective.
It does this by relying on: During 2014, the Audit Committee considered the significant accounting matters described below.
In addressing these issues the Committee considered the the engagement between the Audit Committee Chairman and the lead audit appropriateness of managements judgements and estimates, and, where engagement partner which will generally be through face to face meetings: appropriate, discussed these judgements and estimates with the external auditor.
the reports which are brought to the Committee by the lead audit The Committee also reviews quarterly reports by the external auditor which engagement partner and other senior members of the audit team: highlight any issues with respect to the external auditors work undertaken.
the quality of the management responses to audit queries: meetings held by the CEO and the Chairman with the lead audit engagement Segmental reporting partner which are reported to the Audit Chairman and Committee: During 2014, the Group revised its operating segments to reect the way the a review of independence and objectivity of the audit rm and also the quality business is being viewed by the CEO.
The revised operating segments are now of the formal audit report given by the Auditor to shareholders: and aligned to five market-facing Business Units, being: feedback from members of the finance team, the Company Secretary, and Maritime the Head of Internal Audit.
The Committee is considering the use of a formal E nterprise auditor assessment tool for future review of audit effectiveness.
A viation U S Government During the year to 31 December 2014, the activities of the Audit Committee were: Global Government review and endorsement, prior to submission to the Board, of the half-year These five Business Units are supported by Central Services which includes and full-year financial statements, interim management statements and satellite operations and backbone infrastructure, corporate administrative results announcements: costs, and all other income that is not directly attributable to the individual review and approval of internal audit reports, and findings and Business Units.
The Group has aggregated the US Government and Global recommendations arising from the reports: Government operating segments into one reporting segment, as the review and approval of risk management updates and the annual risk segments meet the criteria for aggregation under IFRS.
The Audit Committee management process: concur with the approach taken to identify and reorganise the Groups agreement of external and internal annual audit plans: operating and reporting segments.
The external auditors have examined receiving updates on management responses to audit recommendations: and the design and implementation around segmental reporting and concur reviewing accounting policies.
it is in line with IFRS requirements.
Reviews by the Committee of audit plans and risk reports include all Group Goodwill and other impairment tests operations.
Detailed risk reporting is used for all Group companies and business The Group has significant goodwill and other intangible assets.
The quarterly review of the risk reports and the process adopted to in our accounting policy, intangible assets with an indefinite life are reviewed manage risk is a key area of focus for the Committee.
annually for impairment and all intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever there is an indication that those assets may be impaired.
Audit Committee meetings generally take place just prior to a Board meeting to maximise effectiveness and time planning efficiency of those attending.
The The judgements in relation to impairment testing relate to the assumptions Committees Chairman reports to the Board as part of a separate agenda item, used in calculating the value in use of the cash-generating units CGUs on the activity of the Committee and matters of particular relevance to the or assets being tested for impairment.
The key assumptions applied in the Board in the conduct of their work.
All members of the Board have access to calculation relate to the future performance expectations of the business.
Audit Committee papers and minutes of meetings, and may, on request to The starting point for the determination of the value in use workings is the Chairman, attend the meetings.
the last Board-approved long-range business plan, which is updated for changes since that date.
The impairment review was also an area of focus The Company Secretary, as Chairman of the Disclosure Committee the role of for the external auditor, who reported its findings to the Audit Committee.
which is detailed on page 61, reported on matters that affected the quality and In 2014 the Group reassessed its CGUs as a consequence of the Groups timely disclosure of financial and other material information to the Board, to the change in operating segments.
Business Units rather than the previous public markets and to shareholders.
This enabled the Audit Committee to review segmentation of Inmarsat Global and Inmarsat Solutions are now reported.
and clarify the completeness of financial reporting disclosures prior to their release by the Board.
The Audit Committee believes the results of the impairment tests and the revision to the CGU structure, to be appropriate.
Pension arrangements and post-employment benets assumptions The assumptions used in valuing our pension and post-employment benefit schemes are an area of key judgement.
The valuation of all material pension and post-employment benefit schemes is actuarially determined at year end: the key assumptions are reviewed by the Audit Committee and have been deemed appropriate.
