GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Nomination Committee Report Committee membership and attendance 1 Members Attendance Patrick Cescau Chairman 5 5 Ian Dyson 5 5 2 Jo Harlow 0 0 3 David Kappler 2 2 Jennifer Laing 5 5 4 Jonathan Linen 5 5 Jill McDonald 5 5 Luke Mayhew 5 5 The Committee keeps under Dale Morrison 5 5 continuous review the talent pool Ying Yeh 5 5 Total meetings held 5 within the business.
1 For full biographies of current members see pages 57 to 59.
2 Jo Harlow joined the Committee effective as of 1 September 2014.
3 David Kappler retired from the Committee effective as of 31 May 2014.
Dear Shareholder 4 Jonathan Linen retired from the Committee effective as of 31 December 2014.
Roles and responsibilities The Committee considers the structure, size and composition The Chief Executive Officer also attends the meetings.
of the Board, advising on succession planning and making appropriate recommendations to ensure the Board retains an of the Audit Committee from 1 April 2014, and Dale Morrison appropriate mix of skills, experience, knowledge and diversity.
as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director from 31 May It is also responsible for reviewing the Groups leadership needs.
As both Dale and Ian were already members of the Our role and responsibilities are set out in our terms of reference Board, this allowed for a smooth transition of duties upon ToR, which are reviewed annually and no changes were made Davids retirement.
The ToR are available on the Companys website at On 31 December 2014, Jonathan Linen retired from the Board www.
com investors under corporate governance committees after nine years service.
or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
We announced on 2 December 2014 that Kirk Kinsell would step down from the Board and his role as President of IHGs Governance Americas business on 13 February 2015.
An independent All members have the experience and expertise necessary executive search agency, Egon Zehnder, was engaged to to meet the Committees responsibilities and are independent conduct a review of prospective candidates.
Accordingly, Non-Executive Directors excluding myself, as required under Kirk was succeeded by Elie Maalouf as Chief Executive Officer, the ToR.
During 2014, David Kappler retired from, and Jo Harlow The Americas, who joined IHG in January 2015 to allow for joined, the Committee.
When the Committee is considering matters a handover period with Kirk.
While Elie does not sit on the relating to my position, Dale Morrison, Senior Independent Board, he is a member of IHGs Executive Committee.
Non-Executive Director, acts as chairman of the Committee.
Keeping under continuous review the development, succession What did the Committee consider in 2014 planning and talent pool for the Executive Committee and other During the year, the Committees key activities included: senior executive roles to identify both talent strengths and talent Board appointments gaps.
New senior hires were made in both global and regional Continually reviewing the tenure and qualifications of the leadership positions, and a number of internal promotions to Non-Executive Directors to ensure the Board has an appropriate the senior leader level below Executive Committee took place, and diverse mix of skills, experience, knowledge and diversity.
further strengthening our internal pipeline.
Recommending appointments to the Board in line with our We have also considered Jennifer Laing and Ying Yehs continued strategic objectives.
As identified in our 2013 Annual Report, appointments on the Board, as both have been on the Board our priority for 2014 was to strengthen the Boards existing for over six years, and specifically reviewed Jennifers capabilities by looking to appoint a Non-Executive Director independence having been on the Board for over nine years.
with experience in consumer-facing technology.
Lygon Group, Board diversity who have no connection to IHG, was engaged as an external We recognise the value of diversity in its broadest sense and, search agent.
The search was undertaken against a detailed job whilst all appointments are made on merit, we seek to ensure the specification setting out the particular skills, knowledge and Board maintains an appropriate balance through a diverse mix of experience required for the particular position.
The Committee skills, experience, knowledge, gender and background see page nominated Jo Harlow, having considered her wealth of experience 62 for details of our Board Diversity Policy.
and knowledge, particularly in connection with the role digital technology plays in driving consumer behaviour.
The Board Our priorities in 2015 approved Jos appointment with effect from 1 September 2014.
During 2015, we aim to continue to: i refresh the Board and Committees in line with our priorities: and ii ensure we have Succession planning the right capabilities for the future.
Focusing, on behalf of the Board, on Board succession planning: In advance of David Kapplers plans to retire on 31 May 2014, Patrick Cescau, Nomination Committee Chairman we recommended the appointment of Ian Dyson as Chairman 16 February 2015 69
