GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Who is on our Board of Directors Patrick Cescau Richard Solomons N C Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2013 Appointed to the Board: 10 February 2003 Skills and experience: From 2005 to 2008, Patrick was Group Chief Skills and experience: During his tenure as Chief Executive Officer, Executive of Unilever Group, having previously been Chairman of Richard has led the continued growth of IHG, including the launch Unilever PLC, Vice-Chairman of Unilever NV and Foods Director, of our two newest brands, HUALUXE Hotels and Resorts and EVEN following a progressive career with the Company, which began in Hotels and IHGs acquisition of Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants.
Prior to being appointed to the Board of Unilever PLC being appointed Chief Executive Officer, Richard served as Chief and Unilever NV in 1999, as Finance Director, he was Chairman of a Financial Officer and Head of Commercial Development.
Richard was number of the companys major operating companies and divisions, integral in shaping and implementing IHGs asset-light strategy, which including in the US, Indonesia and Portugal.
He was formerly a Senior has helped the business grow significantly since it was formed in 2003, Independent Director and Non-Executive Director of Pearson plc and as well as supporting the return of $10.4 billion to shareholders.
2008, he served as Interim President of our Americas region.
Richard is a member of the Executive Committee of the World Travel and Board contribution: Patrick has held board of director positions Tourism Council, a member of the Industry Real Estate Financing for nearly 15 years in leading global businesses and brings extensive Advisory Council and a Governor of the Aviation and Travel Industry international experience in brands, consumer products, as well as Group of the World Economic Forum.
As Chairman, Patrick is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring it operates in an effective manner and promoting Board contribution: Richard is responsible for the executive constructive relations with shareholders.
He is also Chairman management of the Group and ensuring the implementation of Board of the Nomination Committee.
Other appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of International Consolidated Airlines Group S. A. and the Senior Independent Director of Tesco PLC.
Patrick is also a trustee of The Leverhulme Trust.
Tracy Robbins Executive Vice President, Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson Human Resources and Chief Financial Officer Group Operations Support Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2014 Appointed to the Board: 9 August 2011 Skills and experience: Paul is a chartered accountant and a fellow Skills and experience: Tracy has nearly 30 years experience in of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
He was previously Chief human resources roles in service industries.
She joined the Group Financial Officer of IHGs Europe and Asia, Middle East and Africa in December 2005 from Compass Group PLC, a world-leading food service company, where she was Group Human Resources Leadership regions, a position he held since September 2011.
He joined IHG in August 2004 and has held a number of senior level finance positions, & Development Director.
Previously, she acted as Group HR Director including Head of Investor Relations, Head of Global Corporate for Forte Group plc, a hotel company.
Tracy also spent seven years Finance and Financial Planning & Tax and Head of Hotel Development, at Tesco PLC as a Retail Human Resources Manager where she Europe.
Paul also acted as Interim Chief Executive Officer of the implemented a culture change and restructuring strategy across Europe, Middle East and Africa regions.
Board contribution: Paul is responsible, together with the Board, Board contribution: Tracy has many years of experience in human for overseeing the financial operations of the Group and setting resources and is responsible for global talent management, leadership its financial strategy.
development, employee reward strategy and implementation, organisational capability and operations support.
Board Committee membership key A Audit Committee member C Corporate Responsibility Committeemember N Nomination Committee member R Remuneration Committee member Denotes Chairman of a Board Committee 57 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Corporate Governance continued Who is on our Board of Directors continued Dale Morrison Ian Dyson Senior Independent Independent A C N A N R Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 1 June 2011 Appointed to the Board: 1 September 2013 Skills and experience: Dale is a founding partner of TriPointe Capital Skills and experience: Ian has held a number of senior executive Partners, a private equity firm.
Dale was previously President and and finance roles including Group Finance & Operations Director Chief Executive Officer of McCain Foods Limited and President and for Marks and Spencer Group plc for five years from 2005 to 2010, Chief Executive Officer of Campbell Soup Company.
where he oversaw significant changes in the business.
In addition, Ian was Chief Executive Officer of Punch Taverns plc, a pub and bar Board contribution: Dale has over 10 years experience in sales operator, Finance Director for the Rank Group Plc, a leading European and marketing positions, and over 25 years experience in general gaming business, and Group Financial Controller and Finance Director management, having held senior positions in the branded foods sector.
for the hotels division of Hilton Group Plc.
He was appointed as the Boards Senior Independent Non-Executive Director on 31 May 2014.
Board contribution: Ian has gained significant experience from working in various senior finance roles predominantly in the hospitality sector.
Other appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of Ian became Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 April 2014 and as International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. a producer of flavours and such is responsible for leading the Committee to ensure effective fragrances, and Non-Executive Chairman of Findus Group, a frozen internal controls and risk management systems are in place.
Other appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of Punch Taverns plc, a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of SSP Group plc and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of ASOS Plc and Betfair Group plc.
Jo Harlow Jennifer Laing Independent Independent A N R A C N Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 1 September 2014 Appointed to the Board: 25 August 2005 Skills and experience: Jo has held the position of Corporate Vice Skills and experience: Jennifer was Associate Dean, External President of the Phones Business Unit at Microsoft Corporation Relations at London Business School, until 2007.
She was previously Executive Vice President of Smart Marketing Society and of the Institute of Practitioners in Advertising, Devices at Nokia Corporation since February 2011, following a number she has over 30 years experience in advertising including 16 years of senior management roles at Nokia since 2003.
Prior to that, she with Saatchi & Saatchi where she rose to Chairman of the London held marketing, sales and management roles at Reebok International office and subsequently Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of Limited from 1992 to 2003 and at Procter & Gamble Company from Saatchi & Saatchi North America.
Until May 2014, she was also 1984 to 1992. a Non-Executive Director of Hudson Global, Inc. Board Contribution: Jo has over 25 years experience working Board contribution: Jennifer has over 30 years experience in marketing in various senior roles predominantly in the branded and and advertising and is Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility technology sectors.
Committee, responsible for the Corporate Responsibility objectives and strategy and approach to sustainable development.
Other appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of Premier Foods plc, a branded food producer.
58 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Luke Mayhew Jill McDonald Independent Independent C N R A N Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 1 July 2011 Appointed to the Board: 1 June 2013 Skills and experience: Luke served for 12 years on the Board Skills and experience: Jill started her career at Colgate-Palmolive of John Lewis Partnership plc, including as Managing Director of Company, spent 16 years with British Airways Plc and held a number the Department Store division.
Luke also spent five years at British of senior marketing positions in the UK and overseas.
Airways Plc and seven years at Thomas Cook Group plc in senior Board contribution: Jill has nearly 30 years experience working with positions.
He was also a Non-Executive Director of WHSmith PLC high-profile international consumer-facing brands at both marketing and Chairman of Pets at Home Group Plc.
Board contribution: Luke has over 30 years experience in senior Other appointments: Currently Chief Executive Officer UK and roles in the branded sector and was Remuneration Committee President for the North West Europe Division for McDonalds.
Chairman at Brambles Limited from 2006 to 2014.
As Chairman Prior to that Jill was Chief Executive Officer UK and President for the of the IHG Remuneration Committee he is responsible for setting Northern Division 2010 to 2013 and previously Senior Vice President, the remuneration policy.
Chief Marketing Officer UK and Northern Division 2006 to 2010.
Other appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of DFS Furniture Holdings plc, and a trustee of BBC Children in Need.
The Board is supported by the Company Secretary: George Turner Ying Yeh Executive Vice President, General Independent Counsel and Company Secretary C N R Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Executive Committee: Appointed to the Board: 1 December 2007 January 2009 Joined the Group: 2008 Skills and experience: Ying was formerly Vice President and Skills and experience: George is a solicitor and qualified to Chairman, Greater China Region, Nalco Company, and Chairman and private practice in 1995.
Prior to joining the Group, George spent President, North Asia Region, President, Business Development, Asia over 10 years with Imperial Chemical Industries where he held Pacific Region and Vice President, Eastman Kodak Company.
She was a number of key positions including Deputy Company Secretary.
previously a Non-Executive Director of AB Volvo, a transportation He was appointed Executive Vice President, General Counsel related products and services company, and for 15 years, a diplomat and Company Secretary in January 2009. with the US Foreign Service in Hong Kong and Beijing until 1997.
Key responsibilities: These include corporate governance, Board contribution: Ying has over 20 years experience gained from risk management, insurance, regulatory, internal audit, legal, working in senior positions in global organisations across a broad corporate responsibility, public affairs and standards.
Other appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of ABB Ltd, a global leader in power and automation technologies, and Samsonite International S. A.
Changes to the Board Tom Singer Tom resigned as Chief Financial Officer effective as of 1 January 2014.
Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson Paul joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer effective as of 1 January 2014.
David Kappler David retired as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director effective as of 31 May 2014.
Jo Harlow Jo joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director effective as of 1 September 2014.
Jonathan Linen Jonathan retired as a Non-Executive Director effective as of 31 December 2014.
Kirk Kinsell Kirk resigned as President, The Americas effective as of 13 February 2015.
Anne Busquet Anne will be joining as a Non-Executive Director effective as of 1 March 2015.
