GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Compliance and our dual listing As a dual listed company with a premium listing on the London For 2014, to ensure continued consistency of information Stock Exchange and a secondary listing on the New York Stock provided to both UK and US investors, we have for the second Exchange, we are required to file both an Annual Report in the time produced a combined Annual Report and Form 20-F. UK, which complies with the Code, and an Annual Report on As required by the SEC, a statement outlining the differences Form 20-F in the US, which complies with the NYSE rules, between the Groups UK corporate governance practices and US securities laws and the rules of the Securities and Exchange those followed by US companies can be found on pages Commission SEC.
Corporate Governance Our Board and Committee governance structure The Board leads the strategic direction and long-term objectives and success of the Group through effective oversight and review, setting the Groups strategic aims and monitoring the performance of the Group and its risk management controls.
A number of key decisions and matters are reserved for the Boards approval and are not delegated to management, these include matters related to Group business and commercial strategy: significant investment proposals: maintaining an overview and control of the Groups operating and financial performance: monitoring the Groups overall system of internal controls and risk management and governance and compliance.
The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its Committees, namely the Audit Committee, Corporate Responsibility Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee, to assist it in carrying out its functions.
Board Executive General Audit Corporate Nomination Remuneration Committee Purposes Committee Responsibility Committee Committee Considers and manages Leads on internal Leads on and examines Leads on and reviews Committee Committee a range of strategic and controls and risk nominations and all aspects of Attends to business Leads on corporate business issues facing management: financial appointments to remuneration of the of a routine nature and responsibility the Group.
reporting: internal the Board and Executive Directors to the administration objectives and strategy, Monitors IHGs audit: fraud and its Committees, and Executive of matters, the and our approach to performance and is whistleblowing and and makes Committee members, principles of which sustainable authorised to approve external audit and recommendations and remuneration have been agreed development.
policy for senior previously by the Board Reviews our impact investment within levels Maintains working Responsible for executives.
or an appropriate on the environment agreed by the Board.
relationships with reviewing the Groups See pages 76 to 91.
Makes recommendations management, Global leadership needs.
Chaired by an Executive Leads on IHGs to the Board on Internal Audit, See page 69.
Committee member stakeholder significant decisions Disclosure Committee and comprises an engagement.
requiring Board and the external Executive Committee See page 68. approval.
member and senior Chaired by the Chief See pages 65 to 67. officer from an Executive Officer.
For members, see pages 60 and 61.
Disclosure Committee Committee key Ensures proper procedures are in place for information disclosures required pursuant to UK Board Committees and US accounting, statutory or listing requirements.
Chaired by the Groups Financial Controller and Management Committees comprises the Company Secretary and other senior management.
Reports to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Matters reserved for the Board and each Committees Financial Officer and the Audit Committee.
terms of reference are available on our website at: www.
com investors under corporate governance.
55 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Corporate Governance continued 2014 Board meetings The Board held eight scheduled meetings during 2014 Annual strategy meeting and attendance by each Director is set out in the table below.
We held our 2014 annual two-day strategy meeting in Singapore.
Attendance at Committee meetings is indicated in each This included: Committee report.
Unless otherwise indicated, all Directors a review of industry trends, competitors and consumer trends: held office throughout the year.
an in-depth discussion of our Group strategy and progress on its implementation: Board membership and attendance an in-depth review of the performance, opportunities and Director Attendance challenges in our AMEA and Greater China regions: Patrick Cescau Chairman 8 8 meeting with AMEA Regional Operating Committee members, Richard Solomons Chief Executive Officer 8 8 which comprises senior management in this region: Executive Directors visiting our corporate office in Singapore: and 1 Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson 8 8 attending an informal evening event with the Singapore office Kirk Kinsell 8 8 and 30 members of the IHG I-Grad Future Leaders Programme.
2 Tracy Robbins 7 8 A third day was added to give the Board the opportunity to visit Non-Executive Directors hotels across our brand portfolio in Singapore and interact with Ian Dyson 8 8 general managers of our hotels and their teams.
Jo Harlow appointed 1 September 2014 3 3 Governance David Kappler retired 31 May 2014 3 3 Reviewed our internal controls and risk management Jennifer Laing 8 8 2 processes including the Major Risk Review, a Risk Jonathan Linen retired 31 December 2014 7 8 Management Effectiveness Review and updates on Luke Mayhew 8 8 our global insurance programme.
2 Jill McDonald 7 8 Discussed the composition and succession planning of the Dale Morrison 8 8 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Board and its Committees and approved Dale Morrison Ying Yeh 8 8 becoming Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Total meetings held 8 Ian Dyson becoming Chairman of the Audit Committee and the appointment of Jo Harlow as a new Non-Executive Director.
1 Tom Singer resigned and Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson became Chief Financial Reviewed the externally conducted 2013 Board performance Officer effective as of 1 January 2014.
2 Tracy Robbins missed one Board meeting due to health reasons and evaluation and agreed the action plan for 2014.
Jonathan Linen and Jill McDonald missed one Board meeting due Considered the performance of each of the Board Committees, to a prior commitment known to the Board in advance.
concluding each remained effective and reviewed each of their terms of reference, updating these as required.
What did the Board consider at its 2014 meetings Received updates on the deliberations of each of the Board Committees see each of their reports on their key activities Strategy and priorities during 2014.
The Board spends a substantial amount of time considering Group strategy.
In addition to its annual strategy meeting, Updated on upcoming legislative and regulatory changes time was spent in 2014 discussing strategic areas and business affecting our business and the Board and its Committees across updates, including: areas including corporate reporting, governance guidelines, and institutional investor reports.
IHG strategic updates and priorities: Investor relations industry and consumer updates: Reviewed and approved a $750 million return to shareholders.
brands, regional and functional updates: Discussed reports on investor perceptions and shareholder implementation of our commercial strategy, which includes relations, and considered analysts reports and media updates.
focusing on our preferred brands, our loyalty programme and our channel management and distribution strategy: Regular agenda items As part of general monitoring of the Group and its compliance development of our technological platforms: and with the governance framework, certain matters are regularly consideration and approval of the acquisition of Kimpton included on Board meeting agendas.
These include an update Hotels & Restaurants, in line with our strategy.
on the business from the Chief Executive Officer, finance updates from the Chief Financial Officer which includes a financial review of the Group, and deep dives on each region and function presented by Executive Committee members and other senior management.
Meetings without Executive Directors During 2014, at the end of each Board meeting, our Non-Executive Directors met with the Chairman without the Executive Directors present.
They also regularly met with the Chief Executive Officer without the other Executive Directors present.
