GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Audit Committee Report Internal controls and risk management The Committee supports the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management system, having oversight of the risk and control activities in operation across the Group.
Processes have been established which test and monitor: strategic plan achievement, through a comprehensive series of Group and regional strategic reviews: financial performance, within a comprehensive financial planning and accounting framework: capital investment performance, with detailed appraisal Our priority is ensuring that standards and authorisation processes: and of good governance are maintained risk management processes relying upon a Major Risk Review across all areas of the business.
and assurance mapping process through reports from the Head of Global Risk Management, the Head of Global Internal Audit GIA, and, as appropriate, from management providing Dear Shareholder assurance that the significant risks faced by the Group are being identified, assessed, prioritised, evaluated and appropriately The Audit Committee continues to focus on the integrity of internal managed and mitigated, having regard to the balance of risk, financial controls and risk management systems.
As the new cost and opportunity.
Chairman of the Committee, I have also sought to ensure that the Committee i has oversight of the Groups risk management and Our approach to risk management and key risk mitigating activities in assurance processes, looking at the processes and structures in respect of the Major Risks are set out on pages 26 to 29 and the wider place across the Group as a whole and how key projects are being set of risk factors are set out on pages 162 to 165. delivered: and ii probes the significant risks, particularly in the area of technology, through a balance of presentations, papers Financial reporting and discussion.
The key financial controls across our business have been identified and evaluated, in particular, to comply with our US obligations, Roles and responsibilities arising from SOX.
The Committee reviews the approach to SOX The Committees responsibilities fall into five areas: i internal compliance each year, and, in 2014, it took into consideration controls and risk management: ii financial reporting: iii internal changes in legislation, and the transition from the 1992 to the 2013 audit: iv fraud and whistleblowing: and v external audit and Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee compliance.
While the Board has overall responsibility for the of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
management of business risks, the Committee assists the Board The Committee regularly reviews reports on the progress of the in a number of ways.
SOX programme and this has enabled appropriate representations Our main role and responsibilities are set out in our terms of regarding the effectiveness of internal financial controls to be reference ToR, which are reviewed annually and no changes were made, concluding that no material weaknesses had been found made for 2015.
The ToR are available on the Companys website in the internal control environment.
com investors under corporate governance Internal Audit committees or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring Governance the activities of the GIA department.
In December each year, All members have the experience and expertise necessary the Committee discusses the GIA Plan and approves its nature to meet the Committees responsibilities and all members are and scope for the forthcoming year.
GIA also undertakes an independent Non-Executive Directors as required under the ToR.
agreed schedule of audits during which the Groups internal During the year, Jo Harlow joined the Committee, and I replaced controls are assessed and reported back to the Committee.
David Kappler as the Chairman of the Committee on 1 April 2014.
Fraud and whistleblowing The Board is satisfied that both David during his time on Fraud and whistleblowing reports are collated from information the Committee and I are independent.
The Code requires provided by the Groups independent external provider, who the Committee has at least one member with recent and facilitates the Groups confidential disclosure process for relevant financial experience and Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 employees with whistleblowing and fraud concerns, and fraud SOX necessitates a designated financial expert.
The Board data from Global Risk Management, and are presented to the is satisfied that both David and I meet these requirements Committee biannually.
David is a qualified accountant and former Chief Financial Officer The Committee is advised, as appropriate, of any significant of Cadbury Schweppes plc and I am also a qualified accountant matters to ensure a proportionate and independent investigation and was formerly Group Finance and Operations Director at is performed.
Marks and Spencer Group plc.
As Chairman of the Committee, after each meeting, I report to the Board on any key matters arising.
65 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee Report continued and a presentation on the Groups tax position from the Head Committee membership and attendance of Group Tax.
1 Members Attendance Financial reporting, issues and decision making 2 Ian Dyson Chairman from 1 April 2014 5 5 Reviewed the Groups Preliminary Results, quarterly interim 2 3 David Kappler Chairman to 1 April 2014 1 2 management statements and Half-Year Results see below 4 Jo Harlow 2 2 for the areas of significance which received increased attention.
Jennifer Laing 5 5 Considered the Groups Annual Report and Form 20-F and 3 Jill McDonald 4 5 ancillary documentation see below.
Dale Morrison 5 5 Received an update on items discussed by the Disclosure Total meetings held 5 Committee at each meeting.
1 For full biographies of current members see pages 58 and 59.
2 Internal audit David Kappler retired from, and Ian Dyson was appointed to, the role of Chairman of the Committee effective as of 1 April 2014.
Assessed the quarterly report from GIA to monitor progress 3 David Kappler and Jill McDonald missed one meeting each due to a prior against the GIA Plan and evaluate findings, and to ensure commitment known to the Committee in advance.
Jo Harlow joined the Committee with effect from 1 September 2014.
Considered the 2014 GIA Effectiveness Review which contains At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board, Chief input from auditees, senior management and Non-Executive Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Head of Global Internal Directors and assessed GIA against the Institute of Internal Audit GIA, Group Financial Controller and external Auditor, EY, attend meetings.
EY attended all meetings in 2014 and provided a Auditors Standards and concluded that the Groups systems report on progress of, and insights from, the annual audit.
Other of internal controls and risk management, including internal attendees are invited to meetings as appropriate, to provide a audit activities, were operating effectively.
deeper insight into, and understanding of, key decisions.
Monitored progress against outstanding actions.
At each meeting, GIA and EY meet without the presence Invited the Groups external technology co-assurance provider of management.
to a number of meetings to discuss and review the approach to technology assurance.
What did the Committee consider in 2014 Fraud and whistleblowing In addition to those areas referred to above and routine items Received the biannual reports on significant incidents of fraud of business, during 2014, the Committee: and whistleblowing, which in 2014 included an overview of the fraud management team and the process for escalation of Internal controls and risk management reviewing serious fraud.
Discussed and assessed IHGs approach to risk management and assurance, looking in particular at the governance structure External audit and compliance in place and how our Three Lines of Defence operate in practice Reviewed the independence and objectivity of the external and the Major Risks affecting the Group in 2014 the 2014 Major Auditor and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
Risk Review summarised above and on pages 26 to 29.
Considered EYs key findings of audit and accounting issues, Approved the Risk Working Groups terms of reference and were analysing EYs audit and non-audit fees at each meeting and provided with minutes from its previous meetings.
noting that fees incurred to date were in accordance with IHGs Reviewed the Groups hotel safety and security procedures and Audit and Non-Audit Services Pre-Approval Policy see below.
received regular risk management incident and threat reports.
Reviewed and approved the 2014 Group Audit Plan.
Received a presentation from the Groups Chief Information Evaluated and recommended the re-appointment of EY Officer Eric Pearson on the structure of the Global Technology on the basis of performance and an assessment of EYs team and the major technology risks faced by the Group and independence and objectivity see below.
assessed the steps being taken to mitigate these risks.
At External Auditor Ernst & Young LLP EY another meeting, Eric and the Head of Information Security EY has been the Groups Auditor since IHG listed in 2003.
While an discussed: i the approach to, and the activities planned to audit tender has not been carried out since EYs initial appointment, mitigate against, emerging information security risks: and the Committee considers the appointment of its Auditor annually, ii information security trends in the hotel industry.
specifically assessing EYs performance including its independence Was updated on material litigation at each meeting.
Considered and approved a revised Gifts and Entertainment To ensure EYs independence is safeguarded, lead audit partners Policy, Anti-Bribery Policy and Antitrust Policy.
Provided with rotate every five years.
The current lead audit partner has been an overview of IHGs regulatory compliance programme in place for four years.
covering Anti-Bribery, Antitrust Competition Law, Data Privacy, Sanctions and Code of Conduct, including the key projects The Committee reviews the independence and effectiveness of EY carried out during 2014 and the areas of focus for 2015. on an ongoing basis, including the effectiveness of the relationship Considered the findings from the 2014 post-project review between EY and the Groups management, and receives reports of major capital projects, and agreed with management from it on its independence annually.
An evaluation of EY takes the actions that would be applied to future projects.
place annually where questionnaires on EYs services are completed by more than 30 senior IHG employees that work with Received a presentation on the treasury control environment EY.
As well as Group policies and procedures, which aim to and the Groups financing strategy from the Group Treasurer 66 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION safeguard EYs independence and effectiveness, EY has its own intangible assets.
It challenged the key assumptions, including protective policies and systems in place, which are explained in short and long-term growth rates, discount rates and a Transparency Report issued by EY on an annual basis.
The Committee also considered EYs views on the work performed and concluded Following an in-depth review for the year ended 31 December that the position taken was supportable.
2014, the Committee was satisfied with the independence, Litigation: given the judgement required in assessing the objectivity and effectiveness of the relationship with EY as the approach to be taken to material litigation, the Committee external auditor, and with the external audit process as a whole.
considered at each meeting an update report on major litigation Audit tender matters and any provisioning for these matters.
The factors During 2014, the Committee considered the requirements for audit taken into account by the Committee are set out on page 113. tender in line with changes to legislation from the EU and the Deferred tax recognition: as noted on page 113, the recognition Competition and Markets Authority.
Having reviewed legislative of deferred tax assets requires judgement and estimates timescales and the effectiveness of the audit, we have concluded primarily around the availability of future taxable profits.
that no tender will be undertaken during 2015 but we will continue The Committee considered and approved the approach taken to monitor this.
to the recognition of such profits, noting in particular EYs reporting to the Committee in this area deferred tax balances Non-audit services are analysed in note 7.
EY provide non-audit services to the Group, which are governed, so as to safeguard their objectivity and independence, by IHGs Exceptional items: given the importance of showing a true Audit and Non-Audit Services Pre-Approval Policy: underlying performance and being consistent in the definition of this year-on-year, the Committee challenged the The policy is re-approved by the Audit Committee annually and, appropriateness of the items disclosed as exceptional, in for the 2014 financial year, the policy was updated and approved particular, the calculation of the profit on disposal of 80 per cent at the December 2013 Audit Committee meeting.
of our interest in InterContinental New York Barclay focusing The policy requires that pre-approval is obtained from the Audit on the accounting for the remaining interest.
The Committee Committee for all services before any work can be commenced, also discussed the disclosures in note 5. in line with US SEC requirements.
The Committee is prohibited Technology projects: as well as considering the process from delegating non-audit services approval to management.
controls and overall governance of these projects, and based Compliance with the policy is actively managed and an analysis on discussions with management and EYs audit findings and of audit and non-audit services is reviewed by the Committee control observations on those matters, the Committee also at each meeting.
assessed the appropriateness of the capitalisation of costs on the main projects and the need for any impairment on The Committee is aware of, and sensitive to, investor body capitalised software assets.
During 2014, 29 per cent of services provided to the Group were non-audit services: these included Annual Report Fair, balanced and understandable areas such as advisory work and corporate tax compliance.
At the request of the Board, a separate sub-committee meeting was held in February 2015 to consider whether the Annual Report For fees paid to EY for non-audit work during 2014, see page 120. and Form 20-F 2014 provided a fair, balanced and understandable view of the Group with the necessary information for shareholders Significant matters in the 2014 Financial Statements to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee discussed with management the key judgements Audit Committee members provided comments on the draft report applied in the Financial Statements, the exceptional items arising that were then incorporated into the draft provided to the Audit in the year and the impact of any accounting developments or Committee and Board for final comment and approval.
The main items discussed were: Effectiveness of the Committee Accounting for the System Fund: the Committee reviewed Effectiveness of the Committee is dependent on its overall the accounting approach adopted for the System Fund with efficiency as well as the efficacy of EY and GIA.
The effectiveness management and EY, and concluded that the approach and of the Committee, EY and GIA is monitored and assessed annually the disclosures, including the key judgements noted on through evaluation questionnaires and interviews.
The IHG Rewards Club points liability: given the materiality of Our priorities for 2015 the IHG Rewards Club points liability, the Committee considered During 2015, the Committee will specifically focus on: i the the approach to the valuation of the liability, including the integrity of the internal financial controls and risk management results of the actuarial assessment of breakage see page 113 systems: ii monitoring and continually assessing IHGs as at December 2014 and the expected cost of redemption of information security arrangements: and iii overseeing the each point.
Management was questioned on the consistency implementation of technology projects and the Global Finance and robustness of the approach and the results of EYs audit functions talent and succession plans.
procedures were also considered before reaching the Ian Dyson, Audit Committee Chairman conclusion on the adequacy of the liability recorded.
16 February 2015 Impairment testing: the Committee reviewed a detailed management report supporting the conclusion that there were no impairment issues on hotel assets, goodwill or other 67
