IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Corporate Governance continued Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Our statement of compliance presents a summary of how the Group has implemented the principles and provisions laid down in the UK Corporate Governance Code as published in September 2012 the Code.
This should be read in conjunction with the Corporate Governance Statement pages 54 to 72 and the Directors Remuneration Report as a whole.
The Code is available to view in full on the Financial Reporting Council website www.
The Board considers that the Group has complied in all material respects with the Code for the year ended 31 December 2014 with the exception of Code provision C. 3.7, which requires external audit contracts to be put to tender at least every 10 years.
The Group has not re-tendered within that period, but the Audit Committee monitors this in line with legislation further details are provided on pages 66 and 67.
Leadership Senior Independent Non-Executive Director As Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Dale Morrison is A.
1 The role of the Board available to liaise with shareholders who have concerns that they The Board leads IHGs strategic direction and the long-term feel have not been addressed through the normal channels of the objectives and success of the Group.
It approves strategic plans Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and other Executive Directors.
and capital and revenue budgets, and reviews significant He also leads the annual performance review of the Chairman investment proposals, maintaining an overview and control of with the other Non-Executive Directors, and provides advice IHGs operating and financial performance.
It monitors the Groups and judgement for the Chairman as necessary.
overall system of internal controls and risk management, governance and compliance, considering regulatory changes and After each Board meeting, our Non-Executive Directors and developments where appropriate, while ensuring that the the Chairman meet without Executive Directors being present.
necessary financial and human resources are in place for the During the year, if any Director has unresolved concerns about the Group to meet its objectives.
Decisions and matters reserved for running of IHG or a proposed action, these would be recorded the Board and not delegated to management are available on our in the minutes of the meeting.
com investors under corporate governance.
Further information on each of these roles can be found on our The Board meets formally eight times each year, with additional website at www.
One of the meetings includes a two-day strategy meeting, in which the Board considers the B.
Effectiveness Groups strategy and related issues.
1 The composition of the Board meetings are set out on page 56.
The attendance by Committee The size and composition of the Board is regularly reviewed members at Committee meetings can be found in each of their for the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence respective reports.
and knowledge to ensure it can carry out its duties and All Directors are covered by the Groups Directors & Officers responsibilities effectively.
Liability Insurance policy see page 72.
The Boards current composition meets the requirement under the A.
2 Division of responsibilities Code for at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, to be The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are independent Non-Executive Directors see page 61.
of the composition of the Board are available on pages 57 to 59.
Chief Executive Officer Jennifer Laing has served on the Board for over nine years As Chief Executive Officer, Richard Solomons leads the development and the Nomination Committee has specifically reviewed her of the Companys strategic direction and implementation of the independence and is satisfied that she continues to demonstrate agreed strategy.
He oversees IHGs business operations and independence in character and judgement and is independent manages its risks as well as building and leading an effective as required under the Code.
The Board has also considered this Executive Committee.
and reached the same conclusion.
2 Appointments As Chairman of the Board, Patrick Cescau leads the operation The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the and governance of the Board and its Committees as well as Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee leads the building and maintaining an effective Board.
This includes appointment of new Directors to the Board and senior executives ensuring that Directors receive timely, accurate and clear in accordance with its terms of reference available on our website information on the Groups business and that all Directors at www.
com investors under corporate governance are fully informed of relevant matters.
The Chairman oversees committees or from the Company Secretarys office on request corporate governance matters, ensuring they are addressed, and supports the Board in succession planning.
Further details and leads the performance and effectiveness evaluations of of the role of the Nomination Committee and what it did in 2014, the Board, its Committees and the Directors.
including details of the appointment process of Directors, are set out in the Nomination Committee Report on page 69.
The overall The Chairman was independent on appointment.
process of appointment and removal of Directors is overseen by A.
4 Non-Executive Directors the Board as a whole.
As a strong source of advice and judgement for IHG, our As Ying Yeh and Jennifer Laing have been on the Board for over six Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge and help develop years, their continued appointments were the subject of particular proposals on strategy.
They provide significant external commercial review and scrutiny by the Nomination Committee and the Board.
experience and a broad range of skills for the Board to draw on.
70 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION B.
7 Re-election The terms of appointment of our Non-Executive Directors The Companys amended Articles of Association the Articles outlines the time commitment expected to fulfil their role.
approved by our shareholders on 28 May 2010 see page 72 provide On appointment, Directors are advised of, and requested to that each Director is subject to election at the first Annual General make, the necessary time commitment required to discharge Meeting AGM following their appointment and re-election at least their responsibilities effectively.
IHGs Executive Directors every three years if they wish to continue serving in office.
are not permitted to take on more than one external However, in accordance with the recommendations of the Code, non-executive directorship or chairmanship in addition to all of IHGs Directors retire and seek election or re-election at each their role.
Biographical details of all current Directors, including AGM.
All of IHGs current Directors biographies as set out on pages their external commitments, can be found on pages 57 to 59.
57 to 59 will retire and seek election or re-election at the 2015 AGM Details of Directors service contracts and appointment terms as set out in the Notice of Meeting for the AGM see page 64. are set out on page 81.
C. Accountability The Chairman annually reviews the time each Non-Executive C. 1 Financial and business reporting Director has dedicated to IHG as part of the internal performance Our Statement of Directors Responsibilities including the Boards evaluations of each Director see page 64 and is satisfied that statement confirming that it considers that the Annual Report and their other duties and time commitments do not conflict with Form 20-F, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable those as Directors of the Company.
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to B.
4 Development assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy A full, formal and tailored induction is developed for IHGs new is set out on page 94.
The status of IHG as a going concern is set out in the Directors The Chairman and Company Secretary ensure that Directors Report on page 75.
An explanation of the Groups performance, continually update their skills and have the requisite knowledge business model, strategy and the risks and uncertainties relating and familiarity with the Group to fulfil their roles on the Board to IHGs prospects is set out in the Strategic Report on pages and its Committees see page 63.
All Directors are encouraged 2 to 51. to request further information as they consider necessary to fulfil The statement from our Auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, about its their role.
reporting responsibilities is set out on pages 95 to 99.
5 Information and support C. 2 Risk management and internal control The Chairman and the Company Secretary together ensure a good The Board has ultimate responsibility for determining the nature flow of information to the Board and its Committees and between and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in line with the Executive Committee and the Non-Executive Directors.
Company Secretary also ensures that all Directors and Board Committees have access to independent advice when requested, The Board and Audit Committee monitor the Groups risk at the expense of the Group, where it is necessary to discharge management and internal controls systems and conducts an their responsibilities as Directors.
annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and risk management, and reviews the Groups The role of the Company Secretary risk appetite.
This review covers all material controls, including George Turner, as Company Secretary, ensures a good flow financial, operational and compliance controls.
Further details of information to the Board and its Committees and between are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 26 to 29, and also the Executive Committee and the Non-Executive Directors.
in the Audit Committee Report on pages 65 to 67.
He facilitates all new Director inductions.
He advises the Board on corporate governance matters and keeps the Board up to date C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors on all relevant legal, regulatory and other developments.
The The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter Audit Committee.
The Committee comprises entirely of for the Board as a whole.
independent Non-Executive Directors, with at least one member having recent and relevant financial experience.
6 Evaluation including its role, responsibilities and activities in 2014, are set The Board undertakes either an internal or external annual out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 65 to 67.
The Audit Board effectiveness evaluation to inform further enhancements Committees terms of reference are available on our website to our Board processes.
In 2013, this was carried out externally at www.
com investors under corporate governance and in 2014, it was carried out internally.
Performance evaluations committees or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
of all Directors, including the Chairman, are also carried out and the Board considers the effectiveness of each of its Committees.
Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue See pages 63 and 64 for further information.
in office as Auditor of the Company and its reappointment will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
Further details can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 65 to 67.
