IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Corporate Governance continued Who is on our Executive Committee In addition to the Executive Directors and the General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Executive Committee comprises: Angela Brav Keith Barr Chief Executive, Europe Chief Commercial Officer Appointed to the Executive Committee: Appointed to the Executive Committee: August 2011 Joined the Group: 1988 April 2011 Joined the Group: 2000 Skills and experience: Keith has over 20 years experience in the Skills and experience: Angela has over 25 years experience in the hospitality industry.
He has held senior appointments at IHG including hospitality industry, including hotel operations, franchise relations Vice President of Sales and Revenue Management, Vice President and technology solutions.
She has held various senior roles in IHGs of Operations, Chief Operating Officer, Australia, New Zealand and North American and European regions prior to becoming Chief South Pacific, and Managing Director, Greater China.
He became an Operating Officer, North America.
She was appointed Chief Executive, Executive Committee member in April 2011 and prior to becoming Europe in August 2011.
Chief Commercial Officer, was Chief Executive, Greater China until Key responsibilities: These include business development and May 2013.
Keith is currently a member of Leland C. and Mary M. performance of all the hotel brands and properties in Europe.
Pillsbury Institute for Hospitality Entrepreneurship Advisory Board.
Key responsibilities: These include global sales, marketing and brand functions, to drive consistent brand strategies across all regions and leverage IHGs scale and systems to deliver continued industry outperformance.
Elie Maalouf Chief Executive Officer, Kenneth Macpherson The Americas Chief Executive, Greater China Appointed to the Executive Committee: Appointed to the Executive Committee: February 2015 Joined the Group: 2015 April 2013 Joined the Group: 2013 Skills and experience: Elie was appointed Chief Executive Officer, Skills and experience: Kenneth joined IHG as Chief Executive, Greater The Americas at IHG in February 2015, having had over 15 years China in April 2013.
Prior to joining the Group, he worked for Diageo experience working in a major global franchise business.
He joined the plc, for nearly 20 years and has held senior management positions, Group having spent six years as President and Chief Executive Officer including serving as Executive Managing Director of Diageo Greater of HMSHost Corporation, a global travel and leisure company, where China.
Kenneth has extensive management experience, with a he was also a member of the Board of Directors.
Elie brings broad background in sales, marketing strategy, business development and experience to IHG spanning development, branding, finance, real operations.
Kenneth also brings substantial knowledge and expertise estate and operations management, as well as highly relevant food in Chinese and international business operations.
He was most recently a Senior Advisor Key responsibilities: These include business development and with McKinsey & Company.
performance of all the hotel brands and properties in the Greater Key responsibilities: These include business development China region.
and performance of all the hotel brands and properties in The Americas region.
There are no family relationships between any of the Board or Executive Committee members set out on pages 57 to 61.
There are no arrangements or understandings with major shareholders, customers, suppliers or others, pursuant to which any of the Board or Executive Committee were selected as a Director or member of the Executive Committee.
60 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Eric Pearson Jan Smits Executive Vice President Chief Executive, and Chief Information Officer Asia, Middle East and Africa Appointed to the Executive Committee: Appointed to the Executive Committee: February 2012 Joined the Group: 1997 April 2011 Joined the Group: 2002 Skills and experience: Eric has a background in engineering and Skills and experience: Jan has 33 years experience in the hospitality technology and started his career at IHG nearly 20 years ago.
He held various senior positions in the Asia and Australasia then he has held various senior positions in the field of emerging region.
He became Managing Director, Asia Australasia in June 2009. technologies and global e-commerce.
Prior to being appointed Chief Following the amalgamation of our Middle East and Africa region with Information Officer, Eric most recently held the position of Chief our Asia Australasia region, he became Chief Executive, Asia, Middle Marketing Officer for The Americas region.
East and Africa in August 2011.
Key responsibilities: These include global technology, including Key responsibilities: These include business development and IT systems and information management, throughout the Group.
performance of all the hotel brands and properties in Asia, Middle East and Africa.
Board composition and diversity The Board believes that, in order to be most effective, objectively challenge management and encourage different perspectives for debate, it must have an appropriate mix of skills, experience, knowledge and diversity in line with our business.
The Nomination Committee supports the Board in respect of reviewing Board composition and continuously monitors succession planning.
See page 69 for the Nomination Committee Report.
Independence and tenure The Board and Nomination Committee regularly review the As Ying Yeh has also been on the Board for over six years, both independence of each Non-Executive Director.
Jennifer Laing her and Jennifers continued appointments were the subject of has served on the Board for over nine years and the Nomination particular review and scrutiny by the Nomination Committee and Committee has specifically reviewed her independence and is the Board.
Our current Non-Executive Directors lengths of tenure satisfied that she continues to demonstrate independence in as at 16 February 2015 are shown below: character and judgement and is independent as required under the Code.
The Board has also considered this and reached the Over 9 years tenure 12.5% 1 same conclusion.
Excluding the Chairman, 70 per cent as at 16 February 2015 and 67 per cent as at 31 December 2014 of our Board comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
6-9 years tenure 0-3 years tenure 12.5% 1 50% 4 3-6 years tenure 25% 2 61 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Corporate Governance continued Board composition and diversity continued Board Diversity Policy BDP and Global Diversity and Inclusion Policy GDIP With a presence in nearly 100 countries globally, we value the benefits of diversity, beyond gender, and strongly believe that our leadership should reflect the diversity of our employees, our guests and the local communities in which we operate.
Therefore, the Board seeks diversity of skills, experience, geographical representation and gender both in its composition and throughout all levels of our business.
In 2013, we introduced a Board Diversity Policy as well as a Global Diversity and Inclusion Policy to ensure that diversity in its broadest sense remains a key priority.
Progress against the objectives of each of these policies during 2014: BDP objective: Whilst all appointments are made on merit, BDP and GDIP objective: Maintain a level of at least 25% female we seek to ensure that the Board maintains an appropriate directors on the Board over the short to medium term balance through a diverse mix of experience, backgrounds, We firmly believe in the importance of a diverse Board skills, knowledge and insight, to further strengthen the membership and fully support the Lord Davies Report on diversity of gender and experience already on the Board Women on boards.
Jo Harlow joined our Board on 1 September and improve it further 2014.
Our Board currently comprises 11 Directors, five of whom Our Board members bring multinational experience to IHG, are women.
This continues our record since 2012 of having having themselves worked across a number of countries.
more than 25 per cent females on the Board: The diverse nationalities of our Board are reflected below: 16 February 2015 45% 5 55% 6 American 31 December 2014 38% 5 62% 8 18% 2 31 December 2013 31% 4 69% 9 31 December 2012 27% 3 73% 8 Chinese 9% 1 Female Male British French 64% 7 We remain committed to maintaining at least 25 per cent female 9% 1 representation on the Board over the short to medium term, but the Nomination Committee does recommend appointments based on merit, ensuring there is an appropriate mix on the Collectively the Board also has a broad collection of industry skills Board as set out above and in its report on page 69. and experience in line with IHGs business and strategic focus, to enable it to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively: BDP objective: We will report annually against these objectives 11 11 and other initiatives taking place in the Group which promote 10 gender and other forms of diversity GDIP objective: To sustain a healthy balance of gender in the whole employee organisation We continue to take action to sustain a healthy gender balance 44 and review diversity throughout our organisation.
Out of the 12,772 people employed by the Group whose costs are borne 1 by the Group or the System Fund see pages 23, 120 and 152, 7,069 are female 55 per cent.
Consumer FinanceTechnology International Branded Sales and In 2014, initiatives promoting diversity beyond gender included: Marketing establishing internal forums to increase support and mentoring for female colleagues and high-potential female employees: BDP objective: We commit to having diverse and inclusive actively participating in external diversity summits, leadership which supports all colleagues in reaching their conferences and events in all regions: and full potential, including the development of a pipeline of continuing to review ways to increase local representation high-calibre candidates from within the business on the leadership and management teams in emerging markets.
In Greater China, our Regional Operating GDIP objective: To strengthen female representation in our Committee has three local leaders, thereby strengthening global senior leadership population, with a target of reaching our local leadership talent.
25% by the end of 2015 We have 52 people comprising our senior leadership population at our corporate offices and central reservations offices who are employed by the Group and are part of our senior leadership team, 14 of these people are females 27 per cent.
This is in line with our 2015 target and is an increase from the 21 per cent in 2013.
This reflects both external appointments and internal promotions of female talent during 2014.
We have also worked with executive search firms to ensure we have better gender balance on shortlists for senior leadership appointments.
From 2015, each of our Executive Committee members will be mentoring our high-potential senior leaders.
62 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Director induction, training and development New Director induction Jo Harlows induction New Directors receive a full and formal induction Jos induction centred on providing her with an understanding of IHG programme tailored to meet their individual needs and in and our business to enable her to contribute her knowledge, skills accordance with best practice.
This induction, led by the and experience effectively to the Board.
The key areas included: Chairman, includes the following key areas: information on the Group, including our history, brands, regional familiarisation with the Groups business, principal structure and operations: strategy and business model: KPIs: activities and strategy: commercial strategy: the IHG Owners Association: and an understanding of the Groups governance, including regulatory compliance: the structure of the Board and its Committees and our information on the Board, its Committees and IHGs governance approach to internal controls and risk management: processes with particular focus on the Audit, Nomination and meetings with senior executives and regional and Remuneration Committees in light of her appointment to these: central management from various functions across our approach to internal controls and risk management: and the Group, including Business Reputation and meetings with members of the Board and the Executive Committee, Responsibility, Human Resources, Corporate Affairs, senior management from functions across the Group and the Global Strategy, Global Internal Audit and Group external Auditor.
Finance: and Since her appointment, Jo has had the opportunity to visit our UK visits to our global corporate offices and hotels and US corporate headquarters, meet and address the Groups senior to provide a greater insight into our business.
leaders at our Senior Leaders Meeting held in Seattle, and tour hotels across our brands in Greater China, the US and the UK.
Ongoing Director training and development The updating of Directors skills and knowledge, ongoing training and development, and understanding of the Groups business and operations is a progressive exercise: Patrick Cescau regularly reviews and agrees training and development needs with each Director: the Board is made aware of training opportunities and additional information, as necessary, to enable them to keep up to date and enhance their knowledge of the business: Board and Committee meetings are used to formally keep Directors up to date on developments in the environment in which the business operates for example, in 2014, in-depth presentations were given by senior management in the Group on key topical areas see page 56 : the Company Secretary regularly updates the Board on regulatory and legal matters as part of meetings: and Directors are encouraged to visit hotels across our brands both formally as part of meetings and informally.
For example, in 2014, visits to our hotel were included as part of the annual Board strategy meeting see page 56.
We also invite different Non-Executive Directors to attend our large annual conferences.
In 2014, two Non-Executive Directors attended the IHG Americas Investors & Leadership Conference which took place in Las Vegas, US.
This enables Directors to interact with current and potential owners and gain an insight first hand of the key areas of focus for the business.
Board effectiveness evaluation IHG has always recognised the importance of evaluating the performance of the Board as a whole, its main Committees and its Directors, in line with the Code recommendations.
Progress against our 2013 evaluation In 2013, we conducted an externally facilitated independent evaluation as detailed in our 2013 Annual Report.
Our progress in 2014 against the actions identified is set out below: Observations Action taken during 2014 Increase the Boards oversight The Board was regularly updated on new technology developments.
Technology was an agenda item of new technology at Board meetings and the Board also received an evening presentation from external consultants entitled Winning with Technology.
The Audit Committee also discussed the Group approach to information security see page 66.
Enhance the Boards use of time Board meeting agendas had an increased focus on industry and consumer trends, including and gain a deeper understanding information on our competitors, as well as regular updates on our progress on major projects.
of priorities and risks Consider future Board composition Five Nomination Committee meetings were held in 2014 reflecting our focus on Board and Executive and succession Committee succession planning and Board composition in light of IHGs current and future focus see page 69.
We prioritised the search for a Non-Executive Director with experience in consumer-facing technology, which led to the appointment of Jo Harlow in September 2014.
63 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Corporate Governance continued Our 2014 evaluation process 2014 Board effectiveness evaluation Our 2014 evaluation was conducted internally.
Each member observations and action plan: of the Board completed an effectiveness questionnaire, which Observations Action to be taken centred around the progress against actions identified in our Increase the Boards Deep dives into each brand strategy 2013 Board effectiveness evaluation.
Key areas included the focus on brands to be provided to the Board.
regularity of meetings, appropriateness of location especially Enhance the Boards Presentations on competitors strategies in enabling us to gain a better understanding of our business, understanding of and offerings.
Competitive analysis to be the decision-making process, executive management succession competitors strategy included in both financial results and planning, impact of internal and external technology and performance strategic reviews.
developments, and risk management and assurance oversight.
Increase the Boards Ensure opportunities are secured for It also invited Directors to make other general or specific exposure to the Groups meeting with the newly appointed Chief US business Executive Officer for The Americas region.
The results were analysed and the report was Increase the Boards understanding of presented for discussion at the Boards February 2015 meeting.
Deep dives into the strategy for core brands in the US.
Firmer The Board considered the performance of its Committees and understanding of the EVEN Hotels brands internal performance evaluations of Directors were undertaken growth strategy.
as follows: Director being appraised Appraiser It was confirmed that the Board and its Committees were operating Chairman Non-Executive Directors excluding the effectively, and that each Director continues to bring relevant Chairman and facilitated by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director knowledge, diversity of perspective, an ability and willingness to Chief Executive Officer Chairman and all Non-Executive Directors challenge and retains a strong commitment to the role.
Executive Directors Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Directors Chairman Board engagement with shareholders a useful forum for one-to-one communication with private shareholders.
At the AGM, shareholders receive presentations on The Board takes its responsibility to represent and promote the Companys performance and may ask questions of the Board.
the interests of its shareholders seriously and believes it is very The 2015 AGM will be held at 11:00am on Friday, 8 May 2015.
The important to engage with them fully.
A formal external review of notice convening this meeting has been sent to shareholders at the investor perceptions is presented to the Board on an annual basis same time as publication of this Annual Report and Form 20-F, and and both the Executive Committee and the Board receive regular is available at www.
com investors under financial library.
Meetings with major institutional shareholders Engagement during the year A programme of meetings throughout the year is arranged with The Board engaged with shareholders in a number of ways during major institutional shareholders.
These meetings provide an 2014, which included: opportunity to discuss, using publicly-available information, the meeting shareholders at the AGM: progress of the business, its performance, plans and objectives.
Patrick Cescau, Dale Morrison and other Non-Executive Directors half-year and full-year formal reporting and telephone are available to meet with major shareholders to understand their conferences after the release of the first and third quarter issues and concerns, and to discuss governance and strategy.
interim management statements: presentations by Richard Solomons and Paul , structured meetings are encouraged with shareholders, Johnson to institutional investors, analysts and the media and any new Director is available for meetings with major following results announcements: shareholders as a matter of course.
a programme of meetings with major institutional shareholders: Details of the Remuneration Committees engagement with an analyst presentation on Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants.
shareholders is set out on page 76.
During the year, Jennifer Laing also met with shareholders to discuss our corporate responsibility To enable as many shareholders as possible to access conferences strategy.
and presentations, telephone dial-in facilities are made available in advance and live audio webcasts are made available after Sharedealing programme presentations, together with associated data and documentation.
In 2014, we offered our small UK-resident retail shareholders a These can be found at www.
com investors under sharedealing service to buy or sell shares in IHG.
As part of this, financial library.
shareholders were given the option to donate the proceeds of any Around 25 sell-side research analysts publish research on the sale of their shares to IHG Shelter in a Storm see page 179.
Group: their details are available at www.
com investors Re-engaging with gone away shareholders under analysts details.
We continue to be supported by ProSearch to locate shareholders AGM who havent kept their details up to date.
To date, the programme The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders to vote on certain has been very successful and many asset reunifications both in aspects of Group business.
The Board values this as it provides terms of the shares themselves and unclaimed dividends have been made.
For further information, see page 179.
