68 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT ANNE FAHY Chair of the Audit Committee INTRODUCTION FROM THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIR I am pleased to present, on behalf of the Board, our Audit Committee Report on our work in relation to the financial year ended 31 December 2014.
2014 has been a busy year during which, in addition to our normal work programme, we changed our auditors from Deloitte LLP to Grant Thornton UK LLP Grant Thornton, following a short but intensive tender and selection process which elicited very high quality submissions from all those involved.
We also examined in depth the acquisition accounting for Initial Facilities and reviewed its internal control environment supported by Internal Audit.
We welcomed two new members and had one retirement from the committee.
During the year the focus of our normal work programme has been upon the trading judgements and estimates which underpin our revenue and margin recognition on long-term construction and service contracts, impairment testing of the value of goodwill and retirement benefit obligations, all of which are covered in more detail within the body of the report.
In addition, we have also spent time evaluating the independence and the effectiveness of both internal and external audit processes as well as of the committee itself.
Anne Fahy Chair of the Audit Committee OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 69 MEMBERSHIP ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES The committee is composed entirely of independent nonThe role and responsibilities of the committee are to: executive directors and is chaired by Anne Fahy.
The directors review with management and the external auditors the who have served on the committee during the year are: Groups consolidated report and accounts and the halfyear report and any formal announcements relating to the Name Date of appointment to committee Groups financial performance based on the statutory audit A K Fahy 1 January 2013 or half-yearly review, as the case may be, before submission L G Cullen 14 November 2005 to the Board: R J King 1 September 2014 review the annual report and accounts and advise the Board K L Ludeman 1 January 2011 as to whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and N R Salmon 1 August 2014 understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business D A Thorpe 1 January 2009 model and strategy: make recommendations to the Board on the appointment Nick Salmon and Russell King were appointed to the committee of and take responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness on 1 August and 1 September 2014, respectively.
David Thorpe of, and agreement of, the fees for the statutory audit and retired from the committee on 31 August 2014. approval of fees to be paid to the external auditors for nonaudit work: Appointments to the committee are made by the Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee and approve the annual work programme of the internal auditor, in consultation with the committee Chair.
Anne Fahy and the fees to be paid in connection with that work and review Les Cullen are both financially qualified.
The other nonthe effectiveness of the internal audit process: executive directors all have substantial financial experience.
Directors biographies are included on pages 48 to 51. provide an independent overview of the Groups systems of internal control, whistleblowing processes and outcomes, The Company Secretary is secretary to the committee.
and financial reporting processes, through the co-ordination and supervision of the scope, quality, independence and TERMS OF REFERENCE effectiveness of the internal and external audit and other enquiries: and The committee has written terms of reference based on the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees and which set out clearly review the Companys processes for detecting fraud.
These are available on the Companys website at www.
The terms of The effectiveness of the Company and the Groups internal reference are considered at least annually by the committee control and risk management systems is reviewed by the Board.
and were last updated in December 2014.
MEETINGS The committee may investigate any activity within its terms of The committee met six times during the year.
The external reference and is authorised to seek any information it requires from, and require the attendance at, any meeting of any auditors were present at four of the meetings and the Head of Internal Audit and representatives from  director, officer or employee of the Company or of the Group.
LLP PwC, the provider of the internal audit function, The committee is authorised by the Board to obtain, at the were present at two of the meetings.
The Group Chairman, Companys expense, external legal or other professional advice Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Financial on any matters within its terms of reference.
Controller attended each of the meetings by invitation.
A full set of committee papers is provided to every director and The committee has twice taken the opportunity to seek the the Chair of the committee reports to the subsequent Board views of the external and internal auditors in private and both meeting on the committees work.
The Board also receives a the external and internal auditors have the opportunity to copy of the minutes of each meeting.
address the committee in private at any time should they so wish.
In addition, the Chair met with both parties periodically to review audit and internal control topics on an ongoing basis, which was beneficial in a period during which we changed our external auditors and completed a significant acquisition.
70 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED reviewed the risk register and ensured that the audit OVERVIEW OF ACTIVITIES activities aligned with it: In connection with the 2014 financial year the committee: ensured itself as to the adequacy of controls across the concluded the tender process to appoint external auditors worldwide businesses, particularly with regard to entities which resulted in the resignation of Deloitte LLP and the which are not controlled by the Group: subsequent appointment of Grant Thornton, further details of which are set out in the External Audit paragraph below: monitored non-audit fees in comparison to the audit fees in accordance with the Companys policy on the provision reviewed the 2014 half-year report and annual report and of non-audit services as detailed in External Auditor financial statements.
As part of this review the committee Objectivity and Independence below : satisfied itself as to the clarity and completeness of disclosures in the financial statements and that they were reviewed the internal audit programme and findings and appropriately contextualised.
It also reviewed the Chairmans remediation actions as well as agreeing the internal audit Statement, Strategic Report and Corporate Governance plan for 2015, ensuring an adequate coverage of risks: statement relating to audit and risk management.
As part of each review the committee received a report from the received a report at each meeting on the progress and external auditors on their audit of the annual report and outcome of the investigation of whistleblowing notifications: review of the half-year report, respectively: reviewed its terms of reference and whether any changes reviewed, prior to their consideration by the Board, the needed to be proposed to the Board: representation letters to be given to the external auditors conducted an evaluation exercise to review its own in respect of the annual and half-year reports: effectiveness: and reviewed audit effectiveness following the audit of the based upon the review of audit effectiveness, made a 2014 annual report taking into account the partners and recommendation to the Board regarding the continuation senior audit staffs understanding of the business, the in office for a second year of Grant Thornton for the 2015 effectiveness of the audit work in relation to major issues external audit.
and how those were addressed, the quality of suggested control improvements, the appropriateness of assurance gained over parts of the Group not audited by Grant SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED Thornton, the appropriateness and deployment of experts The committee has reviewed the key judgements applied on technical items, the quality and comprehensibility of in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements the audit findings report and feedback from management which have been prepared in accordance with the accounting on the audit process generally: policies and detailed notes to the financial statements on pages 114 to 152.
The committee received a paper, prepared reviewed and approved the external auditors terms of by management and reviewed by Grant Thornton, setting engagement for the 2014 half-yearly review and for the audit of the 2014 annual report: out by division the key judgements made in relation to the following matters: received a briefing from the Group Finance Director on the principal judgements made in determining the 2014 half-year Revenue and margin recognition report and the 2014 annual report and financial statements, T he recognition of revenue and profits on long-term reviewed those judgements and, taking into account the construction and service contracts requires management external auditors view, satisfied itself that the judgements to exercise significant levels of judgement involving a high and estimates were both appropriate and robust and in degree of discretion and control.
For construction-type accordance with the Groups accounting policies: contracts the key judgement concerns the recognition of profits, the recovery of work-in-progress and debtors, reviewed minor textual changes to the key accounting especially on non-certified amounts including variations and policies and satisfied itself that there had been no claims and forecast outcomes.
For service-type contracts change in substance and that the accounting policies the key accounting risk is that the revenue and costs are not remained appropriate: recognised in the correct period and provisions are not made considered and agreed the scope and fees to be paid to for losses when foreseen.
For contracts in the Equipment the external auditors for the 2014 half-yearly review and Services division, where revenue is recognised on either the 2014 audit: sale of equipment or over the period of an equipment hire, the key accounting risk relates to whether the appropriate received a bi-annual update on the Groups monitoring of cut-off for sales and period of hire has been applied and the fraud risk assessment: recoverability of debtors.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 71 T he committee reviewed the audit findings and management FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE judgements reviews undertaken on a selection of contracts FINANCIAL STATEMENTS perceived to carry the highest risk of misstatement against The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report.
the background of its familiarity with the operationally and or commercially challenged contracts which are regularly At the request of the Board the committee considered whether the report and accounts taken as a whole was fair, balanced discussed at Board meetings.
This also included the committee satisfying itself as to the recoverability of longand understandable.
In making that assessment, the committee took into account whether the report and accounts provided the dated debtor and work-in-progress balances.
necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys The committee reviewed the level of provisioning made performance, business model and strategy.
by management at both contract level and centrally at the The committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the year-end in order to form a view of the completeness of 2014 annual report was fair, balanced and understandable provisions on loss-making contracts and whether there was a and contained the information set out above and reported requirement to include a forward loss provision.
The quality accordingly to the Board.
The Boards statement in this regard of earnings and movement in provisions during the course of is set out on page 102. the year was also reviewed.
Acquisition accounting for the acquisition of EXTERNAL AUDIT Initial Facilities and esg Having decided in 2013 to tender the provision of external audit The committee reviewed the fair value of the consideration, services, a timetable and process was devised which would opening net asset position and examined the fair value permit the committee to make a recommendation to the Board adjustments, how the acquisition expenses had been in sufficient time to enable a decision to be made in advance of charged to the income statement, the calculation of the posting the 2014 AGM Notice.
fair value of intangible assets acquired with the business in respect of the order book and customer relationships In order to conduct the process of receiving tender bids, including the significant assumptions made by management evaluating presentations by the competing audit firms and in the determination of those values and satisfied itself that making a recommendation in an efficient manner, this task was these were appropriate.
delegated to a panel comprising the Chair of the committee, the Senior Independent Director, the Group Finance Director, Carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets the Company Secretary and the Group Financial Controller.
T he carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets on the balance sheet at the year-end was 524.5 million which Tenders were invited from four audit firms during the second week of January 2014 with a submission closing date five weeks included goodwill with a value of 401.4 million.
During the bid preparation period a two-week window The committee reviewed managements determination of was set aside for meetings to take place between each of the cash generating units, the key assumptions used such as bidders and key members of staff from around the Group.
the discount rate and future cash flows in light of current The tenders were evaluated against relevant criteria and oral business performance and future projections and satisfied presentations were delivered to the panel by each of the four itself of the appropriateness of managements impairment firms, following which the panel made its recommendation to testing, that significant headroom exists and that any the committee.
reasonable sensitivity to the assumptions did not indicate any impairment.
The committee Chair then undertook a brief consultation with key shareholders and completed reference checks.
The Retirement benefit accounting recommendation to appoint Grant Thornton was made to and Calculation of the retirement benefit obligation requires accepted by the Board.
management to make a number of assumptions including the Grant Thornton was formally appointed as the Companys selection of an appropriate discount rate and mortality.
auditor on 13 June 2014 following approval by shareholders The committee satisfied itself as to the reasonableness of the at the AGM and Deloitte LLPs resignation as auditor.
assumptions set out in note 30 to the financial statements, taking into account the independent third-party confirmations of the pension assets valuation held at the balance sheet date and the accounting entries relating to the insurance buy-in completed by the pension trustees in August.
The committee also satisfied itself that the accounting treatment for the insurance contract buy-in was appropriate and in accordance with relevant accounting standards.
72 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The committee also assessed Grant Thorntons objectivity, EXTERNAL AUDITOR OBJECTIVITY independence and effectiveness at the end of the half-year AND INDEPENDENCE review and 2014 audit cycles, taking into account the views of a The Company has an established policy aimed at safeguarding number of those involved in the audit process as well as having the independence and objectivity of the Groups external private meetings with the auditors and informal conversations auditors and this was one of the factors taken into account with the Chair.
The committee concluded that the audit had during the audit tender process.
been effective and that Grant Thornton remained independent throughout the process.
The external auditors may carry out certain categories of non-audit work in areas that have been pre-approved by the INTERNAL AUDIT committee up to a monetary limit of 150,000 per transaction.
The function of internal audit is to provide an independent and Any other work for which management may wish to instruct the objective appraisal to the Board, through the committee, of external auditors up to a value of 250,000 must be approved in the adequacy and effectiveness of the processes established advance by the committee or, more normally, by the committee to control the business and to assist the Board in meeting its Chair on its behalf.
Instructions above 250,000 require prior objectives and discharging its responsibilities.
The pre-approved services may be summarised as follows: The committee is responsible for monitoring, reviewing and assessing the role and effectiveness of internal audit in assurance services, tax compliance and advisory services the overall context of the Groups risk management system and where audit reports are required by statute or and review.
regulation: and The details of the annual internal audit programme for other services, encompassing general consultancy services.
the following year are submitted to the Audit Committee The above policy also prohibits the auditors auditing their each December for approval, and may be modified own work, making management decisions, entering into any subject to agreement of the Audit Committee based arrangement in relation to audit work whereby a joint interest on changing circumstances.
is created between the Company and the auditor, acting in The 2014 programme was modified to include a post-acquisition the role of advocate for the Company or being appointed as review of Initial Facilities, together with other minor changes.
recruitment consultants without the committees prior consent.
The internal audit programme of work is risk based, with key The committee received a report at each of its meetings business activities and financial reporting processes considered itemising the fees expended and forecast to be expended with for internal audit review on a cyclical basis.
The work is carried Grant Thornton for non-audit services.
In addition to the above out by PwC under an outsource contract, renewable annually.
safeguards, non-audit services were delivered by specialists and advisers who were independent of the audit team.
The principal objectives for the 2014 plan were to provide core assurance against those areas identified as high risk together The committee reviewed the nature and extent of non-audit with further assurance on some of the medium-risk areas fees expended on bid support to one of the Groups associate identified for rotational audit testing.
companies for a PFI project the engagement for which had been entered into some considerable time before Grant Thorntons The committee received a summary of each internal appointment as auditor, advising on completion accounts for audit review covering the findings, proposed corrective the Initial Facilities acquisition, tax and VAT compliance and actions and managements responsiveness to those findings the review of the half-year report representing 26.5 per cent, and recommendations.
2.3 per cent, 2.3 per cent and 9.5 per cent, respectively, of the overall audit fee of 945,000, and the committee concluded Closure of the agreed corrective actions is tracked via a webthat the safeguards set out above were sufficient so as not to based system and is monitored by management and reported compromise auditor objectivity and independence.
to the committee in June and December each year.
Further details of the audit and non-audit fees paid to Grant In order to monitor the level of control across the Group Thornton are included in note 4 to the financial statements on all material business units and relevant central and support page 123. functions were again required to complete an online selfassessment of their compliance with key controls covering 15 different business processes.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 73 This year, in order to facilitate a greater level of analysis across the Group, each business unit which was subject to a field audit in the year was also required to complete the online self-assessment.
The principal findings were: most businesses either maintained or improved their compliance to a level in excess of 95 per cent: and business continuity planning can be further improved in the Construction and International businesses by conducting more regular testing of the plans.
Whilst compliance scores were generally lower in the Initial Facilities businesses within Support Services, as it is in the course of transition to the higher control standards of the Group, considerable improvement has already been made in this direction, underpinning effective integration.
The Internal Audit partner has direct access to the Chair of the committee and they meet on a periodic basis in addition to the formal committee process.
In December the committee agreed the internal audit work plan for 2015.
Consistent with previous years, the plan is designed to provide core assurance against areas identified as high risk against an updated audit universe to reflect the changing risk profile of the Group, together with further assurance on some of the medium-risk areas identified for rotational testing and review of new activities and businesses.
In view of PwCs eight-year tenure as internal auditor, initially in a co-sourced capacity and latterly as a fully outsourced function, the committee intends to put the provision of internal audit services out to tender during the course of 2015. REVIEW After undertaking a review of its own performance the committee concluded that it had been effective in discharging the obligations entrusted to it by the Board.
AGM The Chair of the Audit Committee will be available at the AGM to answer questions about the work of the committee.
APPROVAL This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2015 and signed on its behalf by: Anne Fahy Chair of the Audit Committee 26 February 2015
