60 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GO GOV five ER RN NA AN NCE CE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LORD BLACKWELL Chairman Dear Shareholder Our role as a Board is to provide entrepreneurial leadership within an appropriate governance framework, set the standards of behaviour, values and ethics by which the business is expected to operate and to call to account those who do not abide by those principles.
As in previous years, the Board has had strong engagement in reviewing and developing our business strategy within this framework.
Our continued focus is on building strong core businesses and growing in adjacent markets and geographies that draw upon our distinctive commercial skills.
Our success rests upon our ability to deliver outstanding service and innovative solutions to our existing and potential customers.
This in turn depends on motivated and experienced employees supported by systems and processes that are strongly aligned with our values.
For shareholders our aim is to deliver above market growth with a strong balance sheet and resilient profitability from our portfolio of established and growing businesses, supporting a continued progressive dividend policy.
We therefore set ourselves stretching financial objectives while maintaining our prudent risk appetite.
As we continue to expand, our front-line service offering our continued licence to operate relies increasingly on maintaining the trust and confidence of our wider stakeholder base.
SustainAbilities, our vision for creating a sustainable business, is helping us establish stronger ties with the communities in which we work.
The components of that plan and our progress in meeting its ambitious goals and targets are an important component of this report.
One of the goals within our SustainAbilities Plan is further developing the diversity of our senior management to reflect the diversity of the business, with specific measures and targets to measure progress.
The diversity agenda is an important element of our people strategy and the practices which we have implemented over recent years.
These have included training in diversity and inclusion awareness for the managers at divisional board level and above, monitoring female participation in senior leadership programmes, and developing mentoring and coaching for women alongside our Women in Interserve support network.
To perform the Boards role effectively we believe we need a strong and diverse Board, with an open culture of debate and challenge, with all directors appointed on merit for the experience and insights they can bring to the Board and their commitment to our values.
We again refreshed the Board composition during the course of year, with David Thorpe retiring and Nick Salmon and Russell King joining as non-executive directors.
Whilst we did not achieve parity of numbers between the executive and non-executive directors until the latter part of the year, the strength and independence of our non-executives, our open style of debate and my observations of the manner in which the Board functions satisfied me that there was an effective governance check within the Board.
In making the two new appointments to the Board we again engaged the Zygos Partnership, an international search firm with a strong diversity record in board-level appointments, with a remit to identify a long list of candidates that would support our diversity objectives.
The final appointments reflected the need to balance a range of criteria, including both relevance and diversity of past experience.
We will continue to monitor our success in developing the diversity of the Board as part of the annual evaluation of Board effectiveness.
As was the case last year, all directors wishing to remain in office will seek re-election at the AGM.
Lord Blackwell Chairman OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 61 Key matters dealt with by the Board during the course of the COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE year, in addition to the ongoing monitoring of operational and The Financial Conduct Authority requires the Company to financial performance of the Group, were: disclose how it has applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2012 the Code setting the health and safety targets for the Group and and whether there has been compliance with its provisions monitoring performance on a monthly basis: throughout the financial year.
In the case of non-compliance, reviewing the health and safety systems of the International the Company must specify those provisions with which it has not division with reference to the kind of work undertaken, complied and give reasons for this.
The Code may be found on the safety culture of the businesses, challenges specific to the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
working in the Middle East environment, how improvements were planned to be achieved, the delivery of safety The directors consider that the Company has complied fully management and leadership, how competence is assessed with the provisions of the Code applicable to it throughout and the way in which reward and discipline is used to drive the accounting period ended 31 December 2014 with the safety improvement: following exception: the acquisitions of Initial Facilities and The Employment and Provision B.
1.2 of the Code requires at least half the Skills Group esg : board, excluding the Chairman, to comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
Until reviewing the Groups strategic direction, governance, 1 August 2014, the Board comprised five executive and four ethics, values and risk management.
In particular, the Board non-executive directors plus the Chairman.
Nick Salmon satisfied itself with regard to the concentration risk arising and Russell King were appointed as non-executive directors from the number of projects secured in the energy-fromon 1 August 2014 and 1 September 2014, respectively, waste market and the increased reputational risk arising and David Thorpe resigned as a non-executive director on from the expansion of the Groups front-line service delivery 31 August 2014.
As at the year end the Board comprised five most notably in relation to its success in securing 25 per executive and five non-executive directors plus the Chairman cent of the Transferring Rehabilitation Programme: and therefore now complies with Provision B.
reviewing the communication of the Companys brand Whilst non-executive and executive parity was not achieved both internally and externally: until towards the end of 2014, the Board was satisfied that the strength and independence of the non-executives, its open ongoing monitoring of key contracts where outcomes style of debate and the manner in which the Board functions could impact financial performance: meant that no one individual or small group of individuals could dominate Board decision making.
reviewing progress against the HR strategy: reviewing the strategy for the Groups UK construction LEADERSHIP business, in light of the expected upturn in the UK The Board construction market, and the potential for its expansion Operation of the Board into selected overseas markets: The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its setting the Groups annual budget and plan: decision, whilst day-to-day operational decisions are managed by the Executive Board, as referred to on page 64. approval of the annual and half-year report: In order to facilitate the efficient use of its time the Board has declaration of the interim dividend and recommendation delegated certain of its powers to Board committees, details of the final dividend: of which are set out later in this report.
From time to time the Board also establishes certain other committees to deal with a ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal specific issue which the Board has approved.
controls and an effective risk management and assurance strategy: and monitoring progress against the Groups SustainAbilities Plan.
The Board also undertook a visit to the Groups oil and gas services operations in Abu Dhabi and the oil and gas services, equipment services, training and construction operations in Oman.
62 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Nick Salmon and Russell King were appointed as non-executive Division of responsibilities directors on 1 August 2014 and 1 September 2014, respectively.
The role of the Group Chairman and Chief Executive are On 31 August 2014 David Thorpe resigned as a director.
split and clearly defined in written terms of reference.
Keith Ludeman succeeded David as chair of the Remuneration Committee on 9 July 2014.
The role of the Chairman The Group Chairman is responsible for the leadership of The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders the Board and creating the conditions for overall Board and should they have any concerns which contact through other individual director effectiveness, both inside and outside the channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact boardroom.
The Group Chairman regularly considers succession may be inappropriate.
He also provides a sounding board planning and the Boards composition with the Nomination for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the Committee and ensures effective communication with other directors when necessary.
As at 31 December 2014 the Board comprised 11 members: the The Group Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, Group Chairman, five executive and five non-executive directors.
sets the agenda for Board meetings and ensures that Board members receive timely information and are briefed on Non-executive directors and the Group Chairman are required issues arising at Board meetings to assist them in making to confirm, on appointment, that they have sufficient time to an effective contribution.
meet what is expected of them and to seek the committee chairmans agreement, or in the case of the Group Chairman, The role of the Chief Executive the Senior Independent Directors agreement, before accepting The Chief Executive bears primary responsibility for the additional commitments that might impact upon the time they management of the Group and in leading the formulation of are able to devote to their role as a non-executive director of and, once set by the Board, implementing strategy.
The letters of appointment of the non-executive Executive chairs the Executive Board and Risk Committee, leads directors and the Group Chairman specify the anticipated level the executive management team and investor communications of time commitment.
and is responsible for social and ethical matters within the Group.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive The role of the Company Secretary directors and the Group Chairman are available for inspection at The Company Secretary is responsible for distributing Board the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
papers and other information sufficiently far in advance of each meeting for the directors to be properly briefed, presenting BOARD EFFECTIVENESS certain papers to the Board and its committees, advising on Board procedures and ensuring the Board follows them.
Meetings The Board normally meets monthly throughout the year and on The Board papers include information from management on an ad hoc basis to consider any matters which are time-critical.
financial, business and corporate issues.
Matters requiring Attendance at Board and committee meetings is set out in the Board and committee approval are generally the subject of a table below.
written proposal and circulated as part of the Board papers.
The Company Secretary plays a key role in the good governance Board Audit Remuneration Nomination of the Company and in particular by supporting the Group Number of Meetings 14 6 12 6 Chairman on all board matters pertaining to governance.
Lord Blackwell 14 12 6 L G Cullen 14 6 12 6 Non-executive director independence and appointments The Group Chairman and the non-executive directors are S L Dance 13 considered by the Board to be independent in character A K Fahy 14 6 12 6 and judgement and free from any relationships or T P Haywood 14 circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear 1 R J King 4 1 4 2 to affect, their judgement.
K L Ludeman 14 6 12 6 B A Melizan 13 Les Cullen, who will not be standing for re-election at the 2015 AGM, completed a term of nine years as a non-executive A M Ringrose 14 6 director on 1 October 2014.
Notwithstanding this period 2 N R Salmon 5 2 5 2 in office, the Board continues to regard Mr Cullen as D I Sutherland 14 independent both in thought and in action.
3 D A Thorpe 9 4 7 3 The non-executive directors have complementary skills, 1 Appointed on 1 September 2014 experience and qualifications in a wide range of economic 2 Appointed on 1 August 2014 sectors and so are able to bring independent judgement to bear 3 Resigned on 31 August 2014 on matters for consideration.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 63 The Board also holds a strategy day in January each year to strategic matters as the Group continues to grow, and that review the strategic direction of the Group.
investment in building Group management and capability, whilst work-in-progress, would enable and require a shift in the way The Group Chairman held two formal sessions with the nonthe Board exercises its oversight and leadership.
executive directors without any executive directors being present and a number of informal discussions both with and The review also identified that the executive reward system was without the Chief Executive being present.
The non-executive due a revision in order to renew the link between incentives and directors also met once during the year, under the chairmanship longer-term strategic goals.
of the Senior Independent Director, without either the Group In view of the externally facilitated Board evaluation in 2013 Chairman or the executive directors being present.
the Board conducted an internal evaluation of its performance in 2014 which concluded that the Board continued to operate Board induction, time commitment and development effectively and that the diversity of skills and experience of the A tailored induction programme was arranged by the Company Board had been maintained.
Secretary for Nick Salmon and Russell King, which included refresher training on the duties of a listed company director Board strategy was considered to be clear and well delivered by the Company Secretary and a series of site visits communicated.
The balance between operational and strategic encompassing a representative cross-section of most of the matters at meetings was considered to be appropriate, with Groups UK operations accompanied by the executive director the impact on the Companys risk profile of changes in strategy, responsible for that part of the Group.
major new projects and other significant commitments being appropriately assessed.
Risk assessments were thought to be An ongoing programme of site visits, staff meetings and business well integrated into the decision-making process which was presentations provides additional opportunities for the Chairman enhanced by the Boards skills, knowledge, experience and the and non-executive directors to visit various operations of the level of support provided to it.
Group and to receive insight and feedback from employees.
Further progress has been made in the development of the During the year under review the non-executive directors have Groups infrastructure and organisation.
attended a number of seminars and or other non-executive forums relevant to their roles.
Reporting on the crystallisation of significant risks to the Board was considered to be generally good.
In April the Chairman was appointed as Chairman of the Lloyds Banking Group, having previously served as a non-executive The Boards safety culture and its values were considered to director for nearly two years.
be well communicated, with the leadership style, management structure, HR policies and reward systems all playing their part Performance evaluation in supporting the risk management and internal control systems.
During the course of the year the performance of the directors was reviewed by the Group Chairman and the Chief Executive The Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees carried and, in the case of the Chief Executive, by the Group Chairman, out a self-evaluation of their performance against their terms having consulted with other directors.
The Group Chairmans of reference and also reviewed those terms of reference.
performance was reviewed by the Senior Independent Director who held separate meetings with each of the directors and the Information and support Company Secretary.
As part of this review process the Chairman Individual directors may, after consultation with the Group met with the directors individually to review performance and Chairman, take independent legal advice in furtherance of review and agree any development and training needs.
their duties at the Companys expense up to a limit of 10,000 in relation to any one event.
In the case of the Group Chairman The overall time commitment of the non-executive directors he must consult with the Senior Independent Director.
All in the attendance of Board meetings visits was in the order of directors have access to the advice and services of the 22 days in addition to the time taken to read Board papers and Company Secretary, whose appointment or removal is a matter attendance at three meetings held by the Group Chairman.
reserved for the approval of the Board or any duly delegated committee thereof.
The Board appointed Independent Audit to undertake the Board evaluation for 2013, the outcome of which was presented to the Election and re-election Board in April 2014.
The evaluation highlighted that the Board Russell King and Nick Salmon will submit themselves for election was operating effectively, aided by its collegiate approach, by shareholders at the AGM on 12 May 2015.
With the exception and brings a wider perspective to the business, reducing the of Les Cullen, all remaining directors will submit themselves for risk of executive groupthink.
The tone of the meetings enables re-election at the AGM.
the detailed operational discussions which are necessary, given the nature of the Groups business, without compromising Biographical details for each of the directors standing for strategic consideration.
It highlighted the shift in emphasis election or re-election are set out on pages 48 to 51. from operational to more time being spent on Group-wide and 64 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and EXECUTIVE BOARD remuneration of the executive and non-executive directors is The Executive Board, which, during the year, comprised the detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 74 to 101. executive directors together with Trevor Bradbury Group Company Secretary, George Franks Managing Director For the recruitment of the two non-executive director of Interserve International, Robin OKelly Director of positions the committee again engaged the Zygos Partnership, Communications, Ian Renhard Managing Director of UK an international search firm which focuses upon board level Construction and Catherine Ward Group Director of Human appointments and well known for its strong diversity record.
Resources, is chaired by the Chief Executive.
There are no other connections between Zygos and the Company.
The Executive Board, which met 11 times during the course As well as personal characteristics, the candidate specifications of the year, is responsible for the operational management for the non-executive positions required strong industry and delivery against budget and forecast of the Group, experience, including an understanding of major complex implementing resolutions of the Board, formulation of strategy, contracts, as well as plc board level experience.
annual budgets and other proposals for consideration by the Board, the identification and evaluation for consideration From the long list identified by Zygos, eight potential candidates by the Board of risks faced by the Group and for designing, who best matched the above criteria were selected by the operating and monitoring a suitable system of internal control committee for further evaluation.
Each of these was then embracing the policies adopted by the Board.
It is also interviewed by the Chairman and at least one other committee responsible for devising and, once approved by the Board, member.
After taking references the two preferred candidates implementing suitable policies and monitoring procedures for were recommended to the Board for appointment.
health and safety, environmental, social and ethical, treasury, The committee also undertook a review of senior management human resources and information technology.
succession planning and the annual review of senior management talent.
Consideration was also given to the AUDIT COMMITTEE diversity ethnicity and gender and the age profile of the Details of the Audit Committee are included in the Audit workforce down to two levels below the Executive Board.
Committee Report on pages 68 to 73 and are incorporated into this Corporate Governance report by reference.
Development below Board level is covered in the Knowledge Capital section of the Sustainability Review.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE Diversity at senior level The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Group Chairman The Groups Diversity Policy states that diversity in all its forms and the majority of the members are independent nonis fundamental to the Groups business.
It is available on the executive directors.
External consultants are used for new website at www.
The committee keeps the Board structure, is to recruit, motivate, develop and retain outstanding people size and composition, balance of skills and knowledge and that reflect the diversity of the communities in which the experience both executive and non-executive under review Group operates.
and makes recommendations for any changes to the Board.
The Board monitors the extent to which the Group is meeting The committees terms of reference set out clearly its this objective and is committed to taking action where authority and duties, and are available on the Companys necessary or helpful to promote equal opportunity.
The success in developing the diversity of the Board is monitored Overview of activities as part of our annual evaluation of Board effectiveness.
Business conducted during the year included recommendations to the Board for the re-election of retiring directors at the We have increased the diversity of the Board and would expect AGM, selecting candidates for two non-executive director our diversity policy to lead to greater diversity on the Board appointments, reviewing the Board structure and composition and divisional boards over time.
We have also set ourselves the and senior management succession and development up to and target of having boards that better reflect the diversity of our including those at Board level, and Board succession planning.
business by 2016 and are tracking diversity measures against The effectiveness of the committee and its terms of reference this goal.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 65 Along with many in our sector, there is more work to do on OTHER BOARD COMMITTEES improving the representation of women on our boards given The Conflicts Committee comprises the Group Chairman or, in that that the pipeline of candidates at senior levels both the event that he is interested in the matter to be considered, internally and externally is for roles which, traditionally, the Senior Independent Director, and the Company Secretary.
have not had a diverse entry - although this is improving.
Our ongoing programmes seek to ensure a diverse entry and career The General Purposes Committee comprises any two executive management to retain and progress employees through their directors one of whom must be the Chief Executive or, in his career paths.
absence, the Group Finance Director.
We have also taken the following steps aimed at improving The Inside Information Committee comprises the Group the diversity of our senior level roles: Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
our Group talent and succession process for the top 300 The PFI Committee comprises any two or more directors.
managers includes reviewing and monitoring progress of female talent: Each committee has written terms of reference and reports on the business conducted to the following Board meeting.
ongoing monitoring of all appointments by gender and ethnicity for roles at 75,000 per annum and above: Committee meetings held during the year are as follows: as part of external recruitment for senior appointments, Committee Number of meetings executive search firms are instructed to provide Conflicts diverse shortlists: General Purposes 57 data monitoring the diversity mix across the Group is Inside Information included within the HR data set presented to the Executive Board and the Board on a quarterly basis: PFI 1 the diversity of participant nominations to senior leadership development programmes are monitored and actively ensure ACCOUNTABIITY female representation on each course: Risk Committee diversity and inclusion awareness has been provided to The Board has overall responsibility for internal control including the majority of our managers at divisional board level and risk management and the ongoing review of its effectiveness above.
This has included Unconscious Bias sessions run by a and sets appropriate policies having regard to the objectives leading expert in this field: of the Group.
It formally reviews the Groups register of risks and mitigation plans twice a year and discusses any significant a Women in Interserve WiN network has been developments in risk exposure as and when appropriate.
established which is used to provide a platform for networking among women, enabling women working within As discussed on page 64, the Executive Board has a key role the organisation to lift their visibility and profile, and to in risk management.
In order to assist it with discharging this provide development opportunities: and responsibility the Executive Board created a Risk Committee.
established a Mentoring Coaching programme for women The committee, which met five times during the year, across the organisation, run in conjunction with WiN.
comprises the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Health, Safety and Environmental Manager, Group Further information on progress made with wider employee Insurance Manager, the Group Company Secretary who is diversity matters can be found in the Our People section of its secretary, the Group General Counsel, the Group Chief the Sustainability Review on pages 39 and 40.
Information Officer, the Group Information Security Officer and a representative from each of the Groups operating divisions.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The internal audit partner has a standing invitation to attend.
The Remuneration Committee is composed entirely of The committee has written terms of reference and provides independent non-executive directors, details of which are copies of its meeting minutes to the Board.
set out in the table on page 62.
Keith Ludeman replaced David Thorpe as committee chairman on his retirement.
The business covered during the year included: reviews of the The responsibilities of the committee, together with an Groups prime risk areas and of contract risk allocation and explanation of the work undertaken and how it applies the control: reputation management: business continuity planning directors remuneration principles of the Code, are set out and IT disaster recovery: information security risk assessment: in more detail in the Directors Remuneration Report on regular reviews of the risks presented by forthcoming pages 74 to 101 and are incorporated by reference into this legislation: and updates on current insurance, internal audit, Corporate Governance report.
health and safety, HR and IT developments.
66 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Financial reporting FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS DISCLOSURES Based on submissions from the trading divisions, a budget In order to present a balanced assessment of the is prepared by the Group for approval by the Board before Companys position and prospects, the Annual Report the start of each financial year.
Subsequently, forecasts of contains a Directors Responsibility Statement on page 102, prospective financial performance are prepared as at the end an Independent Auditors Report about their reporting of March, May and September of each year.
Budgets and responsibilities on pages 103 to 107 and a going concern forecasts include the financial results, financial position statement on page 47.
An explanation of the Companys business and cash flows for each division and the Group Centre.
model and strategy for delivering the Companys objectives is set out on pages 8 and 9, and 4 and 5, respectively.
The Group has risk management systems and documented accounting policies and procedures to be applied by all entities The Directors Report contained on pages 52 to 59, of which in the Group in submitting their financial statements for this Corporate Governance report forms part, contains the consolidation to ensure that adequate accounting records are information required by paragraph 13 2 c, d, f, h and i maintained and transactions are recorded accurately and fairly of Schedule 7 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and to permit the preparation of consolidated financial statements Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
by The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 and The Large and Medium-sized Each month, every entity within the Group submits management Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment accounts in local currency to the Group Finance team.
The Regulations 2013. consolidated management accounts include the financial results, financial position, cash flows and projections and are submitted, INTERNAL CONTROL PROCESSES along with analytical commentary, to the Executive Board and The Board has a continuous process for identifying, evaluating subsequently the Board for review.
and managing the significant risks the Group faces together The management accounts submitted by members of the Group with an ongoing process to embed internal control and risk for June and December are used to prepare the half-yearly and management further into the operations of the businesses.
The Group Finance team reviews has been in place for the period under review and until the date the disclosures in the financial statements to ensure that they of approval of this Annual Report and Financial Statements.
comply with applicable reporting standards.
The half-yearly The Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and Executive Board and annual financial statements are reviewed by the Executive assist the Board in the application of these principles.
Board, the Audit Committee and the Board before publication.
The Board has documented a risk management policy setting The financial reporting process is reviewed periodically by out the prime risk areas including the threats, risk indicators, internal audit in accordance with the programme approved by control strategy and sources of assurance.
The policy is included the Audit Committee each year.
within the Groups internal controls manual.
Internal controls are reviewed by the Board in advance of the publication of the A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups Groups half-year and annual reports.
business is given on page 46 and a description of how the Group manages those risks is set out on page 31.
The Board received and reviewed bi-annual reports from the Executive Board on the effectiveness of the Groups system of Operational controls internal control for the period under review and implements The principal features of the Groups system of operational improvements from time to time in order to strengthen the control are: control processes.
An established management structure comprising the Board Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system with its various committees and an Executive Board.
of internal control, the Groups system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Executive Board and Board review of the monthly finance achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, and divisional trading reports.
but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups governance framework distinguishes between Documented delegated authority limits which are kept entities which are wholly controlled and joint ventures and under regular review.
Larger value proposals and business associate companies in which the Group does not have overall acquisitions and disposals are controlled by the Board.
For these joint ventures and associate companies, Manuals setting out Group policy and procedures, systems of internal control are applied as agreed between the with which all Group companies must comply.
Group and the other joint-venture parties or members of the associate company, as the case may be.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 67 The Group has certain key areas which are subject to Having due regard to their importance as stakeholders, we also central management or control, which include health, undertake regular one-to-one meetings and group presentations safety and environmental policies, legal, insurance, tax and with our bank and private placement lenders, in which treasury, real estate, internal and external communication, operational, strategic and market issues are discussed, together investor relations, information technology network services with the implications for our future financing requirements.
and operating systems, human resources and company secretarial.
These functions report to members of the The Groups annual and half-yearly results, interim management Executive Board.
statements, trading updates, presentations given to analysts and all announcements made through the RIS are published on the One or more members of the Executive Board and, in many Companys website at www.
cases, either the Chief Executive or the Group Finance Director, attend divisional board meetings.
All shareholders are given at least 21 clear days notice of the AGM.
It is standard practice for all directors to attend the During the course of each year members of the Executive AGM to which all shareholders are invited and at which they Board or other senior operational and financial management may put questions to the chairmen of the various committees visit or review all trading companies to discuss and monitor or the Board generally.
The proxy votes for and against each the performance of those businesses.
resolution, as well as abstentions which may be recorded on the proxy form accompanying the notice of AGM are counted before The Group has in place a whistleblowing policy which sets the AGM commences and are made available to shareholders out a framework for dealing with any allegations of fraud, financial misreporting and any whistleblowing notification.
A at the close of the formal business of the meeting.
The proxy copy of the policy is available on the Companys website at votes are also announced through the RIS and posted on the www.
Companys website shortly after the close of the meeting.
RELATIONSHIP WITH SHAREHOLDERS APPROVAL The main communications with financial investors are the halfThis report was approved by the Board of Directors on year and full-year results presentations.
These presentations are 26 February 2015 and signed on its behalf by: posted on our website and are available for all investors to view, along with a recording of the presentations themselves.
Lord Blackwell The Company encourages two-way communication with both Chairman institutional and private investors to develop an understanding 26 February 2015 of the views of major shareholders about the Company.
The Chief Executive, accompanied by the Group Finance Director, attended 46 meetings with analysts and institutional investors during the year ended 31 December 2014 and, respectively, 13 and 39 individual meetings.
Following his usual invitations, the Group Chairman held a meeting with a major shareholder and meetings were also held with major shareholders by the Chairs of the Audit and Remuneration committees, the details of which are included in their respective reports.
One-to-one meetings held with shareholders focus on such matters as Group strategy, operational performance, market trends, macro-economic influences, financial performance, merger and acquisition ambitions, peer group issues, the political environment and progress of key bids and key contract renewals.
One-to-one and group meetings held with analysts focus on the above issues and, in addition, the key factors which influence analysts financial forecasts, with a view to ensuring market consensus is based on accurate and up-to-date information, properly interpreted.
