Audit committee In September 2014, AMECs management detected a fraud in one of its overseas operations.
The fraud is not material The main objectives of the audit at the group level, however it is significant at the local entity committee are to provide independent level.
Management took immediate steps to prevent further loss and a criminal complaint was filed.
Two former employees scrutiny of the companys financial have been arrested pending criminal proceedings.
The and non-financial performance, the prosecutors have required that the details of the case remain confidential for the time being to avoid any prejudice to their adequacy of the risk management ongoing investigation and to any future criminal proceedings.
framework and the internal controls and The external auditors were notified at the time this fraud was uncovered by management.
the performance of both the external Our aim continues to be one of being proactive and to provide and internal audit functions.
This is of constructive challenge over the information we receive.
Over particular importance given the added this past year we have again been served particularly well with the timeliness and quality of information provided by responsibilities of conforming to the management and from the internal and external auditors.
The wide diversity reports have been relevant and clear which has enabled this committee to discharge its duties effectively.
of experience and knowledge on the Your committee is mindful of its additional responsibilities committee helps to achieve these now the combined business is listed on both the London and objectives and constructive challenge New York stock exchanges.
We are working on a programme of integration and overseeing compliance with the Sarbanesand guidance continues to be provided Oxley Act SOX, which the combined group will need to to the executive team.
achieve full compliance with by 2015 year-end.
The composition of your committee is changing.
I very Dear Shareholder much welcome the appointment of Stephanie Newby to the The acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG in November 2014 was a committee: Stephanie previously served as a non-executive celebratory moment in AMECs long history, as well as being director on the board and audit committee of Foster Wheeler.
a very busy time for this committee.
The level of due diligence I am sure the knowledge Stephanie brings of the Foster performed by the management team and their advisors was Wheeler business will add value and insight to this committee.
substantial, as you might expect for the size of this transaction, As already announced by the company, Simon Thompson and also for the numerous regulatory requirements that had is stepping down from the board and this committee at the to be complied with here in the UK, as well as in the US and conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
Simon has served this committee Switzerland.
Your committee and board played a key role in extremely well over a number of years and I would like to thank overseeing and scrutinising this due diligence and, where him for his valuable contribution.
necessary, requesting and receiving additional detailed information for further examination.
Of course, while the acquisition of Foster Wheeler was a busy time for all concerned, there was still the day job to be done.
The committee continued to play its vital role of Colin Day scrutinising the integrity and relevance of the existing groups Chairman of the audit committee financial reporting requirements, the appropriateness of the 26 March 2015 internal control environment across numerous geographies, and the continued suitability of the groups system of risk Members management, as well as overseeing the internal and external During 2014, the audit committee comprised all the audit activities.
In addition, the committee has paid particular independent non-executive directors.
The committee meets at attention to material projects and has discussed the key least three times each year and the quorum for the committee features, risks and opportunities these present.
Amec Foster Wheeler 50 Annual report and accounts 2014 Membership and attendance of the audit committee Key responsibilities up to 31 December 2014 X Reviewing the annual and half-yearly financial statements with particular focus on key accounting and audit judgement Scheduled Unscheduled and making recommendations to the board for their approval.
Colin Day Chairman 3 3 3 3 X Monitoring the clarity of disclosures, going concern Linda Adamany 3 3 3 3 assumptions and compliance with UK and US accounting standards.
Neil Carson 3 3 2 3 X Reviewing and monitoring the internal controls and risk Tim Faithfull up to 3 April 2014 1 1 1 1 management systems.
Simon Thompson 3 3 2 3 X Overseeing the relationship with the external auditor Stephanie Newby from 13 November 2014 1 1 1 1 including the approval of the engagement letter, letter of representation and statutory audit fees, with particular focus Unscheduled meetings were convened throughout the year to on independence and rotation in accordance with UK and US consider matters relevant to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler.
As these were not scheduled, members were not always able X Promoting an effective internal audit function.
to attend but were provided with full packs of information and their comments were invited.
X Overseeing the companys compliance with London and New York stock exchanges, FCA and SEC requirements.
There were three scheduled audit committee meetings in 2014 and three unscheduled meetings.
X Reviewing arrangements whereby staff may raise concerns about any suspected or known improprieties and ensuring Colin Day has relevant and recent experience in auditing and that such matters are investigated and appropriate actions accounting and the board considers that he has sufficient taken.
financial experience and qualifications to satisfy the criteria under US rules for an audit committee financial expert.
X To monitor and review UK corporate governance and US SOX Biographies of all committee members can be found on pages compliance.
X To receive the reports of the disclosure committee.
The membership of the committee currently comprises Activities of the committee Colin Day Chairman, Linda Adamany, Neil Carson, On 17 December 2014, the board adopted revised terms of Stephanie Newby and Simon Thompson.
Simon will step down reference for the committee to take account of the additional from the committee following the AGM in May.
obligations placed on the committee as a result of the The company chairman, the executive directors, the Companys new US listing.
These are available to view at Group Financial Controller, the Head of Internal Audit and amecfw.
representatives of the external auditor also attend meetings Training provided to the committee in the year included by invitation.
a presentation in December 2014 from the Chief Corporate During 2014, the committee chairman met separately with Compliance Officer on SOX requirements and information the external auditor, the Head of Internal Audit and the CFO, from Ernst & Young LLP EY on changes in EU regulation of in each case without others being present.
No areas of concern non-audit services.
In 2014, as part of the external review of board effectiveness, Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, we have respondents were asked about the perceived performance established a disclosure committee, which is a management of the audit committee.
This was highly rated overall.
It was committee that reports to the audit committee and which will acknowledged that significant work would be needed to meet assist the committee with regard to verifying the information the additional demands required by the US listing.
that is required to be disclosed in the companys material In preparation for each meeting, the CFO prepares an extensive public disclosures and in its periodic reports.
This is intended report covering all material financial, tax and treasury matters.
to ensure such disclosures are in compliance with all relevant Particular areas of focus in 2014 included: laws, rules and regulations, including the UK Listing Authority, the London Stock Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange and X given the size of the Foster Wheeler acquisition and the the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
estimates involved in the purchase price allocation exercise, the committee undertook a thorough review of an in depth report from the Chief Financial Officer and challenged the appropriateness of the fair values assigned thereto: X with regard to the allocation of goodwill and impairment testing arising from the acquisition, the committee challenged and stress tested the assumptions that were being made in the process: Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 51 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Audit committee continued X contract risks and material contracts those above 10m In its reviews of the full and half-year results, particular in contract value showing a deteriorating position over time, emphasis continued to be placed on contractual issues such as TGPP and Bluewater.
The committee monitored where the reported financial position was fully analysed and managements enhancements to its early warning system discussed in the CFOs report and the findings were validated to augment visibility, at an earlier stage, to the board of by means of in depth questioning.
potentially underperforming material contracts for further At the request of the board, the committee has also scrutiny.
This process identified potential issues with the reviewed and provided advice on whether the annual report Buncefield contract, which had been placed on the watch list, and accounts, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and as it had suffered margin decline and delays: understandable, to enable the companys shareholders to X with regard to the provisions and estimates including assess the companys performance, business model and litigation within the accounts, the committee, in conjunction strategy.
with the external auditor, spent time focusing on these and In coming to its view that it is satisfied with the overall fairness, satisfying itself as to their appropriateness: balance and clarity of the document, the committee took into X revenue recognition, which is by necessity based on account: management estimates and assumptions, particularly with X its own knowledge of the group, its strategy and performance regard to timing.
In conjunction with the external auditor, in the year: the judgements of management were challenged, especially those relating to end-life forecast estimates.
The groups X the comprehensive guidance provided to all contributors policies and processes that control the estimates made in to the annual report and accounts: such areas were also examined to ensure that they continued X a thorough internal verification of the factual content within to be relevant and robustly and consistently applied: the document: X the ongoing quality and acceptability of the groups X the comprehensive reviews undertaken at different levels in accounting policies and the going concern statement.
the group to ensure consistency and overall balance: and No issues were identified: X a detailed review by senior management.
X an in depth review and challenge of the deferred tax assets and the tax provisions: Internal controls and risk management The committee reviews the processes by which the companys X a thorough review of the uplift external audit procedures in control environment is evaluated.
A control risk selforder to meet the requirements of the SEC Public Company assessment is undertaken every year, with comprehensive Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB in the US: integrity checks, and the exercise in 2014 again identified no X consideration of the external auditors transaction fees in significant areas of concern.
The groups senior management respect of the Foster Wheeler acquisition.
Details of these is formally required to confirm compliance within their fees can be found on page 54: businesses with the groups Code of Business Conduct, its policies and procedures and any areas of concern need X a full review of the group accounts for 2011, 2012 and 2013, to be fully explained and addressed.
A revised Code of which had been restated and updated to be concurrent with Business Conduct for the combined business is in the course the 2013 accounts in connection with the then prospective of preparation.
Foster Wheeler acquisition: The Head of Internal Audit reports to the committee on any X as part of the CFOs report, the committee receives details alleged or suspected wrongdoings reported through the of all breaches of treasury policy.
This has increased the independently run helplines or otherwise.
All such incidents committees knowledge of how relatively minor issues are in the year were investigated and didnt reveal any significant identified and addressed to ensure they do not become internal control failures or have a material financial impact more significant matters.
In the year, minor breaches were at group level.
The committee also reviewed management identified in relation to bank counterparty limits but none actions, which included enhancements made to existing were considered to be material: and controls or procedures and, in a few instances, disciplinary X agreeing the appropriate disclosures and treatment of all action taken against employees, which included dismissals exceptional items, including the disposal of the groups where warranted.
investment in the Lancashire Waste Project in March 2014.
Amec Foster Wheeler 52 Annual report and accounts 2014 The committees primary responsibilities in relation to risk The audit differences and quality of earnings schedule for management are in ensuring that robust processes are in the year ended 2014 was presented by EY at the March 2015 place for managing risk throughout the group.
The value of unadjusted differences and the quality the acquisition of Foster Wheeler in the fourth quarter of of earnings high level review of the impact of items that could 2014 and are currently reviewing the control framework and be considered non-recurring in nature were discussed in detail.
integrating the risk and control systems with those of the wider The audit differences were not considered to be material and group.
Although Foster Wheeler was fide-listed from NASDAQ the quality of earnings was considered appropriate.
and fide-registered from the SEC subsequent to completion On behalf of the committee, the Head of Internal Audit of the acquisition, the SOX programme of testing the groups undertakes an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the key financial controls for compliance continued to its usual external auditor, overseen by the Company Secretary.
Management testing was undertaken in line with views of senior members of the finance teams throughout the previous years and the overall conclusion was that Foster group are sought, as well as qualitative feedback.
Responses Wheeler continued to be SOX compliant for 2014. can be measured and directly compared with previous surveys, The groups principal business and strategic risks are shown so that progress can be monitored.
in the strategic report on pages 21 to 23 and the approach to In March 2015, the committee received a report on the managing risk is shown in more detail on page 20. effectiveness of the external auditor during 2014.
Management Internal audit indicated that EYs performance had again been generally In 2014, the committee continued to monitor and review the satisfactory but that additional focus should be given to the operation of the internal audit function, receiving a full report audit of the integrated Foster Wheeler business going forward.
at each meeting from the Head of Internal Audit.
The Head of EY were appointed as Amec Foster Wheelers external auditor Internal Audit formally reports to the committee chairman.
in 2010, following a formal tender process.
Both EY and the audit partner responsible for the group audit have now been The findings of each internal audit review are summarised and the committee focuses its discussions on unsatisfactory in place for five years and, therefore, a new audit partner will be in place for the 2015 audit.
The committee takes account findings and on the action plans in place to address them.
Particular areas of concern during 2014 included breaches of and endorses the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code with regard to the appointment of the of policy with regard to the appointment of advisors by the operations, issues with the appointment of recruiting service external auditor, which means that the external audit contract will be put out to tender at the latest by 2020, subject to providers and an instance of expense abuse in an overseas company, which had been raised through the ethics helpline.
External audit Amec Foster Wheeler has formal procedures relating to its During 2014, the committee continued to oversee the relationship with the external auditor including for the provision relationship with the external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP of non-audit services, to ensure that such work does not impair EY.
The committee reviews both the procedure for the the external auditors objectivity and independence.
This engagement of the external auditor and the procedure for the procedure clearly outlines the category of work the external appointment of the external auditor every year.
In 2014 both auditor is permitted to carry out and the rules governing what procedures were amended to reflect US requirements.
The procedure follows the guidelines and requirements set out by the Institute of Chartered Accountants Each year the relevant audit risks are assessed.
As in previous in England and Wales and was amended during the year to years, the primary risks identified were revenue recognition, take account of the requirements of SOX and the PCAOB.
valuation of work in progress and receivables, the accuracy The committee now delegates authority to the Chairman of of end life forecasts, the adequacy of contract provisions and the audit committee to pre-approve all non-prohibited services legacy liabilities.
undertaken by the external auditor.
In addition, all non-audit For this year, new areas included impairment testing of goodwill services performed by the external auditor will be disclosed and purchase price allocation following the Foster Wheeler to investors in the companys periodic reports.
acquisition, provisions and contingent liabilities generally.
The process is continually monitored by the Head of Internal Other risk areas included the adequacy of tax planning and Audit and details of all other services performed are formally presented to the audit committee twice a year.
It reserves, the adequacy of provisions in respect of legacy liabilities, presentation of exceptional items and the risk of is the responsibility of the audit committee to monitor the overall level of non-audit fees relative to audit fees from fraud and management override.
Throughout the year and in conjunction with EY, the committee challenged management an independence point of view and to confirm that auditor independence has been safeguarded.
If there are any concerns and assured itself that the risks were being addressed and that reporting on the matters was balanced.
about this, for the avoidance of doubt, the undertaking of such work would not be permitted.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 53 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Audit committee continued The level of non-audit fee awarded to EY in 2014 is considerably Fees payable by the group to the companys statutory auditor, higher than would normally be the case, as shown in the table EY, and its associates were as follows: opposite.
In conjunction with the CFO, the audit committee chairman approved the services of EY to undertake and 2014 2013 m m support managements continued due diligence work for the acquisition of Foster Wheeler.
The substantial due diligence Audit fees performed by EY primarily covered the balance sheet, profit Audit of the companys accounts 3.9 0.3 & loss, accounting policies, revenues, provisions, liabilities, Audit of the accounts of the general accounting, tax, corporate finance and differences companys subsidiaries 1.5 1.1 between US GAAP and IFRS.
5.4 1.4 The decision to appoint EY to undertake this work was Tax fees considered by the audit committee to be in the best interest of Tax compliance services 0.4 0.3 shareholders.
The firm has a deep understanding of the group, Tax advisory services 0.1 placing them at a distinct advantage to support the board in 0.4 0.4 this regard.
In addition, following completion of the acquisition, All other fees a sizeable portion of the work performed by EY did not need to Corporate finance transactions 6.4 1.6 be repeated, thereby making the most efficient and economic Other non-audit services 0.1 0.1 use of shareholders funds.
6.5 1.7 Following completion of the offer for Foster Wheeler, 12.3 3.5 on 13 November 2014, EY were appointed as the independent registered public accounting firm of Foster Wheeler AG in place Fees for the audit of the companys accounts relate to the of  LLP PwC.
EY therefore acted in audit of the parent companys accounts and the consolidated such role for the period from 13 November 2014 to financial statements.
All EYs fees for non-audit work in 2014 were approved in accordance with the companys policy covering non-audit services.
As a result of the application of this policy and additional discussions with them, the directors do not believe that EYs independence has been compromised because of this additional work on behalf of the company.
During 2014, EY were paid non-audit fees of 2.7m by Foster Wheeler prior to the acquisition date.
Any services that would have been prohibited for a statutory auditor to perform ceased before the acquisition date when EY took on the responsibility of statutory auditor for the combined group.
Amec Foster Wheeler 54 Annual report and accounts 2014
