Leadership Board composition Directors tenure as at 31 December 2014 As at 31 December 2014, the board comprised the non-executive John Connolly 3 yrs 7m chairman: two executive directors the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer : and five non-executive directors.
As a Samir Brikho 8 yrs 3m result of the Foster Wheeler acquisition, Kent Masters joined the Ian McHoul 6 yrs 3m board on 13 February 2015 as a non-executive director.
Given his Linda Adamany 2 yrs 3m former role as Chief Executive Officer of Foster Wheeler AG, Kent is not considered to be independent.
Details of the directors, Neil Carson 4 yrs 4m including their biographies, other significant commitments and Colin Day 4 yrs 2m committee memberships can be found on pages 45 to 47.
Stephanie Newby 1m Membership of the board Simon Thompson 5 yrs 11m 6 Non-executive Chairman 1 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Executive director Non-executive director Attendance at meetings The board holds a minimum of six regular meetings throughout the year, scheduled in accordance with an annual timetable.
Additional board meetings and telephone conferences are held 2 as required to deal with specific issues.
In 2014 there were six scheduled meetings and ten unscheduled meetings.
Directors are expected to attend all scheduled board and relevant committee meetings, unless they are prevented from The balance of executive and non-executive directors, doing so by unavoidable prior business commitments or other reinforced by adherence to sound governance procedures, valid reasons.
All directors are provided with full papers in ensures no one individual, or group of individuals, dominates advance of each meeting.
Where a director is unable to attend the boards decision-making process.
The varied backgrounds a meeting, they are encouraged to discuss any issues arising and commercial experience of the non-executive directors, and with the Chairman or Chief Executive as appropriate.
their independence from management, ensures rigorous debate at meetings and the constructive challenge and oversight of Number of meetings attended the executive directors in relation to the strategic direction and Scheduled Unscheduled performance of the group.
1 John Connolly 5 6 10 10 Experience of the board Samir Brikho 6 6 10 10 7 Financial management and 5 Ian McHoul 6 6 10 10 corporate finance Corporate governance Linda Adamany 6 6 10 10 6 International experience Experience in business sectors Neil Carson 6 6 6 10 relevant to Amec Foster Wheeler 6 Colin Day 6 6 9 10 HSSE Strategy 5 Tim Faithfull to 3 April 2014 1 1 2 2 Number of board directors Stephanie Newby from 13 November 2014 1 1 2 2 9 with experience in each topic Simon Thompson 6 6 10 10 The board is mindful of the need to maintain an appropriately diverse mix of skills, experience, independence and knowledge 1 The Chairman was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
of the group to ensure the delivery of the groups strategy and Unscheduled meetings were convened throughout the year performance.
The nominations committee regularly reviews the to consider matters relevant to the Foster Wheeler acquisition.
composition of the board against these criteria.
As these were not scheduled, members were not always able The Companys articles of association require all directors to attend but were provided with full packs of information and to seek re-election by shareholders at the AGM following their were invited to make comments.
initial appointment and every three years thereafter.
However, in line with the recommendations of the Code, our practice is that all directors submit themselves for re-election on an annual basis.
All of the directors wishing to continue serving, and considered eligible by the board, will offer themselves for re-election at the 2015 AGM.
Details of the directors service contracts, emoluments and share interests are set out in the remuneration report on pages 66 to 72.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 77 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Leadership continued The Chairman and Chief Executive At least one scheduled meeting each year takes place away from Amec Foster Wheelers head office in London.
This The company does not combine the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive.
There is a clear and well defined division of provides the board with an opportunity to understand more about Amec Foster Wheelers business and to meet employees accountability and responsibility between the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive and these are set out in writing based locally.
In June 2014 the board meeting took place in our offices in Aberdeen, UK, where the board met with local and have been agreed by the board.
The consequence of this clear division of responsibility at the head of the company management and also visited the Robert Gordon University, accessing the state of the art Drilling and Rig Training DART is such that no individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The Chairman and Chief Executive are committed to ensuring simulator developed by the university to help address this area of skills shortage in our industry.
the development and maintenance of an effective and trusting relationship with the appropriate balance between challenge Amec Foster Wheeler has a strong working relationship with and support.
the university, which is very closely affiliated with the oil and gas industry and has provided many of the companys engineering The Chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership and graduates.
At a high level, he is accountable for facilitating constructive relations between and the participation In addition to the matters reserved for the board, certain of all board members, so as to encourage a culture of openness items are considered at every scheduled board meeting.
and debate and enable the board to fulfil all aspects of its The Chief Executive provides a report on business performance, role.
The Chairman has undertaken to ensure that the board strategy execution and emerging issues and the Chief Financial discharges its duties to promote the success of the company Officer updates the board on financial results and progress and to guide Amec Foster Wheelers business and conduct in against the short range plan.
Executive reports are received accordance with the highest ethical standards.
on investor relations and market issues, HR and health and safety.
In addition, the Chairman and the General Counsel and Each year the Chairman produces a board plan intended to Company Secretary provide an update on legal and governance summarise the boards activities in executing its duties during matters and twice yearly the General Counsel and Company the year.
The plan highlights the priorities the board has Secretary provides updates on material claims and disputes.
identified for the year, and those of the Chief Executive, and is modified to take account of unscheduled developments.
Business unit management is regularly invited to present In setting the agenda for board meetings, the Chairman ensures at board meetings and, led by the Group Presidents, provide sufficient time is available for discussion and meaningful deep dive reviews of each region.
In addition to standing items challenge of all matters, particularly strategy, performance, discussed at each meeting, the board cycles through a schedule value creation and accountability.
of financial and planning matters including the approval of financial results and dividends: strategic and special matters The Chief Executive is responsible, subject to those matters including the review and approval of strategy: the determination reserved to the board, for running Amec Foster Wheelers of major risks and risk appetite and transaction and competitor businesses with the primary objective of creating shareholder reviews.
The board receives an annual presentation from the value.
Consistent with this objective, the Chief Executive has Group Human Resources Director on senior management ultimate responsibility for the proposal, development and succession planning and management development.
implementation of the groups strategy.
The building and In 2014, this took place in June and the board were advised maintenance of an effective executive management team, and of the creation of a new people forum, the purpose of which the allocation of responsibility therein, are key components of was to ensure that succession was considered more deeply and essential to the performance of the Chief Executives role.
The board has also identified a The Chief Executive takes the lead role in the promotion range of topic reviews that are addressed annually and these of Amec Foster Wheeler, gives personal leadership to the include the strategies followed by the groups functions e. g. realisation of the companys vision and values and encourages Tax, Treasury and IT, as well as the board effectiveness and the highest standards of health, safety, security, environmental composition reviews.
The board also holds a separate additional meeting each year to perform a full strategic review of the group.
On account of the timing of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, the strategy event scheduled for October 2014 was postponed until April 2015.
Amec Foster Wheeler 78 Annual report and accounts 2014 Prior to appointment and on any material changes, the external Senior Independent Director Simon Thompson has acted as the boards Senior Independent commitments of each non-executive director, including those of the Chairman, are reviewed.
During the year, John Connolly Director since the conclusion of 2014 AGM, following the retirement of Tim Faithfull.
Simon was selected for the role became the chairman of a small private company, the Elian Group, which is based in Jersey: Linda Adamany was appointed on account of his significant knowledge of Amec Foster Wheeler and its operations and his experience as a director as a non-executive director of Leucadia National Corporation, Neil Carson was appointed as a non-executive director of of international companies in sectors that are relevant to the group.
The Senior Independent Director is responsible for: PayPoint Plc and Colin Day became a director of FM Global and was appointed to the FRC Audit Advisory Group.
In accordance X providing additional support to and acting as a sounding board with the boards policy to ensure that non-executive directors for the Chairman: are not conflicted and are able to commit sufficient time to X acting as an additional channel of communication between meet their duties and responsibilities to Amec Foster Wheeler, the prospective appointments were disclosed to the board the Chairman and the other directors: for approval.
In no case was it considered that the external X being available to shareholders for concerns they may have appointment would have a detrimental effect.
Each directors that have not been resolved through the normal channels of undertaking as to their ongoing commitment to the role, the Chairman, Chief Executive or other executive directors, together with an assessment of their continued independence, or which are not appropriate to raise through these channels: is reviewed as part of their annual performance evaluation.
X acquiring an objective understanding of the issues and Amec Foster Wheelers non-executive directors are not concerns of Amec Foster Wheelers shareholders through employed by the company in any capacity, nor have they attendance at a sufficient number of meetings with the previously been.
Kent Masters was the former Chief Executive companys major shareholders and financial analysts: Officer of Foster Wheeler AG and Stephanie Newby was X at least annually establishing the views of the non-executive formerly an independent non-executive director of Foster directors as to the performance of the Chairman: Wheeler AG.
The letters of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the companys X following completion of the above evaluation exercise, registered office by request to the Company Secretary and will providing feedback to the Chairman on his performance: and be available for inspection at the companys forthcoming AGM.
X overseeing the recruitment of the Chairman.
Conflicts of interest As previously noted, Simon Thompson will step down from the The board has procedures in place for the disclosure and review of conflicts of interest.
No material conflicts of interest board at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM, having served six years on the board.
Following Simons retirement, Neil Carson arose in 2014.
Prior to appointment, director-elects provide information on any conflicts of interest, and thereafter any will take on the role of Senior Independent Director.
Both the nominations committee and the board considered that potential conflicts of interest are considered at the start of each board meeting.
Accordingly, each director is aware of their Neil Carson best met the criteria required for the role.
responsibility to avoid a situation where they have an actual or Non-executive directors potential conflict of interest, the requirement to keep the same The non-executive directors are crucial in bringing an external under review and inform the Chairman and Company Secretary perspective and wide range of skills, experience, expertise of any change in their situation.
An effective procedure is in and diversity of views to the boards deliberations and the place for the board to authorise conflict situations, should they development of strategy.
They constructively challenge and arise, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the scrutinise the performance of management against agreed companys articles of association.
objectives and provide an invaluable contribution to the work of the boards committees.
The board benefits greatly from the The Company Secretary is responsible for keeping appropriate contribution and balance they bring.
To ensure this continues, records, including the scope, of any authorisations granted by the Chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors, the board, and ensures the board undertakes regular reviews without the executive directors present, immediately following of conflict authorisations.
Executive directors are not permitted to accept external The boards policy is that non-executive director appointments appointments without the prior approval of the board.
are normally for three consecutive three-year terms, subject In March 2014, Ian McHoul was appointed as a non-executive to assessment by the nominations committee after the end director of Britvic plc.
Prior to accepting the appointment, the of each term.
The committee makes recommendations on board reviewed the nature of the position and time commitment reappointment to the board.
required and concluded that it would not adversely impact on his ability to fulfil his role as Chief Financial Officer of Amec Foster Wheeler plc.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 79 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
