Our Group Leadership Team In addition to the executive directors shown on pages 45 and 46, Amec Foster Wheelers Group Leadership Team consists of the The team is comprised of senior following individuals: operational and functional management, each of whom brings a depth of knowledge and experience to their role.
Simon Naylor Gary Nedelka Jonathan Nield John Pearson Group President, Americas Group President, Global Power Group Group Project Delivery Director Group President, Simon was appointed Group Gary was appointed Group President, Jon was appointed Group Project Northern Europe & CIS President, Americas in October Global Power Group on 1 January Delivery Director on 13 November Before taking the role of Group 2012.
Prior to that Simon had 2015, having served as Chief 2014, immediately prior to which President, Northern Europe & CIS been President Natural Resources Executive Officer of Foster Wheelers he served as Vice President, Project on 1 January 2015, John was Group Americas since 2007, where he Global Power Group since January Risk Management of Foster Wheeler President of Europe and, prior to led the growth and successful 2009.
Prior to this, he served as a position he held since May 2011. that, he was Managing Director of development of the companys President and Chief Executive Officer Previously, he was a director of the Oil & Gas business in Europe and leading positions in the core market of Foster Wheeler North America Foster Wheeler Energy Limited and West Africa.
He joined the company sectors of Mining, Oil & Gas and Corp. an indirect, wholly-owned he has served in various executive in 1990 and has worked in a variety Oil Sands.
In his 22 years with subsidiary within the Global Power positions with that company.
He of roles in engineering and project the company, Simon has worked Group.
Previously he was President was a member of the Foster Wheeler management.
In the past, John has across the project life cycle: from and General Manager of operating team for more than 25 years.
led the companys Oil & Gas projects consulting, engineering and project companies in China and he held and Asset Support business streams Jon has a BSc in Mechanical management.
A natural resources a variety of positions of increasing globally.
Prior to joining the business, Engineering from Newcastle professional, his experience includes responsibility in commercial John worked for Chevron and has University, an MSc in Project project development, asset support, operations and engineering worked around the world, having Management from Cranfield School strategy, customer relationship management.
He joined Foster spent time based in Aberdeen, of Management.
He currently serves management and operations Wheeler in 1979 and is a member of San Francisco, Baku and London.
as a director of the Engineering & leadership.
the American Society of Mechanical John is currently joint contractor Construction Risk Institute.
co-chair of Oil & Gas UK and sits as Simon has an MBA from Cranfield a board member for PILOT, the Fiscal School of Management and a BSc Gary holds a BSc in mechanical Forum and the OGA.
from University College London in engineering from Clarkson College Chemical Engineering.
John holds a BSc Honours Engineering degree from Aberdeen University.
Roberto Penno Jeff Reilly Will Serle Alison Yapp Group President, President, Strategy & Business Group Human Resources Director General Counsel and AMEA & Southern Europe Development Will was appointed Group Human Company Secretary Roberto was appointed Group Jeff was appointed President, Resources Director on 1 May 2011, Alison was appointed General President, AMEA & Southern Europe Strategy & Business Development having previously held the position Counsel and Company Secretary on 1 January 2015, immediately on 28 April 2014.
He started his of Human Resources Operations on 1 December 2012.
Immediately prior to which he was CEO of Foster career with Stone & Webster Director since 2009.
Will is also prior to joining the company she was Wheelers Global E&C Group Engineering Corp. as a Chemical responsible for sustainability at Company Secretary and General a position he held since 2013.
Process Design Engineer and Amec Foster Wheeler.
He joined Legal Counsel of Hays plc, previous Previously he was CEO of the Global developed his career there and at the Company in 2000 as Human to which she was Company Secretary E&C Groups Asia-Pacific Region.
ABB Lummus Global Inc as company Resources Director for the Oil & Gas and Group Legal Adviser of Charter A 27-year veteran of Foster Wheeler, Vice President at both engineering business, moving to the Natural plc.
She is a solicitor and has more he has held a variety of positions and construction organisations.
Resources role in 2006. than 20 years experience as a senior with the company, including He joined ConocoPhillips in 2005, lawyer in industry.
She began her Will holds a Masters degree in managing director of Global Sales, initially as Major Contracts Manager, career in private practice at Turner Human Resources from The Robert Marketing and Strategic Planning: then led upstream and downstream Kenneth Brown, advising corporate Gordon University and is a Fellow director of commercial operations major project portfolios globally and and commercial clients in M&A of CIPD.
for Foster Wheeler Asia Pacific: and was appointed as Chief Procurement before moving in-house to Johnson other senior roles in operating unit Officer in 2012.
Matthey plc where she held various management, sales and commercial senior legal roles.
Jeff has a BS Chemical Engineering management in Europe, Asia and from The University of Texas at Alison holds an LLB Hons from the US.
Austin: an MBA in Finance and Bristol University and is a qualified Roberto has a degree in Mechanical International Business from the solicitor.
Engineering from University University of Houston.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 75 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
