Health, safety, security, environmental and ethics HSSEE committee Members The ethics committee comprised all the independent nonThe core role of the HSSEE committee executive directors.
The quorum for the committee was two is to assist the board in upholding members.
In 2014 there were three scheduled committee meetings held, and no unscheduled meetings.
the companys principal value of doing The company chairman, the executive directors and the the right thing, to review the HSSE Chief Ethics Officer also attended each meeting by invitation.
policy statement and to satisfy itself From December 2014, the Chief Corporate Compliance Officer has also been in attendance.
that all significant health, safety, security Linda Adamany replaced Simon Thompson as the Chairman environmental and ethics risks are of the ethics committee following the conclusion of the 2014 identified and controlled.
From 1 January 2015, the membership of the committee was Dear shareholder Linda Adamany Chairman, Stephanie Newby and Neil Carson.
On 1 January 2015, the board created the HSSEE committee to Kent Masters joined the committee upon his appointment on replace the ethics committee and extend its terms of reference, 13 February 2015.
The quorum remains at two members.
full details of which can be found on amecfw.
The HSSEE Membership and attendance of the ethics committee committee provides an additional level of governance to Amec up to 31 December 2014 Foster Wheelers health, safety, security and environmental activities, in addition to ethics, and I look forward to telling you Meeting attendance about the committees activities during 2015.
Linda Adamany Chairman 3 3 We have in place a strong framework to support Amec Foster Simon Thompson 3 3 Wheeler as it grows, integrates and becomes more global, ensuring that our employees, and those who work with and for Neil Carson 3 3 us, act with integrity wherever they are based.
Our employees Colin Day 3 3 should also be able to work in a safe and secure environment, Tim Faithfull up to 3 April 2014 1 1 which is particularly important in a company that has over 40,000 people working in more than 50 countries.
Stephanie Newby from 13 November 2014 1 1 We have a well developed independent third party reporting Key responsibilities of the HSSEE committee system for employees to report their concerns or report With effect from 1 January 2015, new terms of reference were issues in complete confidence.
The committee treats all adopted for the HSSEE committee, which now covers health, reports, however reported to us, with the respect they deserve.
safety, security and environmental matters, as well as ethics Thankfully nothing of significance to the group as a whole was matters.
reported in 2014 and any infractions identified were dealt with appropriately.
The committee reviews Amec Foster Wheelers HSSE Policy at least annually to ensure it remains fit for purpose and meets requirements in all respects.
It also examines the processes in place to satisfy itself that all significant health safety, security and environmental risks are identified and mitigated.
Linda Adamany The committee oversees the operations and activities of the Chairman of the health, safety, security, environmental HSSE review committee which is a management committee, and ethics committee details of which are outlined on page 76.
26 March 2015 The committee reviews and monitors business ethics within the group, including compliance with relevant legislation, regulation and current best practice.
It also reviews and approves the Groups Code of Business Conduct at least annually.
It considers and reviews the scope and planning of all compliance activity within the Group and reviews the extent and effectiveness of the Groups internal training and external reporting of compliance and ethics matters.
In the event of an actual or suspected material breach of the Code of Business Conduct or any other serious matter, a member of the committee will take responsibility for and manage any investigation into the relevant matter with the support of the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 57 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Health, safety, security, environmental and ethics HSSEE committee continued Activities of the ethics committee The committee reviewed AMECs Code of Business Conduct in August 2014 and endorsed its continuing use.
There was particular focus on the effectiveness of procedures to prevent bribery and corruption.
As a result, additional training on anti-bribery and corruption that was commenced in late 2013 continued during the year.
This included face-toface training for around 1,200 people in the higher risk areas of activity.
During the year a total of 56 concerns were raised in AMEC in respect of alleged or suspected ethical breaches, most of which were reported through the independent third party reporting systems that we have set up.
A relatively small number of these, involving alleged or suspected ethical breaches, required further investigation.
None of the investigations highlighted any significant control failure or noteworthy financial impact but each valid report was taken seriously.
The outcome of these investigations resulted in appropriate disciplinary action as well as enhancements to the existing control environment where necessary.
In December 2014, the committee received a report on legacy Foster Wheeler ethics matters.
The process for recording, reporting and investigating ethical issues within Foster Wheeler during the period following the acquisition to the year-end remained the same as prior to the transaction.
Its widely advertised hotline service remained available, allowing all Foster Wheeler employees to raise issues either with their line manager, via the hotline website, or by calling one of the dedicated hotline telephone numbers.
The website and telephone numbers are provided by a third party.
During the period following the acquisition to the yearend, two ethics issues relating to the Foster Wheeler Group were raised in total and investigated as appropriate.
Neither of the investigations revealed any significant control failure or noteworthy financial impact.
As above, and where necessary, appropriate disciplinary action and enhancements to the existing control environment were undertaken following the conclusion of the investigations.
Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, a new Code of Business Conduct is being launched and the independent third-party reporting systems of AMEC and Foster Wheeler will be combined and the ethics training programmes of the two businesses integrated.
As part of the externally conducted board effectiveness review undertaken in 2014, the performance of the committee was also assessed and the result of this was confirmation that the committees performance was rated highly.
Amec Foster Wheeler 58 Annual report and accounts 2014
