Nominations committee Members During 2014, the nominations committee comprised all the The nominations committee is primarily non-executive directors including the Chairman.
The quorum focused on evaluating the board of for the committee was three members.
There were four committee meetings held in the year.
directors and on examining the skills and Membership and attendance of the nominations characteristics that are needed in board committee up to 31 December 2014 candidates.
Meeting attendance 1 John Connolly Chairman 3 4 Dear shareholder, I have referred already in this report to the transformational Linda Adamany 4 4 changes through which your company has gone and so, more 2 Neil Carson 3 4 than ever, the role of the nominations committee is a key one.
Colin Day 4 4 Your board has changed in size and composition and there will be further changes following our annual general meeting in Tim Faithfull up to 3 April 2014 1 1 May 2015.
Succession and evolutionary change remain our key Simon Thompson 4 4 priorities, taking into account our commitment to diversity and inclusion.
1 The Chairman was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
You can see from the charts on page 77 that we have a strong 2 Neil Car son was unable to attend one meeting due to an unavoidable prior commitment.
blend of skills, experience and length of service amongst your board of directors and I see no reason that this should not be Meetings of the committee are sometimes called at short maintained as your company rises to the challenges we will notice to consider matters as they arise.
This means that undoubtedly face in 2015 and beyond.
members may not always be available, but they are always fully apprised of matters to be discussed and their views sought and taken into account.
On 17 December 2014, the board adopted revised terms of reference for the committee.
These are available to review John Connolly on amecfw.
Chairman of the nominations committee With effect from 1 January 2015, the membership of the 26 March 2015 committee changed and now comprises: John Connolly Chairman, Colin Day, Simon Thompson and Linda Adamany.
Simon will step down as a member of the committee at the end of the AGM in May 2015.
The quorum for the committee is now two members.
Key responsibilities The committee considers the structure, size and composition of the board and its committees, including the mix of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the directors.
In considering recommendations to the board, the committee considers the appropriate balance of skills and experience to progress the groups strategy, and takes account of the benefits of diversity, including but not limited to gender.
The committee also reviews board succession planning, in conjunction with reports from the Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director on senior management succession planning, so as to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills is maintained both within the senior management team and on the board.
As part of the externally conducted board effectiveness review undertaken in 2014, the performance of the committee was also evaluated.
This was generally rated highly overall.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 55 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Nominations committee continued Activities of the committee In anticipation of Simon Thompsons forthcoming retirement Tim Faithfull stepped down in April 2014, having served nine at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM, the committee also years on the board.
In view of the proposed acquisition considered potential replacements for the role of the Senior of Foster Wheeler, the committee decided not to commence Independent Director and Chairman of the remuneration a search for a new director.
In February 2014, we announced committee and, after careful consideration, concluded that, as part of the acquisition, two directors of Foster Wheeler that Neil Carson best met the required criteria and made a would join the board following the acquisition.
Subsequent recommendation to the board accordingly.
to this the committee undertook an interview process and, The board continues to recognise the importance of diversity as a result, recommended that Stephanie Newby and Kent both in the boardroom and across the group more generally.
Masters should join the board as non-executive directors.
In 2014, Amec Foster Wheelers diversity initiatives have Stephanie and Kent joined the board on 13 November 2014 and continued to focus on its group-wide commitment to diversity 13 February 2015, respectively.
No external recruitment firms and inclusion, including encouraging and enabling greater were used and the committee based its decision on diversity of thinking.
The implementation of this commitment the benefits that their experience and knowledge would add includes measurement and monitoring of progress on diversity to the board in view of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler.
Following Tim Faithfulls retirement, the committee considered As part of the companys broader diversity initiative, potential replacements for his role as Senior Independent it supports the objectives of the Davies Report on Women Director and as Chairman of the remuneration committee.
Candidates for board appointments are evaluated After careful consideration, the committee concluded that in light of the requirements of the role, having appropriate Simon Thompson best met the required criteria and a regard to the objectives of the Davies Report and to the recommendation was made to the board accordingly.
group-wide commitment to diversity and inclusion.
We are The committee also recommended that Linda Adamany pleased to say that with the appointment of Stephanie Newby, should replace Simon as chairman of the ethics committee, two out of our nine directors are female, representing just which is now known as the health, safety, security, over 22% of our board.
environmental and ethics HSSEE committee.
Gender diversity of the board Having served six years on the board, Simon Thompson has 78 % indicated that he does not intend to stand for re-election Female at the 2015 AGM.
The committee will therefore commence Male a search for one or two non-executive directors to join 22 the board for which an executive search firm will be used.
Further information in respect of any new appointments to the board will be given in due course.
In July 2014, the committee considered and recommended the adoption by the board of certain board selection criteria, to be used to identify any gaps in the overall experience and knowledge of the board as a whole and assist appropriately The gender diversity of the company and its senior in the future board selection process.
management is shown on page 16.
In 2014, the committee considered the reappointment of Neil Carson and Colin Day for second three-year terms of office as their first three-year terms ended at the 2014 AGM.
Their significant external experience and their full participation in board and committee discussions, providing constructive challenge, resulted in a recommendation being made to the board to reappoint both directors for second three-year terms.
In early 2015, the committee considered the reappointment of John Connolly as Chairman for a second three-year term of office as his first three-year term will end at the 2015 AGM.
On the basis of his wide experience and his excellent chairmanship during a period of significant change, the committee recommended that he should be reappointed for a second three-year term.
The Chairman did not participate in these deliberations, which were led by an independent non-executive director.
Amec Foster Wheeler 56 Annual report and accounts 2014
