Remuneration committee The standalone AMEC business delivered a resilient financial performance in the face of challenging market conditions in The remuneration committees aim some of its key markets.
Nevertheless, it did not meet some is to design and apply a reward policy of the targets set by the committee at the start of the year.
This outcome is reflected in the overall remuneration of the that promotes the long-term success executive directors: annual bonus payments were lower than of the Company.
last year and none of the PSP awards made in 2012 will vest.
Your committee continues to take a robust approach to setting and measuring targets.
We want to ensure that high reward is Dear shareholder, only achieved for outstanding performance.
This year the committees deliberations have taken place against the backdrop of the Foster Wheeler acquisition and We also set out below how we intend to apply the new policy the sharp downturn in the oil and gas market.
Notwithstanding the increased scale and complexity of the Company, we have concluded that there should be no We indicated last year that we would be reviewing our increase to base salaries for the executive directors or to the remuneration approach both in the light of the acquisition fees payable to the Chairman and non-executive directors and shareholder expectations.
As a result of that review we with the exception of the fee payable to the chairman of the decided that some changes are appropriate.
This is in line with the approach generally with our major shareholders and investor governance advisory across the Company, where increases for staff in most parts bodies, the overwhelming majority of which were supportive of of the business have been limited to promotions and other the changes proposed.
The revised policy, which we expect to exceptional cases.
apply for the next three years, is set out in full on pages 61 to 66 and approval is being sought for this in resolution number 3 at The 2015 targets for annual bonus have been aligned to our 2015 Annual General Meeting.
reflect the strategic priorities with an emphasis on the successful integration of Foster Wheeler and implementation In summary the proposed changes, designed to simplify our of our new operating model.
These objectives are being incentive arrangements and to achieve greater alignment with applied consistently to the entire senior management cadre shareholder interests, are as follows: in the Company.
LTIP awards will continue to be subject to X Our previous annual bonus policy provided that an element two independent performance measures of relative Total of bonus up to 25% of salary would be deferred in shares for Shareholder Return TSR and Earning per Share EPS growth three years, but this element related only to an additional with equal weighting.
The TSR element will be subject to a stretch profit target and hence the deferral was only likely financial underpin that allows any vesting to be reduced at the to apply in circumstances of significant outperformance.
We discretion of the committee and the stretching EPS growth are proposing to drop this separate stretch element and to targets take account of the anticipated contribution from provide that 25% of any bonus earned during the year will be Foster Wheeler over the next three years.
The proposed policy deferred in shares for three years and subject to claw-back.
makes provision for a third measure linked to specific strategic The overall bonus maximum remains unchanged at 150% of objectives to be introduced at some future date, if appropriate.
salary for the Chief Executive and 125% for the CFO: and We have reviewed the effectiveness of the application of our X The arrangement under the existing Long Term Incentive remuneration policy to date and continue to be satisfied that Plan LTIP, whereby participants may invest their own funds the overall approach provides good alignment of executive in company shares and receive a matching award will be behaviour with shareholder interests and does not encourage removed.
Instead we will introduce a requirement to retain excessive risk.
Both of our executive directors have high levels any shares that vest at the end of the three-year performance of personal shareholdings, considerably in excess of our period for a further two years.
Vested shares will be held in minimum guideline see page 72. trust and subject to claw-back.
The overall LTIP maximum As previously announced, I will be stepping down as a director remains unchanged at 250% of salary for both Chief at the AGM and will be replaced as chairman of the committee Executive and CFO.
We are seeking shareholder approval for a new LTIP that reflects these changes for the executive directors, as well as some other changes for participants below board level and renewal of approval for our all-employee Sharesave Plan.
These are set out in resolutions 15 and 16.
Simon Thompson The second part of the report, on pages 67 to 74, is our annual Chairman of the remuneration committee report on remuneration.
This explains how our policy has been 26 March 2015 implemented during 2014 and is subject to an advisory vote resolution 4.
Given that the acquisition was not concluded until near the end of the year, bonuses have been determined in relation to the targets that were originally set for the AMEC business.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 59 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Remuneration committee continued Membership and attendance of the remuneration The committee is also supported by the Companys human committee up to 31 December 2014 resources department who may from time to time use third parties to provide data and technical advice.
Scheduled Unscheduled The committee normally meets three times a year and has Simon Thompson 3 3 2 2 an established annual agenda of items that it considers Chairman from 3 April 2014 at the various meetings, the major elements of which are Tim Faithfull 1 1 0 0 summarised below: Chairman up to 3 April 2014 Linda Adamany 3 3 2 2 February X Confirmation of short and long-term incentive outcomes Neil Carson 3 3 2 2 X Approval of Directors remuneration report John Connolly 3 3 2 2 X New Long Term Incentive awards Colin Day 3 3 2 2 August X Shareholder feedback consultation During 2014, the remuneration committee comprised all the X Remuneration policy including risk review non-executive directors including the Chairman.
The membership of the committee currently comprises X Committee processes and appointment Simon Thompson Chairman, John Connolly, Colin Day and of consultants Neil Carson.
The quorum for the committee is two members.
X December Review of individual base salaries and total There were three scheduled meetings held in 2014 and two remuneration unscheduled meetings.
X Incentive plan targets The Chief Executive and the Group Human Resources Director attend meetings by invitation.
An additional meeting was held in October 2014 to confirm Simon Thompson will be retiring as a director at the changes to remuneration policy and to authorise the chairman conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
He will be succeeded as to consult with shareholders on these.
committee chairman by Neil Carson.
In order to fully take account of the impact of the acquisition In considering the matters within its remit, the committee and the changed market outlook, the decisions that would takes account of recommendations from the Chairman in normally have been made at the December 2014 meeting were respect of the Chief Executive and from the Chief Executive largely deferred to a meeting in March 2015 the outcomes in respect of the other executive directors and designated of which are described in this report.
It is advised independently by New Bridge Street NBS.
NBS was reappointed by the committee in 2014 and its terms of engagement are available from the Company Secretary.
NBS does not undertake any material additional work for the Company.
NBS is wholly owned by Aon plc and while other companies within the Aon group do undertake material work for the Company, this is not in the area of executive remuneration and arrangements are in place within the Aon group to ring-fence NBS from other services provided.
Accordingly, the committee does not believe that the independence of its adviser is compromised in any way.
NBS was paid 41,226 during the year for the advice provided to the committee on the basis of time expended and seniority of individuals providing the advice.
Amec Foster Wheeler 60 Annual report and accounts 2014
