Management committees These are chaired by executive directors or other senior individuals and members are drawn from senior management The board has also created a number within the group.
The minutes of each of these meetings are of management committees that deal circulated to each board meeting.
The terms of reference of all these committees have been reviewed and updated following generally with more operational matters.
the acquisition of Foster Wheeler.
Corporate transactions Pensions and retirement benefits Members Members Chief Executive chairman : Chief Financial Officer: General Counsel and Chief Financial Officer chairman : Group Human Resources Director: Company Secretary: Head of Mergers and Acquisitions.
Head of Pensions: General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Responsibilities Responsibilities The corporate transactions committee considers mergers, acquisitions The pensions and retirement benefits committee reviews and recommends and disposals and approves transactions where the consideration or the establishment of any new or replacement pension arrangements, assumption of liabilities, as appropriate, is 5m or less, and above this any material amendments to existing pension schemes, and the level it submits recommendations to the board for approval.
In addition discontinuance, winding up or merger of any existing arrangement.
it determines transaction guidelines that are in line with group policies It also agrees with the trustees of those pension arrangements appropriate and procedures.
funding plans to secure the benefits promised.
Disclosure from January 2015 Risk Members Members Group Financial Controller chairman : General Counsel and Company Chief Executive chairman : Chief Financial Officer: General Counsel Secretary: Head of Risk Management and Insurance: Chief Corporate and Company Secretary: Group Commercial Director: Head of Risk Compliance Officer: Head of Internal Audit: Director of Tax and Treasury: Management and Insurance: Group Project Delivery Director.
Group Corporate Affairs Director: Head of Investor Relations.
Responsibilities Responsibilities The risk committee performs an integral role in the governance of risk Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, we have established a within Amec Foster Wheeler by helping the board fulfil its responsibilities in disclosure committee which will assist the audit committee with regard to determining the risk appetite of the group and the effectiveness of the risk verifying the information that is required to be disclosed in the companys management and internal control systems that support it.
It also reviews material public disclosures and in its periodic reports.
This is intended to the Amec Foster Wheeler plc risk register and the potential impact of any ensure such disclosures are in compliance with all relevant laws, rules and issues on the risk appetite and the risk profile of the group.
It reports on regulations, including the UK Listing Authority, the London Stock Exchange, key risk issues such as new business and geographical locations and also the New York Stock Exchange and the US Securities and Exchange makes recommendations on the insurance programme for the group.
Group project review from March 2015 Share allotment Members Members Group Leadership Team, Commercial Director.
Any two directors or a director and the General Counsel and Company Secretary or the Deputy Company Secretary the chairman to be appointed Responsibilities from those directors present.
The group project review committee reviews project execution and financial performance on higher risk, higher value projects that could have a material Responsibilities affect on group performance.
The share allotment committee approves the allotment of new shares or the issue of existing shares held in treasury following the exercise of options under the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
Health, safety, security and environmental HSSE review Tender review Members Members Chief Executive chairman : Group Human Resources Director: Chief Executive chairman : Chief Financial Officer: General Counsel General Counsel and Company Secretary.
and Company Secretary: Head of Risk Management and Insurance: Group Commercial Director: Group Project Delivery Director.
Responsibilities The HSSE review committees key responsibility is to provide effective Responsibilities oversight of the companys performance and management of HSSE The tender review committee primarily reviews and approves proposed issues across the group.
This includes the evaluation of the effectiveness tender submissions for contracts to be undertaken by the business units of the groups policies and management systems in respect of managing that are outside the delegated authority of the Group Presidents.
health, safety, security and environmental risk in both current and future operations associated with the companys growth strategy.
Amec Foster Wheeler 76 Annual report and accounts 2014
