Our board of directors Our board members are selected to ensure a good mix of skills and experience.
They have particular expertise in the areas in which Amec Foster Wheeler operates and in the duties and responsibilities associated with being a director of a listed company.
John Connolly Samir Brikho In accordance with the recommendations Chairman of the board, Chairman Chief Executive of the nominations committee and Prior to joining Amec Foster Wheeler, of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all a member of the remuneration Samir served in various capacities committee at ABB Ltd. including as a member directors are subject to re-election at each A chartered accountant, John of the group executive committee, annual general meeting of the company.
spent his career until May 2011 Head of the Power Systems Division with global professional services and Chairman of ABB Lummus Global, firm Deloitte.
John joined the firm Switzerland, ABBs international in 1980, serving in various roles of projects and services business, from increasing responsibility.
During his 2005 to 2006, and chief executive time at Deloitte, he held a wide range from 2003 to 2005.
Between 1999 of senior leadership positions in the and 2003, he was employed by Alstom United Kingdom and internationally.
S. A. in Germany, Belgium and France, He was Global Chairman between first as Chief Executive Officer of 2007 and 2011 and Global Managing ABB Alstom Kraftwerke and then as Director from 2003 to 2007.
Senior Vice President, International He was Senior Partner and CEO of Business and Chief International the UK Partnership from 1999 until Operations Officer, leading all of his retirement from the Partnership Alstoms operations abroad.
He began in 2011. his career in 1983 and held various senior management positions in sales John is chairman of G4S plc and also and project management with ABB of a number of private companies.
Ltd, culminating in the role of Senior Beyond commercial business roles, Vice President & Managing Director John is on the Board of Governors of ABB Kraftwerke AG.
Samir holds of London Business School, is an engineering degree, a Master of Chairman of the Board of Trustees Science in Thermal Technology from of Great Ormond Street Hospital the Royal Institute of Technology in Charity and a member of the Stockholm, Sweden, and completed CBI Presidents Advisory Council.
the Young Managers Programme at INSEAD in France in 1991.
In 2000, Term of office Samir also completed a senior John was appointed as non-executive executive programme at Stanford Chairman on 1 June 2011 and was University, US.
considered to be independent on appointment in accordance with the Term of office requirements of the Code.
Samir was appointed Chief Executive on 1 October 2006 and has no fixed His term of office was extended in term of office.
His service contract is March 2015 for a second three-year terminable on six and twelve months term to the date of the 2018 AGM.
notice by him and the company respectively.
External appointments Samir has been an independent nonexecutive director of Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB SEB since March 2013 and a member of the advisory board of Stena AB since February 2011.
He is a UK Business Ambassador, co-chairman of both the UAE-UK Business Council and the UK-Korea CEO Forum, and is a director of the UKJapan 21st Century Group.
He is chairman of the Step Change Charity and co-chair of the World Economic Forums Infrastructure & Urban Development Industries Committee.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 45 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Our board of directors continued Ian McHoul Linda Adamany Neil Carson Colin Day Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director, Chairman Non-executive Director and a Non-executive Director, Chairman Ian qualified as a Chartered of the health, safety, security, member of the audit, remuneration of the audit committee and a Accountant with KPMG in 1984. environmental and ethics HSSEE and health, safety, security, member of the remuneration and His early career was spent in the committee and a member of the environmental and ethics HSSEE nominations committees brewing industry.
Between 1985 and audit and nominations committees committees Colin has more than 25 years of 1995 he held various positions with Linda has over 35 years business Neil was Chief Executive of Johnson experience of blue chip companies the Fosters Brewing Group, including experience, with 27 in the Matthey Plc, the FTSE 100 speciality including Aegis Group Plc, ABB General Manager, Strategy.
He was international energy sector.
Between chemical company, from 2004 to Group, fide La Rue Group Plc and Finance & Strategy Director of the 1980 and 2007 Linda held a number June 2014 and stepped down as a British Gas.
Colin was appointed Inntrepreneur Pub Company Limited of executive positions at BP plc in member of the board in September Chief Executive Officer of Essentra from 1995 to 1998 and then served the UK and the US.
He joined the company in 1980 plc formerly Filtrona plc on 1 April at Scottish & Newcastle plc from she held various executive roles in after completing an engineering 2011, prior to which he was Chief 1998 to 2008, first as Finance refining and marketing, exploration degree and held a number of senior Financial Officer of Reckitt Benckiser Director of Scottish Courage and and production and petrochemicals, management positions in both the Group plc from 2000 to 2011. later as Group Finance Director of including Chief Executive of BP UK and the US, including Managing Between 1995 and 2000, he served Scottish & Newcastle plc.
Ian holds Shipping and Group Vice President Director of Catalysts & Chemicals as Group Finance Director of Aegis a BSc in Mathematics from the and Commercial Director, BP from 1999 to 2004 and Division Group plc.
He spent six years in a University of Bristol.
Director of Catalytic Systems from number of divisional finance director 1997 to 1999. positions with ABB Group and served Term of office In March 2013, Linda was appointed as Group Finance Director of ABB Ian was appointed Chief Financial a non-executive director of Coeur In July 2014, Neil became a nonKent Instrumentation and ABB Officer on 8 September 2008 and Mining, Inc. a US based publicly executive director of PayPoint plc, Kent plc from 1988 to 1994.
Colin has no fixed term of office.
His quoted primary silver producer, where he also serves as chairman started his career in 1973 as a trainee service contract is terminable on six where she serves as chairman of the of the remuneration committee accountant at Kodak.
He is a Fellow and twelve months notice by him audit committee and is a member and senior independent director.
of the Association of Chartered and the company respectively.
of the environmental, health, He is also co-chair of the Chemistry Certified Accountants and holds safety and social responsibility Growth Partnership, which is External appointments an MBA from Cranfield School of committee.
In March 2014, Linda was working with the government to Ian has been a non-executive director Management, UK.
appointed to the board of directors stimulate growth in the industry of Britvic plc since March 2014 and of Leucadia National Corporation, in the United Kingdom.
He was Colin has been a director of FM was a non-executive director of a US based, NYSE listed, diversified previously a founding member Global since January 2014 and a Premier Foods plc from July 2004 holding company engaged through of the Prince of Wales Corporate non-executive director of WPP Group to April 2013. its consolidated subsidiaries in Leaders Group on Climate Change.
Colin was appointed a variety of businesses, where Neil received an engineering degree to the FRC Audit Advisory Group on she is a member of the audit and from Lanchester Polytechnic now 3 July 2014. the nominating and corporate Coventry University and has been Term of office governance committees.
From 2006 awarded an Honorary Doctor of Colin was appointed a non-executive to 2012, prior to joining Amec Foster Business Administration from director on 14 October 2010.
His term Wheeler, Linda was a non-executive Anglia Ruskin University.
of office was extended in February director of National Grid plc and a Term of office 2014 for a second three-year term to member of their audit, nominations Neil was appointed a non-executive the date of the 2017 AGM.
and safety, environment and health director on 31 August 2010.
Linda is a qualified of office was extended in February accountant CPA with a BSc in 2014 for a second three-year term Business Administration from John to the date of the 2017 AGM.
Carroll University, Ohio, and has also undertaken post-graduate, As announced on 20 March 2015, non-degree executive programmes Neil will take on the roles of Senior at Harvard, Cambridge and Tsinghua Independent Director and Chairman universities.
of the remuneration committee at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
Term of office Linda was appointed a non-executive director on 1 October 2012 for an initial term of three years, which will end at the 2016 AGM.
Amec Foster Wheeler 46 Annual report and accounts 2014 Kent Masters Stephanie Newby Simon Thompson We will continue to seek to Non-executive Director and member Non-executive Director, member of Senior Independent Director, build upon and complement of the health, safety, security, the audit and health, safety, security, Chairman of the remuneration the boards existing skills environmental and ethics committee environmental and ethics HSSEE committee and a member of the set with a focus on increasing HSSEE committees audit and nominations committees diversity whether this Kent was the Chief Executive Officer Stephanie is the Chief Executive Simon held a number of senior is through gender, race, of Foster Wheeler AG from 1 October Officer of Crimson Hexagon, a big positions with the Anglo American 2011 and its President from 1 January data social analytics company.
She group from 1995 to 2007 including nationality or general 2014 until the completion of the is the founder of Golden Seeds LLC, executive director of Anglo American background.
The review of acquisition by AMEC in November which has provided investment plc from 2005 to 2007, chairman the effectiveness of the board 2014.
Prior to joining Foster Wheeler, capital to early stage, high growth and chief executive of the base in 2014 identified the need he served as a member of the companies since 2004 and is a metals division, chairman of the for additional expertise in Executive Board of Linde AG, a Managing Partner of its venture exploration division and chairman oil and gas markets and this world leading gases and engineering capital funds.
Prior to that, she spent of the Tarmac Group.
Before joining company, from September 2006 20 years working in the financial the Anglo American group, he held will be the focus of future to September 2011.
At Linde, Kent services industry in Sydney, London various investment banking positions appointments.
had responsibility for the Americas, and New York, with the majority of with S. G. Warburg & Co. Ltd and Africa, the South Pacific, the global her career spent with J. P. Morgan, N M Rothschild & Sons Limited.
business unit Healthcare, and where she headed several global Independence of non-executive Simon has been a non-executive the business area Merchant and businesses serving as Global Head directors director and chairman of Tullow Oil Packaged Gases.
He was employed of Futures and Options, Head of The board considers that, with plc since May 2011 and January by BOC Group plc from 1984 until the International Private Banking, Chief the exception of Kent Masters, 2012 respectively, a non-executive acquisition of BOC by Linde in 2006.
Operating Officer of Global Equities the non-executive directors are director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Kent served in roles of increasing and Head of eCommerce.
independent and free from any Tinto Limited since April 2014 and responsibility at BOC, including relationships or circumstances Appointed in 2004, Stephanie was a non-executive director of Sandvik as Chief Executive, Industrial and that could affect their independent a member of the Foster Wheeler AB since April 2008.
He was a Special Products, from 2005 to judgement.
AG board until the completion of non-executive director of Newmont 2006, and as President, Process Gas the acquisition by AMEC, serving Mining Corporation from 2008 to Kents previous employment Solutions-Americas from 2002 to on the audit and governance and April 2014, an independent director by Foster Wheeler precludes 2005.
He also served on the board of nominating committees.
She also of United Company Rusal from 2007 him from meeting the required directors of BOC from 2005 to 2006. previously served as a non-executive to 2009 and a non-executive director independence criteria.
Kent joined the board of Albemarle in director and member of the audit and of AngloGold Ashanti Limited from January 2015 following its acquisition compensation and HR committees 2004 to 2008.
Simon holds an of Rockwood Holdings, Inc. where of RiskMetrics Group, Inc. MA in Geology from University he had served as a director since College, Oxford.
At Rockwood, Kent had served Stephanie was appointed a nonTerm of office on the audit and compensation executive director on 13 November Simon was appointed a noncommittees.
Kent also served as the 2014 for an initial term of three years, executive director on 21 January non-executive chairman of African which will end at the 2018 AGM.
In 2009 and became the Senior Oxygen Limited from April 2005 to accordance with the companys Independent Director in April 2014.
May 2011. articles of association, Stephanie will He will be retiring from the board Term of office retire from office at the forthcoming at the close of the 2015 AGM, Kent was appointed a non-executive AGM and offer herself for election.
having served two three-year terms director on 13 February 2015 for an as a director.
initial term of three years, which will end at the 2018 AGM.
In accordance with the companys articles of association, Kent will retire from office at the forthcoming AGM and offer himself for election.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 47 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
