ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Governance Corporate Governance How the Board works What we focused on in 2014 Our role The Board as a whole is collectively responsible for delivering Strategy evolution the long term success of the Company by: International content strategy providing entrepreneurial leadership within a framework Pension investment strategy of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed: Acquisition evaluation and management Risk appetite, profile and mitigation supporting the executive team to formulate and execute the Companys long term objectives and strategy, ensuring that the necessary financial and other resources Our plans for 2015 are in place for the Company to meet its objectives, and reviewing management performance: and Broadcast strategy focusing on SOV setting the Companys values and standards and ensuring International content strategy that its obligations to its shareholders and others are Online, Pay & Interactive strategy understood and met.
Retransmission fees and the regulatory There is a schedule of specific matters reserved to the Board environment for decision which is available on our website.
com about governance Our governance structure Board Chairman, two Executive Directors and five Non-executive Directors Management Board General Purpose Remuneration Executive Directors and Senior Committee Committee Executives of Group functions Executive Directors Chairman and two and divisional businesses Non-executive Directors Divisional Boards Audit Committee Disclosure Committee Executive Directors and Senior Two Non-executive Directors Executive Directors and other Executives of divisional businesses Senior Managers Tax and Treasury Nomination Committee Committee Group Finance Director and Chairman and Details of Board membership during 2014 are set out on other Senior Managers Non-executive Directors page 70.
com Stock code: ITV Board of Directors Management Board Directors Report and Responsibilities Chairmans Governance Statement Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Annual Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy Our meetings Non-executive Directors The number of meetings held during the year and attendance are appointed for an initial of Directors is set out in the table on page 70.
The Board agrees an annual schedule of matters it wishes to consider 3 year term at each of its meetings and those of its committees.
The and are reappointed annually thereafter schedule ensures that all relevant matters are considered and receive appropriate attention.
Meetings are normally held at As recommended by the Code, there will be resolutions to one of the London sites and at least once a year they are held elect or re-elect each of the Directors at the AGM in May 2015. at one of the regional or international offices.
Board meetings are structured around the following areas: Non-executive Directors are expected to commit at least 18 to 20 days per annum and in practice spend considerably Operational and functional updates more than this.
The Board is satisfied that each of the NonFinancial updates executive Directors commits sufficient time to the business of the Company.
An outline of the terms of engagement for Strategy and risk the Non-executive Directors can be found on our website.
com about governance Other reporting and items for approval Feedback from committees Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three year term and are reappointed annually thereafter following Senior Executives and other colleagues are regularly invited a formal, robust evaluation process.
to attend meetings for specific items.
In addition to formal Board and Committee meetings, meetings take place During the year both John Ormerods and Andy Hastes between: appointments were extended for a further 12 months.
John Ormerods appointment was again extended in January 2015.
Board members and Management Board members John Ormerod and Andy Haste have been Non-executive Chairman and Non-executive Directors Directors for over six years.
The Board continues to believe that they bring a wealth of knowledge and experience to their Senior Independent Director and Non-executive Directors deliberations and provide a valuable contribution as Chairmen without the Chairman present of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee The diagram on page 68 shows our governance structure.
The Board has approved a formal framework for the Skills and experience approval of expenditure within the Company around this There are job descriptions in place for each of the Chairman, governance structure.
the Chief Executive, and the Senior Independent Director which have been agreed by the Board.
Who is on our Board and how we work as a team Biographical details for the Directors are set out on page 59, Composition and appointments with fuller biographies available on our website.
In July 2014 the Board appointed Mary Harris as a Nonwww.
com about management board-of-directors executive Director.
Mary was selected from a number of potential candidates.
The Board felt that Marys The Board is still of the view that the Non-executive Directors experience in business strategy as well as media, television, are independent in both character and judgement.
They and interactive media investments and digital rights constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy, management would be an asset to the Board.
Executive scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed search firm Russell Reynolds were engaged to assist with the goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
Russell Reynolds have no other connection with ITV.
The Board works well together, bringing strong, independent, balanced judgement, knowledge and Lucy Neville-Rolfe stepped down from the Board on experience to its deliberations.
Each Non-executive Director 17 July 2014. has appropriate skills and experience so that their views carry significant weight in the decision making.
69 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Governance Corporate Governance continued Board and Committee membership and attendance at meetings in 2014 Scheduled meetings are shown in black and ad hoc meetings are shown in orange.
Nomination Remuneration Audit Board Committee Committee Committee Time in Date of appointment office Contract renewal Status Notes to the Board Y M date 10 1 6 1 5 2 Peter Bazalgette Independent 1 1 June 2013 1 8 1 June 2016 10 1 3 1 Adam Crozier Executive 2 26 April 2010 4 10 n a 10 Roger Faxon Independent 31 October 2012 2 4 31 October 2015 10 1 Ian Griffiths Executive 2 9 September 2008 6 5 n a 10 0 7 Mary Harris Independent 3 28 July 2014 28 July 2017 3 1 Independent Andy Haste SID 4 11 August 2008 6 6 11 August 2015 9 1 6 1 5 2 Lucy Neville-Rolfe Independent 5 3 September 2010 - n a 7 0 2 1 Independent Archie Norman Chairman 1 January 2010 5 2 1 January 2016 10 1 6 1 John Ormerod Independent 18 January 2008 7 1 18 January 2016 10 1 6 1 5 2 1.
Peter Bazalgette was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 1 June 2014 and so did not attend the three meetings held prior to his appointment.
Executive Directors have rolling service contracts that provide for 12 months notice on either side.
For more details see page 94.
Mary Harris was appointed to the Board on 28 July 2014.
Seven of the ten scheduled Board meetings were held prior to her appointment.
Andy Haste did not attend a scheduled Board meeting on 30 September 2014 due to other Board commitments.
Lucy Neville-Rolfe stepped down from the Board on 17 July 2014. consider succession planning for Directors and other Our committees Senior Executives: and The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to its committees.
The terms of reference for each committee are consider and review any conflicts of interest that may be reviewed annually and the current versions are available on reported by the Directors.
In addition to considering matters under its terms of www.
com about governance reference, the Committee considered candidates for a Non-executive Director appointment.
Further details are Audit Committee set out in the Composition and Appointments section on See the Audit Committee Report on page 75. page 69.
The Committee also reviewed a detailed succession planning framework and undertook an annual review of Remuneration Committee conflicts of interest.
See the Annual Remuneration Report on page 82.
Full details of attendance at committee meetings can be Nomination Committee found in the table above.
This committee is composed of the Non-executive Directors.
The Company also has the following committees: The role of the Nomination Committee is to: General Purpose Committee: the Committee is composed review the structure, size, and composition of the Board, of the Executive Directors.
The Committee meets as including skills, knowledge and experience: required to conduct the Companys business within the clearly defined limits delegated by the Board and subject to identify and nominate for Board approval candidates to those matters reserved to the Board.
fill Board vacancies: 70 slugline Governance ar2014.
com Stock code: ITV Board of Directors Management Board Directors Report and Responsibilities Chairmans Governance Statement Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Annual Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy Disclosure Committee: the Committee is composed of the Executive Directors and other members of the senior 02 years management team.
The function of the Committee, in accordance with the Companys Inside Information Policy, is 25% to ensure compliance with continuing obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules.
24 years Tax and Treasury Committee: the Committee is composed 12.5% of the Group Finance Director and other senior managers from Tax, Treasury, Finance and Legal.
The function of the 47 years Committee is to consider and approve in line with authority 62.5% delegated by the Board tax and treasury-related matters in respect of corporate transactions or activities such as bank account management, borrowings, acquisitions, financing Succession planning and hedging transactions, intercompany transactions, The Board has agreed a succession planning framework to incorporation liquidation of Group subsidiaries and ensure that: guarantees.
In addition, the Committee has a monitoring role over general compliance with tax and treasury related Board tenure is appropriate and encourages fresh policies and procedures.
thinking and new ideas: Effectiveness the Board is sufficiently diverse but most importantly has the appropriate mix of generalist and specialist skills: and Evaluation In 2012 the Boards effectiveness was externally reviewed Non-executive Directors have the appropriate level of by YSC, a global firm of business psychologists.
One of the independence, from the executive and each other.
outcomes was an ongoing programme facilitated by YSC.
The Board keeps this under constant review.
The review focused on roles and responsibilities, culture, balance of skills and experience, diversity, how the Board When planning succession within the Company works together and how effective the Directors are in consideration is given to emergency cover together with assisting the executive team in achievement of the strategy.
medium and long term succession.
There is particular emphasis on growing the internal leadership pipeline YSC have also been involved in supporting the review of through the launch of the following key programmes: the Board make-up and composition.
They have no other connection with the Company.
Executive Development Programme The work of the Board and its committees is reviewed Next generation potential Board successors, giving them annually with the support of the Company Secretary.
In an opportunity to develop their management potential 2014 particular focus was on the effectiveness of our board and gain a greater understanding of the business.
In accordance with the Code the Chairman will be Developing Future Leaders Programme undertaking an externally facilitated board and committee Delegates selected from across the business identified evaluation in 2015. as a result of the performance review process.
Content Succession planning and diversity includes understanding what it means to be a leader at Board tenure ITV, how to manage performance effectively, coaching All Directors are required by the Companys Articles of skills and change management.
Association to be elected by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment by the Board.
Subsequently, all Graduate Programme Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders as recommended by the Code.
Apprentice Programme A comprehensive portfolio of development courses and workshops for all colleagues which address common development needs is in place.
71 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Governance Corporate Governance continued receive information about the Companys corporate Diversity governance practices and procedures and the latest It is our policy to retain a strong but relatively small Board financial information about the Group: and bringing a balance of in-depth commercial and creative experience.
It continues to be the Boards intention to are advised of their legal and other duties and obligations increase the diverse make-up and representation as as a director of a listed company.
opportunities arise, but given the size of the Board specific This is supplemented by visits to key locations, including formulaic targets are not appropriate.
studios and regional sites, and meetings with key senior Diversity within the organisation is integral to achieving executives and with major shareholders where appropriate.
Reflecting the demographics of our The key stages of the induction programme are: customers and understanding their needs ensures that our brand, services and products are accessible, inclusive Stage 1 and have wide appeal.
The Companys aim is to represent Provision of documents Duties of a director, modern Britain both within the organisation and across Board procedures, Board our products and services.
Year-on-year progress has been and strategy papers and achieved in working towards this target.
Key activity in 2014 corporate governance included: Introduction of the Social Partnership.
A framework for all programme suppliers that outlines ITVs expectations Stage 2 when it comes to diversity and inclusion within both the Meeting with Chief Business overview, workforce and programme content.
Executive and Group strategy, current trading and Sustaining programme portrayal monitoring across 75% Finance Director key commercial issues of our programmes.
ITV is also sharing best practice and Open discussion forums leading on the technical development of a pan-industry Meetings with monitoring process to capture diversity data and areas for Non-executive Directors improvement across the industrys supply chain.
Commercial issues Meetings with and projects Continuation of programmes and initiatives to develop Management Board minority talent such as our Breaking through Talent members and other and Original Voices scheme in drama to our continued Senior Executives support of the inaugural Asia Media Awards.
Continued Chairmanship Adam Crozier of the Creative Stage 3 Diversity Network.
The industrys network looks at joint Site visits Understanding action and responsibility for addressing representation of the business and and inclusion across the industry.
operations Induction The Company has a policy and programme for induction Additional specific induction programmes are in place when and continuing professional development of Directors.
On Non-executive Directors join committees.
appointment, each Director takes part in a comprehensive induction programme where they: receive information about the Group in the form of presentations by Executives from all parts of the business and on the regulatory environment: meet representatives of the Companys key advisers: receive information about the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of Board committees and the powers delegated to those committees: 72 slugline Governance ar2014.
com Stock code: ITV Board of Directors Management Board Directors Report and Responsibilities Chairmans Governance Statement Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Annual Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy Continuing professional development Relations with shareholders During their period in office, the Directors are continually The Board attaches a high priority to effective updated on the Groups businesses and the competitive and communication with shareholders and has regular and open regulatory environments in which they operate.
This is done dialogue with investors.
The Board believes that continued through: engagement with shareholders is beneficial to both ITV and its stakeholders as it helps to build a greater understanding updates and papers which cover changes affecting the of investors views, opinions and concerns.
Adam Crozier, Group and the market in which it operates: Ian Griffiths and our investor relations team meet with meetings with senior executives across the Group and key many institutional investors throughout the year to keep advisers: them updated on the Companys performance against our strategy.
These range from one-to-one meetings to group regular updates on changes to the legal and governance presentations including the Full Year and Interim results and requirements of the Group and in relation to their own the AGM.
Specifically, following the Full Year and Interim position as Directors: and results one-to-one meetings are held with our largest presentations given at board and committee meetings institutional investors.
on business matters and technical update sessions from The Chairman also responds to shareholder queries and external advisers where appropriate.
As part of their professional development Executive The Company maintains a programme of engagement with Directors may accept external appointments as Nonthe investment community, including results presentations, executive Directors of other companies and retain any briefings to brokers and other sales forces and attendance at related fees paid to them.
Details of positions held and fees a number of investor conferences.
received by Executive Directors in 2014 can be found on page 94.
Presentations given to the Conflicts of interest investment community are available The Board has delegated the authorisation of conflicts to to download from our website the Nomination Committee and has adopted a Conflicts of Interest Policy.
com investors The Board has considered in detail the current external appointments of the Directors which may give rise to a We regularly seek feedback on the perception of the situational conflict and has authorised potential conflicts Company amongst shareholders and the investor where appropriate.
community more broadly via our corporate brokers.
Investor This authorisation can be reviewed at any time but will comments are fed back to the Board and its committees always be subject to annual review.
The Board is confident regularly.
that these procedures operate effectively.
Private shareholders represent more than 92% of our Insurance and indemnities shareholders, holding 2.93% of our shares.
We encourage The Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors shareholders to register their email addresses to receive and officers which is renewed on an annual basis.
The information from us in a timely manner.
Company has also entered into deeds of indemnity with its Directors.
A copy of the indemnity can be found on our website.
com about governance 73 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Governance Corporate Governance continued AGM The AGM will be held on Thursday, 14 May 2015 further details can be found on page 65.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the resolutions being proposed.
The Notice, together with any related documents, is made available to shareholders on our website or is mailed to them, if they have elected to receive hard copies, at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Last year all resolutions were passed.
Details of the votes cast on each resolution are on our website.
com investors  In 2014 the meeting was attended by 125 shareholders.
Shareholders are invited to meet the Directors prior to and after the formal proceedings.
At the meeting the Chairman and Chief Executive will review the Groups current trading which is followed by a question and answer session.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue and all resolutions are taken on a poll.
The level of votes lodged on each resolution is made available on a regulatory information service and on the Companys website as soon as possible after the meeting.
com investors  Shareholders who are not able to attend the meeting can vote online in advance via our website or by completing and returning a form of proxy.
Save in exceptional circumstances, all members of the Board will attend the AGM.
