com Stock code: ITV Board of Directors Management Board Directors Report and Responsibilities Chairmans Governance Statement Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Annual Remuneration Report Audit Committee Report Remuneration Policy Dear Shareholder, On the following pages we set out the Audit Committees Report for 2014.
The report comprises four sections: How the Committee works What we focused on in 2014 Internal controls Our auditors This is our second year of providing more extensive reporting on the work of the Committee.
In addition to providing a general overview of the scope we have sought to identify areas of particular focus in the year.
These include: Acquisitions: we have continued to invest in our production business in particular outside the UK.
The Committee engages at an early stage with all significant potential acquisitions.
We review with management the approach to due diligence and review the results of that work prior to submission to the John Ormerod Board.
We consider carefully the appropriate accounting for Chairman, Audit Committee arrangements which are designed both to incentivise creative talent and manage financial risk.
Investment in programmes: in line with our strategy we have started to invest in production of high end We continue to focus on financial drama both in the UK and the US.
These projects carry reporting judgements and some increased financial risks, primarily because the disclosure and in challenging production cost is only partially covered by pre-selling to the network, leaving a deficit which we seek to recover management to develop controls through international distribution.
The Committee to anticipate future opportunities considers the appropriate accounting for the investment and risk.
and subsequently reviews managements assessment of the carrying value of the assets.
Technology: technology is key to our competitive success in areas such as online but also to improving our operational efficiency.
The Committee has continued to In this report... review the plans and controls over technology change The purpose of this report is to highlight areas that the and for maintaining control in areas where legacy systems Committee has reviewed during the year, reporting continue to operate.
back to shareholders the significant financial reporting We continue to focus on financial reporting judgements and issues and judgements made in connection with the disclosure and in challenging management to develop controls preparation of the Companys financial statements.
to anticipate future opportunities and risk.
Management The report also notes any areas or specific topics, is committed to continuous improvement.
For example in such as risk, that the Committee has reviewed.
Also 2014, a Tax and Treasury Committee was established to highlighted is how the Committee has assisted the which I am invited and I attended one of its early meetings.
Board in reviewing the Companys internal control New procedures are also being implemented to improve the environment, and what the Committee has done to coordination of risk management across the business.
review the effectiveness of both internal and external Since Lucy Neville-Rolfe left the Board we have been a auditors.
The report describes what the Committee Committee of two.
This is not ideal and the Nomination does, and what processes and controls are in place Committee is looking to strengthen the Committees to help ensure that the Annual Report presents a fair, membership in 2015. balanced and understandable view of the business.
We seek to respond to shareholders expectation of audit committee reporting and would welcome feedback.
John Ormerod Chairman, Audit Committee 4 March 2015 75 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Governance Audit Committee Report continued Who is on the Committee Our role The role of the Committee includes to: The Committee is composed entirely of Non-executive Directors.
The current members are: monitor the integrity of the published financial John Ormerod Chairman information of the Company: Andy Haste review and report to the Board on the significant Lucy Neville-Rolfe stepped down from the Board and financial reporting issues and judgements made in as a member of the Committee on 17 July 2014. connection with the preparation of the published financial information of the Company having regard Full details of attendance at Committee meetings can to matters communicated by the auditor : be found on the table on page 70. review the consistency of, ongoing appropriateness of, and changes to, accounting policies and consider How the Committee works the methods used to account for significant or Whilst the Committee members have between them a unusual transactions: wide range of business and financial experience we are mindful that membership of the Committee needs to be review the effectiveness of the internal control and strengthened, which is being addressed.
The Committee risk management processes: considers that John Ormerod has recent and relevant review the Companys whistleblowing process: financial experience for the purposes of the Code.
review and approve the internal audit plan: The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and internal and monitor and review the effectiveness and external auditors attended meetings during the course of independence of the internal audit function: the year at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
Members of the Management Board and other senior monitor and review the effectiveness of management have attended certain meetings by invitation.
management in addressing internal and external The Committee as a whole has regular private sessions audit actions: with both internal and external auditors and also, when review the quality and effectiveness of the external appropriate, with the Group Finance Director.
audit and the procedures and controls designed to In addition, throughout the year the Chairman of the ensure auditor independence: Committee has individual sessions with the other consider and make recommendations to the Board Committee member and meets informally, and has open in relation to the appointment, reappointment, lines of communication, with the Group Finance Director, replacement, and remuneration of the Companys Head of Internal Audit and the senior engagement team external auditor: and from the external auditor.
This group generally meets ahead of each full Committee meeting to prepare and identify key where requested by the Board, provide advice on areas for consideration.
whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and The Committee works to a structured programme of provides the information necessary for shareholders activities with agenda items focused to coincide with key to assess the Companys performance, business events of the annual financial reporting cycle, themes or model and strategy.
areas of risk that the Committee has identified, together with standing items that the Committee is required to The Committees terms of reference can be accessed on consider regularly under its terms of reference.
are provided by management, internal audit, and external www.
com about governance audit, addressing the key risks and reporting matters faced by the Group.
Following each meeting the Committee communicates its main discussion points and findings to the Board.
com Stock code: ITV Board of Directors Management Board Directors Report and Responsibilities Chairmans Governance Statement Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Annual Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy In addition to formal meetings, from time to time, Acquisition accounting for Leftfield see note 3.4 for Committee members have informal briefings on topics details of acquisitions : following the acquisition of relevant to the Committees work from members of the Leftfield, the Committee ensured consistency in application operational and financial management teams and external of principles to previous deals and reviewed the treatment auditor.
and presentation of performance-related commitments between ITV and the sellers: In reviewing the various topics on its agenda the Committee members receive input from management, internal Consistent application of acquisition accounting: as audit and external audit as appropriate.
Committee part of the review of the acquisition of Leftfield, the members draw upon this and their own experience to Committee reviewed the areas of judgement applied provide a constructive challenge to the judgements made by management around control, the valuation of by management and consider alternative scenarios or intangibles, and the put option valuation.
The Committee accounting treatments in reaching their conclusions.
concluded that the assumptions and judgements taken by management were on a basis consistent with previous What we focused on in 2014 acquisitions and IFRSs.
In planning its own agenda, and reviewing the audit plan Performance-related consideration: the Leftfield of the internal and external auditor, the Committee takes acquisition structure allowed for a further amount payable account of significant issues and risks, both operational top up payment or receivable performance adjustment and financial, likely to impact on the Companys financial based on stretching performance of the business in the statements.
The Committee also addresses specific queries two years following acquisition.
Structuring the deal this referred to it by the Board or Remuneration Committee.
way helped manage risks in terms of initial capital outlay An annual review of the performance of the Committee and created a joint incentive between ITV and the previous was conducted for the year.
In addition to feedback from owners to grow the business.
At the year end management members of the Committee, input was sought from the considered it appropriate to include a performance Group Finance Director, external auditors, Internal Audit and adjustment in the goodwill calculation.
The Committee the Chairman of the Board.
Overall, the review concluded discussed managements analysis for adjusting goodwill that the Committee is responding appropriately to its terms rather than the income statement and the Committee of reference and will continue to develop its role.
concluded that managements analysis was fair.
Below is a summary of some of the more significant risks Strategic investments: during the year management and issues discussed in the year by the Committee.
acquired small equity interests in four different businesses.
Although the total investment value is not significant, the During 2014 there were no topics where there was Committee considered it important to discuss whether significant disagreement between management, our as a result of the investment the Group had significant external auditor and the Committee, or unresolved issues influence over these businesses.
This determines whether which needed to be referred to the Board.
an acquisition is treated as an associate or as an investment.
Financial reporting The Committee debated managements role in the As part of the Committees review of the Interim and Full business operations of the investment, and concluded that Year financial statements, the following were discussed: managements analysis and treatment as an investment was appropriate.
Complex discrete transactions in the year The Group completed certain transactions during the period Recurring transactions in the year which were outside the normal course of business.
The There are a number of areas where the Group transacts Committee carefully reviewed these one-off transactions as part of its business as usual.
However, these areas may to ensure that the judgements applied by management require the application of judgement by management or were reasonable and any complex accounting guidance have underlying complexity that should be considered on an followed correctly.
The topics discussed in the year covered ongoing basis by the Committee.
77 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Governance Audit Committee Report continued Consequently, the following key topics are reviewed by Tax: the Group recognises certain provisions and accruals the Committee: in respect of tax.
The Committee debated the nature and key risks which give rise to corporate tax, payroll and VAT Revenue: every year the Committee considers issues, and discussed the activities when management managements assessment of the Groups internal controls undertakes to resolve the matters that give rise to such framework, which includes control over revenue.
Where support from our tax advisers is received, the Committee requested an internal audit exercise to the results and views of their work are also reviewed.
The specifically review the risks and controls surrounding each Committee concluded that the provisions at the year end of the Groups main revenue streams, including NAR and ITV were appropriate see note 2.3.
The Committee reviewed Internal Audits findings and agreed that the Groups processes and controls Identification of Cash Generating Units CGU : every year around existing revenue streams have remained consistent the Committee considers managements identification of and effective during the year.
CGUs for the purposes of testing for impairment of goodwill.
Following the additional acquisitions made by ITV Studios Deal debt: deal debt is where management provides for during 2014, the Committee debated how assets and over under delivery of advertising value to agencies.
The resources are shared across the ITV Studios division and the Committee reviews managements approach and method of level of integration within the management structure for determining the provision required and ensures consistency the purposes of reporting and strategic decision-making.
is applied in estimating inputs.
The Committee is satisfied The Committee concluded that a single ITV Studios CGU that the provision has been calculated on an appropriate continued to be appropriate.
and consistent basis with prior years.
Risk management Other topics also reviewed during the year included: The Committee continued to consider the process for Royalty accruals: the Group is required to make royalty managing risk within the business.
payments for content broadcast and distributed where we do not own all the rights.
Such payments are in accordance with individual contracts, and the large variety of terms results in a complex and manual process.
After an annual HILL review of processes and controls, the Committee was risks satisfied with the improvements management continues to make in the controls over royalty payments and as with previous years, the Committee considered the estimated Strategic risks accrual to be reasonable.
Deficit financing: as part of managements strategy to expand its content portfolio, significant investment in Process level risks high end drama was made during the year.
The Committee has reviewed and considered the accounting implications, including revenue recognition and recoverability of the Every year the Board and senior management deficits invested.
The Committee concluded that the review and challenge the Groups High Impact accounting treatment was appropriate.
Low Likelihood HILL risks, and the Strategic risks.
Each risk is assigned an owner and has a series Pension accounting: the Groups defined benefit pension of mitigating actions identied.
scheme is a significant net liability on the Groups balance sheet see note 3.7 and the value of the scheme liabilities will fluctuate due to changes in underlying assumptions An updated list of risks is included within the Strategic and the assets are held at market value.
The main Report on pages 50 to 55. assumptions which drive the fluctuations in liabilities include the forecast bond yield rates and the forecast For the Groups HILL risks the Committee reviewed the inflation rate.
The Committee considered both the process Groups current level of exposure and considered the management undertook to finalise the assumptions, and appropriateness of the mitigating actions being taken by how these assumptions benchmark against the market.
Committee concluded that the process was robust and the resulting calculation appropriately balanced.
com Stock code: ITV Board of Directors Management Board Directors Report and Responsibilities Chairmans Governance Statement Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Annual Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy The Committee also considered managements response Risk appetite and management: the Board is to strategic risk, including the level of assurance provided responsible for establishing risk appetite and a robust around the risk and how the risk is tracked using key risk risk management process and for regularly reviewing the indicators.
With regard to process risks the Committee identified risks.
The Committee keeps the effectiveness reviewed how effective management was in addressing the of the process under regular review.
findings of internal and external audit, as well as the method Control environment: financial controls, policies and by which management accepted process risks.
procedures are considered as part of the Groups ongoing The Committee has in place a rolling programme to review risk assessment process.
These controls are reviewed key compliance and other risk.
to ensure risks are identified and the processes and procedures are in accordance with and aligned to the The Committee was comfortable with the processes in place strategy.
The Internal Audit team provides objective for risk management, that the Internal Audit plan for 2015 assurance as to the effectiveness of the Groups systems was aligned to the highlighted risks and with those process of internal control and risk management, reporting to risks that have been accepted.
both the Management Board and the Committee.
Internal Controls Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal controls: controls are monitored by senior systems of internal control and for regularly reviewing the management, internal audit and the Committee.
The Committee assists the Remedial plans are put in place where controls are weak Board in reviewing the Groups systems of internal control.
or there are opportunities for improvement.
Serious The primary responsibility for the operation of these control weaknesses if any are reported to the Board and systems is delegated to management.
Such systems can action taken as appropriate.
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Post-acquisition review: when introducing the Groups material misstatement or loss.
Key control procedures are procedures and control environment to an acquisition, designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can be management is responsible for ensuring that key areas of summarised as follows: governance are implemented and that operational and Strategy and financial reporting: the strategy is financial processes are aligned to the Group.
A full postreviewed and approved by the Board.
The Group performs acquisition review is presented to the Committee in the a comprehensive annual strategy review and a rolling five year following the acquisition.
The five year plan feeds Data analytics: the Group has a suite of automated into the annual budget cycle.
The Executive Directors analytics tests that enables the Group to continuously review formal forecasts, detailed budgets, strategies and highlight exceptions from the norm over its transactional action plans and the Board approves the overall Group financial data.
The analytics have been expanded and budget as part of its normal responsibilities.
The results have contributed to a stronger and more efficient control of operating units are reported monthly, along with an environment.
update of the Groups performance against strategic KPIs and cash.
Actual results are compared to budget and Technology Risk forecasts, and key trends and variances are explained and As we execute our strategy the technology infrastructure analysed.
has to evolve to support new revenue streams.
Legacy Organisational structure and authorisation procedures: systems supporting the existing business remain in place.
the Group has an established organisational structure It therefore remains important to have an effective with clearly stated lines of responsibility, approval levels technology governance framework that seeks to address the and delegated authorities.
risks arising from the above environment.
Risk identification and assessment: management is responsible for identifying the risks facing the business and for establishing controls and procedures to monitor and mitigate those risks.
79 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Governance Audit Committee Report continued As part of ongoing governance the Committee reviewed At the start of the year the Committee considered and cyber security, which is a priority as the frequency and approved the internal audit plan, which included audits sophistication of attacks increases.
In 2013, management across the Group as well as assurance over live projects.
initiated a review of cyber security within ITV which During the year the Committee reviewed findings from highlighted a number of areas to enhance our controls and these internal audit reports, the actions taken to implement readiness.
In 2014 Internal Audit assessed progress against the recommendations made in the reports and the status of agreed recommendations and evaluated that relevant progress against previously agreed actions.
All internal audit progress had been made.
This will continue to be an area reports are available to the Committee as required.
of focus for management and the Committee in 2015 and External auditor beyond.
Auditor engagement Whistleblowing Throughout the year the Committee received reports from ITV has arrangements in place that enable employees to the auditor KPMG on their plans and the progress and raise concerns in confidence about any possible risks to results of their work.
employees, clients or the Company.
In 2014 ITV asked the The Committee considers carefully the scope of planned whistleblowing charity Public Concern at Work to carry work and the assessment of risk and materiality on out an independent review of these arrangements and it which it is based.
In particular through the Chairman the was concluded that they were proportionate and allowed Committee participates in the negotiation of the audit fee independent investigation of matters raised and for followarrangements to ensure that there is an appropriate balance up action to be carried out.
ITV became a signatory to The between the scope of work and the cost of assurance.
The First 100 campaign which seeks to champion enlightened Committees aim is to support a robust and effective audit organisations who are committed to ensuring that their and strong reporting lines to the Committee.
In 2012 the Committee conducted a tender process for Our auditors external audit services, the main outcome of which was the Internal auditor reappointment of KPMG, and a plan for the development of The Groups internal audit activity is outsourced to Deloitte the external audit approach over a two to three year period.
who report directly to the Committee.
The Committee keeps The Committee continues to monitor the implementation under review the internal audit relationship with Deloitte of these changes.
and the procedures to ensure appropriate independence of Having recommended the reappointment of KPMG in the internal audit function is maintained.
In particular, the 2012 following a competitive tender the Committee does Committee has approved guidelines in relation to other not propose seeking further competitive proposals in advisory and consultancy work that Deloitte may undertake 2015.
However the Committee will monitor the upcoming for the Company, which adheres to the underlying principle changes in regulation for auditor appointments and, once that they cannot implement controls that they audit.
Other we understand how the EU Regulations will be implemented services provided by Deloitte included tax and corporate in the UK, we will comply with any applicable new finance advice.
Until November 2014, Deloitte were the Groups Remuneration Committee advisers.
Following a review, FIT Auditor effectiveness Remuneration Consultants were appointed as advisers.
Audit quality is reviewed throughout the year with the focus on: strong audit governance: the firms methodology and The effectiveness of internal audit is assessed over the year its effective application to ITV: robustness of challenges and using a number of measures which include but are not findings on areas which require management judgement: limited to : and the quality of the senior members of the audit team.
an evaluation of each audit assignment completed using In particular, the effectiveness of the audit is assessed over feedback from the part of the business that has been the year using a number of measures including but not audited: and limited to : a high level annual review that is completed by obtaining reviewing the quality and scope of planning of the audit feedback from senior management in each division.
and its responsiveness to changes in our business: 80 slugline Governance ar2014.
com Stock code: ITV Board of Directors Management Board Directors Report and Responsibilities Chairmans Governance Statement Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Annual Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy implementation of planned improvements: places them in a position to audit their own work: monitoring the independence and transparency of the creates a mutuality of interest: audit: results in the auditor developing close personal reviewing the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality relationships with ITV employees: Review AQR reports for KPMG and other audit firms: and results in the auditor functioning as a manager or seeking feedback from KPMG on any external or internal employee of ITV: or quality review of our audit.
puts the auditor in the role of advocate for ITV.
At the conclusion of each years audit the Committee The policy is reviewed annually and is available in full on our performs a specific evaluation of the performance of website.
This is supported by the results of questionnaires completed by the Executive Directors and www.
com about governance relevant senior management, both finance and non-finance, covering areas such as quality of audit team, business Other than in exceptional circumstances management and understanding, audit approach and management.
Where the Committee do not expect non-audit fees to be in excess appropriate, actions are agreed against the points raised of fees for audit and audit-related services.
The non-audit and subsequently monitored for progress.
There were no fees for 2014 were just over half that of the audit fees.
A significant findings from the evaluation this year and the report on the level of non-audit work provided by the auditor Committee considers the external audit to have been robust is given to the Committee half yearly.
No changes have been and effective.
made to the policy during the year.
Full details are set out in note 2.1 on page 120.
Independence, objectivity and fees The Committee seeks to ensure the objectivity and The significant non-audit engagements related to VAT and independence of our auditor through: corporate tax services, including tax advice.
Significant engagements require the prior approval of the Chairman of focus on the assignment and rotation of key personnel: the Committee.
the adequacy of audit resource: and The Committee has formally reviewed the work undertaken policies in relation to non-audit work.
by KPMG for the Committee and elsewhere in the Company and is satisfied that the advice they have received has been The senior audit partner serves no more than five years objective and independent.
continuously and the independent review partner serves no more than seven years continuously.
Other key partners Reappointment serve for no longer than seven consecutive years.
The During the year the Committee considered the performance Committee monitors the tenure of partners and senior staff and audit fees of the external auditor, and the level of nonas well as former employees working for the Company.
The audit work undertaken, and recommended to the Board that appointment by the Company of former senior employees a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG for a further of the external auditor would require approval of the year as the Companys auditor be proposed to shareholders Committee.
The resolution was passed and KPMG was reappointed for a further year.
The Committee regularly monitors the other services being provided to the Group by its external auditor, and has The Committee has recommended the reappointment of developed a formal policy to ensure this does not impair KPMG at the AGM in May 2015. their independence or objectivity.
The policy is based on the five key principles which underpin the provision of other services by the external auditor.
These are that the auditor may not provide a service which: 81 slugline
