Directors Report Audit Committee Dear Shareholder, We are satisfied that the business has maintained robust risk Gary Hughes management and internal controls, Chairman, Audit Committee supported by strong overall governance processes, and that management have instilled a strong risk management culture across thebusiness.
Susan Rice joined the Committee during the year and her wide experience During the year, the Committee has significantly increased its involvement asa Non-Executive Director and her career in retail banking have extended with respect to data governance across the organisation, especially given the the balance of skills and experience of the Committee at a time when the increasing number of high profile breaches of information security that have Company is expanding its interests in financial services with the full affected other companies, including some of those in direct competition with acquisition of Sainsburys Bank.
We are supported by a strong internal audit Sainsburys.
A major breach of information security could have a material and function and an executive management team who have instilled a strong and significant impact on the business and its reputation and therefore the positive culture of controls throughout the business over many years.
We Committee will continue to receive regular presentations on data governance believe that our discussions with the management team are open, thorough, throughout the Group going forward.
The Companys Principal Risks and constructive and appropriately challenging.
Our external auditors also give Uncertainties are set out on pages 24 to 27.
We have reviewed these in detail us a high level of confidence in relation to the work they do with respect to and are comfortable that the business has addressed them appropriately the Companys financial controls and related risk environment.
The most within its ongoing operating model and priorities.
recent annual Board and Committee evaluation conducted by Manchester Square Partners confirmed that governance of risk, and the processes that In the coming year, the Board has agreed that the Committee should conduct support this, remain strong and that the Audit Committee continues to a tender for the external auditor appointment which will take effect from the workeffectively.
In the meantime the Board is happy to recommend to shareholders that  LLP be reappointed as auditors for As a Committee, we are keen to ensure that the identification and the 2014 15 financial year.
management of all significant risks is embedded across all areas of the business, with continuous and effective oversight coming from the Operating Board.
We regularly review the risk profiles across each part of the business, the actions being taken and the processes they have in place to manage or mitigate these risks.
In addition, we frequently receive updates onspecific areas of identified risk with the relevant members of the management team.
We are satisfied that the business has maintained robust risk management Gary Hughes and internal controls, supported by strong overall governance processes, and Chairman, Audit Committee that management have instilled a strong risk management culture across thebusiness.
The following pages describe the Committees principal activities during the year and its oversight responsibility towards risk management and internal controls.
One of our key priorities during the year has been to ensure that the governance of Sainsburys Bank continues to be strong following completion of our full acquisition of the Bank.
The Bank has a robust internal operating structure, with a Non-Executive Chairman and four Independent NonExecutive Directors on its Board, as well as its own Audit and Risk Committees.
We receive updates on the key agenda items discussed at the Banks Audit Committee and on all important operating and regulatory matters including its liquidity, cash flows, capital adequacy and risk management processes.
Representatives from the Bank Audit Committee and the Bank Internal Audit team now attend meetings of the Committee atleast twice a year.
We are also very satisfied that there is good alignment between the Sainsburys Internal Audit function and their colleagues within Sainsburys Banks Internal Audit team.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 50 Company, dilapidations of properties and land, impairments, promotional Committee membership monies and the related accounting, and pensions.
In addition, the Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Gary Hughes, with Susan Rice and Matt regularly reviewed the Companys funding and liquidity position and has Brittin as its other members, all of whom are independent Non-Executive considered its impact on the Companys financial and operational capabilities.
The Board has determined that Gary Hughes has recent and The Committees detailed review of the year-end position assisted the Board relevant financial experience.
David Tyler, Justin King, John Rogers, Susannah in making the going concern statement set out on page 75.
Hall Director of Internal Audit, other senior members of the Finance Division and the external auditors are invited to attend Committee meetings.
Tim During the year the Committee increased its focus on Sainsburys Bank risk Fallowfield is secretary to the Committee.
To enable the Committee to obtain assurance, it receives updates on the key agenda items discussed at the The terms of reference for each Committee are available on the website at Banks Audit Committee and on all important operating and regulatory www.
matters including its liquidity, cash flows, capital adequacy and risk management processes.
Representatives from the Bank Audit Committee Activities during the year and the Bank Internal Audit team now attend meetings of the Committee at During the year, the Committee met on four occasions and the external auditors least twice a year.
During the year, the Committee has significantly increased and the Director of Internal Audit were given the opportunity after each its involvement with respect to data governance across the organisation and meeting to meet with the Committee, without management being present.
has received regular presentations and updates.
The Committee has a calendar of standard items within its remit which reflects the Companys reporting cycle: At each meeting, the Committee receives a report on the internal controls framework and the Internal Audit departments activities.
This year, it received information on major IT projects, data security, business continuity planning Standard items and details of any invocation of the business continuity management team.
September Accounting and tax update The Committee reviews the quarterly results of the store safe and legal audits PwC performance review to ensure that appropriate standards are being maintained.
Litigation report Data governance update The Committee also reviews: Internal controls framework and fraud update Risk management update the effectiveness of the Companys financial controls and the systems Sainsburys Bank report ofinternal control by approving the Internal Audit plans twice yearly, Sainsburys Bank audit committee overview reviewing the findings quarterly and by reviewing the scope of work and Sainsburys Bank risk management report reports of the external auditors.
The detailed actions for resolution of any PwC audit plan, audit strategy and fees identified weaknesses are closely monitored by the Committee through to Terms of reference update completion: and Annual review and benchmarking of the Finance Division the management of risk by reviewing the risk assessment process and Non-audit services and fees corporate and divisional risk maps and registers twice yearly.
These form November Half-year accounting and tax update, including going the basis of the Internal Audit planning process.
concern review PwC interim review report Full descriptions of the risk management and internal controls processes are Draft Interim Statement set out below.
Litigation report Internal controls framework and fraud update The Companys whistleblowing procedures ensure that arrangements are in Sainsburys Bank report place to enable colleagues and suppliers to raise concerns about possible Update on PwC management letter improprieties on a confidential basis.
All issues raised have been investigated Non-audit services and fees and appropriate actions taken.
Any significant issues are highlighted to the March Accounting and tax update Audit Committee.
Litigation report Data governance update The Company has a fraud policy and a Serious Fraud Committee, which Internal controls framework and fraud update convenes in the event of serious incidents to oversee case management and Risk management update ensure appropriate actions are taken.
The Audit Committee receives a fraud Internal audit charter update at each meeting.
Principal risks and uncertainties PwC internal financial controls report Fair, balanced and understandable assessment PwC report on auditor independence One of the new compliance requirements of the Code is for the Board to Non-audit services and fees confirm that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, Sainsburys Bank report is fair, balanced and understandable see page 76.
To enable the Board to Sainsburys Bank audit committee overview make this declaration, a formal process is embedded in the year-end review Sainsburys Bank risk management report to ensure the Committee, and the Board as a whole, has access to all relevant April Year-end accounting and tax update, including going information and in particular, managements papers on significant issues faced concern review by the business.
The Committee receives a paper from management detailing Litigation report the approach taken in the preparation of the Annual Report and Financial Annual Report and Financial Statements Statements.
The Committee, and all other Board members, also receive drafts Non-audit services and fees of the Annual Report and Financial Statements in sufficient time to facilitate PwC year-end report and required communications their review and enable them to challenge the disclosures where necessary.
External auditors appointment Inaddition, the Groups external auditors review the consistency between the Internal controls framework and fraud update narrative reporting of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements.
Sainsburys Bank report Financial statements and significant issues During the year, the Committee has considered a number of matters under the general headings above.
It monitored the integrity of the financial statements An accounting and tax paper is prepared by management and presented to and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial the Audit Committee four times a year, which provides detail on the main performance and reviewed any significant financial judgements contained in financial reporting judgements.
Specific accounting papers have also been them.
Within the accounting update it considered provisions made by the prepared when considered necessary.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 51 Directors Report Audit Committee continued Significant financial and reporting issues considered in the year, in no The Audit Committee remains satisfied that reasonable judgements have been particular order, were as follows: made by management and adequate disclosures provided where appropriate.
Internal Audit Significant financial and reporting issue How the issue has been addressed The Committee has regularly reviewed the Internal Audit departments Impairment As disclosed in note 2, a review for impairment triggers is resources, budget, work programme, results and managements of financial performed at each reporting date by considering if any current implementation of its recommendations.
and nonor future events suggest the recoverable value of certain financial assets may be less than their carrying value.
The Committee The Director of Internal Audit, Susannah Hall, reports to the Committee assets reviewed managements assessment of recoverable value Chairman and has direct access to all members of the Committee and the and relevant judgements made.
She is given the opportunity after eachmeeting to meet with the impairment has been recognised during the year to write Committee separately without management being present.
She has regular down the value of certain sites held for development as meetings with all Committee members.
The purpose, authority and disclosed in note 3. responsibility ofInternal Audit are defined in the Internal Audit Charter.
Complex The Committee has reviewed a number of complex TheCommittee reviews the Charter annually.
property property transactions executed during the year to ensure transactions that all accounting and tax issues are identified and External Audit appropriately presented in the accounts.
This includes The Committee reviewed  LLPs PwC overall whether amounts recognised reflect the overall substance workplan, and approved their remuneration and terms of engagement.
of these transactions and in particular that sale and Itconsidered in detail the results of the audit, PwCs performance and leaseback transactions are treated correctly.
Please refer independence and the effectiveness of the overall audit process.
tonote 3 for property profits recognised in theyear.
Pensions The Committee reviewed a summary of the key Changes made to the Code in 2012 recommended that the external audit is accounting assumptions used in arriving at a valuation for the defined put out to tender at least every ten years.
PwC have been the Companys benefit pension scheme.
There have been two significant auditors since 1995 and it is more than ten years since the external audit was changes in the accounting for the defined benefit pension tendered.
PwC are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the scheme in the year: the Group has implemented the Group audit every five years.
required changes for the revision to IAS 19: Employee Benefits IAS 19 Revised and the defined benefit scheme Following new proposed regulation regarding audit tendering and audit firm has been closed to future accrual.
rotation, the FRC plans to consult on the tendering provision within the Code in 2016.
In late 2013, the UK Competition Commission CC proposed a The Committee has ensured that the required additional regime of mandatory audit tendering of FTSE 350 audit appointments at accounting and tax disclosure as a result of both pension least every ten years.
This was followed by the European Union EU who changes has been adequately presented in the financial issued draft legislation proposing mandatory audit firm rotation every 20 statements.
See note 2 for disclosure of the impact of years subject to a tender after ten years.
In March 2014, the European applying the revised standard, note 3 for disclosure of Parliament voted to approve the proposed EU audit legislation, with the time relevant amounts presented outside of underlying profit frame for application likely to be June 2016.
Given that the EU legislation and note 30 for new disclosures implemented as a result of hasbeen voted in, it is expected that the CC will follow and align their rules IAS 19 Revised.
The This has required consideration of complex accounting acquisition of due to the change from joint venture equity accounting Richard Hughes, the current audit partner, was appointed in July 2010 and the remaining to a fully consolidated subsidiary.
Integration of the Bank istherefore due to rotate following the conclusion of the audit for 2015.
50 per cent of within the Groups ongoing reporting processes has also Onthis basis and in light of regulatory changes referred to above, the Sainsburys been discussed extensively.
The Committee has reviewed Committee has determined that an external tender should commence after Bank managements papers on the accounting and consolidation the AGM for the 2015 16 audit.
of Sainsburys Bank along with the required disclosures.
The use of judgement has been required when assessing Independence the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities of In order to ensure their independence, the Committee has overseen the Sainsburys Bank and the Committee is satisfied that Companys policy which restricts the engagement of PwC in relation to management has used reasonable assumptions in their non-audit services.
The majority of the non-audit work undertaken by PwC assessment of fair value.
Refer to note 37 for the required during 2013 14 was audit related assurance services such as the interim business combination disclosures.
review and the provision of accounting advice, which totalled 0.2 million.
In Items The Committee is satisfied that the Groups definition addition, PwC earned fees for other non-audit work of 0.1 million.
The audit excluded of items excluded from underlying results remains clear fee for the year in respect of the Group, Company and its subsidiaries totalled from and further disclosure is included where appropriate.
The Committee remains satisfied with PwCs independence and underlying definition has been updated this year to present both their overall challenge to management.
results defined benefit pension scheme expenses within the amounts excluded as a result of the closure of the scheme The policy was reviewed during the year and is consistent with the Auditing to future accrual and acquisition adjustments which do Practices Boards Ethical Standards No.
The policy is not reflect the Groups underlying performance.
Other designed to ensure that the provision of such services does not have an items such as the recovery of historic VAT overpayments impact on the external auditors independence and objectivity.
It identifies in relation to Nectar have also been included within this certain types of engagement that the external auditors shall not undertake, disclosure on the basis that it is a one-off material item not including internal audit and actuarial services relating to the preparation of relating to the Groups ongoing activities.
Please refer to accounting estimates for the financial statements.
It also requires that note 3 for further detail.
individual engagements above a certain fee level may only be undertaken with appropriate authority from the Committee Chairman or the Committee.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 52 The policy also recognises that there are some types of work, such as Risk management accounting and tax advice, where a detailed understanding of the Companys Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, the risk business is advantageous.
The policy is designed to ensure that PwC is only management system is designed to identify key risks and to provide appointed to provide a non-audit service where it is considered to be the most assurance that these risks are fully understood and managed.
The suitable supplier of the service.
The Committee receives a report at each effectiveness of the process is reviewed twice a year by the Audit Committee.
meeting on the non-audit services being provided and the cumulative total of The Board carries out an annual review of the significant risks facing the non-audit fees.
In the event that cumulative non-audit fees exceed the audit business which includes reviewing risk appetite.
fee then all subsequent non-audit expenditure must be approved by the Committee Chairman.
The Operating Board maintains an overall corporate risk register which is reviewed twice yearly by the Audit Committee and formally discussed with the Board.
The risk register contains the significant risks faced by the Sainsburys Bank business and identifies the potential impact and likelihood at both a gross Sainsburys Bank is a subsidiary of the Company which has an independent level before consideration of mitigating controls and net level after board which has the responsibility for setting the Banks strategy, risk consideration of mitigating controls.
This gives the Board the opportunity to appetite and annual business plan as well as the day-to-day management of review the level of risk that the business is prepared to accept.
The Board of the Bank has an independent Chairman and six also contains the assurance provided over current key mitigating controls.
Non-Executive Directors, four of whom are considered to be independent, Where further actions have been identified to mitigate risks to a level deemed whilst the other two are appointed by the Company.
acceptable, these are agreed with specific timelines for delivery and progress on implementation of these actions is monitored.
The Bank will continue to provide an update on performance to each Audit Committee and the Chair of the Banks Audit Committee and representatives The risk management process is embedded at the Operating Board level and from the Banks Internal Audit team will present to the Audit Committee at through the review of the risk registers of each of the operating divisions of least twice a year.
There isalignment between the Sainsburys Internal Audit the business: function and their colleagues within the equivalent Sainsburys Bank team.
the divisional operating management teams are responsible for Grocery Supply Code of Practice managingthe risks to their business objectives and for identification and implementation of internal controls so as to provide reasonable, but not In February 2010, a new Grocery Supply Code of Practice GSCOP was absolute, assurance that the risks in their areas of responsibility are implemented following the recommendation of the Competition appropriately identified, evaluated and managed: Commission.
Each grocery retailer to which it applies had to appoint a Code Compliance Officer whose duties include hearing disputes between suppliers this divisional risk process is achieved through twice yearly workshops and the relevant retailer.
Sainsburys appointed the Director of Internal Audit heldby the divisional management and facilitated by Internal Audit.
as its Code Compliance Officer.
Eachdivisional management team produces and maintains a divisional key risk register.
The likelihood and impact of each key risk is evaluated, GSCOP requires that each grocery retailer to which it applies delivers an managements risk appetite is discussed and any further actions deemed annual compliance report to the Groceries Code Adjudicator whichhas been necessary to mitigate the risk are identified.
In addition, the risks and the approved by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Furthermore, a summary robustness of the mitigating controls are regularly reviewed by divisional of the compliance report must be included in our Annual Report and management as part of their normal business activities: FinancialStatements.
management certify annually that they are responsible for managing their business objectives and that the internal controls are such that they provide Summary Annual Compliance Report reasonable but not absolute assurance that the risks in their areas of Sainsburys has invested significant time and resource in providing responsibility are appropriately identified, evaluated and managed: comprehensive training to all relevant colleagues as required under GSCOP which is reinforced by online knowledge testing.
Sainsburys has also the Operating Board reviews and challenges the output of the divisional risk dedicated internal resource to provide all relevant colleagues with day-to-day process and then updates the overall corporate risk register as appropriate: advice and guidance.
The Trading Division, in consultation with the Legal Services Team and the Code Compliance Officer, continues to assess the game-changer and horizon scanning risk workshops are held annually to adequacy of policies and procedures in place to support GSCOP awareness focus on external and unknown risks.
Key themes and outputs from these and compliance.
are reviewed by the Operating Board and the potential impact on key risks is discussed: A small number of alleged breaches of GSCOP have been received in the the corporate and divisional risk registers form the basis of the risk-based reporting period, which were dealt with within the Trading Division using our plan of Internal Audit for the subsequent half-year period: standard internal escalation procedure.
The resolution of one of these alleged breaches was facilitated by the Code Compliance Officer.
Internal Audit provides independent assurance to management and the Audit Committee as to the existence and effectiveness of the risk Risk management and internal controls management process: and The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and the system of the Board reviews the risk process and corporate risks in May and approves internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Certain of these the Companys Principal Risks and Uncertainties as set out on page 24 responsibilities have been delegated to the Audit Committee as outlined on to 27. pages 51 and 52.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The risk management process and the system of internal controls have been in place for the whole year, up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, and accord with the Turnbull guidance and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls and has ensured that any required remedial action on any identified weaknesses has been, or is being taken.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 53 Directors Report Audit Committee continued The risk management process is illustrated below: Divisions Operating Board Audit Committee plc Board Internal Audit January 1 2 Divisional Risk Operating Board February Risk Review Workshops 3 review challenge assess key risks divisional risk to their business output and update objectives corporate risk register as appropriate March Audit Committee Internal Audit review corporate risk-based and divisional risks half-year plan and sign-off Principal Risks and Uncertainties May plc Board Management review of risk annual certification process, corporate that risks in their risks and sign-off areas of responsibility of Principal Risks are identified, and Uncertainties evaluated and managed June Horizon Scanning 4 and Game-Changer Risk Workshops focus on external and unknown risks July 1 2 Divisional Risk Operating Workshops Board Annual assess key risks 4 Risk to their business Workshop objectives assess and discuss key corporate risks and risk appetite August 2 Operating Board Risk Review review challenge divisional risk output and update corporate risk register as appropriate September Audit Internal Audit Committee risk-based review corporate half-year plan and divisional risks Output Output Output Output 1 2 3 4 Divisional risk Corporate risk Principal Risk and Uncertainties The risk management process feeds into the maps and registers map and register reflecting key corporate risks Company strategy, plan and objectives Internal controls regular reviews by management of the risks to achieving objectives and The system of internal control encompasses all controls, including those mitigating controls and actions: relating to financial reporting processes including the preparation of the regular reviews by management and the Audit Committee of the scope and consolidated Group accounts, operational and compliance controls and those results of the work of Internal Audit across the Company and of the relating to risk management processes.
It also includes the controls over implementation of their recommendations: Sainsburys interests in joint ventures.
regular reviews by the Audit Committee of the scope and results of the work The Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness of the internal controls of the external auditors and of any significant issues arising: systems on an ongoing basis, enabling a cumulative assessment to be made.
regular reviews by the Audit Committee of accounting policies and levels of The processes used during the year to support this assessment are as follows: delegated authority: and discussion and approval by the Board of the Companys strategy, plans and regular reviews by the Board and the Audit Committee of material fraudulent objectives, and the risks to achieving them: activity and any significant whistleblowing by colleagues or suppliers and review and approval by the Board of budgets and forecasts, including those actions being taken to remedy any control weaknesses.
for both revenue and capital expenditure: J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 54
