Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder Succession and diversity at Board and senior management levels are key aspects of our Nomination Committee agenda.
In my statement on page 40 I have already referred to succession and Succession planning Nomination Committee diversity at Board and senior management levels, both of which are key The Board takes succession planning for both Board members and senior aspects of our Nomination Committee agenda.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are members of the Nomination Committee which is chaired by David Tyler.
Justin King is The Committees priorities over recent years have been: not a member of the Committee although he is invited to attend meetings.
to refresh and rotate the Non-Executive Directors on the Board, ensuring As stated above, our Board evaluations consider the balance, skills and diversity appropriate skills and diverse experience: of the Board.
They also consider succession planning, reviewing whether it is to plan the succession process for the Chief Executive and ensure a smooth working effectively.
The evaluation reviews any senior appointment processes transition: during the year and identifies priorities for the year ahead.
to support succession at Operating Board and senior management levels We believe we have good balance and diversity amongst our Non-Executive sothat change can be implemented as smoothly as possible: and Directors with several having deep experience of consumer-facing businesses and other highly relevant skills partly derived from serving in a range of major to oversee the Companys approach to resourcing the needs of the executive and non-executive positions throughout their careers.
Each of our business, developing our colleagues and recruiting new talent.
Non-Executive Directors have been recruited following a robust selection process which has been facilitated by Egon Zehnder International, who This has stood us in good stead over the last year, which has seen the provide search and recruitment services for the Company.
The process which appointment of Susan Rice as a Non-Executive Director, the planned led to the appointments of Jean Tomlin and Susan Rice was described in succession from Justin King to Mike Coupe as Chief Executive, and the detail in the 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements internal appointment of Jon Rudoe, Paul Mills-Hicks and Peter Griffiths at Operating Board level, as well as the departures that I have referred to on Our Non-Executive Directors tenure on our Board as at the year-end is as page 3.
We are well placed to support Mikes transition as he takes on his follows: newrole in July.
Board tenure Turning to diversity, I have already commented on our strong representation Non-Executive Number Percentage of women on the Board and Operating Board.
Diversity on a broader basis is 0-1 years 2 29 an important feature of the Committees agenda and a detailed summary of 2-3 years 2 29 the Companys priorities is set out below.
4-5 years 1 14 6-7 years 1 14 8-9 years 1 14 The above table includes the Chairman.
Tenure taken from first AGM appointment.
At the time of the annual Strategy Conference, the Committee reviews succession plans for the Operating Board, as well as Divisional Director development, talent management and the graduate programme.
David Tyler Chairman The Committees terms of reference are available on the website and set outthe Committees responsibilities.
The Committee meets on such occasions as are necessary and in 2013 14 held three formal meetings andanumber of other updates, particularly relating to the process which ledto the appointment of Mike Coupe as Chief Executive.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the website at www.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 45 Directors Report Nomination Committee continued Diversity Our diversity and inclusion vision is to be the most inclusive retailer.
We will achieve this aspiration by recruiting, retaining and developingdiverse and talented people and creating an inclusive environment where everyone can be the best they can be and where diverse views are listened to.
This will enable us to anticipate and accommodate the needs of our diverse customers, reflecting the communities we serve.
Four Operating Board Sponsors lead our diversity strategy: Roger Burnley gender, Helen Buck race and age, Tim Fallowfield disability and carers and Sarah Warby sexual orientation.
Our Board Sponsors, together with our Group HR Director, Angie Risley, form our Diversity Steering Group.
The Group leads our strategy, meeting monthly to govern progress.
They are also responsible for updating the Board and Operating Board.
Over the last year we have conducted extensive listening with our colleagues in our business which has informed our strategy.
We have over 150 Diversity Champions who support the agenda in every part of our organisation.
This year, we were listed in The Times Top 50 Employers for Women.
We are taking active steps to support talented women to develop their careers in management where, like in many organisations, women are underrepresented.
Our Inspiring Women programme gives colleagues confidence that we support their career aspirations and that gender is no barrier to fulfilling their potential.
The Davies report recommends businesses attain 25 per cent women on boards by 2015.
Women already make up 30 per cent of our Board and 27 per cent of our Operating Board.
This compares with an average of 20.8 per cent women on FTSE 100 boards.
A number of our senior women hold non-executive director positions in other organisations and two are currently participating in the FTSE 100 Cross-Company Mentoring Programme.
Over 300 of our colleagues have signed up to the Inspiring the Future campaign, sharing their careers experience with schools and colleges.
Male Female Board 70% 30% Operating Board 73% 27% Senior executive positions 68% 32% Company 45% 55% If the definition of senior management were to include individuals appointed as directors of Group subsidiary companies including dormant companies, excluding joint venture and pension companies the percentage of senior management who are female would reduce to 29 per cent.
We are Champion members of Race for Opportunity.
14 per cent of the population of England and Wales and 11 per cent of the UK workforce is from a BAME Black Asian Ethnic Minority background.
This compares with 14 per cent of all Sainsburys colleagues.
We are working to increase the representation of BAME colleagues at middle manager grades by encouraging talented colleagues to progress within the business: for example BAME colleagues are participating in Race for Opportunitys crossorganisational mentoring circles.
We aspire to take a leadership approach to disability, commensurate with our Paralympic commitment to create a legacy of greater inclusion for people with disabilities.
We sit on the Paralympic Legacy Advisory Group and take an active role in the Governments Disability Confident campaign.
We are Partner members of the Business Disability Forum.
Our You Can programme has attracted over 21,600 people traditionally considered harder to reach into jobs with Sainsburys.
In January 2014, we held the parliamentary launch of our Active Kids for All programme, supporting teachers to include disabled children in physical education and school sport.
We are one of few FTSE 100 companies with a carers policy and have worked with Carers UK for 15 years.
2013 saw our most successful Carers Week yet as over 1,000 Sainsburys stores across the country hosted events for local support and community groups.
We sponsored the Carers Rights Day Caring for Someone booklet again this year, and the booklet was made available to our colleagues as well as to other organisations.
We are proud to chair the Retail Group of the Prime Ministers Dementia Challenge.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 46
