Directors Report Corporate Governance statement Dear Shareholder, Your Board remains committed to effective governance and to David Tyler Sainsburys unique values and Chairman culture, which have played a key role in our success.
In this statement, I have picked out some aspects of governance which are Board evaluation particularly notable for shareholders.
These are described in more detail in During the year, a thorough review of your Boards performance was thefollowing pages.
completed by Manchester Square Partners, who provide board evaluation and advisory services and have no other relationship with Sainsburys.
Our last Succession external review was completed in January 2011.
This was also conducted by Manchester Square Partners, but by different partners.
Since 2011, we have We take succession at Board and senior management level very seriously conducted comprehensive internal reviews which have ensured that we have andwe believe that we have a good record of identifying the resourcing continued to build on our strengths, and that we are working effectively.
This needs of the business, developing our own people, attracting external talent years review, which is described in detail below, concluded that the Board and planning and implementing change.
Managing the succession of a chief functions extremely well and in line with first class corporate governance with executive is a key priority for any board.
In January, we announced that shared values, open dialogue, strong levels of trust, respect and collaboration, Justin King will stand down in July after ten very successful years as Chief but also appropriate challenge.
We have identified a forward looking action Executive and that Mike Coupe will succeed him.
Mike joined Sainsburys in plan to build on our strong foundations.
2004 and was appointed to the Board in August 2007.
Since July 2010, he has been Group Commercial Director.
He has a deep understanding of Sainsburys and over 20 years of experience in retail businesses.
Our Chief Executive Diversity succession planning process took place over a number of years.
It included a One of our strengths continues to be our diversity, which is the result of a comprehensive external search facilitated by Egon Zehnder International and high proportion of women having been appointed on merit throughout the enabled the Board to conclude that Mike was the best possible candidate to organisation.
We have three women on our Board 30per cent and three on take the Company forward.
One of the Boards key priorities in the year ahead our Operating Board 27 per cent, exceeding the aspirational target of the is to ensure and support a smooth transition from Justin to Mike.
Davies Report that 25 per cent of the Board positions at FTSE100 companies should be filled by women by 2015.
A review of our broad diversity targets is Since I joined the Board as Chairman in November 2009, we have appointed set out onpage 46. three new Non-Executive Directors, Matt Brittin, Jean Tomlin and Susan Rice, who have brought new skills and experience to the Board, as well as adding Remuneration toour broad diversity.
With Mikes succession as Chief Executive taking place There continues to be a great deal of focus on Directors remuneration and after our AGM in July 2014, the Board has concluded that it is important to theway it is disclosed.
Under Mary Harris leadership, the Remuneration maintain Board stability as the Company goes through this important period Committee has ensured that there is a direct link between pay and of transition.
performance in the areas most valued by our shareholders.
Our Directors Remuneration Report, including Marys annual statement to shareholders, As a result, although Gary Hughes reaches the ninth anniversary of his isset out on pages 55 to 73 and reflects the latest remuneration reporting appointment at the 2014 AGM, the Board believes that it is in shareholders regulations.
At this years AGM, shareholders will have the opportunity to best interests for him to remain on the Board for another year, until the 2015 participate in a binding vote on our forward looking Directors Remuneration AGM.
This will also enable Gary to play a key role in the audit tender planned Policy, as well as an advisory vote on the remainder of the Directors for later this year.
The Board believes that Gary continues to make an Remuneration Report.
outstanding contribution to the Company, particularly as Audit Committee Chairman, where his deep understanding of the business and robust Sainsburys has again this year complied with all provisions of the UK leadership continue to beasource of great strength.
The Board has concluded Corporate Governance Code.
We believe that our strong governance, culture that Gary continues to be independent in every respect notwithstanding the and values will continue to hold us in good stead for the future.
time that he has spent on the Board.
In the next 12 months we expect to appoint a Non-Executive Director who will succeed Garyas Audit Committee Chairman in July 2015.
David Tyler Chairman J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 40 TheChief Executive and Group HR Director then presented a review of Compliance succession planning, talent and development to the Nomination Committee The following sections explain how the Company applies the main which enabled them to review the capability, succession planning and principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Board is resourcing necessary to achieve the strategic priorities.
The Board receives a committed to strong governance and, during the year, the Company has detailed half-year strategy update on progress against the agreed priorities complied with all the provisions of theCode.
and then, to complete the cycle in July, agrees the objectives and principal areas of focus for the next conference.
Specific projects are considered at other meetings during the year as necessary.
Our 2014 Board evaluation The role of the Board exercise concluded that the Board continued to make good progress in driving the strategic debate during the year.
The Board is chaired by David Tyler and, at the year-end, there were three Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
John McAdam is the The Board was fully involved in the decision to acquire full ownership of Senior Independent Director.
The Directors biographical details are set out Sainsburys Bank, announced in May 2013.
In-depth reviews were presented onpage 37. at a number of Board meetings setting out the strategic opportunity, the risks and the funding options, together with the related regulatory requirements.
The Boards key focus in helping to create long-term sustainable value for In January 2014, we announced the completion of the acquisition.
The Board shareholders is on strategic leadership, performance management, investor will receive regular updates on the transition process and the Banks strategy.
relations, risk management, governance and succession planning, each of We expect the Bank to become an increasingly important part of the which is described below.
The Board has a scheduled forward programme of value that customers receive from Sainsburys and another driver of meetings to ensure that we can allocate sufficient time to each of these key customer loyalty.
This enables us toplan Board and Committee meetings appropriately and use the Boards time most effectively.
There is sufficient flexibility inthe Performance management programme for specific items to be added to any particular agenda and this Performance against delivery of the agreed key targets is reviewed at every ensures that the Board can focus on the key matters relating to the business meeting with particular reference to the detailed Group management at the appropriate time.
The Chief Executive, Group Commercial Director and Chief Financial Officer comment on the market and current trading at each meeting and The Boards scheduled forward programme includes the following items, present comparative data and customer insight.
some of which are considered at each meeting, and others are reviewed periodically throughout the year: Risk management The Board reviews the Companys principal risks on an annual basis, in Annual budget Dividend policy and HR policy and update addition to receiving regular updates on risk management and internal recommendations Corporate five-year Pensions controls from the Chairman of the Audit Committee after each Committee plan Committee reports meeting see page 53 for further details.
The Board also receives an annual Project updates update on all matters relating to safety, supported by quarterly updates, CEO Report and Investor relations Treasury and tax together with updates on other relevant controls and governance.
Any trading update Strategic items policy specific issues on these and other matters which might affect the Companys Financial items Safety reports Governance reputation are reported to the Board as they occur.
Preliminary and Health & Safety and Risk management Interim results Food Investor relations Board evaluation The Board receives an annual independent survey at the Strategy Conference Annual Report Customer insights from Makinson Cowell which reports on the views of major shareholders and analysts, together with updates at each Board meeting on the Investor Relations IR programme and feedback from major shareholders, There are also a number of informal meetings of the Board, which enable all particularly following each major announcement of the Companys results.
the Directors to spend more time together and to discuss specific areas of the See page 43 for further details.
business with individual Operating Board members.
Division of responsibilities Our annual Board evaluation exercise enables us to review whether Board meetings are structured with a clear focus on the key issues facing the There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Company, with a full and open debate before major decisions are taken.
We Chief Executive which is set out in writing and has been approved by the ensure that all Directors are aware of the key discussions and decisions of Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its each of the four principal Committees the Chairman of each Committee effectiveness and setting its agenda to enable the Board to fulfil all aspects provides a detailed summary to all Directors at the Board meeting following ofits role.
As set out above, we ensure that the Board has sufficient time the relevant Committee meeting.
Minutes of Board and Committee meetings toallocate to its key areas of focus throughout the annual cycle of Board are circulated to Directors shortly after those meetings take place.
The Chairman ensures effective communication with shareholders has a schedule of formally reserved powers, which it reviews each year, and and that the Board is aware of the views of major shareholders.
He facilitates receives a number of in-depth presentations during the year.
the contribution of the Non-Executive Directors through a culture of openness and debate, and ensures constructive relations between Executive and Strategic leadership Non-Executive Directors.
The Board continued to focus on strategic matters during the year.
We held a two-day Strategy Conference in the autumn, which all the Operating Board The Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Directors attended.
This enabled the Board to conduct an in-depth review of Company and executing the strategy, once agreed by the Board.
He creates relevant economic factors and their likely impact on customers and the aframework of strategy, values, organisation and objectives to ensure market, to evaluate key opportunities and threats, consider the five-year thesuccessful delivery of results and allocates decision making and corporate plan and agree the strategic goals for the short-term and longer responsibilities accordingly.
He takes a leading role, with the Chairman, term perspectives, and the five areas of focus described on pages 8 to 19. in the relationship with all external agencies and in promoting Sainsburys.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 41 Directors Report Corporate Governance statement continued Independence Directors induction and development The Non-Executive Directors bring wide and varied commercial experience to We have a programme for meeting Directors training and development Board and Committee deliberations.
On appointment they confirm that they requirements.
Newly appointed Directors who do not have previous public will have sufficient time available to be able to discharge their responsibilities company experience at Board level are provided with detailed training on effectively.
They are appointed for an initial three-year term, subject to their role and responsibilities.
All new Directors participate in a election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment and at each comprehensive and tailored induction programme including store and depot AGM thereafter, after which their appointment may be extended for further visits and meetings with other members of the Board, members of the terms, subject to mutual agreement.
All members of the Board, other than Operating Board, senior management and external advisors.
The induction Justin King, will retire by rotation and seek re-election by shareholders at this programme includes a full review of corporate responsibility and the years AGM in accordance with the Code.
This programme is ongoing for Non-Executive Directors who often meet members of the management team on an The Chairman satisfied the independence criteria of the Code on his individual basis to continue to build their knowledge of the Company, or visit appointment to the Board in October 2009 and all the Non-Executive Directors stores, depots and suppliers.
Subsequent training is available on an ongoing are considered to be independent.
Gary Hughes reaches the ninth anniversary basis to meet any particular needs.
of his appointment at the AGM in July.
The Board has concluded that it is in shareholders best interests for him to remain on the Board for another year Since her appointment to the Board in June 2013 Susan Rices induction until the 2015 AGM in order to maintain Board stability as the Company goes programme has included each of the aspects described above, as well as a through the important period of transition from Justin King to Mike Coupe.
number of meetings with Sainsburys Bank.
Her induction will continue into This will also enable Gary to play a key role in the audit tender planned for later 2014 15.
Jean Tomlin has completed her formal induction programme during this year.
The Board believes that Gary, who has been our Audit Committee the year and continues to meet with members of the management team and Chairman, since his appointment, continues to make an outstanding to participate in other events to build her knowledge of the business.
contribution to the Company, particularly as Audit Committee Chairman where his deep understanding of the business and robust leadership continue to be During the year, the Company Secretary, Tim Fallowfield, has provided a source of great strength.
The Board has concluded that Gary continues to be updates to the Board on relevant governance matters, Directors duties and independent in every respect notwithstanding the time that he has spent on obligations, and new legislation and its impact on the Company.
In the next 12 months we expect to appoint a Non-Executive Committee regularly considers new accounting developments through Director who will succeed Gary as Audit Committee Chairman in July 2015. presentations from management and the external auditors.
This year this included updates on the introduction of the Strategic Report, changes to the The Board has specifically considered the executive or non-executive roles UK Corporate Governance Code, including the requirement to sign off the that some of the Non-Executive Directors have with companies who may be annual report as fair, balanced and understandable, and the proposed in competition with, or suppliers to, Sainsburys.
The Board is satisfied that changes to audit tender and mandatory audit firm rotation rules by the the independence of the Directors who have executive or non-executive roles Competition Commission and the EU respectively.
The consultants to the with other companies is not compromised and that they all have sufficient Remuneration Committee advise the Committee on relevant governance time available to devote to the Company.
The Committee received updates on the new disclosure and voting requirements and the remuneration guidelines issued by investor representative bodies.
Directors conflicts of interest The Companies Act 2006 provides that directors must avoid a situation where The Board programme includes regular presentations from management and they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly informal meetings which increase the Non-Executive Directors understanding may conflict, with the companys interests.
Directors of public companies may of the business and the sector.
During the year, the Board held a meeting at authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, if a companys our store support centre at Ansty Park, Coventry and received presentations articles of association permit.
The Board has established procedures for the from members of the clothing and general merchandise teams and the disclosure by Directors of any such conflicts, and also for the consideration property division on the key aspects of their areas of the business.
In and authorisation of these conflicts by the Board.
In accordance with the Act, addition, they met a number of the broader management team during their the Board considered and authorised each Directors reported potential visit.
Directors have also visited stores and other sites as part of their conflicts of interest during the year.
Whenever a Director takes on additional continuing engagement with the business.
external responsibilities, the Board considers any potential conflicts that may arise and whether the Director continues to have sufficient time to fulfil his or All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
her role as a Director of the Company.
The Board will continue to monitor and He has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and for review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
There is an agreed procedure by In the 2012 and 2013 reports, the Board disclosed that it had considered which members of the Board may take independent professional advice at the apotential conflict for Justin King, whose son, Jordan King, is one of the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
countrys top young racing drivers.
His success is attracting interest from potential sponsors.
Current sponsors include high net-worth individuals and companies with established interests in motor sport.
Some of the sponsors are Board evaluation also suppliers to Sainsburys.
Jordan King arranges his sponsorships through This years Board Evaluation exercise was conducted by Manchester Square his company, 42 Racing Ltd.
The Board has again satisfied itself that Justin Partners MSP, who provide board evaluation and advisory services and who King has no direct involvement in the trading relationship between Sainsburys had no other relationship with Sainsburys.
The annual evaluation exercise and any supplier who may have an interest in 42 Racing Ltd.
It remains was last conducted on an external basis in 2011 when MSP also led the satisfied that the governance of all supplier relationships is robust and that review, although the partners who conducted that exercise are no longer there is therefore no conflict of interest regarding these arrangements.
Information The 2012 and 2013 reviews were carried out by the Company Secretary.
These The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are properly briefed internal reviews followed an established process with full and open participation on issues arising at Board meetings and that they have full and timely access from all Directors, and considered the progress on the key points identified by to relevant information.
The quality and supply of information provided to the MSP in 2011 and any emerging themes.
They therefore provided consistency Board is reviewed as part of the Board evaluation exercise.
The conclusion and continuity between the two external reviews in 2011 and 2014. from this years evaluation was that Board processes and documentation are thorough and comprehensive.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 42 In preparation for the 2014 exercise, the Chairman and Company Secretary Audit CR&S Nomination Remuneration conducted a tender process in June 2013 in order to consider alternative Board Committee Committee Committee Committee board evaluation consultancies and the range of services they provide.
MSP Matt Brittin 8 8 4 4 3 3 emerged as the most suitable supplier to conduct the review.
They were Mike Coupe 8 8 provided with reports and questionnaires from the previous three years Mary Harris 8 8 2 2 3 3 7 7 exercises in order to give more context and provide continuity.
It was agreed Gary Hughes 8 8 4 4 3 3 that the scope of the review should be broad, including strategy, Board and Justin King 8 8 2 2 management succession, Board culture, balance and diversity, meetings and John McAdam 8 8 1 1 3 3 6 7 processes, investor relations, risk management and Board Committees.
Their Susan Rice 6 6 3 3 3 3 questionnaire introduced some new specific areas for Directors consideration.
John Rogers 8 8 The questionnaire was circulated to all Directors, the Company Secretary, the Jean Tomlin 8 8 2 2 3 3 7 7 Group HR Director and the Group Development Director, each of whom has David Tyler 8 8 3 3 significant engagement with the Board or the Committees.
This was followed The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each Director could attend is shown in brackets.
up in separate discussions with each of the Directors and the other executives John McAdam stepped down from the Audit Committee following the appointment to the Board of Susan Rice.
to take their detailed feedback on any emerging themes.
As referred to above, there were a number of informal meetings during the The MSP partners presented the principal conclusions to the Board at a year when Directors met individual members of the Operating Board to meeting convened for that purpose and the Board discussed key points and receive updates on their specific areas of responsibility.
In addition, the agreed certain actions.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors met without the Executive Directors being present, and the Non-Executive Directors also met without the Some of the key themes that were presented to the Board were asfollows: Executive Directors or the Chairman being present.
The Board functions well and in line with first class corporate governance.
Investor relations The Board operates as a team with shared values, open dialogue, strong The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with levels of trust, respect and collaboration, but also appropriate challenge.
Normal shareholder contact is the responsibility of Justin King, John The Non-Executive Directors are dedicated and committed and were highly Rogers and Mike Scott, Head of Investor Relations.
The Chairman is generally valued by the Executives.
available to shareholders and meets with institutional and other large investors: the Senior Independent Director is also available as required.
The strategic debate has moved significantly up the agenda.
The Company regularly meets with its large investors and institutional Focus on the core business and operational performance remains high, shareholders who, along with sell-side research analysts, are invited to withshared Non-Executive Executive appreciation of the importance of presentations by the Company immediately after the announcement of the maintaining that focus.
Companys interim and full year results.
They are also invited to participate in Board processes and documentation are thorough and comprehensive.
conference calls following the announcement of the Companys trading statements.
The content of these presentations and conference calls are The Board debated the findings and identified some areas that would remain webcast and are posted on the Companys website www.
co. uk on the agenda over the following year, including decision making processes, investor-centre so as to be available to all investors.
Board succession and Chief Executive transition, engagement with broader management and rising talent, and continued focus on our Digital strategy The Board receives feedback at each Board meeting on the views of major and Sainsburys Bank.
The Board agreed the actions for further consideration investors and the IR programme.
In addition, Makinson Cowell provide and these have been or are being implemented.
For instance, opportunities investor relations consultancy services to the Company and provide an for the Board to meet a broader cadre of senior management have external analysis to the Board at the Strategy Conference on the views of been identified.
institutional investors and sell-side analysts.
Non-Executive Directors also receive regular market reports and broker updates from the Companys As part of the Board Evaluation exercise, the Senior Independent Director IR department.
reviewed the Chairmans performance with the other Directors and subsequently met him to provide feedback.
The Chairman provided feedback Shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the Board at the to each Director on their individual contribution to the Board and, with each AGM, which this year will be held on 9 July 2014.
There will be a display of of them, considered theirdevelopment priorities.
The Board anticipates that various aspects of the Companys activities and Justin King will make a the 2015 Board Evaluation will be conducted on an internal basis by the business presentation.
A detailed explanation of each item of special business Company Secretary.
to be considered at the AGM is included with the Notice of Meeting which will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All Attendance resolutions proposed at the AGM will be taken on a poll vote.
This follows best The following table shows the attendance of Directors at scheduled Board and practice guidelines and enables the Company to count all votes, not just those Committee meetings.
The Board scheduled eight meetings during the year, of shareholders who attend the meeting.
including the two-day Strategy Conference, and additional ad hoc meetings and conference calls were also convened to deal with specific matters which Information on matters of particular interest to investors is set required attention between scheduled meetings.
out on pages 140 to 142 and on the Companys website www.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 43 Directors Report Corporate Governance statement continued Board Committees Corporate The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Operating Board and Audit Responsibility to the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility and Committee and Sustainability Sustainability Committees.
The terms of referencefor each Committee are Gary Hughes Committee available on the website www.
co. uk investor-centre corporateJean Tomlin governance.
Operating Board Day-to-day management of the Group is delegated to the Operating Board, J Sainsbury plc Nomination Remuneration which is chaired by Justin King.
The Operating Board held tenscheduled Board Committee Committee meetings during the year and each Directors responsibilities are set out on David Tyler David Tyler Mary Harris page 39.
It has formal terms of reference setting out its key responsibilities.
The Operating Board has delegated certain powers to the Trading Board, the Investment Board, the Group Safety Committee, the Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Steering Group and the Data Governance Committee, each of which has approved terms of reference setting out its areas of responsibility.
Given that a major breach of information security could have a significant impact on the business see page 25, the Operating Board strengthened the data governance structure in September 2013 and brought together both information security and data protection governance with clear lines of accountability.
The Data Governance Committee is chaired by Tim Fallowfield Group to drive a business-led focus on data security, with five working groups Trading Safety OpeOperating rating Board covering information security, customer data, colleague data, financial Board Committee Board Justin King and commercial data, and communications, awareness and training.
Mike Coupe Tim Falloweld Justing King Tim Fallowfield provides an update to the Operating Board following each meeting and reports to the Audit Committee at least twice a year.
Corporate Investment Responsibility Board and Sustainability John Rogers Steering Group Justin King Data Governance Committee Tim Falloweld J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 44
