40 41 Corporate Governance Report The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board considers that all the Directors are able to devote This report sets out how the Company has applied the main sufficient time to their duties as Directors of the Company.
principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code The brief biographical detail on page 36 includes details of the published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 Chairmans other directorships of listed companies.
The Board and June 2010 the Code and the extent to which the Company is satisfied that these appointments do not conflict with the has complied with the provisions of the Code.
Chairmans ability to carry out his role effectively for the Group.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors are The Board required to retire and offer themselves for re-election every The Board currently consists of five directors: an Executive Chairman, three years.
However, in accordance with the Code, all Directors two other Executive Directors and two Non-Executive Directors.
will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the 2014 AGM.
The name, position and brief profile of each Director is set out on page 36.
Board Operation Composition of the Board is kept under review and changes are The Board is responsible for the direction, management and made when appropriate and in the best interests of the Group.
The Board held nine scheduled Colin Archer stood down as a Non-Executive Director with meetings during the year under review and ad hoc meetings effect from 30 September 2013.
The Board considers that its were held between scheduled meetings where required.
composition during the year had the necessary balance of Directors attendance at scheduled Board and Committee Executive and Non-Executive Directors providing the desired meetings is set out in the table below.
The Board is responsible blend of skills, experience and judgement appropriate for for providing effective leadership and promoting the success the needs of the Groups business and overall effectiveness of of the Group.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters the Board.
None of the Directors have served for more than reserved specifically to it for decisions which include major three years without having been re-elected by shareholders.
strategic matters, approval of financial statements, acquisitions Martin Davies is the senior independent Non-Executive Director and disposals and significant capital projects.
following Colin Archers departure from the Board on The Board considers that the Annual Report and Accounts, 30 September 2013. taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and The independence of the Non-Executive Directors is considered provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess by the Board on an annual basis.
Both Non-Executive Directors the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
are considered to be independent by the Board.
Andrew Leslie The Board delegates certain powers to committees as set out below.
was appointed to the Board in May 2010 and is considered to Board papers are circulated to Directors prior to Board meetings be independent by the Board for the purposes of the Code.
which include up-to-date financial information, reports from the Andrew Leslie was formerly an Executive Director of Pentland, Executive Directors and papers on major issues for consideration the Companys largest shareholder.
Andrew Leslie does not by the Board.
The Board has a formal procedure for Directors represent the interests of Pentland on the Board and retired to obtain independent professional advice.
The Board believes that the Non-Executive Directors have provided ample guidance to the Board and All Board members have full access to the Company Secretary perform an effective role in challenging the Executive Directors who is a fully admitted solicitor and attends all Board and when appropriate.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on Corporate Governance matters.
From time to time the Executive Chairman meets with the The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a Non-Executive Directors without the other Directors present to matter for the Board as a whole to determine.
discuss Board performance and other matters considered appropriate.
Governance 40 41 All newly appointed Directors receive an appropriate induction Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings when they join the Board.
Relevant training is arranged as and Board Remuneration Audit Nomination when deemed appropriate.
Meetings Committee Committee Committee A performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and Number of 9 4 3 - individual Directors has been conducted post the year end meetings in year and in the period prior to the Companys annual results P Cowgill 9 4 3 - being announced.
This consisted of an internally run exercise B Bown 7 - 1 - conducted through the completion by each Director of a B Small 9 4 3 - questionnaire prepared by the Company Secretary which 1 C Archer 6 4 2 - encourages the Directors to give his opinions on Board and A Leslie 9 4 3 - Committee procedures, operation and effectiveness as well as 2 any other matter they wish to raise.
A separate questionnaire M Davies 8 - 2 was completed by the Directors other than the Executive Chairman in relation to the performance of the Executive P Cowgill and B Small attended the Remuneration Committee Chairman with the Senior Independent Director discussing the meetings and the Audit Committee meetings at the invitation resulting feedback with the other Non-Executive Directors, of the members of those committees.
B Bown attended an taking into account the views of the other Executive Directors Audit Committee meeting at the invitation of the members excluding the Executive Chairman.
The feedback from the of that committee.
evaluation process is used by the Board to identify strengths and development areas and confirmed that the Board and its 1 C Archer served on the Board for part of the year, having stood Committees were operating effectively.
The Board determined down on 30 September 2013. that an internal performance evaluation exercise was appropriate 2 M Davies was appointed to the Remuneration, Audit and but will consider on an annual basis the value and appropriateness Nomination Committees on 1 October 2013. of an externally facilitated exercise.
Conflicts of Interest The division of responsibilities between the Executive Chairman The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to and Chief Executive Officer is in writing and has been agreed consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for overall Board Director has an interest that conflicts, or possibly could conflict, leadership, corporate strategy and communication with major with the interests of the Company.
The Board considers that the shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officers responsibilities are procedures it has in place for reporting and considering conflicts focused on the development of the Groups core retail operations.
The Company, through its majority shareholder Pentland Group Plc, maintains appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Board Committees There are three principal Board Committees to which the Board has delegated certain of its responsibilities.
The terms of reference for all three Committees are available for inspection on request and are available on the Companys corporate website www.
Governance 42 43 Corporate Governance Report Continued Audit Committee Financial Statements and Significant Accounting Matters The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups draft Membership and Meetings financial statements and interim results statement prior to The Audit Committee currently comprises two independent Board approval.
As part of such review, the Committee considers Non-Executive Directors, Martin Davies Chairman who whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and was appointed to the Committee on 1 October 2013 and whether appropriate judgements have been made by management.
Colin Archer was Chairman of the Committee The Committee also reviews reports by the external auditor on until 30 September 2013. the full year and half year results.
The Audit Committee met three times in the year with the The following are material areas in which significant judgements external auditor attending each meeting.
Details of attendance have been applied and have been considered by the Committee at Audit Committee meetings are set out in the table above.
during the year: Principal Duties Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets The Committees principal duties are to review draft annual and The Committee considered the assumptions underlying the interim financial statements prior to being submitted to the Board, calculation of the value in use of the cash generating units reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal being tested for impairment, primarily the achievement of the control and risk management and to review the performance short term business plan, the assumptions on discount rates and cost effectiveness of the external auditor.
and long term growth rates.
The Committee reviewed the budgets and business plans that support the impairment Main Activities During the Year reviews and challenged the key assumptions used and are The Committees activities included: comfortable that they represent managements best estimate at the time.
Reviewing the Groups draft financial statements and interim results statement prior to Board approval and reviewing The external auditor provides to the Committee detailed the external auditors detailed reports thereon including explanations of the results of their review of the estimate of the internal controls.
value in use, including their challenge of managements Reviewing regularly the potential impact on the Groups underlying cashflow projections, the key growth assumptions financial statements of certain matters such as impairments and discount rates.
The Committee have also reviewed the of fixed asset values and proposed International disclosures in the financial statements.
During the year the Committee reviewed the value in use of the Reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Bank goodwill and the growth assumptions used in this estimate Groups financial statements, key risks of misstatement in the and an impairment of 11.8 million has been recognised in financial statements, confirmations of auditor independence, the current year.
audit fee and terms of engagement of the auditor.
Reviewing the independence and effectiveness of the Groups Further information on this is provided in note 13. external auditor.
Reviewing the arrangements in place for employees to be Valuation of Inventories able to raise matters of possible impropriety in confidence The Committee considered the assumptions used in the to ensure they remain appropriate.
inventory obsolescence provision models across the Group.
Reviewing the Companys risk register and internal controls.
The valuation of inventories is a principal risk for the Group as Consideration of whether an internal audit function should its retail businesses are highly seasonal.
The Committee reviews be established.
the provision models and challenges management on the key judgements made over aged stock and the level of proceeds for aged stock.
The external auditor reports to the Committee on the work they have completed and how their audit work is concentrated on this area.
Governance 42 43 External Auditor Internal Audit A breakdown of the audit and non-audit related fees is set out The Company does not currently have an internal audit function.
in note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 72.
The Committee considers on an annual basis whether an internal Non-audit work was comprised mainly of tax and other project auditor should be recruited and at the current time has determined work and was undertaken by the external auditor due to their that this is not necessary due to the centralised nature of the knowledge and understanding of the Groups business and in Groups core operations and the Groups experienced Loss the interests of efficiency.
Larger pieces of non-audit work Control team who play an effective role in limiting shrinkage, were awarded following a tender process.
The Company has theft and fraud.
The Loss Control Director reports to the Board instructed other firms to provide non-audit services from on a quarterly basis.
time to time in prior years and the Committee will keep the Remuneration Committee level of non-audit work performed by the auditor under review.
The Committee is satisfied that the level and scope of non-audit The Remuneration Committee currently comprises two independent services performed by the external auditor does not impact Non-Executive Directors, Andrew Leslie Chairman who was their independence.
appointed as Chairman on 1 October 2013 and Martin Davies who was appointed to the Committee on 1 October 2013.
Since the year end, the Committee has adopted a formal policy Colin Archer was Chairman of the Committee until 30 on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The objective of the policy is to ensure the external auditors independence is maintained and to establish appropriate The Committees principal duties are to determine overall Group approval levels prior to non-audit work being undertaken by remuneration policy, remuneration packages for Executive Directors the external auditor.
Under the policy, any non-audit services to and senior management, the terms of Executive Director service be undertaken by the auditor require advance authorisation in contracts, the terms of any performance-related schemes accordance with the following: operated by the Group and awards thereunder.
Work in excess of 100,000 Committee approval required.
The Committee met four times during the year.
Details of For individual pieces of work between 20,000 and attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings are set out in 100,000 Executive Chairman approval required.
For individual pieces of work below 20,000 - Group Finance Further details about Directors remuneration are set out in the Director approval required.
Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 56.
KPMG have acted as auditor to the Company since its flotation Nomination Committee in 1996 and no tender exercise has been conducted to date.
The lead partner is subject to rotation every five years to The Nomination Committee currently comprises the Executive safeguard independence, with a new lead partner being Chairman and two independent Non-Executive Directors, appointed to lead the audit for the 2014 15 financial year.
Andrew Leslie and Martin Davies who was appointed to the In light of the Code and the recent conclusions of the Committee on 1 October 2013.
Colin Archer was a member of Competition Commission, the Committee will keep under review the Committee until 30 September 2013. the appropriate timing for a formal tender.
In the meantime, The Committees principal duties are to consider the size, the Board believes it is important that the auditor is independent structure and composition of the Board, ensure appropriate from the auditor of the Companys majority shareholder.
succession plans are in place for the Board and senior The Committee keeps under review the relationship between management and, where necessary, consider new appointments the Group and external auditor and, having considered the to the Board and senior management.
From time to time the external auditors performance during their period in office full Board performs some of the duties of the Nomination and being satisfied that the external auditor continues to be Committee, as was the case during the year under review.
In addition, regular informal discussions on Board structure, succession and performance take place between the non-executive directors and the Executive Chairman.
No external search consultancy has been engaged during the year under review.
Governance 44 45 Corporate Governance Report Continued In addition, the Audit Committee receives comprehensive Board Composition and Diversity reports from the external auditor in relation to the financial The Board is mindful of the recommendations of the Davies Review.
statements and the Groups system of internal controls.
The Boards overriding aim is to make appointments based on merit and against objective criteria.
The Board anticipates undertaking The Group has a formal whistle blowing policy in place enabling a search exercise during the 2014 15 financial year with a view employees to raise concerns in relation to the Groups activities to appointing a further independent non-executive director and on a confidential basis.
any such appointment will be made with due regard to the The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender diversity, of internal controls and believes this to be effective.
In establishing as well as other relevant and required experience.
the system of internal control the Directors have regard to the materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of a loss being Internal Control incurred and costs of control.
It follows, therefore, that the There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and system of internal control can only provide a reasonable, managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process and not absolute, assurance against the risk of material has been in place for the year under review and accords with misstatement or loss.
The integration of recently acquired businesses into the Groups The Board, in conjunction with the Audit Committee, has full system of internal controls is achieved as quickly as possible.
responsibility for the Groups system of internal controls and monitoring their effectiveness.
However, such a system is Shareholder Relations designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to The Executive Directors maintain an active dialogue with the achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable Companys major shareholders to enhance understanding of and not absolute assurance against material misstatement.
The Executive Chairman provides The Board has established a well-defined organisation structure feedback to the Board on issues raised by major shareholders.
with clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility, delegated This is supplemented by twice yearly formal feedback to the authority to executive management and a comprehensive Board on meetings between management, analysts and financial reporting process.
investors which seeks to convey the financial markets perception Key features of the Groups system of internal control and risk of the Group.
management are: The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available Identification and monitoring of the business risks facing to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been the Group, with major risks identified and reported to the resolved through dialogue with the Executive Directors, or for Audit Committee and the Board.
which such contact is inappropriate.
Major shareholders may Detailed appraisal and authorisation procedures for meet with the Non-Executive Directors upon request.
External brokers reports on the Group are circulated to the Prompt preparation of comprehensive monthly management Board for consideration.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors accounts providing relevant, reliable and up-to-date attend results presentations and analyst and institutional investor information.
These allow for comparison with budget and meetings whenever possible.
Significant variances from approved budgets are investigated as appropriate.
The AGM is attended by all Directors, and shareholders are Preparation of comprehensive annual profit and cash invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with flow budgets allowing management to monitor business Directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
At the AGM activities and major risks and the progress towards financial the level of proxies lodged on each resolution is announced to objectives in the short and medium term.
the meeting after the show of hands for that resolution.
Monitoring of store procedures and the reporting and investigation of suspected fraudulent activities.
Reconciliation and checking of all cash and stock balances and investigation of any material differences.
Governance 44 45 Compliance with the Code The Directors consider that during the year under review and to the date of this report, the Company complied with the Code except in relation to the following: - Code provision B.
1.2 The Company was re-admitted to the FTSE 350 in December 2013.
Colin Archer stood down from the Board on 30 September 2013 and so the Company does not currently comply with this Code provision which requires at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman to be comprised of independent non-executive directors.
The Board anticipates undertaking a search exercise during the 2014 15 financial year with a view to appointing a further independent non-executive director.
6.1 The annual evaluation exercise was not conducted by the year end but in the period prior to the announcement of the Companys results on 15 April 2014.
6.2 The Board did not conduct an externally facilitated evaluation exercise.
The Board will keep under consideration on an annual basis whether an externally facilitated exercise is appropriate and would provide value for money.
- Code provision C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 These provisions require there to be three independent non-executive directors on the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee respectively.
Each such Committee was comprised of two independent non-executive directors.
The Board will keep Committee composition under review and will look to make adjustments as and when a new independent non-executive director is appointed the Board.
- Code provision C. 3.7 The audit has not been put out to tender.
In light of the Code and the recent conclusions of the Competition Commission, the Committee will keep under review the appropriate timing for a formal tender.
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Jane Brisley Company Secretary 15 April 2014 Governance
