CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of compliance chairman has had many discussions with shareholders The Company is committed to high standards of corporate since the companys flotation in 1992, although corporate governance.
The board believes that the Company has governance has rarely been raised.
The majority of been compliant with the Code throughout the 52 weeks discussions with major shareholders now takes place ended 26 July 2015, except as described below.
among the CEO, finance director and shareholders.
The chairman is available for discussion with major B.
1.1 Non-executive director independence shareholders, when requested.
Elizabeth McMeikan has served more than 10 years on A full version of the Code is available on the official the board and so may not be considered independent website of the Financial Reporting Council: under the Code.
The board considers that her www.
uk performance as a non-executive director continues to be effective.
She contributes significantly as a director Directors conflicts of interest through her individual skills, considerable knowledge and The board expects the directors to declare any conflicts of experience of the Company.
She also continues to interest and does not believe that any material conflicts of demonstrate strong independence in the manner in which interest exist.
she discharges her responsibilities as a director.
Consequently, the board has concluded that, despite her The board of directors length of tenure, there is no association with management which could compromise her independence.
The board comprises the following members: n Tim Martin, chairman B.
4.2 Development n John Hutson, chief executive officer n Ben Whitley, interim finance director The chairman does not formally sit down with individual n Su Cacioppo, personnel and legal director directors and identify specific training and development n Elizabeth McMeikan, non-executive director needs for them.
The chairman and executive directors hold n Debra van Gene, non-executive director a series of weekly meetings, with head-office and pub n Sir Richard Beckett, non-executive director managers, to try to identify areas of improvement for the n Mark Reckitt, non-executive director business.
Minutes are taken of these meetings and action points identified for a range of participants.
In the opinion Ben Whitley has fulfilled the role of interim finance of the board, this process is effective in identifying director further to the departure of Kirk Davis, and problems and solutions and assists in training and approval for his appointment to the board as finance developing directors on an informal, yet effective, basis.
director will be sought at the Companys AGM.
6.2 External board evaluation Nigel Connor was appointed company secretary on 18 December 2014.
A recent requirement of corporate governance is a recommendation for a third party to evaluate the The board considers each of Elizabeth McMeikan, functioning of the board.
Delegation of a key task of the Debra van Gene, Sir Richard Beckett and Mark Reckitt chairman and of the directors of the board itself to a third to be independent.
party, often with little or no connection with the Companys business and with a very limited knowledge of Biographies of all non-executive and executive directors the directors, may be a dangerous step for a board to are provided on page 48 and can be viewed on the take.
It is the function of the board itself to evaluate its Companys website: www.
co. uk own performance and the performance is most evident from the results of the underlying business.
For this The chairman regularly meets the non-executive directors reason, it is believed to be best for the Company to and evaluates the performance of the board, its continue with its current system of self-evaluation.
committees and its individual directors.
It is not advantageous, in a company like Wetherspoon, E. 1.1 Dialogue with shareholders for there to be high barriers or exaggerated distinctions between the role of chairman and that of chief executive The Code indicates that the chairman should discuss officer.
However, some general distinctions are governance and strategy with major shareholders.
60 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairmans responsibility Chief executive officers responsibility The chairman is responsible for the smooth running of the The chief executive officer is responsible for the smooth board and ensuring that all directors are fully informed daily running of the business of matters relevant to their roles Delegated responsibility of authority from the Company to Developing and maintaining effective management exchange contracts for new pubs and to sign all contracts controls, planning and performance measurements with suppliers Providing support, advice and feedback to the Maintaining and developing an effective chief executive officer organisational structure Supporting the Companys strategy and encouraging the External and internal communications, in conjunction chief executive officer with development of that strategy with the chairman, on any issues facing the Company Chairing general meetings, board meetings, operational Implementing and monitoring compliance with meetings and agreeing on board agendas and ensuring that board policies adequate time is available for discussion of agenda items Management of the chief executive officers contract, Timely and accurate reporting of the above to the board appraisal and remuneration, by way of making recommendations to the remuneration committee Providing support to executive directors and senior Recruiting and managing senior managers in managers of the Company the business Helping to provide the ethos and vision of the Company, Developing and maintaining effective risk-management after discussions and debates with employees of all levels, and regulatory controls customers, shareholders and including organisations such as CAMRA Helping to provide information on customers and employees Maintaining primary relationships with shareholders views by calling on pubs and investors Helping to make directors aware of shareholders concerns Chairing the management board responsible for implementing the Companys strategy Helping to ensure that a culture of openness and debate exists in the Company Ensuring compliance with the London Stock Exchange and legal and regulatory requirements, in consultation with the board and the Companys external advisers The board has several established committees as set out below.
The board met eight times during the year ending 26 July 2015: attendance of the directors and non-executives, where appropriate, is shown below.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings held in the year 845 1 Tim Martin 8 N A 3 N A John Hutson 8 N A N A N A Su Cacioppo 83 N A N A Elizabeth McMeikan 845 1 Debra van Gene 845 1 Sir Richard Beckett 845 1 Mark Reckitt 845 1 Nigel Connor 63 N A N A Ben Whitley 53 N A N A Kirk Davis 11 N A N A ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Matters reserved for the board Representatives of the Companys external auditors,  LLP, and the Companys internal The following matters are reserved for the board: audit manager, finance director and personnel and legal director are invited to attend each audit n Board and management committee meeting.
n Structure and senior management responsibilities n Nomination of directors The committees primary role is to assist the board in the n Appointment and removal of chairman and provision of effective governance over the Companys company secretary financial reporting, risk management and internal control and, in particular, it performs the following activities: n Strategic matters n Strategic, financing or adoption of new business n Assumes direct responsibility for the appointment, plans, in respect of any material aspect of the Company compensation, resignation and dismissal of the external n Business control auditors, including review of the external audit, its cost n Agreement of code of ethics and business practice and effectiveness n Internal audit n Reviews the independence of the external auditors, n Authority limits for heads of department including consideration of the level of non-audit work carried out by them n Operating budgets n Reviews the scope and nature of the work to n Approval of a budget for investments and be performed by the external auditors, before capital projects audit commences n Changes in major supply contracts n Reviews the half-year and annual financial statements n Finance n Ensures compliance with accounting standards and n Raising new capital and confirmation of major facilities monitors the integrity of the financial statements and n The entry into finance leases formal announcements relating to the financial n Specific risk-management policies, including performance of the Company and supports the board in insurance, hedging and borrowing limits its responsibility to ensure that the annual financial n Final approval of annual and interim accounts and statements are fair, balanced and understandable accounting policies n Reviews the internal audit plan, which is updated to n Appointment of external auditors reflect the changing needs of the business and the concerns of management and the audit committee n Legal matters n Reviews and raises questions on all internal audit n Consideration of regular reports on material issues reports and requests management to adjust the relating to any litigation affecting the Company prioritisation of mitigating actions, as needed.
Areas n Institution of legal proceedings, where costs exceed reviewed this year included processes supporting the certain values operation of the distribution centres, management of n Secretarial cash flow, supplier discounts, point-of-sale materials, n Call of all shareholders meetings communication to pub management, payroll and expense n Delegation of board powers processes, property acquisition and related cost control, n Disclosure of directors interests accounts payable, inventory and fraud-prevention systems n Reviews, with the support of specialists as required, n General controls over access to the IT systems used around the n Board framework of executive remuneration and costs business and agrees with management on the timing of n Any other matters not within the terms of reference any mitigating actions to be carried out of any committee of the board n Reviews and monitors procedures in relation to the n Any other matter as determined from time to time by Companys whistle-blowing policy the board n Reviews and questions the effectiveness of all risk-management and internal control systems n Reviews the Companys statement on internal control Board committees systems, before endorsement by the board Audit committee n Considers the overall impact on the business of the The committee is chaired by Mark Reckitt and various matters arisen from the various reviews described comprises Elizabeth McMeikan, Debra van Gene above and any other matters which the auditors, internal and Sir Richard Beckett.
or external, may bring to the attention of the committee n Ensures that all matters, where appropriate, are raised and brought to the attention of the board 62 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Significant financial reporting items Audit-tendering and rotation The accounting policies of the Company and the The audit committee keeps under review the estimates and judgements made by management are requirements on audit-tendering and rotation from the assessed by the committee for their suitability.
The EU and the Competition and Markets Authority and will following areas are those considered to be the most implement them when they become applicable.
significant by the committee: The EU requirements are still subject to an ongoing UK implementation process, but would require the Company n The provision for the impairment of fixed assets and the to change its audit firm for the year ending 31 July 2021 onerous leases several judgements are used in making at the latest.
this calculation, primarily on expected future sales and profits.
The committee received reports and questioned  LLP has been the auditor of management on the calculations made and the J D Wetherspoon plc since 1984 and no audit-tendering assumptions used process has been carried out subsequently.
In line with n Significant one-off items of expense or income are the Ethical Standards for auditors, the audit partner has reported as exceptional on the face of the income been rotated every five years, with Andrew Latham statement.
All exceptional items are reviewed by the completing his second year as audit partner this year end.
committee The audit committee currently expects to put the audit n The committee reviewed and raised questions on the out to tender in time for the audit of the year ending calculations made by the Company in relation to the 31 July 2019, in line with the end of the current audit effectiveness and hedge accounting for interest-rate swaps partner rotation cycle, believing that this represents an n During the year, the committee also discussed the level appropriate balance between operational efficiency and and complexity of supplier income arrangements and best practice.
satisfied itself that they were not complex and no significant judgements existed related to income recognition The committee also continues to consider annually the need to go to tender for audit quality or independence The committee is satisfied that the judgements made by reasons.
Subject to the outcome of this process for 2015, management are reasonable and that appropriate it is currently expected that  LLP disclosures have been included in the accounts.
will remain in office and that a resolution to appoint them for the 2016 audit will be proposed at the AGM.
Non-audit services During the year, the Company made limited use of Effectiveness of external auditors specialist teams from  LLP, The audit committee assesses the ongoing effectiveness relating to accounting and tax services.
The fees paid to of the external auditors and audit process, on the basis of  LLP for non-audit services were meetings and internal reviews with finance and other 13,000 2014: Nil.
The use of  senior executives.
LLP for non-audit work is monitored regularly, to achieve the necessary independence and objectivity of the In reviewing the independence of the external auditors, auditors.
In addition, the chair of the audit committee is the audit committee considers several factors.
These consulted before awarding to the external auditors any include the standing, experience and tenure of the non-audit services in excess of 20,000.
Where the external auditors, the nature and level of services provided auditors provide non-audit services, their objectivity and and confirmation from the external auditors that they have independence are safeguarded by the use of different complied with relevant UK independence standards.
See note 2 on page 13 for a breakdown of auditors remuneration for audit and non-audit services.
The terms of reference of the audit committee are available on the Companys website.
External auditors The audit committee is responsible for making Remuneration committee recommendations to appoint, reappoint or remove The committee is chaired by Debra van Gene and external auditors.
Following a review by the audit comprises Elizabeth McMeikan, Sir Richard Beckett and committee, the board agreed, in September 2015, Mark Reckitt.
The directors report on remuneration is to recommend to shareholders, at the annual general set out on pages 51 to 59. meeting, the reappointment of the external auditors for a period of one year.
The terms of reference of the remuneration committee are available on the Companys website.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination committee n Regular feedback from the Companys stockbrokers The committee is chaired by Sir Richard Beckett and n Interim, full and ongoing announcements circulated comprises Elizabeth McMeikan, Debra van Gene and to shareholders Mark Reckitt.
The committee meets at least annually and n Any significant changes in shareholder movement considers, among other matters, board appointments and being notified to the board by the company secretary, the re-election of directors.
No director is involved in any when necessary decision about his or her own reappointment.
In carrying n The company secretary maintaining procedures and out these activities, the non-executive directors follow the agreements for all announcements to the Stock Market guidelines of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and n A programme of regular meetings between investors Administrators ICSA and comply with the Code.
and directors of the Company The terms of reference of the nomination committee are Risk management available on the Companys website.
The board is responsible for the Companys risk-management process.
Employment policies Staff are encouraged to make a commitment to the The internal audit department, in conjunction with Companys success and to progress to more senior roles feedback from senior management of the business as they develop.
functions, produces a risk register annually.
In selecting, training and promoting staff, the Company The identified risks are assessed, based on the likelihood has to take account of the physically demanding nature of of a risk occurring and the potential impact to the much of its work.
The Company is committed to equality business, should the risk materialise.
of opportunity and to the elimination of discrimination in employment.
The Company aims to create and maintain a The head of internal audit determines and reviews the working environment, terms and conditions of employment risk-assessment process and will communicate the and personnel and management practices which ensure timetable annually.
that no individual receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of his or her race, religion or belief, nationality, The risk register is presented to the audit committee and ethnic origin, age, disability, gender including gender management board annually, with a schedule of audit reassignment, sexual orientation, part-time status or work agreed on, on a rolling basis.
The purpose of this marital status.
Employees who become disabled will be work is to review, on behalf of the Company and the retained, where possible, and retrained, where necessary.
board, those key risks and the systems of control necessary to manage such risks.
Where recommendations The Company has established a range of policies, are made for changes in systems or processes to reduce covering issues such as diversity, employees well-being risk, internal audit will follow up regularly to ensure that and equal opportunities, aimed at ensuring that all the recommendations are implemented.
employees are treated fairly and consistently.
A summary of the financial risks and treasury policies Internal communications seek to ensure that staff are well can be found on page 42, together with other risks informed about the Companys progress, through the use and uncertainties.
of regular newsletters, the Companys intranet and discussions at staff liaison, at which employees views are Internal control discussed and taken into account.
During the year, the Company provided an internal audit and risk-management function.
The attempt to create a All pub staff participate in bonus schemes related to sales, system of internal control and risk mitigation is a key part profits, stocks and service standards.
of the Companys operations and culture.
The board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal Relations with shareholders control and reviewing its effectiveness.
The function can The board takes measures to ensure that all board only manage, rather than entirely eliminate, the risk of members are kept aware of both the views of major failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide only shareholders and changes in the major shareholdings of reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material the Company.
Efforts made to accomplish effective misstatement or loss.
Ongoing reviews, assessments and communication include: management of significant risks took place throughout the year under review and up to the date of the approval n Annual general meeting, considered to be an important of the annual report and accord with the Turnbull forum for shareholders to raise questions with the board Guidance Guidance on Internal Control.
64 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company has an internal audit function which is discharged as follows: n Regular audits of the Companys stock n Unannounced visits to pub sites n Monitoring systems which control the Companys cash n Health & safety visits, ensuring compliance with Company procedures n Reviewing and assessing the impact of legislative and regulatory change n Risk-management process, identifying key risks facing the business The Company has key controls, as follows: n Authority limits and controls over cash-handling, purchasing commitments and capital expenditure n A budgeting process, with a detailed 12-month operating plan and a mid-term financial plan, both approved by the board n Business results reported weekly, with a report compared with budget and the previous year n Forecasts prepared regularly throughout the year, for review by the board n Complex treasury instruments are not used.
The Company, from time to time, as stated in our report and accounts, enters into swap arrangements which fix interest rates at certain levels for a number of years and enters into supply arrangements with fixed prices for electricity and gas, for example, which run for between one and three years n An annual review of the amount of external insurance which it obtains, bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its costs and the likelihood of the risks involved n Regular evaluation of processes and controls, in relation to the Companys financial reporting requirements The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Nigel Connor Company Secretary 10 September 2015 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 65
