Corporate governance What is the role of the Board?
Are the Board members independent?
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its After careful consideration, the Board considers all of its non-executive consideration and approval.
These include responsibility for Group directors to be independent in character and judgement and, other than strategy, the annual budget, significant acquisitions, risk management set out below, that there are no relationships or circumstances which are and the overall system of internal control.
Executive management is likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
Brief biographies responsible for the implementation of Board decisions in these areas of the directors appear on pages 24-25. and all other aspects of managing the business.
A typical Board agenda Jeremy R Wilson was a senior adviser to J. P. Morgan on a part-time basis is set out below.
The Company has a material business relationship with J. P. Morgan and J. P. Morgan Cazenove, who act as joint corporate broker, What is the composition of the Board?
adviser and lender to the Company.
Having considered whether his role at J. P. Morgan could affect his judgement as a director of the Company, the The Board comprised 10 or 11 directors at various times during the year.
Board continues to believe that Jeremy is independent in character and At all times the non-executive directors comprised a majority of the Board judgement and, accordingly, has determined that he is an independent excluding the Chairman as recommended by the Governance Code.
non-executive director for the purposes of the Governance Code.
A clear separation of the roles of the Chairman and the CEO has been agreed by the Board, in compliance with the Governance Code.
How does the Board manage risk?
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal control the Board.
He chairs the Board meetings, ensures the agendas are and risk management which is fundamental to the achievement of the appropriate and is responsible for facilitating that all directors actively Groups strategic objectives.
Clear risk management is required in all contribute to the determination of the Groups strategy.
The CEO aspects of our objectives as outlined on pages 18-20. is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group and implementation of the Group's strategy, develops proposals for Board approval, and ensures that a regular dialogue with shareholders is maintained.
Executive Board Members report directly to the CEO.
What is a typical Board agenda?
Review of reports from Board Committees - Safety & Assurance, Audit and Remuneration, CEO report, operations updates and functional updates - HR, IT&S and Finance including Tax & Treasury and Investor Relations.
The Board also receives a series of management presentations and has the opportunity for site visits through the year.
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Annual agenda items included Annual Safety & Assurance AGM statement review Annual HR presentation and Corporate governance review and presentation succession planning update regulatory report Review of preliminary statement Corporate governance review and Strategy update and risk review Strategy setting and annual report regulatory report Strategy update Strategy setting Review of half year results and Pre-close trading statement review interim report Annual Ethics presentation Acquisition performance update IT Security update Risk review Ethics update The Board allows for time on other items where necessary.
In 2014, the Board devoted considerable time to discussing the macro market environment including the implications of the reduction in oil price in the second half of the year.
In addition, the Board evaluation process and potential acquisitions, including the acquisition of Agility Projects now WG Mustang Norway, were discussed.
26 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Are Board members standing for re-election?
What training do the Board members receive?
All directors, other than Alan G Semple and Michel Contie, will seek The training needs of directors are periodically discussed at Board re-election at the 2015 AGM.
meetings and briefings arranged on issues relating to corporate governance.
Arrangements are in place for newly appointed directors to undertake an induction process designed to develop their knowledge How does the Board discharge its responsibilities?
and understanding of the Groups business.
This includes briefing There were six scheduled Board meetings during 2014, plus two sessions during regular Board meetings, visits to Group operating sites unscheduled meetings.
Four of the meetings were scheduled over two and discussion of relevant business issues.
Upon their appointment, days and were held in Aberdeen, London and Houston.
Safety & Assurance directors are advised of their legal and other duties and their obligations is always the first item on the agenda at Board meetings.
The Board as directors of a listed company and under the Companies Act 2006. received detailed presentations from senior management within the Groups All directors are encouraged to attend relevant external seminars.
businesses during the year, each including updates on Safety & Assurance.
There is a procedure for any director to take independent professional The Executive Directors attended 12 Group Executive Committee meetings advice at the Groups expense and all directors have access to the throughout the year which include reports and discussions on HSSE, services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that operational issues, finance, legal, business ethics, investor relations the Boards procedures are followed.
In addition, divisional CEOs conduct Quarterly Review Meetings with senior managers within their division.
Stewardship how does the Board engage with These meetings are also normally attended by the Group CEO and the shareholders?
In addition to Board meetings, a summary of the Groups financial performance is made available to the Board on a monthly basis.
Our investor relations activities are led by the Groups CEO and CFO, The directors have access, via a secure intranet site, to presentations from supported by the investor relations team and other members of senior the Groups brokers which contain investors feedback, copies of relevant management as appropriate.
We provide the opportunity for significant regulations, analyst research and appropriate administrative information.
shareholders to meet with the CEO and CFO twice a year around the interim and final results announcements.
Our investor relations team How is the Boards performance evaluated?
organises ad-hoc meetings with management, manages capital markets day presentations for investors and analysts and maintains an ongoing The Board completed a formal evaluation of its own performance and dialogue with the financial community through analyst relationships.
of its Committees, individual directors, and of the Chairman during the year.
6.2. of the Governance Code, the Board retained Lintstock Limited Lintstock as advisers to facilitate the The Company has been notified, in accordance with DTR 5, of the Board evaluation process.
The evaluation involved directors completing following major shareholdings in the Company as of 27 February 2015 detailed questionnaires, the results of which were analysed by the Chairman and the Company Secretary and presented by way of a report Number of for discussion both at Board meetings in October and December 2014 Name of issued shares % of issue and in separate meetings between each director and the Chairman.
shareholder held shares The non-executive directors, facilitated by Lintstock and led by the senior Aberdeen Asset Management 45,305,599 12.02% independent director, were responsible for the performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
Ameriprise Financial 19,119,082 5.07% Key areas covered by the Board evaluation were the effectiveness of the Board and Committee meetings, individual director performance and FIL Limited 19,017,664 5.05% assessment of the Chairman, and the nature & extent of the Boards interaction with the management of the Group.
The main observations APG Asset Management N. V. 18,914,688 5.02% from the evaluation were: Schroder Investments 16,777,852 4.45% X A desire to continue to expand the Board's discussion of strategic considerations, industry trends and market factors, The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 15,049,692 3.99% which will be reflected in the Board schedule by ensuring that more time is available at Board meetings for these deliberations X A request to review the extent of any duplication in reporting which is being addressed through ongoing review of the meeting process X A desire to continue the Boards review of senior management succession planning, which was subsequently considered at the Boards meeting in December 2014.
Lintstock have no other connection to the Company.
How are conflicts of interest dealt with?
The Board requires directors to declare any appointments or other situations which would amount to a possible conflict of interest.
The Board has procedures in place to deal with and, if necessary, approve any such conflicts.
26 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27 27 Corporate governance continued Monitoring of the internal control systems: Internal control The Board has agreed certain reporting procedures to monitor key risk The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating areas on an ongoing basis, including safety, legal and financial matters.
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, that has been The Audit Committee has been delegated the responsibility to review the in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this effectiveness of the internal financial control systems implemented by annual report.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and is management.
It is assisted by the internal auditors and, where appropriate, in accordance with the September 2012 edition of the UK Corporate the external auditors.
Where the internal or external auditors identify any Governance Code.
The Group, for the purposes of applying the Code, significant deficiencies in the financial internal control system, a plan of comprises John Wood Group PLC, its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
action is agreed to remedy these and progress against them is tracked and reported with updates provided to the Audit Committee as necessary.
Any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than The Chairman of the Audit Committee regularly reports to the Board on their eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can discussions.
During the year, specific control deficiencies were identified only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material within a business in relation to project controls and the documentation of misstatement or loss.
customer approval of work orders.
We have subsequently put in place additional procedures and management resources to strengthen the control The key elements of the ongoing procedures, which the directors have environment in that business.
established to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control on an annual basis, are listed below.
As a result of these ongoing procedures the Boards assessment was that the internal control environment was Information and communication: operating effectively.
The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting performance to the Board.
This includes monthly and quarterly reports.
The quarterly reports include a detailed financial review against budgets and revised Overall control environment: The Group has a clear organisational structure for the control and forecasts.
The executive directors also receive detailed monthly financial reports and meet on a monthly basis to discuss financial performance monitoring of its businesses, including defined lines of responsibility and and other operational matters.
In addition, each division holds Quarterly delegation of authority.
The Group has issued policies which define the standards of business conduct and include Accounting: Contract Risk Review Meetings QRMs involving discussions with senior managers and certain of the executive directors.
The CEO and the CFO normally Management and Review: Health, Safety, Security and Environment: and Business Ethics.
A Group Business Ethics helpline, operated by an attend the QRMs.
independent third party, is in place to enable staff and third parties to raise concerns in confidence about possible noncompliance with the Groups Business Ethics Policy.
Committees of the Board The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities to Committees the Safety & Assurance Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
A summary of the Committees' work is set out below and the report of the Remuneration Committee is included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 32-44.
The Charters of the Boards Committees are available on the Groups website.
Attendance by directors at the meetings of the Board and its Committees is summarised below.
The dates of future Board meetings have now been agreed until the end of 2016.
Board and Committee meeting attendance 2014 Safety & Committee Assurance Nomination Audit Remuneration Board membership Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 8 S&A N A R 4 5 4 4 Chairman I D Marchant 8 4 2 Executive directors R Keiller 8 4 A G Semple 8 R Watson 8 Non-executive directors M Contie 8 4 5 4 J R Wilson 7 4 3 3 D K Woodward 8 5 4 4 8 4 5 4 M L Shafer-Malicki J M Brown appointed May 2014 3 3 2 8 4 5 T M Botts Denotes Chairman of the Committee 28 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29 Strategic report Governance Financial statements How does the Committee discharge its Safety & Assurance Committee responsibilities?
The Safety & Assurance Committee is responsible for The Committee meets at least once a year, and has met five times overseeing the Groups management of Safety and in 2014.
It operates within a written charter which is available on the Assurance including personal security, consistent with Groups website setting out its roles and responsibilities.
its status as the Groups top priority Main responsibilities: Thomas M Botts X reviewing Board structure, size and composition Chairman, Safety & Assurance Committee X making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes X identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the Board Who is on the Safety & Assurance Committee?
X filling Board vacancies The Committee comprises Thomas M Botts, Chairman, Michel Contie, Mary L Shafer-Malicki and Bob Keiller.
In addition, Nina Schofield joined X ensuring succession plans are in place.
the Committee in August 2014, replacing Mike Straughen.
The Committee met twice early in the year, to consider the appointment of a new Chairman in succession to Allister Langlands those discussions How does the Committee discharge its were chaired by David Woodward and excluded Ian Marchant : David responsibilities?
Woodwards appointment as Senior Independent Director SID to The Committee meets at least twice a year, and has written terms of succeed Ian Marchant: and to receive an update from its advisers, Korn reference which are available on the Groups website setting out its Ferry, on the search for a further non-executive director, preferably with responsibilities.
strong listed company financial experience to assume the chair of the Audit Committee, which ultimately led to the appointment of Jann Brown Main responsibilities are to review and make recommendations to the in May.
Those appointments were concluded in time to be included in Board regarding: last years annual report.
X the Groups Safety & Assurance strategy and performance In August the Committee reviewed executive succession planning and X the effectiveness of the Groups policies and systems, this was subsequently broadened to include a wider senior management and evidence of a prevalent safety culture group and summarised to the Board at its meeting in December.
Having completed his initial term of three years, Jeremy Wilsons reappointment X Safety leadership development throughout the to the Board was considered, noting in particular his knowledge of Group, particularly in frontline operations international oil & gas and financial markets, and was recommended to X the quality and integrity of the Groups internal and external the Board.
reporting of Safety & Assurance performance and issues In the final quarter of the year, the Committee again met twice to X the Groups preparedness for response to consider the appointment of a Chief Financial Officer after Alan Semple a major safety or security incident expressed a desire to retire after 19 years with the Group.
David Kemp X the process for and outcomes of investigations into major emerged as the clear candidate for recommendation to the Board safety and security incidents and the effectiveness with which following a rigorous selection process that included a series of interviews recommendations are assimilated throughout the Group with members of the Committee and internal and external benchmarking supported by its advisers, Spencer Stuart.
X the expertise and appropriateness of the structure of the Safety & Assurance function throughout the Group.
The Committee also spent considerable time considering proposals for The Committee met four times in 2014. the reorganisation of executive director roles in order to capitalise on the Groups through-cycle growth potential and endorsed Robin Watsons promotion to a new role as Chief Operating Officer, which will take effect during 2015.
Nomination Committee Having joined as Group Head of HSSE in August, Nina Schofields We adapted the proceedings of the Nomination Committee appointment to the Safety & Assurance Committee was recommended.
to reflect its transition to a wholly non-executive membership Mary L Shafer-Malicki stepped down from the Audit Committee at the end of the year and joined the Remuneration Committee, enhancing the and met five times during the year to consider Board and balance and composition of those Committees.
Committee appointments and to understand and challenge proposals for executive succession planning Committee evaluation and appointments.
With external facilitation from the advisers, Lintstock, in the final quarter of Ian Marchant the year the Committee assessed its own performance during the year and Chairman, Nomination Committee concluded that it had benefited from more frequent meetings during the year and would continue to meet on a more regular and structured basis.
Who is on the Nomination Committee?
The Committee is cognisant of the Governance Codes requirement to pay due regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender when The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman and all of the conducting a search for Board candidates.
Wood Group is committed to independent non-executive directors.
Allister Langlands, previously remaining an equal opportunities employer.
Chairman, retired from the Board and the Committee on 14 May 2014.
28 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29 Corporate governance continued How does the Committee discharge Audit Committee its responsibilities?
I was delighted to be asked to Chair the Audit Committee The Committee met four times since the date of the last annual report following my appointment to the Board in May.
Since my and on each occasion we invited the Group CFO, Group Financial appointment I have taken the opportunity to meet with Controller, Group Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors,  LLP PwC to attend.
During the year other senior management around the Group to find out more relevant people from the business were invited to attend certain meetings about the business and to promote the work of the Audit to provide deeper insight into specific issues and developments across Committee.
Our meetings during the year covered a wide the Group.
The Group Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors range of topics including the effectiveness of the Groups have the right of direct access to the Chair of the Committee at all times, internal financial controls, the integrity of the Groups and to meet the Committee without management present.
financial reporting and effectiveness of the internal and The Chair of the Committee reports to the Board as part of a separate external audit processes.
agenda item, on the activity of the Committee.
During the year the Committee focused on the following areas: Jann M Brown Chair, Audit Committee Financial reporting and significant accounting issues The primary areas of financial reporting judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the 2014 financial statements and how they Who is on the Audit Committee?
were addressed are outlined below.
The Audit Committee comprises Jann M Brown, Chair, Jeremy R Wilson, X Review of significant contracts David K Woodward and Mary L Shafer-Malicki.
Jann Brown joined the During 2014, the Committee reviewed the Group's largest ongoing Audit Committee from the August 2014 meeting, replacing Ian Marchant contracts including those executed on a fixed price and lump sum basis.
as the Chair following his appointment as Chairman of the Group.
The recognition of profit or loss on lump sum and fixed price contracts is To provide continuity on certain issues and as part of the handover subject to management estimation, albeit these contracts only accounted process, Ian attended subsequent meetings as an observer.
for a small percentage of the Groups revenue in 2014.
During the year the Committee received regular updates from management on the status of What are the Committees responsibilities?
significant contracts and the accounting for these.
In addition, the external The Committee has a written charter, which is reviewed on an annual auditors assessed this as an area of particular focus and the Committee basis, setting out its roles and responsibilities, including: received updates on related work undertaken by PwC.
X reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups financial controls X Impairment reviews X monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements At the half year and the year end the Committee considered and its interim and preliminary announcements managements assessment of whether or not indicators of impairment existed and where this was the case the results of impairment reviews.
X reviewing the Companys procedures for whistle blowing Annual reviews are carried out in relation to goodwill and intangible in relation to possible improprieties in matters of financial assets.
This involves challenging the significant assumptions and reporting, financial control or any other financial matters estimates made and the basis for them.
X monitoring and assessing the effectiveness of The Committee also considered the assumptions used by management the Groups internal audit function to support their view that the Groups investment in the EthosEnergy JV X reviewing the terms of engagement, independence was not impaired, and reviewed the outcome of the sensitivities prepared: and objectivity of the external auditors noting that under certain conditions impairment was possible.
Overall, taking into account that the joint venture was only formed during 2014 and X advising the Board on the policy with regard to audit tendering, the specific factors which impacted 2014 performance, the Committee taking into account relevant regulatory requirements was satisfied that the carrying value of our investment in EthosEnergy was not impaired at this time.
The Committee will continue to monitor actual X assessing the external audit process and the effectiveness performance against that forecast to ensure that this remains the case.
of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, in accordance with Group policy X Joint Ventures and the Adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements X reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of During 2014 the Group entered into a Joint Venture with Siemens, now which it considers that action or other improvement is needed known as EthosEnergy.
The joint venture combined elements of both and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
parties Gas Turbine activities, with further details set out in note 10 and 27 to the Group financial statements.
The Committee reviewed the accounting Audit Committee members have been selected with the aim of providing for this transaction, and received reports from PwC on their audit work.
the range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil the Committees responsibilities.
The Board considers that Jann Brown has The Group adopted IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements effective 1 January recent and relevant financial experience as required by the UK Corporate 2014, which meant that the Group could no longer elect to proportionately Governance Code.
consolidate joint ventures and must apply equity accounting.
When taken in combination with the EthosEnergy transaction this had a significant impact on the way the Groups statutory results are presented for the current and comparative periods.
30 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31 Strategic report Governance Financial statements In May the Committee received a presentation by the Group Financial The Committee also reviews the standing, experience and tenure Controller on the impact on the Group and the proposed additional of the external audit lead partner, the arrangements for ensuring the disclosures which were to be provided to allow users to better understand independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the nature and the changes.
At the August 2014 and February 2015 meetings the draft level of services provided.
In addition, we conduct an annual exercise interim and full year financial statements which contained the revised to seek feedback from financial management around the Group on the disclosures were reviewed and approved.
effectiveness of the audit process.
We provide an opportunity for open dialogue and feedback between the external auditor and the Committee X Current and deferred tax balances without management being present.
The Group operates in a number of different tax regimes and must comply with various corporate tax regulations.
Provisioning for potential X Appointment and independence current tax liabilities and the basis for deferred tax assets and liabilities is The Committee has overall responsibility for ensuring that the external underpinned by a range of judgements.
The Committee addresses these auditors independence and objectivity is not compromised.
issues through a combination of reporting from senior management and The Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor the extent to which these are supported by professional advice from each year and also assesses their independence on an ongoing basis.
advisory firms and considers the positions taken by management to be During the year we received confirmation from the external auditors appropriate.
This has also been recognised by PwC as an area of higher regarding their independence.
In accordance with UK regulations and audit risk and external audit test the basis for significant uncertain tax to help ensure independence, our auditors adhere to a rotation policy positions and the recognition of tax asset and liabilities.
based on Auditing Practices Board standards that require the Group audit partner to rotate every five years.
This is the second year that the X Review of provisions for doubtful debts current lead audit partner has been involved in the audit of the Group.
At each meeting the Committee receives and reviews a management report which includes details of more material provisions including those PwC have been the Groups external auditors since the Group became made around doubtful debts, which are discussed and challenged.
Whilst the Group has not formally In particular during 2014 the recoverability of certain disputed debts in tendered the audit since then, as part of the Committees review of the our North American business was discussed and the level of provision objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process, a detailed assessment was agreed as appropriate.
was undertaken in 2012 as part of the audit partner rotation process where it was decided not to put the audit engagement out to tender.
Internal financial control During the year we considered the audit tendering provisions outlined in The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal the UK Corporate Governance Code, the UK Competition and Markets control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit Committee has been Authority CMA Order and regulations issued by the European Union.
Having considered the need to tender the external audit, to date the delegated the responsibility to review the effectiveness of the internal financial control systems implemented by management.
In supporting Committee has been satisfied with the effectiveness of the external auditors and has not considered it necessary to require PwC to tender the Board the Committee considered the process by which the Group evaluated its internal financial control environment.
This work was primarily for the external audit work during 2014. driven by regular updates from the Group Head of Internal Audit on the The Committee provided the Board with its recommendation to effectiveness of internal financial controls and the results of the financial shareholders on the reappointment of PwC as external auditor for the risk self-assessment process undertaken across the Group.
External audit year ending 31 December 2015.
Accordingly a resolution proposing the also provide feedback on assessment of specific areas of financial control reappointment of PwC as our external auditor will be put to shareholders as appropriate during the course of their work.
X Internal audit We will continue to assess when the Group should put the audit Monitoring the activity of the Group Internal Audit function is an agenda engagement out to tender and at present our intention is that the latest item at each Committee meeting.
Reports from the Group Head of date such a tender exercise would be undertaken is on conclusion of the Internal Audit typically include updates on progress against the annual 2017 audit process, when the current lead audit partner is due to rotate.
internal audit plan, a summary of the key matters arising from internal There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Groups choice of audit reviews, an update on the status of actions arising from the work of external auditors.
internal audit and updates on relevant regulatory matters impacting on the role of the Audit Committee.
X Non-audit services The Chair of the Committee holds private discussions with the Group One of the key risks to external auditor independence is the provision of Head of Internal Audit as necessary during the year outside the formal non-audit services by the external auditor.
The Committee considers and Committee process.
approves fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditors in accordance with the Groups policy in this area, which is set X External audit out in the Audit Committees terms of reference.
The cost of non-audit As part of the external audit process, PwC prepare an audit plan services provided in 2014 is reported in note 3 to the financial statements.
identifying their assessment of key audit risks.
These risks are discussed In the opinion of the Committee, the provision of these non-audit services during the year with input from management and the Group Head of did not impair PwCs independence.
Internal Audit as necessary, providing the Committee with an opportunity to challenge matters of judgement.
Committee evaluation The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the audit process through The Committees activities formed part of the external review of Board consideration of the reporting received from PwC at both the half year and Committee effectiveness performed in the year.
Details of this and year end, the robustness of the external auditors handling of key process can be found on page 27. judgemental areas and the quality of the external auditors interaction with, and reporting to, the Committee.
30 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31 Directors Remuneration Report Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder The Groups Directors Remuneration Policy, comprising Part 1 of the Directors' Remuneration Report DRR, sets out the Groups remuneration policy.
The policy is subject to a binding shareholder vote held at least every three years and received overwhelming support from our shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
The Group will continue to follow the agreed policy during 2015.
As there are no proposed changes to the Directors Remuneration Policy there is no requirement for a shareholder vote on this part of the DRR at the 2015 AGM.
Our agreed Directors Remuneration Policy with updated scenario charts can be found at: www.
com rempolicy This is the Boards report to shareholders on directors remuneration and covers both executive directors and Part 2 of the DRR contains the annual report on Remuneration, which non-executive directors.
It has been prepared by the describes how the Directors Remuneration Policy has been operated Remuneration Committee and has been approved by in 2014 and how it will be applied in 2015.
This part of the DRR will be the Board.
This report is subject to an advisory vote in subject to an advisory vote by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
relation to the annual report on Remuneration Part 2 of Our objective is to provide a remuneration package that promotes this report at the 2015 Annual General Meeting AGM.
the long-term success of the Group.
In line with our agreed policy, we do this through a balance of fixed and variable pay, which we Contents intend will result in competitive total remuneration packages that reflect performance, while creating an appropriate alignment between The Boards report to shareholders on directors remuneration executives and the long-term interests of shareholders.
32 Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Resolutions in respect of remuneration were overwhelmingly supported 34 Remuneration Committee at the 2014 AGM, however it was noted that there were a number of 35 Statement of shareholder voting abstentions.
As a result, the Committee consulted major shareholders holding in aggregate just over 48% of the equity of the Company to better understand the reasons why some shareholders felt unable Part 1 to support the relevant resolutions at the 2014 AGM.
In reviewing the comments received and in conjunction with a general review of The directors remuneration policy arrangements for 2015 with the aim of simplifying and standardising the The Groups Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by variable pay structure for executive directors and senior managers, the shareholders on 14 May 2014 at the 2014 AGM.
Full details of Committee decided to base 2015 long-term incentive awards on Group the policy can be found at: www.
com rempolicy targets only for all executive director participants.
It was also decided to include more detail retrospectively on performance against targets Part 2 for annual bonus within the DRR for 2014.
I trust these changes will be Annual report on remuneration welcomed by our shareholders.
36 2.1 Single figure of remuneration for each director The Committee also considered the period over which our long-term 40 2.2 Total pension entitlements incentive awards must be held.
Wood Group was one of the first companies in our sector to extend deferral beyond the traditional 41 2.3 Share incentive plan interests awarded during the year 3 year-period when we introduced our current requirement in 2008 for 41 2.4 Payments to past directors 20% of any vested award to be held for a further two years, i. e. five 41 2.5 Payments for loss of office years in total.
Having considered this issue, the Committee believes 41 2.6 Statement of directors shareholding and share interests that this arrangement, in conjunction with our recently introduced 44 2.7 TSR performance summary requirement that the deferred 50% of annual bonus paid to executive directors will be in the form of shares and the introduction in 2013 of 44 2.8 Percentage change in CEO remuneration minimum shareholding requirements for executive directors, continues 44 2.9 Relative importance of spend on pay to help promote the long-term success of the Group and creates an appropriate alignment with the interests of shareholders.
I hope you will be able to continue to support these arrangements.
Audited Unless otherwise noted, the remaining sections of the Directors Remuneration Report are not subject to audit.
32 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Committee also considered the changes to the UK Corporate In setting targets for the 2015 annual bonus and LTP 2015-2017 cycle, Governance Code which were published in September 2014 by the the Committee has been particularly mindful of the more challenging Financial Reporting Council.
In particular, the Committee noted the market conditions currently being seen in the oil & gas sector, and the requirement for bonus and long-term incentive schemes to contain uncertainty that these conditions bring.
Details of the selected AEPS clawback provisions the ability to recover sums already paid as targets for the LTP 2015-2017 cycle are provided in Part 2 of this report well as malus provisions the ability to withhold any payments due while the 2015 annual bonus targets will be disclosed retrospectively in in circumstances considered by the Committee to be appropriate.
As a result, the Committee revised our annual bonus and long-term At the time of preparing this report, consideration was being given by incentive scheme rules to ensure both of these provisions were the Company to an employee share purchase plan for all employees included, thereby ensuring that our arrangements remain fully other than executive directors.
The Committee is supportive of this type compliant with the Code.
of plan and hope shareholders will vote in favour of its adoption should a Against a market backdrop of falling oil prices, increased focus on relevant Resolution be tabled at the 2015 AGM.
efficiency by oil & gas operators generally and the consequential impact In preparing the DRR for 2014, the Committee has endeavoured to on investment in certain areas, EBITA performance was up 3.1% on provide full and clear explanations of decisions made and the reasons 2013, which contributed to annual bonuses of between 48% and for these.
I hope you will be able to support the relevant resolution.
64% of maximum being awarded to executive directors.
The 2014 performance also contributed to a moderate payout in the LTIP cycle 2012 2014 with growth in AEPS over the three year cycle of 65% and TSR performance against selected peer companies at 9 out of 17.
During the year, the Committee considered the executive directors remuneration packages for 2015.
As you may recall, last year the Committee considered that Bob Keiller should be awarded a salary increase at 1 January 2014 of 12.5% to an annual base salary of 630,000 reflecting the progress he had made since appointment as David K Woodward Group CEO.
Bob decided to defer this increase for 12 months and this Chairman, Remuneration Committee increase duly took effect on 1 January 2015.
After consideration, and Date: 16 February 2015 recognising the current difficult operating environment, the Committee agreed that no general salary increases should apply to executive directors at 1 January 2015.
However the Committee were mindful of the appointment of Robin Watson into his new role of Chief Operating Officer of Wood Group, which is scheduled to take place at 6th April 2015.
The Committee has agreed that a significant adjustment to salary should take place at that time to 500,000 p. a. and that it would be appropriate for Robins 2015 annual bonus opportunity to remain at 125% of base salary while increasing his LTIP award to 150% of base salary reflecting the scope and long-term importance of this new role.
The Committee consulted with major shareholders holding in aggregate just over 48% of the Company at that time in relation to these points and no objections were received.
Further details of these changes are included in the section on policy implementation in 2015.
The Committee also determined the remuneration arrangements on retirement for Allister Langlands and Mike Straughen as they stepped down from the Board on 14 May 2014 and 31 August 2014 respectively.
These arrangements were in line with our agreed policy and are fully documented in Part 2 of this report.
32 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33 33 Directors Remuneration Report continued During 2014, the Committee met four times to discuss the remuneration Remuneration Committee issues arising and the operation of the remuneration policy.
The following During 2014, the Remuneration Committee comprised three table sets out what the Committee covered at each of those meetings.
independent non-executive directors: David K Woodward Chairman, Michel Contie and Jeremy R Wilson.
Mary L. Shafer-Malicki joined the Meeting Regular standing items Other agenda items Committee in February 2015.
February Determined executive Approved LTCIP and LTIP The Remuneration Committee advises the Board on executive 2014 directors salaries for 2014 payments for 2011 2013 remuneration and sets the remuneration packages of each of the cycle executive directors within the approved policy.
The Committee has a Confirmed executive written charter which is publicly available on the Groups website.
directors annual bonuses Approved targets, for 2013 participants and Where appropriate, the Committee receives input from the Chairman, communications for the Reviewed 2013 Directors Group CEO, Group Head of Human Resources and the Director LTP 2014 2016 cycle Remuneration Report of Compensation & Benefits.
This input never relates to their own remuneration.
The Company Secretary attends each of the Committee May Confirmed approval of Reviewed possible future meetings in his role as Secretary to the Committee.
2014 ESOS and LTP grants changes to bonus & LTP The aim of the Committee is to establish an overall remuneration Reviewed pension structure which will: arrangements for Group directors X promote the long-term success of the Group August Discussed bonus & LTP Reviewed levels of X reflect the size and complexity of the Groups business 2014 arrangements for 2015 delegated authority re X take account of executives individual long-term incentives Agreed approach to DRR responsibilities and geographical location 2014 Reviewed outcome of X attract, retain and motivate executives shareholder consultation Reviewed Committee on 2014 AGM abstentions X clearly align remuneration with the Groups long-term Charter strategy in the pursuit of maximising shareholder value Agreed exit arrangements Committee performance for Mike Straughen evaluation discussed X consider executive remuneration within the broader setting Reviewed arrangements of pay conditions elsewhere within Wood Group.
for those employees In setting remuneration policy the Committee gives full consideration to transferred to EthosEnergy the relevant provisions of the Governance Code and relevant regulations December Reviewed executive Reviewed draft DRR 2014 enacted under the Companies Act 2006.
2014 directors remuneration Reviewed progress against arrangements for 2015 targets for all long-term Reviewed estimate of incentive plans bonuses for 2014 Reviewed changes to the Reviewed potential ESOS UK Corporate Governance & LTP grants for 2015 Code and revised scheme rules accordingly During the year, the Committee took advice from Deloitte LLP, who were retained as external advisors to the Committee.
Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to Executive Remuneration Consulting in the UK.
Deloitte received 55,925 for the provision of services to the Committee during the year.
These fees consisted of core services where the cost was agreed in advance and additional services which were charged on a time and materials basis.
As well as advising the Remuneration Committee, Deloitte LLP also provided tax and global mobility advice to the Group during 2014.
The Committee has reviewed the advice provided by Deloitte during the year and is comfortable that it has been objective and independent.
The Committee has reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
34 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Statement of shareholder voting The Committee is committed to shareholder dialogue.
Where there are a substantial number of votes against any resolution on directors remuneration, the Committee seeks to understand the reasons for any such vote, and will detail here any actions in response to it.
The following table sets out actual voting in respect of our previous remuneration report: Statement of shareholder voting a Item For Against Abstentions Binding vote on the 2013 248,287,388 5,726,766 19,791,320 Remuneration Policy 97.75% 2.25% Report 2014 AGM Advisory vote on the 241,413,120 1,385,960 31,006,394 2013 annual report on 99.43% 0.57% Remuneration 2014 AGM The Committee noted the number of abstentions and contacted a number of leading shareholders to better understand the reasons why some shareholders felt unable to support the relevant resolutions at the 2014 AGM.
In reviewing the comments received and in conjunction with a general review of arrangements for 2015 the Committee has decided to base 2015 long-term incentive awards on Group targets only for all executive director participants as well as including more detail retrospectively on performance against targets for annual bonus within Part 2 of the Directors Remuneration Report for 2014.
Note a A vote abstained is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the percentage of votes For or Against a resolution.
34 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 35 Directors Remuneration Report continued Part 1 Policy report This part of the DRR was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Full details of the agreed policy can be found at: www.
com rempolicy Part 2 Annual report on remuneration 2.1 Single figure of remuneration for each director The following tables set out the single figure of remuneration for each of the executive directors as well as the former Chairman, split between those based in the UK and the US.
Executive directors and former Chairman - UK based 000 Pension Long-term related a b c d e f Year Salary Benefits Bonus incentives benefits Total Bob Keiller 2014 560 14 378 294 84 1,330 2013 560 14 421 545 84 1,624 Robin Watson 2014 379 14 304 260 57 1,014 2013 336 14 279 182 34 845 g Mike Straughen 2014 289 11 173 105 29 607 2013 336 13 229 510 34 1,122 h Allister G Langlands 2014 102 1 0 235 0 338 2013 400 14 298 803 258 1,773 Executive directors - US based $000 Pension Long-term related a b c d e f Year Salary Benefits Bonus incentives benefits Total i Alan G Semple 2014 $653 $31 $392 $363 $151 $1,590 2013 $634 $32 $480 $961 $188 $2,295 Details relating to the single figure of remuneration Group financial targets applied to all executive directors other than Robin executive directors and former Chairman Watson where EBITA and DSO targets were split 25 75 between Group and Divisional targets.
The financial targets for the bonus year ended 31 a Salary or fees received during the year.
December 2014, and the extent to which they were achieved, are set out below.
Once 90% of the relevant financial measure is met, bonus b Taxable benefits received during the year.
Taxable benefits include starts to accrue with 71% of maximum paid at target and maximum company car or car allowance, private medical, dental and contributory paid when the respective measure is 10% above target.
Achievement health and welfare cover as applicable.
For those directors based in the is calculated on a straight-line basis between threshold and target and US, the cost of benefits reflects the amounts that would be chargeable to between target and maximum.
UK income tax if the director were resident in the UK for tax purposes.
c Bonus awarded in relation to the year inclusive of all amounts subject Measures Threshold Target Maximum Achieved to further deferral.
Group EBITA $520.7m $578.6m $636.5m $549.6m For 2014, maximum bonus opportunity was 125% of base salary for all Group DSO 64 days 59 days 53 days 63 days executive directors.
Bonus for Bob Keiller was based on his deferred Divisional EBITA salary of 630,000.
Bonus measures were split between financial 60% $297.0m $330.0m $363.0m $341.7m Watson and non-financial 40% measures.
The financial measures consisted of EBITA 50% and average DSO 10%.
DSO is Days Sales Outstanding Divisional DSO 61 days 56 days 50 days 62 days and is a key contributing factor to cash flow.
Non-financial measures Watson were split between corporate objectives 30% and individual personal Corporate objectives related to HSSE: business objectives 10%.
Non-financial growth: Executive Committee team effectiveness.
measures Personal objectives related to leadership: corporate social responsibility: people & organisation.
36 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate objectives, amounting to 30% of the bonus opportunity, Mike Straughen was also measured on Divisional EBITA, the split of his were shared by all executive directors with each executive directors award being TSR 25%, AEPS 37.5% and Divisional EBITA 37.5%.
individual personal objectives amounting to 10% of the bonus opportunity.
Robin Watson was measured exclusively on Divisional performance The Committee determined awards of 36.375% of base salary for the his award being made prior to his appointment as an executive combined corporate and personal performance against these objectives director, with the measures being EBITA and OCER weighted 75% for each of the executive directors.
Payment of 50% of the total bonus and 25% respectively.
was deferred in the form of shares for a further two years based on an The TSR of the Group was compared to a peer group comprising average share price computed using the 20 day trading average in the Aker Solutions, AMEC, Chicago Bridge & Iron Company, Fluor, Foster period running up to 31 December 2014, with continued employment Wheeler, Jacobs Engineering, KBR, McDermott, Petrofac, Saipem, a requirement to receive the deferred payment other than for those SBM Offshore, Sulzer, Technip, Weir Group, Worley Parsons and WS classified as good leavers.
Foster Wheeler was retained in the comparator group despite For 2013, maximum bonus opportunity was 125% of base salary for all their acquisition by AMEC in November 2014 given that almost 35 36ths executive directors.
Bonus measures were split between financial 70% of the performance period had been completed.
The targets for the and non-financial 30% measures.
The financial measures consisted of LTIP 2012-2014 and the extent to which they were achieved, are set EBITA and average DSO weighted 70 30.
Group targets applied to all out below.
On reaching the threshold, one-third of the relevant measure executive directors other than Robin Watson and Mike Straughen where becomes payable and on reaching the maximum, 100% of the relevant EBITA and DSO targets were split 50 50 between Group and Divisional measure becomes payable.
For achievement between threshold and targets.
The financial targets for the bonus year ended 31 December maximum, the allocation is on a straight line basis.
2013, and the extent to which they were achieved, are set out below.
Once 85% of the EBITA measure is met 90% for DSO, bonus starts to Financial measures Threshold Maximum Achieved accrue with 71% of maximum paid at target and maximum paid when TSR 50th percentile 75th percentile 50th percentile the EBITA measure is 15% above target 10% above target for DSO.
AEPS 93.2 cents 111.2 cents 99.6 cents Achievement is calculated on a straight-line basis between threshold Divisional EBITA and target and between target and maximum.
$237.4m $272.0m $232.0m Straughen Divisional EBITA Watson $293.5m $323.5m $341.7m Measures Threshold Target Maximum Achieved Divisional OCER Watson 5.1% 4.6% 10.8% Group EBITA $461.5m $542.9m $624.3m $533.0m Group DSO 62 days 56 days 50 days 59 days For all participants, 20% of the share options that were awarded Divisional EBITA $226.7m $266.7m $306.7m $262.1m were deferred for a further two years to contribute to alignment with Watson shareholders and to aid retention, with continued employment a Divisional DSO requirement to receive the deferred payment other than for those 64 days 58 days 52 days 58 days Watson classified as good leavers.
Divisional EBITA For 2013, this figure relates to awards under the LTIP 2011-2013 cycle $217.8m $256.3m $294.7m $246.0m Straughen which vested at 31 December 2013.
The figure has been calculated using the number of share options that vested multiplied by the closing Divisional DSO 65 days 59 days 53 days 71 days mid-market share price on 31 December 2013 of 6.86.
Maximum Straughen awards under the 2011-2013 cycle were 125% of base salary for Personal objectives related to Group Strategy: all executive directors except for Robin Watson whose award was Non-financial health & safety: key customers: people & organisation made prior to him becoming an executive director where 100% of measures and corporate social responsibility base salary applied.
For Allister G Langlands and Alan G Semple the LTIP measures were split between TSR and AEPS weighted 25% and 75% respectively.
Bob Keiller whose award was made before his Performance against non-financial objectives varied by each director with appointment as Group CEO and Mike Straughen were also measured payments under this element ranging from 27.5% to 31.0% of base salary.
on Divisional EBITA, the split of their awards being TSR 25%, AEPS Payment of 50% of the total bonus was deferred in the form of cash for a 37.5% and Divisional EBITA 37.5%.
Robin Watson was measured further two years with continued employment a requirement to receive the exclusively on Divisional performance his award being made prior to his deferred payment other than for those classified as good leavers.
appointment as an executive director, with the measures being EBITA d The value of long-term incentives which vested in respect of and OCER weighted 75% and 25% respectively with EBITA being split performance periods ending during the year inclusive of all amounts 50 50 between two separate business units.
The TSR of the Group was subject to further deferral.
compared to a peer group comprising Aker Solutions, AMEC, Chicago Bridge & Iron Company, Fluor, Foster Wheeler, Jacobs Engineering, For 2014, this figure relates to awards under the LTIP 2012-2014 cycle KBR, McDermott, Petrofac, Saipem, SBM Offshore, Sulzer, Technip, which vested at 31 December 2014.
The figure has been calculated The Weir Group, Worley Parsons and WS Atkins.
The targets for the using the number of share options that vested multiplied by the closing LTIP 2011-2013 and the extent to which they were achieved, are set mid-market share price on 31 December 2014 of 5.965.
On reaching the threshold, one-third of the relevant measure rate at 31 December 2014 of 1 $1.5593 was used for those executive becomes payable and on reaching the maximum, 100% of the relevant directors paid in US dollars.
Maximum awards under the 2012-2014 measure becomes payable.
For achievement between threshold and cycle were 125% of base salary for all executive directors.
For Allister G maximum, the allocation is on a straight line basis.
Langlands, Bob Keiller and Alan G Semple the LTIP measures were split between TSR and AEPS weighted 25% and 75% respectively.
36 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37 Directors Remuneration Report continued The following table sets out the single figure of remuneration for the Financial measures Threshold Maximum Achieved Chairman and each of the non-executive directors.
Further details on the TSR 50th percentile 75th percentile 75th percentile non-executive director fee structure for 2015 is set out on page 39.
AEPS 82.5 cents 90.0 cents 98.6 cents Divisional EBITA Keiller $264.4m $290.4m $268.6m Chairman & non-executive directors single figure of remuneration 000 Divisional EBITA $195.8m $215.8m $246.0m Straughen Year Fees Total Divisional EBITA 1 a Ian D Marchant 2014 205 205 $264.4m $290.4m $268.6m Watson 2013 60 60 Divisional EBITA 2 b $65.5m $69.5m $88.8m Thomas M Botts 2014 62 62 Watson 2013 54 54 Divisional OCER Watson 6.8% 6.1% 7.1% c Jann M Brown 2014 35 35 2013 n a n a For all participants, 20% of the share options that were awarded were deferred for a further two years to contribute to alignment with Michel Contie 2014 56 56 shareholders and to aid retention, with continued employment a 2013 53 53 requirement to receive the deferred payment other than for those Mary L Shafer-Malicki 2014 56 56 classified as good leavers.
2013 53 53 e Pension figure reflects cash value of Defined Contribution pension Jeremy R Wilson 2014 54 54 contribution or cash alternative or, for defined benefits style arrangements, 2013 52 52 figures are calculated in accordance with the basis set out in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports David K Woodward 2014 69 69 Amendment Regulations 2013.
Further detail in relation to individual 2013 59 59 pension arrangements is provided in section 2.2 on page 40. f The single figure of remuneration, being the sum of columns a to e Notes to the single figure of remuneration Chairman & non-executive directors inclusive.
a Ian D Marchant was appointed Chairman at the end of the AGM on 14 May 2014.
His remuneration for 2013 reflects fees received in his previous role as non-executive director.
g Mike Straughen retired from the Board on 31 August 2014.
His His remuneration for 2014 includes fees received in his previous role as non-executive remuneration for 2014 reflects the period up to his employment end date director up to 14 May 2014 and his remuneration as Chairman from that date onwards.
of 31 October 2014. b Thomas M Botts was appointed 8 January 2013. h Allister G Langlands retired as Chairman at the end of the AGM on 14 c Jann M Brown was appointed 15 May 2014.
His remuneration for 2014 reflects the period up to this date.
i Alan G Semple is based in the US and receives his remuneration in Statement of implementation of remuneration policy US dollars.
All figures relating to Alan G Semple in the above table are in the following financial year therefore expressed in US dollars.
This section provides an overview of how the Committee will implement the remuneration policy in 2015 in line with the agreed remuneration policy at: www.
com rempolicy Base salary The table below shows base salaries for 2014 and 2015.
Annual base 2014 annual salary from base salary 1 January 2015 % increase a Bob Keiller 630,000 630,000 0% Alan G Semple $653,432 $653,432 0% b Robin Watson 378,500 378,500 0% a As reported last year, the Remuneration Committee awarded Bob Keiller an increase to 630,000 with effect from 1 January 2014 to reflect his assumption of the full responsibilities and development in the CEO role.
After due consideration, Bob decided to defer the approved increase for 12 months.
The % increase figure for 2015 reflects the position after the application of the deferred increase.
b The Committee has agreed that Robin Watsons salary will be increased to 500,000 from his appointment as Chief Operating Officer at 6 April 2015.
38 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Benefits LTP The current executive directors will continue to participate in existing Awards of up to 125% of salary will be made to executive directors other benefit arrangements in line with the agreed remuneration policy.
than to Bob Keiller and Robin Watson where the awards will be 150%.
Alan Semple has notified the Board of his intention to retire during 2015, therefore no LTP award will be made in 2015.
Pension The current executive directors will continue to participate in existing For 2015, awards made to the executive directors will be based on TSR pension arrangements in line with the agreed remuneration policy.
and AEPS weighted 25% and 75% respectively.
The performance measures have been chosen in light of their Annual bonus appropriateness to the objectives of the Group, and targets are set against these measures at the commencement of each performance The maximum annual bonus opportunity for the executives will remain at cycle.
During the course of a performance cycle, the Committee has 125% of salary in 2015. the discretion to adjust the achievement levels, but only so that the new The table below provides further information on the performance levels are considered as demanding as those first set.
measures against which performance will be measured.
In setting the targets for the 20152017 cycle, the Committee took into consideration the current market conditions in the oil & gas sector and Relative weighting % of bonus opportunity the uncertainties that a significantly reduced oil price will have on our customers spending patterns.
The AEPS targets were set at 100 cents Financial measures 60% at threshold and 120 cents at maximum.
This represents a broadly flat EBITA 48% position to the 2014 actual AEPS at threshold and 6.4% compound annual growth from 2014 actual AEPS at maximum.
The Committee believe that DSO 12% the uncertainty and more challenging markets are likely to apply throughout Non-financial measures 40% 2015, and possibly beyond, therefore a more appropriate measure would be growth against analyst consensus for 2015.
As at the date of this report, analyst consensus of 2015 AEPS was 94.3 cents and as such the For 2015, the threshold EBITA performance required for a payment range selected represents 3.0% compound annual growth at threshold under this bonus element will be set at 90% of target.
Once 90% of and 12.8% compound annual growth at maximum.
EBITA target is achieved, bonus starts to accrue with 70% of maximum paid at target and maximum paid when EBITA is 10% above target.
The TSR of the Group is compared to a peer group comprising the following engineering construction and support services companies Aker No payment is made against Days Sales Outstanding DSO performance Solutions, AMEC Foster Wheeler, Chicago Bridge & Iron Company, Fluor, if DSO is 10% worse than target, with 70% of maximum paid at target Jacobs Engineering, KBR, McDermott, Petrofac, Saipem, SBM Offshore, and maximum paid when DSO is 10% better than target.
Sulzer, Technip, The Weir Group, Worley Parsons and WS Atkins.
The Committee has set the financial targets for the annual bonus plan for the year ending 31 December 2015 but has chosen not to No awards are made for less than the threshold performance for disclose the detail in this Report as in the opinion of the Committee, AEPS and the 50th percentile for TSR.
On reaching the threshold or these are commercially sensitive and it would not be in the Companys 50th percentile, 25% of the AEPS or TSR-related element becomes best interests to disclose these.
The specific targets and the extent to payable and on reaching the maximum performance for AEPS or which the targets are met will be disclosed retrospectively in next years 75th percentile for TSR, 100% of the AEPS or TSR element becomes Report.
Non-financial measures consist of corporate and personal payable.
For achievement level between threshold and maximum for objectives which are aimed at the achievement of the Groups business AEPS or between the 50th and 75th percentile performance for TSR, goals and core values.
For 2015, corporate objectives include objectives the allocation is on a straight line basis.
related to HSSE & business growth.
Personal objectives include objectives related to leadership: customers and stakeholders: cost efficiencies and Chairman and non-executive director NED people & organisation.
remuneration The table below shows the Chairman and NED fee structure for 2015.
This has been simplified from the previous arrangements without any significant change in overall costs.
2015 fees Chairman of the Board remuneration 275,000 p. a.
Annual non-executive director fee inclusive of 55,500 p. a. all Committee attendance Additional fee for senior independent director 5,000 p. a.
Additional fee for Audit Remuneration 5,000 p. a.
Safety & Assurance Chairs 38 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 Directors Remuneration Report continued 2.2 Total pension entitlements Pension benefits provided to UK executive directors Bob Keiller is provided with pension benefits via the Wood Group Group Personal Pension Plan WG GPP, which is a defined contribution scheme.
A Company contribution of 15% of base salary is split between pension contribution up to the UK HMRC annual allowance and a cash payment in lieu of pension.
He is provided with life assurance cover of eight times basic salary up to a maximum of 2,500,000.
Robin Watson is provided with pension benefits via the WG GPP.
He is provided with life assurance cover of four times basic salary up to a maximum of 1,200,000.
Mike Straughen received a cash payment of 10% of base salary in lieu of pension provision and was provided with life assurance cover of four times basic salary up to his employment end date of 31 October 2014.
Allister G Langlands accrued no pension in 2014.
He was provided with life assurance cover of four times basic salary up to his retiral from the Board on 14 May 2014.
Pension benefits provided to US-based executive directors From 1 July 2014, Alan G Semple is provided with a cash payment of 15% of base salary in lieu of pension provision.
Prior to this, he was provided with a pension arrangement of a defined benefit nature providing an equivalent level of benefits to that provided in the John Wood Group PLC Retirement Benefit Scheme RBS.
Benefits ceased to accrue under this arrangement at 30 June 2014 in line with the date the RBS closed to future accrual for all members.
As Alan is a US resident, his pension arrangement has been structured within a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan SERP in line with common practice in the US.
He is provided with life assurance cover of approximately four times basic salary.
Alan G Semple had the following accrued entitlements at 31 December 2014: Increase in accrued Accumulated total Age at Normal retirement Increase in accrued pension net of accrued pension at $000 31 December 2014 age pension p. a. inflation p. a.
31 December 2014 Alan G Semple 55 60 11 6 195 Capitalised value of Capitalised value of increase in pension Accumulated total increase in pension entitlement net of accrued pension at entitlement over the Benefit settlements in Member contributions inflation and member $000 31 December 2013 year net of inflation the financial year during the year contributions Alan G Semple 184 129 0 27 102 Note The above table has been calculated on the basis set out in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and allows for service to 30 June 2014 only, as benefits of a defined benefit nature ceased to accrue at that date.
40 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2.3 Share incentive plan interests awarded during the year The following table sets out the awards made to each of the executive directors under the Groups share based long-term incentive arrangements.
Share incentive plan interests awarded during the year Percentage Holding period Basis of Face value of vesting at Performance for 20% of Summary of performance a Director Type of award award the award threshold period award measures and targets Performance measures are TSR 150% of and AEPS weighted 25% and 75% Bob Keiller 945,000 salary respectively.
TSR is compared to an external comparator group.
The AEPS targets for the 2014-2016 cycle were set at 120.8 cents b Alan G Semple 493,141 at threshold and 142.2 cents at maximum.
Conditional Two years from Performance measures are award of shares 1 Jan 2014 - 25% vesting of the TSR, AEPS & Divisional EBITA awarded under 31 Dec 2016 award date weighted 25%, 37.5% and 37.5% the LTP 125% of respectively.
TSR is compared to salary an external comparator group.
The Robin Watson 473,125 AEPS targets for the 2014-2016 cycle were set at 120.8 cents at threshold and 142.2 cents at maximum.
Divisional EBITA was set at $370m at threshold and $406m at maximum.
Note a The face value of the awards is calculated from the salary at the beginning of the cycle multiplied by the maximum award.
For Bob Keiller, the award was based on his deferred salary of 630,000. b The face value of the award for Alan G Semple is calculated using an exchange rate of 1 $1.6563, being the exchange rate at the beginning of the performance cycle.
2.4 Payments to past directors Mark S Dobler served as an executive director from 1 January 2013 until he stepped down from the Board on 9 October 2013 to lead EthosEnergy, the joint venture with Siemens AG.
His long-term incentive award that was due to vest at 31 December 2014 lapsed on his move to the joint venture company and was replaced by a long-term cash plan designed to produce a broadly similar outcome.
The value of the long-term cash plan award at vesting on 31 December 2014 was $170,766.
There were no other payments made to past directors during 2014 which had not already been disclosed in previous Directors Remuneration Reports.
2.5 Payments for loss of office There were no payments made for loss of office to any director during 2014 which had not already been disclosed in previous Directors Remuneration Reports.
2.6 Statement of directors shareholding and share interests Shareholding guidelines were introduced at 1 July 2013 requiring the CEO to hold shares valued at 150% of base salary and the other executive directors to hold shares valued at 100% of base salary.
The holding is expected to be built up as quickly as after-tax share awards from long-term plans allow.
Shareholding at 31 December 2014 Value of shares held as a Shareholding guideline met at a Executive director not including connected persons multiple of salary 31 December 2014 Bob Keiller 1,615,808 15.3 Achieved Alan G Semple 436,704 6.7 Achieved Robin Watson 72,986 1.2 Achieved b Mike Straughen 144,600 2.5 Achieved Note a Calculated using the closing mid-market share price on 31 December 2014 of 5.965 and base salary levels at the same date other than for Bob Keiller where the shareholding guidelines were applied against his deferred salary of 630,000.
The exchange rate at 31 December 2014 of 1 $1.5593 was used for those executive directors paid in US dollars.
b Mike Straughen retired from the Board on 31 August 2014.
His details relate to his shareholding at that date.
40 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41 Directors Remuneration Report continued A summary of directors share interests and incentive plan interests are provided in the following two tables.
Details of directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company at 31 December 2014 were: Interests in share incentive Interests in share incentive plans, awarded without plans, awarded subject to Shares owned outright Shares owned outright as performance conditions at performance conditions at a a Beneficial interest as at 1 January 2014 at 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 Bob Keiller 1,582,321 1,615,808 15,881 338,638 Alan G Semple 420,798 436,704 17,907 209,522 Robin Watson 25,292 78,179 45,311 179,157 Ian D Marchant 7,777 22,777 Thomas M Botts - 8,500 Michel Contie 4,634 4,634 Mary L Shafer-Malicki 2,000 2,250 Jeremy R Wilson - 10,000 David K Woodward 21,000 25,000 b Jann M Brown - 1,578 c Allister G Langlands 792,865 743,313 117,071 66,429 d Mike Straughen 238,289 250,946 14,865 93,882 Non-beneficial interest Bob Keiller 392,423 392,423 n a n a Notes on share interests a Declaration includes shares held by connected persons as defined for the purposes of section 96B 2 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 b Jann M Brown appointed 15 May 2014 c Allister G Langlands retired from the Board on 14 May 2014.
His details relate to his shareholding and incentive plan interests at that date d Mike Straughen retired from the Board on 31 August 2014.
His details relate to his shareholding at that date and incentive plan interests reflect the position at his employment end date of 31 October 2014 None of the directors has a material interest in any contract, other than a service contract, with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, other than disclosed in note 33 to the financial statements.
At the date of this report the interests of the directors in the shares of the Company remain as stated.
Where applicable the December 2014 figures include interest in retained long-term plan awards.
The number of shares granted was determined by the extent to which the relevant performance conditions were achieved at the end of the initial 3 year performance period.
20% of any award is required to be held for an additional 2 year period following completion of the initial 3 year performance period.
The number at 1 January 2014 represents the maximum number of shares that could have been awarded.
42 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43 Directors Remuneration Report continued 2.7 TSR performance summary 2.8 Percentage change in CEO remuneration The following table provides a summary of the increases in remuneration TSR performance graph for the Group CEO as compared with the average increase for all other As the Company is included in the UK FTSE 250 index, but has been UK based employees in the Group.
included in the FTSE 100 index for part of the period under review, both the UK FTSE 250 and UK FTSE 100 indices are shown, by way of Percentage change in CEO remuneration providing a reasonable TSR comparison.
The graph below compares the TSR on a holding of shares in John Wood Group PLC with the TSR on a % change between 2013 and 2014 holding of shares in the companies in the UK FTSE 250 and 100 indices Salary Benefits Bonus for the last six financial years.
a CEO 0% -0.3% -10.2% TSR Wood Group, FTSE 250 and FTSE 100 Average increase of all 3% -0.9% -11.4% over the last six years, rebased to 100 other UK employees in b the Group Notes to the percentage change in CEO remuneration a A 12.5% increase in salary was awarded at 1 January 2014 but was deferred for 12 months and did not become effective until 1 January 2015. b Given the wide variation in inflation rates across the various geographies in which the Group operates, the comparator group used is all other UK based employees to ensure a valid comparison is provided.
UK based employees constitute approximately 28% of the overall workforce.
Benefits increase is based on a sample employee on a salary of 50,000 per annum receiving taxable employee benefits including car allowance, private medical and dental insurance.
Average bonus increase is based on average bonus paid as a percentage of salary for 2013 for the noted comparator group against average bonus paid as a percentage of salary for 2014.
2.9 Relative importance of spend on pay The table below is provided to assist shareholders in assessing the relative importance of the Groups spend on pay.
It contains details of the remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees of the Group as CEO remuneration well as the value of distributions to shareholders by way of dividend and The total remuneration for the CEO over the same period as the TSR share buyback over the previous two years.
performance graph detailed above is listed in the table below.
This table includes details of the annual bonus received in each year as a Relative importance of spend on pay $m percentage of the maximum opportunity that was available as well as the long-term incentives which vested in each year as a percentage of Item 2013 2014 Difference % change the maximum number of shares that could have been received: Remuneration 3,252.4 3,256.7 4.3 0.1% paid to or CEO remuneration receivable by all employees of Long-term the Group Annual incentive bonus vesting CEO single payout rates as figure of total as a % of a % of Distributions to 67.4 87.2 19.8 29.4% remuneration maximum maximum shareholders by Year CEO 000 opportunity opportunity way of dividend and share buyback 2014 Bob Keiller 1,330 48% 51% 2013 Bob Keiller 1,624 60% 79% a 2012 Bob Keiller 199 75% 25% b 2012 Allister G Langlands 2,276 76% 100% 2011 Allister G Langlands 3,338 87% 100% 2010 Allister G Langlands 1,314 84% 23% 2009 Allister G Langlands 1,417 60% 0% Notes a Bob Keiller was appointed Group CEO at 1 November 2012.
His remuneration for 2012 reflects his remuneration from appointment as Group CEO only.
Long-term incentives vesting during the year were awarded during his time as Wood Group PSN CEO and vested based on performance targets linked to performance of that division.
b Allister G Langlands was appointed Chairman on 1 November 2012.
His remuneration for 2012 relates to his time as Group CEO only.
44 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 Financial statements Group financial statements 46 Independent auditors report 51 Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of 52 comprehensive income Consolidated balance sheet 53 Consolidated statement of 54 changes in equity 55 Consolidated cash flow statement 56 Notes to the financial statements Company financial statements 98 Independent auditors report 100 Company balance sheet Notes to the Company financial 101 statements Five year summary 108 110 Information for shareholders 44 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John W John Wood Gr ood Group PLC oup PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 45
