77 Sustainability and Governance Sustainability and Governance Our Framework The Corporate Governance Report on pages 84 to 94 describes the role Johnson Mattheys vision is to build Johnson Mattheys well established of the board, the Audit Committee and its 3rd century through value adding policies, processes and management other committees in risk management sustainable technologies: sustainability systems support our governance and and internal control.
is a key element of the strategy we are sustainability efforts and apply to all our Our board of directors is ultimately pursuing to achieve our vision.
The operations around the world.
They responsible for social, environmental groups Sustainability 2017 programme, encompass the key areas of: and ethical matters.
These matters are launched in December 2007, has set Business integrity and ethics.
embedded in Johnson Mattheys risk our direction and continues to add management processes and are formally Supply chain management.
value to Johnson Matthey in three ways: reviewed annually by our board.
Policies Firstly, adding direct value Environment, health and safety EHS.
are set and approved by the Chief through improved efficiency productivity Executives Committee CEC.
from our sustainability efforts and also addresses risk and control issues supported by our Manufacturing Together these provide the and reviews key EHS, social and Excellence programme.
Also by driving framework for managing social, governance issues.
The CSR Compliance revenue growth from products and environmental and ethical matters.
Committee, a sub-committee of the CEC, services that deliver sustainability Brief summaries are set out in this has specific executive responsibility for benefits to our customers.
section and further details, together the identification and monitoring of risks Secondly, adding indirect value with information about progress and in these areas.
It sets and oversees by reducing key risks to revenue and developments over the year ended compliance with group standards enhancing our corporate reputation.
Also 31st March 2014, can be found on through the adoption, dissemination and through assisting our New Businesses our website.
implementation of appropriate group Division in identifying opportunities from policies and other operational measures.
Read more at Every business is required to include Thirdly, adding underlying value www.
sustainability in its annual budget setting by promoting employee engagement process and define the nature of and appealing to potential recruits.
Also Compliance with applicable legal programmes and projects to be through enhancing Johnson Mattheys requirements is a minimum standard undertaken together with capital social reputation through community for Johnson Mattheys operations and expenditure requirements and value investment and stakeholder engagement.
In many cases we set generated over a three year business Approximately 27 million of savings standards which are in advance of these.
Plans are discussed with the were reported by our businesses in Our employment contracts, CEC and are formally approved by the 2013 14 as a result of progress made handbooks and policies specify board.
As part of the process, progress in our Sustainability 2017 and acceptable business practices and our against the Sustainability 2017 targets is Manufacturing Excellence programmes.
The Group assessed on a group basis to establish This equates to cumulative savings of Control Manual, which is distributed to if additional management action is around 65 million since the launch of all our sites, and security manuals required.
We also have a formal system Sustainability 2017. provide further operational guidelines of site and functional reviews to drive to reinforce these.
The groups sustainability strategy was defined following an assessment of the risks, major impacts and future commercial opportunities open to the business.
The long term targets within it address the issues which could potentially have a material effect on the SUSTAINABLE groups future performance.
The group BUSINESS is further developing its approach in this area as outlined in the case study on page 78.
Health Social Environment Governance Financial and Safety LOCAL ACTION IN BUSINESSES Putting principles into practice POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Key objectives for assessment and control of risks CSR COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE CHIEF EXECUTIVES COMMITTEE Setting standards and overseeing compliance Policy setting and approval Identify and monitor EHS, social and Addresses risk and control issues governance risks JOHNSON MATTHEY BOARD Responsibility for social, environmental and ethical matters Risk management processes and review Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
