81.. A sustainability team briefing in China.
We are carrying out a reasonable country of origin enquiry with all of our suppliers of conflict minerals and their chemical derivatives in order to determine their provenance.
A variety of training programmes In line with our Equal Opportunities A committee of the board, the are in place to support continuous Policy, we recruit, train and develop Management Development and improvement in EHS performance and employees who meet the requirements Remuneration Committee, takes a regular meetings are held in Europe, of the job role regardless of gender, special interest in ensuring compliance North America and Asia to enable the ethnic origin, age, religion or belief, with the Training and Development groups EHS professionals to network, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy Policy objectives in order to: share best practice and discuss the or maternity, sexual orientation, gender Ensure highest standards in the impact of future EHS legislation.
The policy recruitment of employees.
recognises that people with disabilities Assess training needs in the light can often be denied a fair chance at Human Resources of job requirements.
work because of misconceptions about Our human resources standards are their capabilities and seeks to enhance Ensure relevance of training and link progressive, consistent and aimed at the opportunities available by attempting, with business goals.
bringing out the best in our people.
wherever possible, to overcome Employ and evaluate effective and Group policies are supported by obstacles, such as the need to modify efficient training methods.
detailed regional and individual business equipment, restructure jobs or to procedures which are regularly updated improve access to premises, provided Promote from within, from high to reflect both regional best practice such action does not compromise potential pools of talent.
Site specific human health and safety standards.
resources policies and procedures are Similarly, employees who become communicated to staff at inductions Provide development opportunities disabled during their employment will and through staff handbooks.
Human to meet employees potential and be offered employment opportunities resources policies and risks are aspirations.
examined by the CEC and the CSR We value the diversity of our people Compliance Committee.
View the policy online at as a core component of a sustainable Johnson Mattheys policies on www.
business and employment applications equal opportunities and training are are welcomed, and encouraged, from published on our website and are also Our human resources strategy aims all sections of the community including detailed below.
to support long term business growth minority groups.
over the next decade and includes a View the policies online at focus on significant recruitment at our www.
operations in Asia as our businesses in the region continue to expand.
We have further enhanced our learning and development programmes in Asia during the year and these are detailed further on page 53.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
