85 We have not complied with Code How does Our Board Operate?
6.2, which states that evaluation This section of the annual report describes In order to carry out its work, the board has of the board should be externally facilitated our corporate governance structures and a planned programme of agendas to ensure at least every three years.
For 2013 14 the processes and how they have been applied all necessary matters are covered and to board chose, after careful consideration, to throughout the year ended 31st March 2014 allow sufficient time for debate and conduct an internal evaluation of its own the year.
Our board of directors is challenge, particularly on areas such as performance and that of its committees and responsible to our shareholders for ensuring strategy and risk, including risk appetite.
individual directors, notwithstanding that the the sound running of the company.
This can The board also takes time to review past last external evaluation took place in 2010. only be achieved if supported by decisions where necessary.
At board The internal review was led by the Chairman appropriate and well managed governance meetings, the board receives and considers supported by the committee chairmen and processes.
The key elements which we papers and presentations from management the Company Secretary.
The board believe are essential for this are described on relevant topics.
Effective review and considered this appropriate, given the below and discussed in more detail decision making is supported by providing changes made to the board during the year throughout this section of the report.
the board with high quality, accurate, clear and the prospective changes which will take and timely information including input from effect on 5th June 2014, all of which are The UK Corporate experts and independent advisers where referred to in more detail under Board Governance Code necessary.
The board seeks to work in the Changes During the Year on page 88. best interest of Johnson Matthey and its The UK Corporate Governance Code The board believes that the approach stakeholders.
the Code was published by the Financial taken to evaluation is consistent with the Reporting Council FRC in May 2010 and relevant main principle of the Code B.
6 What is the Division of revised in September 2012, together with which requires the board to undertake a Responsibilities between Our a revised version of its Guidance on Audit formal and rigorous annual evaluation.
Given Chairman and Our Chief Committees.
The Code contains broad the change in board membership, the board Executive?
principles and specific provisions which set considers it appropriate to postpone out standards of good practice in relation to external evaluation until the spring of 2015 There is a clear division of responsibilities leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, when a fresh, objective view on how the between the running of the board and the accountability and relations with new team is settling down and working executive responsibility for the running of shareholders.
This Corporate Governance would be more effective and capable of the business and no single individual has Report is structured so as to report against providing valuable insight.
The boards unfettered powers of decision.
The each of these key areas.
Together with the intention remains to undertake an externally Chairmans and Chief Executives roles are Nomination Committee Report, the Audit facilitated evaluation process at least every separate and the division of responsibilities Committee Report and the Remuneration three years and that in the intervening years between these roles is clearly established Report, it describes how we have complied the review will be led by the Chairman in a written statement which was adopted with the provisions of the Code and applied supported by the committee chairmen and by the board in April 2005.
This is set out its main principles during the year.
in full in the Investor Relations Corporate Governance section of our website.
How have we Complied with the Leadership What is the Role of Provisions of the Code?
What is the Role of Our Board?
Except as referred to below, Johnson Our boards role is to provide leadership of Matthey has complied with all relevant Tim Stevenson, our Chairman, leads the the company and direction for management.
provisions of the Code throughout the year.
He is responsible for ensuring an It is collectively responsible and accountable We have not complied with part of effective board and effective contributions to our shareholders for the long term Code provision E. 1.1, which states that the from individual directors, particularly success of the group and for ensuring the senior independent director should attend non-executive directors, based on a culture group is appropriately managed and sufficient meetings with a range of major of mutual respect, openness, debate and operates responsibly as it pursues its shareholders to listen to their views in order constructive challenge.
The board reviews the to help develop a balanced understanding of he seeks to facilitate and encourage open performance of management and the the issues and concerns of major communication and constructive working operating and financial performance of the shareholders.
The board considers, and has relations between the executive and group as a whole.
It is responsible for done for a number of years, that there are non-executive directors.
He also seeks ensuring that the necessary resources are appropriate mechanisms in place to listen to to ensure that the executive directors are provided for Johnson Matthey to meet its the views of shareholders and communicate responsive to constructive challenge on objectives.
In particular, the board is them to the board without it being necessary their proposals by the non-executive responsible for the key areas of setting for the Senior Independent Director to attend directors.
Tim is in frequent contact with strategy and determining risk appetite, meetings with major shareholders.
He is, our Chief Executive.
They meet in person ensuring good governance, decision making, however, available to attend any such or by telephone at least once a week.
Tim promoting good behaviour and succession.
meetings if requested by shareholders.
also keeps the non-executive directors The board believes that this approach up to date with significant developments is consistent with the relevant main principle between board meetings.
Tim is of the Code on dialogue with shareholders, responsible for ensuring that Johnson to which Code provision E. 1.1 relates, and Matthey maintains effective communications is consistent with good governance and with our shareholders.
the promotion of delivery of the companys objectives.
More information on how we engage with shareholders is set out on page 94.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 86 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Corporate Governance Report continued As Chairman, Tim sets the boards As members of the board, the He is available to attend meetings with agenda and ensures that there is adequate non-executive directors have a key role in major shareholders to listen to their views time to discuss all agenda items.
Each year constructively challenging in all areas.
This in order to help develop a balanced the board agrees an annual agenda plan is vital to the independence and objectivity understanding of their issues and concerns.
designed to ensure that it has the right of the boards deliberations and decision The Senior Independent Director is amount of time throughout the year to making and is particularly important in responsible for leading the annual appraisal discuss all necessary matters.
In particular, helping develop proposals on strategy.
of the Chairmans performance and this is the board has sought to ensure there is The Chief Executive and the other discussed further under Review of the sufficient time to discuss strategy so that the executive directors welcome, and are Chairmans Performance on pages 92 non-executive directors have a good responsive to, constructive challenge by the and 93.
The Senior Independent Director opportunity to challenge and help develop non-executive directors on their proposals.
plays an important role by ensuring there is strategy proposals.
In addition, the The non-executive directors role is then an orderly succession process for succession Chairman monitors, with assistance from to support the decisions that have been to the chairmanship of Johnson Matthey.
the Company Secretary, the information taken and to support the executive team in Following Michaels retirement from distributed to the board to ensure it is of their delivery.
Non-executive directors also our board, Alan Ferguson will be our Senior high quality, accurate, clear and timely.
play an important part in supporting the Independent Director.
Tim met with the non-executive Chairman and the executive directors in What is the Role of Our directors without the executives being embracing and representing the companys present in November 2013 in order to review culture, values and standards within the Company Secretary?
board and throughout Johnson Matthey.
Simon Farrant is our Company Secretary.
The non-executive directors are responsible He was appointed in May 1999 and is What is the Role of Our for determining appropriate levels of secretary to the board and its committees.
remuneration for the executive directors and Simon reports to Tim Stevenson on board have a prime role in appointing and, where Our Chief Executive, Neil Carson, has day to governance matters and, together with Tim, necessary, removing executive directors, day management responsibility for running he keeps the efficacy of the companys and and in succession planning.
the groups operations, for applying group the boards governance processes under The chairmen of our Audit Committee policies and for implementing the groups review and considers improvements.
He is and our Management Development and strategy and policies agreed by the board.
also responsible to the board for compliance Remuneration Committee MDRC fulfil He has the broad authority from the board with board procedures.
He is responsible, important leadership roles.
Alan Ferguson to run the company and he is accountable through Tim, for advising and keeping the is Chairman of our Audit Committee and for, and reports to the board on, how it is board up to date on all legislative, regulatory Michael Roney is Chairman of our MDRC.
Neil also has a key role in the and governance matters and developments.
Following Michaels retirement from the process for the setting and review of Under Tims direction, Simons board at the close of the 2014 Annual strategy.
More broadly, he promotes the responsibilities include ensuring good General Meeting AGM on 23rd July 2014, companys culture and standards information flows within the board and its Dorothy Thompson will chair our MDRC.
throughout Johnson Matthey, including committees and between senior those on governance.
In addition, he management and non-executive directors.
What is the Role of Our Senior ensures that the executive directors views He also facilitates induction and assists with Independent Director?
on business issues and employees views professional development as required.
on relevant issues are shared with the board Michael Roney has been our Senior Simons advice, services and support are in a balanced way.
On 5th June 2014 Neil Independent Director since July 2011. available to each director.
will retire as our Chief Executive and will be As Senior Independent Director, Michaels Board Meetings succeeded by Robert MacLeod.
role is to provide a sounding board for Tim Stevenson, to act, when necessary, Our board meets regularly throughout the What is the Role of Our as a focal point and intermediary for the year in order to effectively discharge its duties.
concerns of the other non-executive During the year it met six times.
It has also directors and to ensure that any key issues met once between 31st March 2014 and Our executive directors have specific that are not being addressed by the the date of approval of this annual report.
responsibilities relating to the areas of the Chairman or the executive management are During the year, the board visited two sites business they oversee as set out on pages taken up.
Tim has a regular dialogue with away from its usual venue for board 82 and 83.
However, as directors, their Michael regarding current issues.
While no meetings at the companys City Office in duties extend beyond their own businesses such issues have arisen in the year, should London.
These were at our Emission to include the whole of the groups any significant issues arise which threaten Control Technologies ECT facility, Shanghai, operations and activities.
the stability of Johnson Matthey or its board, China in October 2013 and at our Precious it is recognised that the Senior Independent What is the Role of Our Metal Products facility in Brimsdown, UK Director may be required to work with the Non-Executive Directors?
The board is planning to Chairman or others or to intervene to resolve hold a board meeting at our ECT plant in The role of our non-executive directors is to them.
The Senior Independent Director is Macedonia later this calendar year.
scrutinise managements performance in available to shareholders should they have meeting agreed goals and objectives and to concerns which have not been resolved monitor how that performance is reported.
from contact through the normal channels They must also be satisfied with the integrity of Chairman, Chief Executive or other of the groups financial information and with executive directors or if the normal channels the robustness and defensibility of financial may be inappropriate.
and non-financial controls and risk management systems.
87.. New process diagnostic equipment for the oil and gas industry.
Catalysts for the production of formaldehyde.
BOARD Chairman Tim Stevenson Chief Executive NOMINATION AUDIT MDRC COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Chairman Chief Executives Committee Chairman Chairman Michael Roney Tim Stevenson Alan Ferguson CSR Contracts Finance and Compliance IT Committee Review Administration Key Committee Committee Committee Board Committee Executive Committee Board Committees Board Committee Membership What are the Board Committees Terms of Reference?
Our board has three committees: the Each independent non-executive director is Nomination Committee: the Audit a member of each board committee.
No one Each board committee has written terms Committee: and the MDRC.
The reporting other than the board committee chairmen of reference which have been approved by framework of the board committees and of and members is entitled to be present at the board and are reviewed periodically to the Chief Executives Committee and its committee meetings.
Others may attend, ensure that they comply with the latest legal sub-committees is shown above.
Executive directors are and regulatory requirements and reflect The board ensures that its committees not members of the board committees.
Following are provided with sufficient resources to When deciding the chairmanship and a recent review, the terms of reference of undertake their duties, including access to membership of board committees, the board each committee have been updated.
The the services of the Company Secretary as takes into account the value of ensuring that updated terms of reference can be found required.
Each committee has the authority committee membership is refreshed and in the Investor Relations Corporate to seek any information that it requires from seeks to ensure that undue reliance is not Governance section of our website.
any officer or employee of the company or placed on particular individuals.
Each committee is also authorised by the board to take independent Board Attendance advice including legal or other professional The attendance of members at board meetings in the year ended 31st March 2014 was as follows: advice, at the companys expense, as it Eligible to attend Attended considers necessary.
Each committee may request information from, or commission Tim Stevenson 66 investigations by, external advisers.
The Neil Carson 66 committees formally report to the board on Odile Desforges 55 their proceedings after each meeting and Alan Ferguson 66 generally on all matters and activities for Robert MacLeod 66 which they are responsible through the 1 Colin Matthews 65 committee chairmen and via committee Larry Pentz 66 minutes.
2 Michael Roney 65 Bill Sandford 33 Dorothy Thompson 66 John Walker 44 1 Colin Matthews was unable to attend the board meeting on 24th July 2013 due to a coinciding commitment at Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited where he is Chief Executive.
2 Michael Roney was unable to attend the board meeting on 26th March 2014 due to a coinciding commitment.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
