93 Michael subsequently reported the Our Group Control Manual, which is Risk Management and outcome to the board that Tims leadership distributed to all group operations, clearly Internal Control of the board continued to be effective and, sets out the composition, responsibilities The board is ultimately responsible for in particular, that he had handled key and authority limits of the various board and maintaining sound risk management and succession issues very well.
executive committees and also specifies internal control systems including financial what may be decided without central controls, controls in respect of the financial approval.
It is supplemented by other Accountability reporting process and controls of an specialist policy and procedures manuals The Audit Committee operational and compliance nature.
issued by Johnson Matthey, its divisions and The companys internal control systems The membership and terms of reference of individual businesses or departments.
are on a group wide basis and the review of the Audit Committee are summarised in the their effectiveness including of the Review of Effectiveness of the Groups Audit Committee Report pages 98 to 102, application of the Revised Guidance for Risk Management and Internal Control which describes the work of the Audit Directors on the Combined Code issued by Systems Committee in discharging its responsibilities.
the FRC in October 2005 Revised Turnbull A key responsibility of the board is to Guidance is implemented and reported Financial Experience review, assess and confirm the adequacy from a group wide perspective, covering the The board is satisfied that at least one and effectiveness of the groups risk company and its subsidiaries.
There are no member of the Audit Committee, Alan management and internal control systems material joint ventures or associates which Ferguson, has recent and relevant financial including financial controls, controls in have not been dealt with as part of the experience.
respect of the financial reporting process group for the purposes of applying the and controls of an operational and Revised Turnbull Guidance.
Financial and Business compliance nature.
The board has Our risk management systems and Reporting delegated part of this responsibility to the internal control systems are designed to Audit Committee.
The role and work of the In its reporting to shareholders the board meet the groups needs and to manage the Audit Committee in this regard and the role recognises its responsibility to present a fair, risks to which it is exposed, including the of the groups internal audit function are balanced and understandable assessment risks of failure to achieve business objectives described in the Audit Committee Report of the groups position and prospects.
This and of material misstatement or loss.
pages 98 and 102. responsibility covers the Annual Report and However, such risks cannot be eliminated.
The board, through setting its own Accounts and extends to half year and other Our systems can only provide reasonable, annual agenda plan, defines the review price sensitive public reports and reports to but not absolute, assurance.
They can never process to be undertaken, including the regulators as well as to information required completely protect against such factors as scope and frequency of assurance reports by statutory requirements.
The directors unforeseeable events, human fallibility or received throughout the year.
The board consider this annual report, taken as a whole, fraud.
agenda plan, together with that of the Audit to be fair, balanced and understandable The board confirms that there is a Committee, are designed to ensure that all and provides the information necessary for framework of continuous and ongoing significant areas of risk are reported on and shareholders to assess the companys processes in place established in considered during the course of the year.
performance, business model and strategy.
accordance with the Revised Turnbull In addition to determining risk appetite, the The group reports the results of its five Guidance for identifying, evaluating and board specifically reviews, amongst other divisions: Emission Control Technologies: managing the significant risks faced by the things, risks relating to EHS, technology, Process Technologies: Precious Metal group.
These processes are regularly human resources, legal and compliance Products: Fine Chemicals: and New reviewed by the CEC, the board and the and intellectual property.
The divisions are all separately Audit Committee as appropriate and have The board, in part through the Audit managed but report to the board through a been in place during the year and up to the Committee, has conducted an overarching board director.
The CEC reviews monthly date of approval of this annual report.
review of the effectiveness of the companys summaries of financial results from each The board is responsible for risk management and internal control division through a standardised reporting determining the nature and extent of the systems, covering all material controls, process.
Forecasts are prepared monthly significant risks it is willing to take in including financial, operational and throughout the year and the group has a achieving its strategic objectives.
The compliance controls, and financial reporting comprehensive annual budgeting and boards view of Johnson Mattheys key processes, for the year.
The review process planning process including plans for the strategic and operating risks and how the accords with the Revised Turnbull Guidance.
Budgets are approved company seeks to manage those risks is The group has enhanced and by the board.
Variances from budget are set out on pages 18 to 21. standardised the stock take procedures closely monitored.
In addition to the annual at its gold and silver refineries in order to budgeting process, there is a ten year Risk Management and Internal address certain previously identified strategy review process.
Control Systems weaknesses in internal controls.
The The groups risk management and internal principal control weakness that gave rise control systems comprise group policies, to last years operational issues at our Salt procedures and practices covering a range Lake City refinery has been addressed.
of areas including the appropriate authorisation and approval of transactions, the application of financial reporting standards and the review of financial performance and significant judgments.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
