78 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Sustainability and Governance continued The area of sustainability continues Business Integrity and Ethics and enhance the companys reputation.
to develop rapidly and we continually The training educates managers in their Johnson Matthey strives to maintain the monitor emerging issues, regulation, responsibilities for employees, commercial highest standards of ethical conduct legislation, standards and good practice.
contracts and company assets and is and corporate responsibility worldwide Developments are proactively managed delivered globally via online learning to ensure we act with integrity, through reviewing the external landscape programmes, face to face seminars and transparency and care for the rights of to understand the material issues that individual training.
Online compliance the individual wherever we do business.
may impact the group or present real training for employees addresses the Integrity is one of our core values see business opportunities.
Responsibility bribery and corruption, money laundering page 13 and our ethical principles and for identifying and assessing these issues and competition risks faced by the group.
standards are set out in our Business lies with the group sustainability team All our facilities have established Integrity and Ethics Policy which applies and the CSR Compliance Committee.
policies and procedures for employees to all our employees.
During the year we have continued to to raise employment related issues for develop approaches to further enhance consideration and resolution.
View the policy online at our ability to manage our material A confidential, secure, externally-run www.
issues, including the introduction of whistleblowing website and telephone additional tools.
helpline are also in place to give all The board and its committees, the We constantly monitor employees additional means to raise any Chairman, the Chief Executive and the developments on reporting practices issue of concern.
The website offers other individual directors all play key including those of the International multilingual access and allows for written roles, together with management, in Integrated Reporting Framework and or telephone reports.
The site is promoting and monitoring ethical those within the EU Commission.
We publicised via site notice boards and our behaviour and safeguarding Johnson are also assessing the new Global corporate intranet site.
Reporting Initiative GRI G4 guidance, through the website and helpline as well We provide compliance training which was published on 22nd May as any received through other media, to our employees to support their 2013, in the context of our future such as email, telephone or letter are understanding of, and commitment reporting.
For reporting purposes in appropriately investigated in accordance to, group policies in order to protect 2013 14 we continue to self declare with our policy on whistleblowing.
Responses and outcomes are posted on the website, or are communicated to employees via other internal media, such as site notices or briefings.
For Johnson Matthey as a whole, there was a total of 16 new whistleblowing reports in the calendar year 2013 2012 17 and all but four have been resolved as at the date of approval of this annual report.
At its meeting in January 2014, the CASE STUDY Audit Committee reviewed the groups whistleblowing procedures and the matters raised during 2013 14.
Defining Our Most Material Issues Supply Chain Governance An important part of being a sustainable business is active engagement with our stakeholders, especially on the risks and opportunities that are the Continued interest and scrutiny of our most material, or relevant, to our long term business success.
supply chains is vital to ensure that all Horizon scanning and identification of global megatrends is a key materials, goods or services supplied part of our three-yearly strategic review of our ten year plan.
The CSR to Johnson Matthey are done so in an Compliance Committee assesses emerging issues for materiality and ethical and sustainable manner in line initiates any action as required.
Material issues are continually assessed as with our procurement policy, international part of our risk management and business planning processes.
In 2013 we started to develop a systematic process for materiality assessment that can be integrated with our existing business systems.
The View our supply chain related exercise involves developing approaches for materiality assessment with policies online at our various stakeholder groups.
Using this process will minimise duplication www.
of effort and distractions from minor issues.
Through establishing a more integrated approach for defining material issues means that in the future we will be able to communicate our findings in a clear and simple way to stakeholders about those matters that are of genuine importance to our long term profitability.
Read the full case study at www.
79 CASE STUDY Supply chain and contractor management questionnaires are a A Sustainable and Resilient Supply Chain requirement for achieving and maintaining registration and, as such, Johnson Mattheys Emission Control Technologies ECT Division has ISO registered Johnson Matthey established a Supplier Sustainable Development Programme SSDP to operations require the completion of monitor the sustainability performance of tier 1 strategic suppliers.
For those on environment, health, safety and corporate social responsibility, the operations without ISO registration, programme draws on a number of customer requirements and the United the group EHS management system Nations UN Global Compact.
provides policy and guidance on supply Supplier performance is reviewed against a global supplier manual chain management and contractor through self audit and an on site audit process.
Our philosophy is to partner control.
The latest revision of the with suppliers to improve performance and learn best practice from those ISO 14001 standard will be published with well developed approaches to sustainability.
in 2015 and we will assess the impact When failings are identified, there are clear escalation processes in for our site certifications at that time.
place to ensure resolution of concerns.
If very serious issues are identified, We are responding to regulations ECT will explore alternative sources of the material and potentially suspend enacted in August 2012 by the United the supplier relationship.
States Securities and Exchange The SSDP helps to ensure that ECT actively develops a resilient and Commission SEC requiring certain transparent supply chain which supports uninterrupted business companies to disclose the use of conflict performance.
It is setting an example of how working practices can and minerals, specifically tin, tungsten, should embody sustainability.
tantalum and gold that originate from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Read the full case study at www.
Although we are not currently directly required to comply with the SEC regulations, we are aware that many of our customers are.
As stakeholder interest in Johnson for the activities of our suppliers, right We have conducted a first Matthey continues to grow, we are down the value chain.
As a result, we reasonable country of origin enquiry receiving an increasing number of have further increased our focus in this with all our suppliers of these metals requests for information from a wide area in 2013 14. and their chemical derivatives in order range of stakeholders, particularly in Johnson Matthey must ensure to determine their provenance.
This is relation to sustainability in our supply that it is identifying and addressing any enabling us to address requests from chains, on topics ranging from human supply chain risks through rigorous customers for information relating to the rights issues to carbon footprinting our audit protocols.
Management of supply of these materials.
We are also raw materials.
Yet all point towards a supply chain and contractor activities working to incorporate disclosure on the rising demand from our customers and is a core component of the ISO 9000 origin of these materials into our due investors for us to take more responsibility and ISO 14000 series of standards.
diligence processes for new suppliers.
CASE STUDY Responsible Gold With the emergence of conflict minerals, companies are doing more to safeguard against raw materials procured through complex supply chains being part of any activity involving human rights abuse or terrorism.
The provenance of gold is more difficult to trace than diamonds and the highest level of diligence is required in sourcing gold ethically.
On 16th August 2013 our Brampton, Canada and Salt Lake City, USA, refineries received Responsible Gold accreditation from the London Bullion Market Association.
Continued compliance will be reviewed annually.
The accreditation contributes to the global fight against conflict minerals and the use of gold in money laundering.
Accreditation is not only a way of fulfilling our regulatory requirements but also of protecting our corporate reputation.
As more customers question the origins of the products they purchase, they are looking for reassurance that they are not associated with violent or unethical practices.
Responsible Gold certification does this.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
