88 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The attendance of members at board Michael Roney, our Senior Independent This is balanced with the desire to maintain committee meetings in the year is set out in Director, retires from the board at the close board cohesiveness.
The Nomination the Audit Committee Report, Nomination of the 2014 AGM on 23rd July 2014.
Committee uses external search consultancies Committee Report and Remuneration Report to help with the appointment process and Board Composition in respect of the MDRC on pages 98, 95 appointments are ultimately made on merit Our board seeks to ensure that both it and and 115 respectively.
Where directors are against the agreed selection criteria.
its committees have the appropriate range unable to attend a board or board committee The board recognises the importance and balance of skills, experience, knowledge meeting, they communicate their comments of developing internal talent for board and independence to enable them to carry and observations on the matters to be appointments, as well as recruiting out their duties and responsibilities effectively.
considered in advance of the meeting via externally, and Johnson Matthey has a The board is of the view that it is the right the group Chairman, the Senior Independent variety of mentoring arrangements and a size to meet the business requirements, Director or the relevant board committee wide range of management development that changes to its composition and that chairman for raising as appropriate at the programmes for all employee levels.
It also of its committees can be managed without meeting.
Individuals attendance at board recognises the need to recruit non-executive undue disruption and that it is not so large and board committee meetings is considered, directors with the right technical skills and as to be unwieldy.
It also believes that it as necessary, during the one to one knowledge for its committees and who includes an appropriate combination of meetings conducted by the Chairman with have the potential to take over as executive and non-executive directors and, directors as part of the formal annual review committee chairmen.
in particular, independent non-executive of their performance.
The size and composition of the Succession Planning The Chief Executives Committee board is kept under review by the Nomination The board recognises that effective Committee.
Throughout the year at least Our Chief Executive is assisted in his succession planning is not only a half the board members, excluding the responsibilities by the Chief Executives fundamental component of board Chairman, were non-executive directors Committee CEC.
The CEC is a effectiveness but is also integral to the determined by the board to be independent.
management committee, chaired by the delivery of Johnson Mattheys strategic Chief Executive, which is responsible for the plans.
It is essential in ensuring a continuous How do we Appoint to Our executive management of Johnson Mattheys level of quality in management, in avoiding Board and its Committees?
It makes recommendations to instability by helping mitigate the risks which The board, through the Nomination the board on strategic and operating plans may be associated with any unforeseen Committee, follows a formal, rigorous and and on other matters reserved to the board events, such as the departure of a key transparent procedure to select and appoint where appropriate.
As at the date of approval individual, and in promoting diversity.
The processes are of this annual report, the CEC comprises board, through the Nomination Committee similar for the appointment of executive and ten members: the Chief Executive: the and the MDRC, is actively engaged in of non-executive directors.
The Nomination Group Finance Director: two other executive succession planning to ensure plans are Committee leads the process and makes directors: the division directors who do in place for the orderly and progressive recommendations to the board.
Further not sit on the board: the Group Director, refreshing of the board and to identify and information on the Nomination Committee Corporate and Strategic Development: the develop senior management with potential and its work is set out in the Nomination Group Human Resources Director: and the for board and CEC positions.
Committee Report on pages 95 to 97.
Company Secretary Group Legal Director.
Below board level, there is a structured In considering board composition, the The CEC meets formally every other month approach to succession planning designed Nomination Committee assesses the range and informally as needed on other occasions.
to secure a pipeline of talented and capable and balance of skills, experience, knowledge The CEC met six times during the year.
The individuals from within Johnson Matthey and independence on the board, identifies CEC has a number of sub-committees as who will ultimately progress to board and any gaps or issues and considers any need referred to further on page 87.
Each of our divisions and to refresh the board.
If, after this evaluation, corporate functions prepare and maintain the Nomination Committee feels that it is succession plans, assisted by divisional Effectiveness necessary to appoint a new director, it then and group Human Resources.
The CEC What is the Composition prepares a description of the role and of the rigorously reviews these plans each year.
capabilities required for the appointment and A key aim is to ensure broad experience sets objective selection criteria accordingly.
Board Changes During the Year and encourage cross fertilisation across The benefits of diversity on the board, On 9th October 2013 Bill Sandford retired our divisions.
The identification and including gender diversity, are carefully as an executive director and John Walker development of high potential individuals considered.
was appointed as an executive director is also considered by the CEC.
The CECs The Nomination Committee considers with board level responsibility for ECT.
review of the succession plans generally any proposed recruitment in the context On 1st July 2013 Odile Desforges was leads to further refinement and changes, of the companys strategic priorities, plans appointed as a non-executive director.
As resulting in the final plans which are and objectives, as well as the prevailing announced on 30th January 2014, after a submitted to the MDRC.
Each year the business environment.
It also takes into highly successful decade as Chief Executive MDRC, with input from the Group Human account succession plans in place and this of Johnson Matthey, Neil Carson will retire Resources Director, reviews succession is discussed further under Succession as Chief Executive on 5th June 2014 and policy, the management development and Planning below.
It seeks prospective will be succeeded by Robert MacLeod.
succession planning process and the senior non-executive directors who can make Neil will remain on the board until the end management succession plans.
positive contributions to the board and its of September 2014 to ensure a smooth committees and who have the capability to handover.
Den Jones will succeed Robert challenge on strategic and other matters.
as Group Finance Director on 5th June 2014.
89 Johnson Matthey has in place a range The company has taken, and continues It considers, for example, whether the of ongoing talent management and to take, several steps to promote diversity, director has, or has had within the last three development initiatives designed to further including gender diversity, both at senior years, a material business relationship with develop senior management.
Many of these management level and in the boardroom.
Johnson Matthey, holds cross directorships are well established, but new initiatives are Developing policies and processes that or has significant links with fellow directors developed and introduced which are prevent bias in relation to recruitment and through involvement in other companies or designed to support current strategic promotion form the basis.
However, the bodies, or represents or has a material imperatives.
Key recent initiatives continued key to progress lies in actively promoting connection to a controlling or significant this year are the executive development diversity and ensuring that other positive shareholder or is nominated by a programme with London Business School, measures are taken.
aimed at developing senior level talent and balanced shortlists when recruiting, ensuring The board considers that there are boosting their capabilities around strategy diversity mix in company events and no business or other relationships or and leadership, and a global training conferences, actively discussing diversity in circumstances which are likely to affect, or curriculum to support the groups succession planning and talent management, may appear to affect, the judgment of any Manufacturing Excellence programme.
promoting industrial and scientific careers non-executive director.
Each non-executive Succession planning at board and to women and developing family friendly director is determined by the board to be senior management level for Johnson and flexible employment policies.
There independent in character and judgment.
Matthey encompasses potential succession are challenges to overcome, particularly in There are no cross directorships or to all senior roles including that of Chief respect of gender diversity given the sector reciprocal directorships among the Executive, and considers the identification, in which Johnson Matthey operates, but we directors: no two directors are also directors development and readiness of potential are continuing to make good progress.
During the year, the Information on the companys Board Evaluation Process Nomination Committee considered procedures for authorising potential conflicts Under the Code, evaluation of the board executive director succession to Neil Carson of interest is set out under Directors should consider the balance of skills, which is discussed further in the Nomination Conflicts of Interest on page 91. experience, independence and knowledge Committee Report on page 96. of the company on the board, its diversity, Time Commitment of The board through the Nomination including gender, how the board works Committee and the MDRC will continue to the Chairman and the together as a unit and other factors relevant focus during the coming year in particular Non-Executive Directors to its effectiveness.
Our board followed this on the key issues of mobility across the The board recognises that it is vital that principle in its board and committee group and between Johnson Mattheys all directors should be able to dedicate evaluation process in 2013 14.
Further divisions and businesses, talent management sufficient time to Johnson Matthey to information is set out under Evaluation and diversity.
of the Board, Board Committees and The time commitment required by Johnson Boardroom Diversity Directors on pages 91 and 92.
Matthey is considered by the board and Our board believes that diversity is important by individual directors on appointment.
Appointments to the Board for board effectiveness.
The letters of appointment of the Chairman As described under How do we Appoint and of each non-executive director set out to Our Board and its Committees?
on Diversity Policy the expected minimum time commitment page 88, the search for board candidates Our board has adopted a diversity for their roles.
Each undertake that they is conducted, and appointments made, policy and this is set out in full in the will have sufficient time to meet what is on merit, against objective selection criteria, Sustainability Sustainability Governance expected of them for the proper performance having due regard for the benefits of section of our website.
The board has not of their duties and acknowledge that there diversity on the board, including gender.
set express diversity quotas or measurable may, on occasion, be a need to devote Further information on diversity in the objectives for implementing the policy.
The minimum time context of board appointments is contained However, in making its most recent commitment considered by the board to in the Nomination Committee Report non-executive director appointment, the be necessary for a non-executive director, pages 95 to 97. board required an all women short list for and provided in the letters of appointment, the selection process and appointed Odile is two days per month following induction.
Board Balance Independence Desforges as a non-executive director.
The other significant commitments of of the Non-Executive Directors As at 31st March 2014, and as at the Chairman and of each non-executive and the Chairman the date of approval of this annual report, director are disclosed to the board before The question of the independence of the we had two women on our board which appointment, with an indication of the time non-executive directors is relevant to board represented 20% of our total board involved.
The board requires to be, and is, balance.
The board formally reviews director membership and 33% of our non-executive informed of subsequent changes as they independence annually, most recently at its membership.
Further information on gender arise.
Details of Tim Stevensons other meeting in June 2014.
The board considers diversity across the organisation can be significant commitments are set out on all relevant relationships and circumstances, found on page 56. page 82.
There were no changes to his including those set out in the Code.
significant commitments during the year.
Details of the non-executive directors other significant commitments are set out on pages 82 and 83.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 90 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Larry Pentz, one of our executive Biographies of each of our directors Familiarisation, Training and directors, will take up the role of nonare set out in the 2014 AGM circular.
The Development executive chairman of Victrex plc on circular details why the board believes each Our intention is that all directors have 1st October 2014.
Larry has served as a director should be elected or re-elected familiarity with, and appropriate knowledge non-executive director of Victrex since 2008. based on continued satisfactory of, Johnson Matthey and gain access to Further details are provided in the Nomination performance in the role.
In the circular, the our operations and employees.
The board Committee Report on page 97.
Chairman confirms to shareholders that, ensures that the company provides the following formal performance evaluation, necessary resources to allow this to happen.
Terms of Appointment of the the performance of each non-executive We take various steps to ensure that all of Non-Executive Directors director continues to be effective and that our directors continually refresh their they demonstrate commitment to the role knowledge and skills so that they can Our non-executive directors are appointed including commitment of time for board effectively fulfil their roles on our board and for specified terms subject to annual and board committee meetings.
its committees and so that their election and to the provisions of the contributions remain informed and relevant.
Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act relating Information and Support Each board meeting includes one or to the removal of a director.
more business or strategy presentations The board has processes in place to ensure As referred to on page 97 of the from the division directors and senior that it receives the right information in the Nomination Committee Report, during the managers.
To ensure that the board is kept right form and at the right time to enable it year the terms of appointment of Tim up to date on important matters, including to effectively discharge its duties.
The Stevenson and Alan Ferguson were each environmental, legal, governance and Chairman, through the Company Secretary extended for a further three years after regulatory developments, presentations are and with the support of the executive careful deliberation by the Nomination also made to the board by external and directors and management, ensures that Committee and the board.
In the year, presentations this information is of high quality in terms In accordance with the Code, any were made on, for example, the of its accuracy, clarity, appropriateness, term beyond six years for a non-executive Manufacturing Excellence programme by comprehensiveness and currency.
Directors director is subject to particularly rigorous the Group Operational Excellence Director are able to seek clarification or amplification review and takes into account the need and legal risk and intellectual property IP from management where necessary.
for progressive refreshing of the board.
risk by the Group Legal Director and the Dorothy Thompson, one of our non-executive Group IP Director respectively.
Independent Professional Advice directors who will be proposed for re-election The board also holds at least one at the 2014 AGM, has served on our board Our directors have access to independent board meeting per year at one of the for almost seven years.
Her term of external professional advice such as legal groups operational sites and takes the appointment was reviewed and extended and financial advice at the companys opportunity to tour the site and discuss in 2012 13 as reported in the Nomination expense where they judge this necessary to business issues, risks and strategy with Committee Report last year.
discharge their responsibilities as directors.
Two site meetings were The terms and conditions of held during the year as detailed on page 86. appointment of the non-executive directors Director Induction and Individual non-executive directors also and the contracts of service of the executive Development undertake site visits.
directors can be inspected at our registered Induction These presentations, meetings and office during normal business hours.
They Johnson Matthey puts full, formal and site visits help the non-executive directors will also be available for inspection at tailored induction programmes in place for to familiarise themselves with, and gain a Ironmongers Hall, Shaftesbury Place, all its new board directors.
While directors greater insight into, Johnson Mattheys Barbican, London EC2Y 8AA from 10.00 am backgrounds and experience are taken into businesses and help to give a balanced on 23rd July 2014 until the conclusion of account, the induction is aimed to be a overview of the group.
broad introduction to the groups businesses non-executive directors to continue to and its areas of significant risk.
Key develop and refresh their knowledge and Annual Re-Election of Directors elements are meeting the executive directors understanding of our businesses, the In accordance with the Code, all directors and senior and middle management markets in which we operate and our key retire at each AGM and offer themselves for individually and collectively and visiting the relationships.
They are also important for re-election by shareholders.
Each director groups major sites in order to be briefed on building links with our employees.
stood for re-election or election in the case group strategy and on individual businesses.
As part of the annual performance of the new appointee, Odile Desforges As part of her induction programme during review process referred to under Evaluation at the 2013 AGM.
At the 2014 AGM all the year, Odile Desforges visited key ECT, of the Board, Board Committees and continuing directors will be offering Process Technologies and Precious Metal Directors on page 91, our Chairman, Tim themselves for re-election or election in Products sites in the UK.
She also visited Stevenson, meets with each director the case of John Walker and Den Jones Johnson Mattheys Technology Centre at annually on a one to one basis to discuss as they have been appointed to the board Sonning Common, UK to learn more about any individual training and development since the 2013 AGM.
Tim is also available throughout the year to discuss these areas.
91.. Analytical testing in our Emission Control Technologies Division.
Employees on our graduate orientation training programme.
has complied with these procedures during The Chairman led internal review Indemnification of Directors the year.
Details of any new conflicts or processes in 2011 12 and 2012 13.
For and Insurance potential conflict matters were submitted to 2013 14 the board chose again to conduct Under Deed Polls dated 20th July 2005 the board for consideration and, where an internal evaluation led by the Chairman Johnson Matthey granted indemnities in appropriate, these were approved.
supported by the committee chairmen and favour of each director of the company and In March 2014 the board undertook an the Company Secretary, notwithstanding of its subsidiaries in respect of any liability annual review of the register of previously that the last external evaluation took place that he or she may incur to a third party in approved conflict or potential conflict in 2010 11 following Tim Stevensons relation to the affairs of the company or any matters and, to the extent that these were appointment as Chairman.
These were in force during still relevant, agreed that they should considered this appropriate given important the year for the benefit of all persons who continue to be authorised on the terms changes to the board made in the year were directors of the company or of its previously set out.
In each case, the review and prospective changes to take effect subsidiaries at any time during the year was undertaken by directors who were on 5th June 2014 as referred to above.
and remained in force for the benefit of all genuinely independent of the matter.
A similar review process was followed persons who were directors of the company Authorised conflict or potential conflict to that used in 2011 12 and 2012 13. or of its subsidiaries as at the date of matters will continue to be reviewed by the The review was led by the Chairman in approval of this annual report.
The company board on an annual basis.
collaboration with the board committee has appropriate directors and officers The board confirms that Johnson chairmen and was based on one to one liability insurance cover in place in respect Matthey complies with its procedures in discussions with each director, the of legal action against, amongst others, place to authorise conict situations and is Company Secretary and others.
Discussion its executive and non-executive directors.
satisfied that its powers to authorise conict was prompted by a brief template of topics, Neither the company nor any subsidiary has situations are being exercised properly and followed with open ended questions.
The indemnified any director of the company or effectively and in accordance with its Articles findings of the board review were reported a subsidiary in respect of any liability that he of Association.
by the Chairman in writing to the board or she may incur to a third party in relation meeting in March 2014.
These were to a relevant occupational pension scheme.
Evaluation of the Board, Board debated and certain follow up actions and Copies of the Deed Polls and our Committees and Directors responsibilities agreed.
The board also Articles of Association can be inspected at discussed the evaluation process itself and Our board carries out a formal annual our registered office during normal business agreed that internal evaluation had been evaluation of its own performance and that hours.
They will also be available for appropriate and effective.
Key discussion of its committees and individual directors inspection at Ironmongers Hall, Shaftesbury topics in the review included: board with the aim of improving effectiveness.
Place, Barbican, London EC2Y 8AA from composition: diversity, including gender This is led by the Chairman and seeks to 10.00 am on 23rd July 2014 until the diversity: the pattern of board meetings: be as rigorous and objective as possible.
opportunities to meet senior employees: The process considers the boards strengths agenda setting: risk: the quality and nature and weaknesses, its range and balance Directors Conflicts of Interest of board discussions: shareholder of skills, experience, independence and We have established procedures in place in engagement: and succession.
On page 92 knowledge of the company, its diversity, accordance with our Articles of Association is a summary of the key findings and follow including gender diversity, how the to ensure we comply with the directors up actions.
board works together as a unit and any conflicts of interest duties under the 2006 other factors considered to be relevant.
Act and for dealing with situations in which a Individual evaluation aims to show whether director may have a direct or indirect interest each director continues to contribute that conflicts with, or may conflict with, the effectively and to demonstrate commitment interests of the company.
Johnson Matthey to the role including time commitment.
The Chairman acts on the results of the performance evaluation.
Strengths are recognised and any weaknesses addressed.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 92 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Overview The board was felt to be fit for purpose, including in terms of its composition, diversity, agendas, paperwork and the nature and quality of its discussions.
The executive directors felt that the board added value to their ability to run the business effectively in the interests of all stakeholders: and the non-executives that they are listened to and that their input is appreciated.
Board process: Having considered the appropriateness of the number and timing of board meetings six per year, agreed to include in number of board the schedule two or three updating telephone conferences in the longer gaps between board meetings.
meetings Board process: Agreed that using board dinners prior to board meetings particularly where there is a clear agenda to be discussed informal was a good way to enable both informal debate and for the non-executive directors over time to be better informed interaction about softer issues affecting the group.
On occasion, senior employees scheduled to present to the board on particular issues may be invited to attend.
Agenda setting Agreed to assess the regularity of timetabling and discussion of certain agenda items and renew efforts to ensure that at each meeting there is a substantial element of strategy discussed and an appropriate balance with governance items.
Board process: Agreed that the current annual pattern of board meetings works well with one substantial overseas trip which may location of board include a strategy review and one meeting at a UK or accessible European location, with opportunity in each case to meetings meet the local team.
Board Acknowledged that the different styles and backgrounds of colleagues around the board table enabled an appropriate composition: range of input.
Agreed that the mix of executive and non-executive directors was appropriate and that the size of the mix of skills board works well.
Board Recognised the value of both gender and cultural diversity brought to the board through the appointment of Odile composition: Desforges.
While recognising the importance of gender diversity on the board, emphasised the importance too of diversity encouraging able women to develop within the business.
Environment, Recognised generally the importance of having a strong plan for improving the groups culture and performance on health and safety EHS.
Recognised the value and importance in this context of constructive challenge from the non-executive directors.
EHS Succession Considered whether the MDRC was the right place for ensuring there is a robust process for succession planning and planning talent management oversight.
Considered whether a better alternative may be the Nomination Committee, attended for this purpose by the Chief Executive and the Group Human Resources Director.
Agreed that this responsibility should move to the Nomination Committee with effect from 1st September 2014.
Given this change, agreed that the MDRC should be renamed the Remuneration Committee also with effect from 1st September 2014.
Risk management Whilst recognising that there was a continuing need to ensure that the board and the Audit Committee focus on the few key risks that would most affect the overall health of the group, it was generally considered that the business was dealing well with the issue of risk and that the boards discussions reflect this.
Audit Committee Agreed that improvement could be made in the use of risk mapping to ensure the Audit Committee focuses its presentations and reviews on the most important aspects of the business.
MDRC Acknowledged to have been a complex year, with several key issues having been handled satisfactorily, notably the triennial review of remuneration and preparation for the new binding vote on remuneration policy at the AGM.
Committee Future Review In March 2014, the non-executive Review of the Chairmans The boards intention remains to undertake directors, led by Michael, met without Tim Performance an externally facilitated evaluation process Stevenson being present, to discuss Tims The non-executive directors recognise that at least every three years.
Particular focus was given to the Chairmans effectiveness is vital to that years, the review will be led by the Chairman his overall leadership of the board, the of the board.
Led by Michael Roney, the supported by the committee chairmen and setting of tone, the setting of appropriate Senior Independent Director, the nonthe Company Secretary.
The board intends agendas and the effectiveness of executive directors are responsible for to conduct an externally facilitated review communication.
In reviewing Tims performance evaluation of the Chairman in 2014 15. performance, the views of executive and for providing a fair and balanced directors were taken into account.
