95 Nomination Committee Report This has been an important year for our Nomination Committee.
Amongst other matters, we recommended to the board the appointment of a new executive director and nominated a new Senior Independent Director and a new chairman of our Management Development and Remuneration Committee MDRC in view of the prospective retirement of one of our non-executive directors.
Most importantly, we successfully secured succession to the two key roles of Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
Tim Stevenson Chairman of the Nomination Committee Role and Responsibilities Composition Committee Meetings During the Year The principal role of our Nomination Our Committee has six members, being all Committee is to advise the board and make the independent non-executive directors of Our Committee meets on an ad hoc basis, recommendations to the board on the the company, together with me, the group usually immediately prior to or following a appointment and, if necessary, the removal Chairman.
board meeting, but on other occasions as of executive and non-executive directors.
I have chaired the Committee since I may be needed.
Certain changes to our terms of reference became group Chairman in 2011, although We met seven times during the year were approved by the board after the I do not chair the Committee when it is ended 31st March 2014, either face to face end of the year and will take effect from dealing with succession to the chairmanship or by conference call.
The principal change of the company.
A non-executive director may members up to date by means of email is to add to the role of the Committee not chair the Committee when it is dealing communications between meetings.
Several responsibility for considering management with a matter relating to that non-executive members of the Committee, led by me, also development and succession planning director.
met as a working group of the Committee for directors and other senior executives Only members of our Committee have the during the year to progress recruitment to formerly part of the responsibilities of our right to attend meetings.
However, the Chief the roles of Chief Executive and Group MDRC.
Our current terms of reference and Executive and the Group Human Resources Finance Director.
the amended terms can be found in the Director, as well as external advisers and The dates of the meetings and Investor Relations Corporate Governance others, attend for all or part of our meetings attendance at those meetings were as section of our website.
by invitation as and when appropriate.
follows: The Company Secretary is secretary to our Committee.
3rd June 24th July 8th October 10th December 20th December 28th January 25th March 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2014 2014 Tim Stevenson 33 33 333 1 Odile Desforges 33 33 33 Alan Ferguson 33 33 333 2 Colin Matthews 3 33 33 3 Michael Roney 33 33 333 Dorothy Thompson 33 33 333 1 This meeting pre-dates Odile Desforges appointment to the Committee on 1st July 2013.
2 Colin Matthews was unable to attend the meeting on 24th July 2013 due to a coinciding commitment at Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited where he is Chief Executive.
Since the end of the year, the Committee has met once on 3rd June 2014.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 96 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Nomination Committee Report continued 7 Review of Performance and Committee Activities During Succession to the Roles Effectiveness During 2013 14 the Year of Chief Executive and Group Reviewed our Committees performance Finance Director Our Committee has been active in and effectiveness see page 97. addressing several key matters in the course Neil Carson indicated to us during the year of the year, as follows: that he proposed to retire from the company 8 Nomination Committee Report and his role as Chief Executive in the Reviewed and approved the draft 1 Executive Director Succession summer of 2014, subject to arrangements Nomination Committee Report for 2013 14.
Considered executive director succession for succession being in place, at which and recommended to the board the point he would have completed ten years Board Appointments appointment of John Walker as an executive in post and 34 years as an employee of The board, through our Committee, follows director with effect from 9th October 2013, the company.
a formal, rigorous and transparent together with certain changes to executive We first considered whether there were procedure to select and appoint new director responsibilities.
suitable internal candidates for the position.
The processes are similar Having agreed a specification for the role, for the appointment of executive and 2 Chief Executive Succession we appointed leadership assessment and non-executive directors.
We lead the Considered succession to the role of executive search consultants, Russell process and make recommendations for Chief Executive in view of the prospective Reynolds Associates Russell Reynolds to appointments to the board.
retirement of Neil Carson as Chief Executive conduct a full appraisal of all members of In considering board composition we and recommended to the board the the Chief Executives Committee.
This assess the range and balance of skills, appointment of Robert MacLeod as Chief focused on their future potential including, experience, knowledge and independence Executive with effect from 5th June 2014. and as relevant, as possible successors on the board, identify any gaps or issues to the Chief Executive.
This process led 3 Group Finance Director Succession and consider any need to refresh the board.
to one potential internal candidate being Considered consequent succession to the If, after this evaluation, we feel that it is identified: the existing Group Finance role of Group Finance Director and necessary to appoint a new director we then Director, Robert MacLeod.
recommended the appointment of Den prepare a description of the role and of the At our request, Russell Reynolds also Jones as Group Finance Director with effect capabilities required for the appointment prepared a list of external candidates from 5th June 2014. and set objective selection criteria matching the specification, against which accordingly.
The benefits of diversity on the internal candidate could be 4 Extension of Terms of Appointment the board, including gender diversity, are benchmarked.
This exercise led to our of Non-Executive Director and Group carefully considered.
We consider any decision that the internal candidate should Chairman proposed recruitment in the context of the be interviewed by members of the Considered and recommended to the board companys strategic priorities, plans and Committee.
This process completed, we an extension to the terms of appointment of objectives, as well as the prevailing business decided that I should discuss with Robert, Alan Ferguson as a non-executive director, environment.
We also take into account the possibility of him taking on the role.
for a second three year term to 13th January relevant succession plans in place.
Once terms were agreed with Robert 2017.
Also considered and recommended In appointing non-executive directors we made a recommendation to the board an extension to the term of my appointment we seek individuals who can make positive on 28th January 2014 that he be appointed.
as group Chairman to July 2017. contributions to the board and its We also recommended that Neil Carson committees and who have the capability to remain a director and continue as an 5 Non-Executive Director Succession challenge on strategic and other matters.
employee of the company until the end of Considered non-executive director This is balanced with the desire to maintain September 2014 in order to facilitate an succession and succession to the roles of board cohesiveness.
orderly handover to his successor.
The Senior Independent Director and Chairman We use external search consultancies board formally accepted the of the MDRC in view of the prospective to help with the appointment process and recommendations on 29th January 2014. retirement as a non-executive director of appointments are ultimately made on merit Once we had identified Robert as a Michael Roney.
against the agreed selection criteria.
suitable potential candidate for the role of 6 Larry Pentz External Appointment Chief Executive, the next step for us was to Boardroom Diversity Considered a request by an executive consider succession to Robert as Group The search for board candidates is director, Larry Pentz, that he be permitted Finance Director.
Russell Reynolds was conducted, and appointments made, on to assume the non-executive chairmanship tasked with conducting a search against an merit, against objective selection criteria of a FTSE 250 company, Victrex plc, while agreed specification.
This was conducted in having due regard, amongst other things, remaining a full time employee and director the last three months of 2013.
Consideration to the benefits of diversity on the board, of the company.
Following detailed was given to the availability of suitable including gender.
The board adopted a discussions with Larry, internally within the internal candidates for the position, as well policy on diversity in 2013.
This is set out company, and with the outgoing Chairman as to external candidates.
An offer was made in full in the Investor Relations Corporate and Senior Independent Director of Victrex, in January 2014 to an external candidate, Governance section of our website.
it was decided that Larry would be able to Den Jones, subject to terms and timing manage the proposed non-executive being agreed.
We made a recommendation chairmanship role at Victrex without to the board on 28th January 2014 that Den affecting his full time responsibilities as a Jones be appointed, subject to finalisation senior executive and board member of our of terms, and the board accepted the company.
The external appointment was recommendation on 10th February 2014. therefore agreed.
97 We also announced on 28th April 2014 Extensions of the Terms of Our 2013 14 Performance Review that Alan Ferguson, a non-executive director Appointment of Non-Executive During the year I reviewed the Committees and Chairman of the Audit Committee, will Director and Group Chairman performance.
I sought the views by way be appointed to the role of Senior of questionnaire and interview of all The non-executive directors, and me as Independent Director.
Dorothy Thompson, Committee members, as well as others group Chairman, are appointed for specified a non-executive director, will be appointed who regularly attend our meetings.
terms subject to annual election and to the as chair of the MDRC, in each case with Matters covered included the scope of provisions of the Companies Act 2006 effect from the close of our AGM on the agenda and the running of our relating to the removal of a director.
I summarised the responses at term beyond six years for a non-executive Having considered board size and the March 2014 meeting and these were director is subject to particularly rigorous balance, we decided that it was desirable to discussed.
There were no areas where review and takes into account the need for seek a replacement non-executive director significant change or improvement was progressive refreshing of the board.
It was, however, felt that The term of appointment of Alan and identified certain key criteria for the it would further improve effectiveness Ferguson as a non-executive director was proposed appointment, in light of the balance to add to the role of the Committee considered at a meeting of our Committee of skills and experience, knowledge, responsibility for considering management in January 2014.
After careful review, we independence and diversity, including gender, development and succession planning recommended to the board that the term be on the board.
We agreed to engage Russell for directors and other senior executives extended for a second three year term to Reynolds in the search process, which is formerly part of the responsibilities of 13th January 2017.
Our Committee at a continuing as at the date of this report.
meeting in March 2014 at which I was not present for the relevant agenda item and Request by an Executive which was chaired for that item by Michael Director to Assume the Roney also considered carefully and Non-Executive Chairmanship recommended to the board an extension of a FTSE 250 Company to the term of my appointment for a second We considered a request from Larry Pentz three year term as group Chairman to that he be permitted to take on the role of July 2017.
The board accepted the non-executive chairman of Victrex plc recommendations at its meetings in January where he has been a non-executive director and March 2014 respectively and the terms for the last six years with effect from of appointment were duly extended.
1st October 2014 whilst remaining a full time employee and executive director of the Non-Executive Director company.
We concluded that this should Succession be agreed following discussions with the We considered non-executive director outgoing Chairman and Senior Independent succession in view of an indication from Director of Victrex concerning assessment Michael Roney that he would wish to step of the time demand on Larry at Victrex, and down from the board during the year due discussions within our company concerning to a desire to take on a new non-executive the importance of Larrys contribution to our commitment.
We announced on 28th April business at a time of significant management 2014 that Michael will be retiring from change at senior levels and his own the board with effect from the close of commitment to his important executive our annual general meeting AGM on role within our company.
Recognising the 23rd July 2014 after seven years as one benefits to Larry and to the company of our non-executive directors, including through the further development of his three years as our Senior Independent experience and leadership, the board Director and Chairman of our MDRC.
agreed to Larry taking the role.
We announced this matter on 20th May 2014.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee: Tim Stevenson Chairman of the Nomination Committee Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
