82 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Board of Directors Tim Stevenson, OBE Neil Carson Robert MacLeod Chairman: joined Johnson Matthey as Chief Executive: joined Johnson Group Finance Director: joined Chairman Designate in March 2011: Matthey in 1980: appointed Division Johnson Matthey in 2009.
Previously appointed Chairman in July 2011.
He Director, Catalytic Systems in 1997 he was Group Finance Director of was Chairman of The Morgan Crucible after having held senior management WS Atkins plc and worked in a variety Company plc from December 2006 to positions in the Precious Metals of senior financial roles at Enterprise July 2012 and was Chairman of Travis Division as well as Catalytic Systems Oil plc.
He is currently a non-executive Perkins plc from November 2001 to in both the UK and the US.
Appointed director of Aggreko plc and is a May 2010.
From 1975 to 2000 he to the board as Managing Director, Chartered Accountant.
held a variety of senior management Catalysts & Chemicals in August positions at Burmah Castrol plc, 1999.
Appointed Chief Executive in including Chief Executive from 1998 to July 2004.
He is a qualified barrister and is director of AMEC plc.
He is currently Lord Lieutenant of Oxfordshire.
M, N. joint Chairman of the UKs Chemistry Growth Partnership with Minister Michael Fallon.
Colin Matthews Dorothy Thompson Larry Pentz Appointed a non-executive director Appointed a non-executive director Executive Director: joined Johnson in October 2012.
Currently Chief Matthey in 1984: appointed Division Executive Officer of Heathrow Airport Executive of Drax Group plc.
Joined Director, Process Catalysts and Holdings Limited effective until his the board of Drax Group plc as Chief Technologies in 2001 after having retirement on 30th June 2014.
Prior to joining held a series of senior management was previously Group Chief Executive Drax she was head of the European positions within Johnson Matthey in of Hays Group plc and then Group business of the global power the US.
Appointed Executive Director, Chief Executive of Severn Trent plc.
First starting Process Catalysts and Technologies Earlier in his career he was Managing her career in banking, she has had in August 2003, Executive Director, Director of BA Engineering for British senior management roles in the UK, Emission Control Technologies in Airways plc and then Executive Director Asia and Africa.
A, M, N July 2004 and Executive Director, of Lattice Group plc.
He is a former Environmental Technologies in April non-executive director of Mondi plc.
Currently holds board level A, M, N responsibility for Johnson Mattheys Process Technologies and Fine Chemicals Divisions.
He is also a non-executive director of Victrex plc.
83 Michael Roney Alan Ferguson Odile Desforges Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee: Appointed a non-executive director in July Chairman of the Management appointed a non-executive director 2013.
Currently a non-executive director Development and Remuneration in January 2011.
Currently a of Safran SA, the French aerospace, Committee: appointed a non-executive non-executive director of Croda defence and security group, of Dassault director in June 2007.
Currently International Plc, The Weir Group PLC Systemes and of Sequana, the global Chief Executive of Bunzl plc and a and London Mining Plc where he is paper manufacturer and distributor.
Odile non-executive director of Brown-Forman chairman of their respective audit has had a long and distinguished career Corporation.
Joined Bunzl plc as a committees.
He was previously Chief in the automotive industry, initially with the non-executive director in 2003.
Prior Financial Officer and a Director of French governments Transport Research to becoming Chief Executive of Bunzl, Lonmin Plc.
Prior to joining Lonmin, Institute and then with Renault SA and he was the Chief Executive Officer of he was Group Finance Director of AB Volvo.
She has held a number of senior Goodyear Dunlop Tires Europe BV The BOC Group until late 2006 when executive positions in purchasing and in and had an extensive career with the the Linde Group acquired BOC.
Before product planning, development and Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co holding a joining BOC in 2005, he worked for engineering, including as Chairman and number of senior management positions Inchcape plc for 22 years in a variety Chief Executive Officer of the Renault-Nissan with responsibilities in Latin America, of roles including Group Finance Purchasing Organization RNPO and most Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East Director from 1999 until his departure.
recently as Executive Vice President, and Africa.
A, M, N He is a Chartered Accountant and sits Engineering and Quality at Renault until her on the Business Policy Committee of retirement in July 2012.
She was appointed the Institute of Chartered Accountants a Knight of the French Legion of Honour of Scotland.
A, M, N John Walker Simon Farrant Executive Director, Emission Control Company Secretary: joined Johnson Technologies: joined Johnson Matthey Matthey from corporate legal practice in 1984.
Appointed Company Emission Control Technologies in 2009 Secretary in 1999 and Group Legal after holding a series of senior Director in 2007.
He is a Solicitor management positions within the and Attorney & Counselor-at-Law division in the USA, Asia and Europe.
Appointed Executive Director, Emission Control Technologies in October 2013.
At the date of approval of this annual report, the Board of Directors of Johnson Matthey is as detailed above.
As announced on 30th January 2014, with effect from 5th June 2014 Neil Carson will formally step down as Chief Executive following the announcement of the groups annual results and will remain on the board until his retirement at the end of September 2014.
Robert MacLeod will succeed Neil as Chief Executive.
As announced on 11th February 2014, with effect from 5th June 2014, Den Jones will join the board and replace Robert as Group Finance Director.
Committees of the Board A Audit Committee As announced on 28th April 2014, Michael Roney will retire from the board with effect from the close of the companys Annual General Meeting on 23rd July 2014.
Alan Ferguson will be appointed to the role M Management Development and Remuneration Committee of Senior Independent Director and Dorothy Thompson will be appointed as chair of the Management Development and Remuneration Committee.
N Nomination Committee As announced on 20th May 2014, Larry Pentz will be appointed non-executive Chairman of Victrex plc with effect from 1st October 2014.
Other Information Accounts Governance S Sttrra atte eg giic c R Re ep po orrtt
