85 We have not complied with Code How does Our Board Operate?
6.2, which states that evaluation This section of the annual report describes In order to carry out its work, the board has of the board should be externally facilitated our corporate governance structures and a planned programme of agendas to ensure at least every three years.
For 2013 14 the processes and how they have been applied all necessary matters are covered and to board chose, after careful consideration, to throughout the year ended 31st March 2014 allow sufficient time for debate and conduct an internal evaluation of its own the year.
Our board of directors is challenge, particularly on areas such as performance and that of its committees and responsible to our shareholders for ensuring strategy and risk, including risk appetite.
individual directors, notwithstanding that the the sound running of the company.
This can The board also takes time to review past last external evaluation took place in 2010. only be achieved if supported by decisions where necessary.
At board The internal review was led by the Chairman appropriate and well managed governance meetings, the board receives and considers supported by the committee chairmen and processes.
The key elements which we papers and presentations from management the Company Secretary.
The board believe are essential for this are described on relevant topics.
Effective review and considered this appropriate, given the below and discussed in more detail decision making is supported by providing changes made to the board during the year throughout this section of the report.
the board with high quality, accurate, clear and the prospective changes which will take and timely information including input from effect on 5th June 2014, all of which are The UK Corporate experts and independent advisers where referred to in more detail under Board Governance Code necessary.
The board seeks to work in the Changes During the Year on page 88. best interest of Johnson Matthey and its The UK Corporate Governance Code The board believes that the approach stakeholders.
the Code was published by the Financial taken to evaluation is consistent with the Reporting Council FRC in May 2010 and relevant main principle of the Code B.
6 What is the Division of revised in September 2012, together with which requires the board to undertake a Responsibilities between Our a revised version of its Guidance on Audit formal and rigorous annual evaluation.
Given Chairman and Our Chief Committees.
The Code contains broad the change in board membership, the board Executive?
principles and specific provisions which set considers it appropriate to postpone out standards of good practice in relation to external evaluation until the spring of 2015 There is a clear division of responsibilities leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, when a fresh, objective view on how the between the running of the board and the accountability and relations with new team is settling down and working executive responsibility for the running of shareholders.
This Corporate Governance would be more effective and capable of the business and no single individual has Report is structured so as to report against providing valuable insight.
The boards unfettered powers of decision.
The each of these key areas.
Together with the intention remains to undertake an externally Chairmans and Chief Executives roles are Nomination Committee Report, the Audit facilitated evaluation process at least every separate and the division of responsibilities Committee Report and the Remuneration three years and that in the intervening years between these roles is clearly established Report, it describes how we have complied the review will be led by the Chairman in a written statement which was adopted with the provisions of the Code and applied supported by the committee chairmen and by the board in April 2005.
This is set out its main principles during the year.
in full in the Investor Relations Corporate Governance section of our website.
How have we Complied with the Leadership What is the Role of Provisions of the Code?
What is the Role of Our Board?
Except as referred to below, Johnson Our boards role is to provide leadership of Matthey has complied with all relevant Tim Stevenson, our Chairman, leads the the company and direction for management.
provisions of the Code throughout the year.
He is responsible for ensuring an It is collectively responsible and accountable We have not complied with part of effective board and effective contributions to our shareholders for the long term Code provision E. 1.1, which states that the from individual directors, particularly success of the group and for ensuring the senior independent director should attend non-executive directors, based on a culture group is appropriately managed and sufficient meetings with a range of major of mutual respect, openness, debate and operates responsibly as it pursues its shareholders to listen to their views in order constructive challenge.
The board reviews the to help develop a balanced understanding of he seeks to facilitate and encourage open performance of management and the the issues and concerns of major communication and constructive working operating and financial performance of the shareholders.
The board considers, and has relations between the executive and group as a whole.
It is responsible for done for a number of years, that there are non-executive directors.
He also seeks ensuring that the necessary resources are appropriate mechanisms in place to listen to to ensure that the executive directors are provided for Johnson Matthey to meet its the views of shareholders and communicate responsive to constructive challenge on objectives.
In particular, the board is them to the board without it being necessary their proposals by the non-executive responsible for the key areas of setting for the Senior Independent Director to attend directors.
Tim is in frequent contact with strategy and determining risk appetite, meetings with major shareholders.
He is, our Chief Executive.
They meet in person ensuring good governance, decision making, however, available to attend any such or by telephone at least once a week.
Tim promoting good behaviour and succession.
meetings if requested by shareholders.
also keeps the non-executive directors The board believes that this approach up to date with significant developments is consistent with the relevant main principle between board meetings.
Tim is of the Code on dialogue with shareholders, responsible for ensuring that Johnson to which Code provision E. 1.1 relates, and Matthey maintains effective communications is consistent with good governance and with our shareholders.
the promotion of delivery of the companys objectives.
More information on how we engage with shareholders is set out on page 94.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
