98 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Audit Committee Report Alan Ferguson Chairman of the Audit Committee As Chairman of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present and value adding audit.
We took a number of deeper dive reviews our report for the year ended 31st March 2014.
The Committee in certain areas within the group including the Refining businesses has a clearly defined role in the governance landscape it acts and the groups high performance finance programme which aims independently of management to ensure that the interests of to enhance certain key aspects of our finance function.
We our shareholders are properly protected in relation to financial continued to work closely with our Head of Internal Audit and Risk reporting, audit integrity and the risk management and internal to ensure delivery of a comprehensive internal audit plan which control framework.
addresses the groups key risks and controls.
We further The pressures on audit committees continue to grow and considered our approach to external audit tendering and we set the year under review was a busy one.
We incorporated into our out in this report when we intend to put our audit out to tender.
agenda our new responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, Looking forward to 2014 15, we will keep our agenda under external audit effectiveness and external audit tendering as required review to ensure it addresses the right issues.
We will continue to by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Under external audit monitor, and respond to, the changing regulatory environment, partner rotation requirements and as disclosed in last years annual particularly in relation to external audit quality and tendering.
With report, a new KPMG lead audit partner came on board and we the recent appointment of a new Group Finance Director and a new spent time discussing his proposals to refresh the audit approach Head of Internal Audit and Risk, we will be proactive in helping to in some areas.
We are pleased with the changes he has made and ensure a seamless transition.
Finally we will focus more effort on believe that these will ensure continued delivery of a high quality reviewing the mitigating controls over the groups principal risks.
Our terms of reference, which have 2010, having held the position of Chief Role and Responsibilities recently been updated, can be found in the Financial Officer of Lonmin Plc, I have recent The principal role of our Audit Committee Investor Relations Corporate Governance and relevant financial experience.
All of our is to assist the board in carrying out its section of our website.
Committee members have significant current oversight responsibilities in relation to or recent executive experience in various financial reporting, internal controls and Composition industries.
This range and depth of financial risk management and in maintaining and commercial experience enables us to Our Committee currently comprises five an appropriate relationship with our deal effectively with the matters we are members, being all the independent nonexternal auditor.
required to address and to challenge executive directors of the company.
Being a The Company Secretary is secretary Chartered Accountant and, until the end of to our Committee.
Committee Meetings During the Year Our Committee met five times during the year ended 31st March 2014.
The dates of the meetings and attendance at those meetings were as follows: 3rd June 24th July 18th November 28th January 25th March 2013 2013 2013 2014 2014 Alan Ferguson 33 33 3 1 Odile Desforges 33 33 2 Colin Matthews 3 33 3 Michael Roney 33 33 3 Dorothy Thompson 33 33 3 1 This meeting pre-dates Odile Desforges appointment to the Committee on 1st July 2013.
2 Colin Matthews was unable to attend the meeting on 24th July 2013 due to a coinciding commitment at Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited where he is Chief Executive.
Since the end of the year, the Committee has met once and all members attended.
The group Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and Risk, the KPMG lead audit partner, other representatives from KPMG and other senior management attend our meetings by invitation.
The reports summarised Reviewed corrective actions being taken Committee Activities the results of this exercise and we by management to address the During the Year received a summary on the follow operational issues at our Salt Lake City We believe that we fully discharged our up activities being undertaken by refinery which had been identified in responsibilities during the year as set out in management to address identified 2012 13.
Early in the year, this took the our terms of reference.
form of a detailed management report responsibilities we undertook the following: on the actions underway, the progress of Internal audits.
The reports those actions and a description of further summarised the audits undertaken 1 Monitoring the Integrity of Reported improvements which were yet to be during the particular period under Financial Information and Reviewing implemented.
We also considered review, the key findings of those Significant Financial Issues and recommendations put forward by KPMG audits, the number and nature of Judgments to address the issues and sought an recommendations to address the Reviewed the groups full year results, explanation from management on the findings and the progress made by half-yearly results and interim extent to which these recommendations management on implementing the management statements, and were being implemented.
Progress against considered the significant accounting year, the Division Director and Divisional the agreed internal audit plan was policies and principal estimates and Finance Director of Precious Metal monitored and any deviations to the accounting judgments used in their Products attended one of our meetings plan were agreed.
More information on how we to discuss refining risk management.
certain enhancements to the reporting considered management estimates and They provided a further update on the format to give us greater visibility on judgments can be found below under corrective actions at Salt Lake City and outstanding management actions and Significant Issues Considered by the described the longer term plans to on the financial materiality of each Committee in Relation to the Groups and reduce the overall level of risk in the business being reported on.
We also Companys Accounts on page 100. broader refining business.
approved a new rating system for Reviewed the matters which informed internal audits.
Received and considered a presentation the boards assessment that it was from the Finance and Business Systems appropriate to prepare the accounts Group security reviews.
The reports Improvements Director on the roll out on a going concern basis.
described the progress of reviews of the groups high performance finance undertaken by group security, the Received and considered reports from programme.
findings of these reviews, the KPMG on its audit of the full year results recommended follow up actions and Reviewed reports from the Group and its review of the half-yearly results.
management progress in implementing Treasurer on credit controls and Reviewed management representation these.
Progress against the agreed credit risks.
letters requested by KPMG in respect group security plan was monitored Reviewed reports from the Group Legal of the full year and half-yearly results and any deviations to the plan were Director on litigation and whistleblowing prior to them being signed on behalf agreed.
Group security is a group procedures, including matters raised of the board.
function reporting to the Head of during 2013.
Internal Audit and Risk which Reviewed and assessed the process Discussed implementation of anti-bribery provides additional assurance over by which management gave assurance and corruption policies and procedures.
that our 2014 Annual Report and Approved new terms of reference for Accounts, taken as a whole, was fair, Risk management processes.
The internal audit, reviewed its performance balanced and understandable and reports described the processes and considered reports on resourcing provided the information necessary for followed within the divisions and at and expertise within internal audit and shareholders to assess the companys group level to identify and monitor within group security as well as on performance, business model and risks and to validate that risk mitigation resource allocation.
Confirmed to the board that activities were operational and effective.
we had done so and that the process Considered and approved the internal The Head of Internal Audit and Risk was satisfactory.
audit plan and group security plan attended our meetings during the year for 2014 15. to discuss the above matters.
2 Internal Control, Risk Management Reviewed the risk management and Received and considered a presentation Systems and Internal Audit control statements in the Annual Report from the Group Tax Director on the Received regular reports from the Head and Accounts before they were approved groups principal tax risks and how these of Internal Audit and Risk on: by the board.
In particular, we focused Internal controls.
The reports described on potential risks associated with: the the internal controls self assessment failure to deliver the tax strategy: tax exercise undertaken during the year in reporting and accounting: the which management were required to organisation, resource and expertise of certify the existence and effectiveness the tax function: and general direct and of controls within their areas of indirect tax compliance, particularly in relation to global duty management.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 100 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Audit Committee Report continued 3 External Auditor Activities Outside of Formal Meetings Our 2013 14 Reviewed KPMGs performance, the The above summarises the activities Performance Review effectiveness of the external audit undertaken by the Committee during its Our review of the Committees performance process and assessed KPMGs objectivity formal meetings.
Outside of these meetings, took the form of a questionnaire circulated and independence.
I have regular one to one sessions with the to all Committee members, as well as to Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Reviewed details of the non-audit others who regularly attend Committee Audit and Risk, other senior management services provided by KPMG and meetings, seeking their views on matters and with KPMG.
These are often before associated fees.
such as the adequacy of the agenda, Committee meetings as this allows me to the efficiency of meetings and on the Reviewed our policy on supply of better understand the issues and to make interaction with internal audit and KPMG.
non-audit services and agreed that no sure adequate time is devoted to the key I reviewed and summarised the responses, changes were needed to the policy.
issues at the subsequent meeting.
which were generally very positive, and Additionally, the Committee meets Approved KPMGs proposed terms presented these for discussion at the at least annually with the Head of Internal of engagement, audit plan and fees March 2014 meeting.
The main area where Audit and Risk and KPMG without for 2013 14. we felt we could improve was in the use management present.
of risk mapping to ensure we focus our Recommended to the board the presentations and reviews on the most reappointment of KPMG.
Significant Issues Considered by important aspects of the business.
the Committee in Relation to the 4 Other Activities Groups and Companys Accounts Reviewed our own performance and Ensuring the integrity of the accounts is effectiveness during 2013 14 see box fundamental to our remit.
In preparing the on the right.
accounts, there are a number of areas Reviewed our terms of reference and requiring the exercise by management of recommended certain changes to the particular judgment or a high degree of board to ensure that they were up to estimation.
Our role is to assess whether date and reflected relevant UK Corporate the judgments and estimates made by Governance Code provisions.
These management are reasonable and appropriate.
changes were approved by the board.
Set out below are what we consider to be the most significant accounting areas which Reviewed and approved the draft required the exercise of judgment or a high Audit Committee Report for 2013 14. degree of estimation during the year, Received reports on, and monitored, together with details of how we addressed key governance and regulatory these.
These are all considered to be developments.
Significant issue considered by the Committee in relation to the accounts How the issue was addressed by the Committee Refining process and stock takes In order to satisfy ourselves on the robustness of the stock take When setting process loss provisions, key judgments are made results and the adequacy of process loss provisions, we reviewed in estimating the amount of precious metal that may be lost during the results from each refinerys stock take together with the refining and fabrication processes.
In addition, refining stock management commentary on whether these results were in line with takes involve key judgments in estimating volumes of precious expectations and historic trends.
We also reviewed the results as a metal bearing material in the refining system and the subsequent percentage of throughput.
Management explanations for any sampling and assaying to assess the precious metal content unusual results or one-off items were considered.
We considered whether the accounting treatment for refining stock take gains and losses was in accordance with agreed methodology which we reviewed during the year.
We received a report from KPMG on its findings in these areas.
As noted earlier in this report, we also monitored the progress of the corrective actions being undertaken in the gold and silver refining business to address the causes of the operational issues at our Salt Lake City refinery.
These actions included enhancing and standardising stock take procedures and internal controls across the groups refineries.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles We reviewed a report from management which explained the Key judgments are made in relation to the assumptions used in methodology used and the rationale for the assumptions made calculating discounted cash flow projections to value the cash including explanations for any significant changes from those used generating units CGUs containing goodwill and to value other in prior years.
The impairment reviews were also an area of focus intangible assets not yet being amortised.
The key assumptions are for KPMG which reported its findings to us.
managements estimates of budgets and plans for how the relevant businesses will develop, as well as discount rates and long term average growth rates for each CGU notes 16 and 39 on pages 155, 156 and 174 respectively.
101 Significant issue considered by the Committee in relation to the accounts How the issue was addressed by the Committee Taxation We reviewed explanatory papers from management which included Key judgments are made in arriving at managements best estimate a review of the appropriateness of the tax provisions.
As noted of the tax charge included in the accounts where the precise impact earlier in this report, the Group Tax Director attended a Committee of tax laws and regulations is unclear note 39 on page 174. meeting to discuss the main determinants of the tax charge as well as tax strategy and tax risks including in relation to indirect tax more broadly.
KPMG also reported its findings in this area to us and we reviewed these findings.
Post-employment benefits We reviewed the report from management summarising actuarial Key judgments are made in relation to the assumptions used when valuations and key assumptions for the main post-employment valuing post-employment benefits obligations note 14 on pages benefit plans.
We compared these assumptions with those made 147 to 154. by other companies and those used last year.
We also considered the opinions expressed by KPMG in this area.
Having carried out the above activities, the Group Finance Director, services likely Matthey from the external audit process, we concluded that the judgments and to cost more than 25,000 but 100,000 we wanted the incoming lead audit partner, estimates made by management were or less should be approved by myself as Stephen Oxley, to get a good insight into reasonable and appropriate.
Chairman and services likely to cost over current perceptions of KPMGs performance 100,000 must be approved by the and more broadly on the Johnson Matthey External Auditor Committee.
The policy also sets out the The review was undertaken by an How we Safeguard External Auditor circumstances in which a former employee independent consultant and 13 key Objectivity and Independence of KPMG can be employed by Johnson stakeholders within the company, including Safeguarding the objectivity and Matthey and the procedure for obtaining myself, the group Chairman, members of independence of the external auditor is approval for such employment.
the board, division directors and functional essential in ensuring the integrity of the During the year, I approved the heads, were interviewed.
The outcome of audited accounts.
engagement of KPMG to provide advice this review was presented by KPMG to us on various matters.
There were no items and we discussed the findings.
Provision of Non-Audit Services requiring Committee approval.
The overall conclusion of the review A key threat to the external auditors Non-audit fees in the year were was that the fundamentals of the audit, the objectivity and independence relates to the 0.3 million compared to audit fees of team and the approach worked well and did extent to which it is engaged to provide 2.0 million.
More information on fees not require major overhaul.
However, there services which are in addition to, and incurred by KPMG for non-audit services, were some areas where opportunities outside the scope of, the external audit.
as well as on the split between KPMGs existed for improvement and change.
We We have a policy in place which acts audit and non-audit fees, can be found in considered these and discussed with the as a safeguard against the possibility that note 5 on the accounts.
new lead audit partner how he intended to KPMGs objectivity and independence finesse the audit approach to address these could be compromised.
Each year we KPMGs Compliance with opportunities.
The lead audit partner set out review compliance against this policy as Relevant Ethical Standards his proposed audit plan for 2013 14, which well as whether the policy continues to be During the year we reviewed the procedures we subsequently approved, with emphasis appropriate.
The policy can be summarised followed by KPMG to safeguard its on those areas he intended to modify or as follows: objectivity and independence and we build upon in order to deliver an insightful, Audit related services KPMG can be received confirmation from KPMG that it effective and efficient audit.
invited to provide services which, in its was compliant with APB Ethical Standards position as auditor, it must or is best in relation to the audit engagement.
Financial Reporting Council FRC placed to undertake.
This includes Audit Quality Inspection Report formalities relating to borrowings, Assessing the Effectiveness of the As part of our assessment of audit quality shareholder and other circulars, various External Audit Process and the effectiveness of the audit process other regulatory reports and work in we reviewed the FRCs Audit Quality Internal Questionnaire respect of acquisitions and disposals.
We Towards the end of this years external audit noted and discussed the FRCs findings.
Tax compliance and advice KPMG process, a questionnaire was circulated to the may provide such services where it is executive directors and senior management Individual Meetings with KPMG best suited, otherwise the work must seeking their views on the quality of the Outside of formal Committee meetings be put out to tender.
external audit service provided by KPMG.
I meet on a one to one basis with the We reviewed and discussed a summary of Other services these may not be lead audit partner and other members of the responses at the June 2014 meeting.
provided where precluded by ethical KPMGs audit team to discuss not only standards or where it is believed the agenda items for forthcoming Committee Third Party Auditor Assessment objectivity and independence of KPMG meetings but also any other matter which Also during the year, we agreed with KPMG would be compromised.
either party feels is relevant.
The Committee that it should instigate an external also meets with the lead audit partner Should non-audit services be provided in effectiveness review.
The timing of this without management being present.
These accordance with the above, the policy sets review coincided with the change in lead meetings provide a useful forum for open out how approval should be obtained prior audit partner.
As well as enhancing our own discussion of the issues connected with to KPMG being engaged.
Services likely to understanding of KPMGs performance and the external audit.
cost 25,000 or less should be approved by the value being obtained by Johnson Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 102 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Audit Committee Report continued Reappointment of KPMG Under recently approved EU audit Audits performed by internal audit Following the above and having determined reform rules which are expected to be focus on key business processes, key that KPMG continued to provide a sound implemented in 2016, the mandatory controls and group wide themed audits.
and satisfactory audit, the Committee rotation of audit firms after ten years is Activities undertaken as part of the audits recommended to the board the required, extendable to 20 years with a include identifying key risks involved in reappointment of KPMG for the year tender at the end of the initial ten year processes, identifying and evaluating the 2014 15.
Under the transitional provisions set key controls in place to mitigate these risks, reappointment of KPMG is included in the out in the rules, KPMGs last possible audit testing the effectiveness and efficiency of annual general meeting notice.
of the Johnson Matthey group would be for these controls and evaluating the results.
Each location is given an audit rating and, External Audit Tendering if necessary, recommendations as to We conducted our last full tendering Our View on External Audit Tendering corrective actions are issued.
KPMG and its Whilst we recognise there is some recommendations are graded depending predecessor entities has been our external uncertainty around the timing of the above on the severity and potential impact of the auditor since 1986.
We have undertaken a proposed changes, it looks likely that we will weakness or deficiency.
Internal audit review of KPMGs performance every year be required to put our external audit out to closely tracks management progress in since its appointment.
As noted above and tender, and change our external auditor, by implementing these recommendations.
in last years annual report, our lead audit 2020.
Notwithstanding this, it remains our Internal audit plays a key role in our risk partner was newly appointed in 2013 14. intention to put the external audit out to assessment, management and reporting He has spent a great deal of time getting tender before then, at some point during the processes.
It supports, and challenges, to understand Johnson Matthey and has current lead audit partners five year tenure, management in the identification, instigated some changes to the way in at a time which is right for Johnson Matthey.
prioritisation and mitigation of the risks which the audit is conducted.
We do not propose to carry out an external facing Johnson Matthey.
As disclosed in last years annual audit tender during 2014 15.
As noted It also manages the group wide report, in the light of changes to the UK above, the lead audit partners term will internal controls self assessment process.
Corporate Governance Code relating to expire on 31st March 2018 and so the latest It analyses the results of this process, audit tendering and the publication of the time the external audit will be put out to identifies any areas where controls need FRC transitional guidance, we considered tender is during 2017 so that the process to be strengthened and works with whether to put the external audit out to is completed by 1st April 2018. management to address any identified gaps.
We decided against this As a Committee, we pay close Internal Audit as we continued to be satisfied with attention to the resourcing of internal audit KPMGs performance and we recognised and receive regular reports on staffing levels An effective control environment is an the potential benefits of a new lead audit and the geographical spread, skills and integral part of Johnson Mattheys culture.
We also wanted expertise of the function.
Internal audit The role played by internal audit here is of to see how the regulatory environment in engages external specialist providers to critical importance as it helps to ensure that relation to audit tendering evolved, support certain audits, including IT audits, the groups entrepreneurial culture is allowed particularly the Competition Commission and we are kept fully appraised of the to thrive within a framework of sound risk investigation into the supply of statutory performance of these external providers.
management with the right controls in place.
audit services to large companies in the UK Each year we assess the performance Internal audit independently reviews and developments at EU level.
Following our assessment the risks and control processes operated during the year, we concluded that the by management.
It carries out independent The Regulatory Landscape function continued to be highly effective and audits in accordance with the approved Within the last 12 months, the Competition we recognised the continuing efforts made plan.
Internal audit has developed a risk Commission has completed its investigation, by the Head of Internal Audit and Risk to based approach to auditing.
It has identified published its findings and has set out a refresh the approach to risk assessment and certain key risk consideration factors and package of remedies in response to those management and to deliver an effective and has ranked each location against these findings.
One of its principal proposed targeted internal audit plan.
This ranking is then used to remedies is that FTSE 350 companies must the Head of Internal Audit and Risk will be determine which locations should be put their statutory audit engagement out to moving to a Divisional Finance Director role audited and the type and frequency of audit.
tender at least every ten years.
An order within the group.
I have been actively The risk consideration factors include, for implementing this measure is expected to involved in the recruitment process for a example, size of location by way of revenue come into force later this year.
Under successor and the new appointee will sales and profit, headcount and staff transitional arrangements currently shortly take up her role.
turnover, the complexity of the business, proposed by the Competition Commission, other sources of assurance and recent we would be required to put our external On behalf of the Audit Committee: audit ratings.
audit out to tender within two years of the Our role is to review and approve current lead audit partners rotation period.
In determining the Our lead audit partners rotation period appropriateness of the plan, we consider expires on 31st March 2018 which means a number of factors, including the locations we would be required to tender by which KPMG will be visiting as part of its 31st March 2020. audit, the time lapse since the last internal Alan Ferguson audit and the locations history of control Chairman of the Audit Committee issues.
The plan provides an appropriate degree of financial and geographical coverage.
