Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Report of the Board and Nomination Committee As part of its role, our Board provides both support and Our Board provides leadership constructive challenge to management in the review of to the Group, sets and monitors proposals, in the monitoring of performance and in the implementation of its strategy and, targeting of achievement of the Groups aims, over the both the long and shorter terms.
with its standing Committees, oversees controls, risk management and senior Later in this Governance Report are specific reports from remuneration in the Group.
It aims our Audit and Remuneration Committees.
This report to ensure that the Group has in place summarises the role and activities of our Board and its Nomination Committee.
appropriate people, financial and other resources to enable value to be Membership of the Board maximised for shareholders and other The Board currently has nine members: stakeholders over the long-term.
its Non-Executive Chairman, John Hughes, who was independent on appointment: two Executive Directors, David Buttress Chief Executive Officer and Mike Wroe Chief Financial Officer : three independent Non-Executive Directors, Gwyn Burr, Andrew Griffith and Henri Moissinac, each appointed shortly before or shortly after the Companys IPO: and three non-independent Non-Executive Directors, Frederic Coorevits, Ben Holmes and Michael Risman, each of whom have been nominated by a major shareholder and served since before the Companys IPO.
Further details of our Directors are provided on pages 44 and 45.
The diversity of our Directors provides the Board with a broad range of experience of both the Groups business and of other businesses, including in the publicly listed environment.
This enables high quality, diverse and relevant input into Board discussions, enriching debates and allowing carefully considered judgements to be reached, consensus arrived at, and decisions then taken.
All Directors have a deep interest in helping the Group achieve its long-term objectives.
They all devote sufficient time and attention to their Board duties and responsibilities.
They take collective responsibility for the Boards performance.
A proper balance of influence is maintained without one person or separate group of people having undue powers of decisionmaking.
All the Non-Executive Directors bring strong and valuable judgement to bear on the Boards deliberations and decision-making process.
The Board believes that its current structure and membership is appropriate for this stage in the Groups development and represents a good balance of skills and experience necessary to manage the Company and its business in an effective and successful manner.
46 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Role of the Board Key activities of our Board include the following: Agrees the Groups strategic aims after considering The Board reviews matters of strategic importance at each of recommendations from the Executive Directors.
This is usually done in the context of a presentation on a specific matter of strategic interest by a member of senior management.
In the past year, this has included consideration of improvements to the consumer experience, increasing the choice available to consumers and driving channel shift.
It also includes review and, where considered appropriate, approval of acquisitions and other new business opportunities.
As part of Board discussions of strategic proposals Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge matters when they feel appropriate as part of reaching an overall consensus.
In addition, the Board reviews and seeks to identify risks at a strategic level.
Aims to ensure that the Group has the necessary This includes regular reviews of the financial performance financial strength and human resources in place and requirements of the Group.
It also includes regular to pursue the agreed strategy.
updates from the CEO on plans for the ongoing development of the management team in the context of the growth of the Group.
Reviews Group performance against the agreed As well as financial performance, the Board reviews the strategy and considers any variations that may operational development of the Group and its markets to become appropriate to this strategy.
ensure its strategy remains appropriate and to consider and decide upon any adjustments that may improve this.
Where appropriate, works with the operating As well as regularly reviewing presentations at Board management to assist in the achievement of meetings, Directors have open and constructive relationships the strategy.
with members of senior management who can draw on their wide business experience.
Sets the tone as well as overseeing implementation The Board leads the Group in a way that is intended to of the Groups values and standards.
maximise business integrity and allow its people and other stakeholders to operate in a transparent and ethical way as an important part of ensuring the long-term success of the Group.
com 47 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Report of the Board and Nomination Committee continued Board and Committee meetings The Board meets at regular intervals through the year both at Attendance at Meetings scheduled meetings and other meetings as required.
At these The numbers of and attendance of current Board and meetings, it reviews: Committee members at meetings and calls during the period Progress against previously agreed actions: after IPO is shown below: Business Performance: Audit Remuneration Nomination Total meetings Board Committee Committee Committee in period 9 meetings 5 meetings 2 meetings 1 meeting Shareholder communications and feedback: The Groups industry and M&A activity: 1 1 John Hughes 9 9 1 1 Operational matters of particular note for the Board: David 9 9 Strategic considerations: and Buttress Reports of proceedings of Board Committees.
Mike Wroe 9 9 5 5 Further details of the meetings of the Board and of our Directors attendance at these are given in the adjoining table.
Where a 1 Gywn Burr 7 9 3 5 2 2 0 1 Director is unable to attend a particular meeting, full documentation for the meeting is issued to them, their views 3 Frederic 9 9 4 4 sought in advance and briefings are provided subsequent to the Coorevits meeting as appropriate.
1 Andrew 7 9 5 5 2 2 1 1 Members of management in addition to the Executive Directors Griffith may be invited to present relevant matters to the Board where considered appropriate.
Executive Directors and members of Benjamin 9 9 management may also attend and present on relevant matters at Committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairmen.
Holmes Directors have the right to request that any concerns they may Henri 5 5 4 4 1 1 1 1 2 have are recorded in the appropriate Board or Committee Moissinac minutes although no such requests were made during the period.
Minutes are circulated for comment by all Directors Michael 8 9 before being formally approved at the next relevant meeting.
Risman Support to Directors Laurel Bowden also served as a Board member until the end of September 2014, until The Directors have free access to the Companys management which time she attended all Board meetings.
and advisors and to visit the Companys operations.
When new 2 Appointed to the Board and Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees in Directors are appointed, they receive a comprehensive induction August 2014.
3 Served as a member of the Audit Committee until October 2014 to assist with the facilitated by the Company Secretary.
This induction includes transition to its new membership.
meetings with key members of management together with briefings on the Groups business, its industry and public company duties generally.
Directors have access to ongoing training as required.
All Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to each of the Board Committees reporting in these roles directly to their Chairmen, and advises through their Chairmen on compliance with Board and Committee procedures and applicable laws and regulations on governance matters.
Directors are able to take external advice at the expense of the Company, should they feel this is necessary.
48 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Division of Responsibilities Whilst the Directors take collective responsibility for the management of the Group, the effective operation of the Board in conjunction with management benefits from a clarity of responsibilities.
Key elements of this are set out below: Matters reserved to the Board the Board structure, composition and succession planning, The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters which are handled in more detail by the Nomination specifically reserved for its or its Committees decision Committee: which include: Executive remuneration policy and the remuneration of the the Groups strategy, which is reviewed by the Board and Chairman, which are handled by the Remuneration management when appropriate during the year: Committee: and the business plan and annual operating budget: the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
internal controls and risk management, which are reviewed Subject to such reserved matters, and any other matters which regularly by the Audit Committee: the Board determines are appropriate for its specific decision as major investments and capital projects, in which the Board they arise, authority for the operation of the Group is delegated monitors their subsequent performance: to Executive and other management within a system of defined accounting policies, which are reviewed in detail by the authority limits.
The matters reserved for the Boards decision Audit Committee: are reviewed periodically and updated as considered appropriate.
shareholder communications, such as announcements of results, this annual report and the accompanying notice of AGM to shareholders: The Chairman, CEO and SID 2.
The CEO, together with the CFO, has been delegated Another important aspect of the division of responsibilities in appropriate responsibilities and authorities for the effective any listed company is between the roles of Chairman and the leadership of the senior management team in the day-to-day CEO.
In JUST EAT, these roles are separate and distinct with running of the business, for carrying out the agreed strategy a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company and for implementing specific Board decisions relating to the established, agreed and set out in writing at the time of Groups operations.
the IPO: In addition, Andrew Griffith, as Senior Independent Director, is 1.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for managing the available to fellow non-executive directors, either individually or Board, facilitating the effective contribution of all Directors, collectively, should they wish to discuss matters of concern in and ensuring effective communication with shareholders, an alternative forum.
and that all Board members are aware of the views of major investors.
Standing Board Committees be reviewed periodically.
The current terms of reference for the In addition, certain matters have been delegated to three Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available principal Board Committees within clearly defined terms of on the Companys website at www.
reference which were approved at the time of the IPO.
These Summaries of the roles of each of these Committees are remits, together with the composition of each Committee, will included later in this Corporate Governance Review.
com 49 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Report of the Board and Nomination Committee continued Nomination Committee Performance reviews and Directors development The Nomination Committee comprises John Hughes, its An evaluation of the performance of the Board, its individual Chairman, who was considered independent on appointment, Directors and its Committees, and of the Chairman, will be and our three independent Non-Executive Directors.
The undertaken following the first full year after the Companys IPO.
Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, This will be reported on further in next years Annual Report.
knowledge and experience of the Directors.
It also reviews Part of the evaluation of the Board will assess the training the composition and structure of the Board and makes activities and needs of Directors.
Directors receive regular recommendations to the Board on retirements and appointments briefings on matters in relation to the Group and more generally.
of additional and replacement Directors, including succession planning.
The appointment of our current independent NonDuring the period the Chairman held both formal and informal Executive Directors followed a formal, rigorous and transparent discussions with the Non-Executive Directors without the recruitment process with the assistance of The Zygos Executive Directors being present.
Partnership, a leading external recruitment firm with no other connection with the Company, after assessing the skills and Shareholder relations character profile that would be required.
This included The Board is committed to maintaining good communications candidates meeting ongoing Directors prior to their with existing and potential shareholders based on the mutual recommendation for appointment by the Board.
A comprehensive investor relations programme underpins this commitment.
The Chairman, Chief One of the key considerations on any appointment to the Board Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have regular relates to diversity.
Gender and international experience are dialogue with institutional shareholders in order to develop an two important aspects of diversity.
In this context, the Board understanding of their views which is communicated back to, and was particularly pleased to welcome its three new independent discussed with, the Board.
Directors since among them both genders and broad international experience are represented.
The Board policy Presentations given to analysts and investors covering the is to continue to seek diversity, including with regard to gender, annual and interim results, along with all results and other as part of the overall selection of the best candidate for regulatory announcements and further information for Non-Executive Director roles.
Any appointments to Executive investors are included on the Companys website at Director roles will also be made within the Groups aims set out www.
Additional Shareholder in our CSR Report on page 40.
Information is also set out on pages 150 and 153.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, all our Directors Shareholders are able to contact the Company through the will retire at each AGM and, if decided appropriate by the Board, Company Secretary or Head of Investor Relations.
may be proposed for reappointment.
In reaching its decision the Board acts on the advice of the Nominations Committee.
Andrew Griffith, the Senior Independent Director, serves as Following evaluation of the performance, the Chairman confirms an additional point of contact for shareholders should they that the performance of each of the Non-Executive Directors feel that any concerns are not being addressed properly continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to through the normal channels.
He may be contacted through their role.
The Board considers that they each provide distinct the Company Secretary.
and valuable input to the overall operation of the Board.
The Committee has already started discussions regarding the expected ongoing evolution of the Board and has considered matters in relation to the senior management team.
50 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Annual General Meetings All shareholders are encouraged to attend, and have the opportunity to ask questions at, the Companys Annual General Meetings and at any other times by contacting the Company.
As well as the Chairman, CEO and CFO, the Chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions relating to the responsibilities of those Committees.
All Directors will retire at every AGM and, where considered appropriate by the Board, be proposed for reappointment by shareholders.
The Notice convening the 2015 AGM to be held on 13 May 2015 will be issued along with this Annual Report at least 20 working days in advance of the meeting to provide shareholders with the appropriate time to consider matters.
Separate resolutions will be proposed on each substantially separate matter.
The results of the proxy votes on each resolution will be collated independently by the Companys registrars and will be published on the Companys website after the meeting.
On behalf of the Board John Hughes, CBE Chairman 16 March 2015 www.
