GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Board has four principal committees to deal with specific GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK aspects of the Groups affairs.
The chairs of the respective committees provide detailed reports to the Board on the matters discussed at the committee meetings, thereby ensuring This section has been prepared in accordance with the UK that all Directors have visibility of and the opportunity to discuss Corporate Governance Code dated September 2012 the such matters.
Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC which is available to view at www.
The Code applies Directors are required to demonstrate honesty and integrity, to the Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the year a willingness to question, challenge and critique and a desire to ended 31 December 2014. understand and commit to the highest standards of governance.
Each Director must ensure that no decision or action is taken that Code compliance places his interests before the interests of the business and each During the year, the Company complied fully with the provisions Director commits to the collective decision-making process of the of the Code.
The Chairman promotes a culture of open and constructive Leadership debate and individual Directors are encouraged to question or The role of the Board challenge the opinions of others.
The Board is accountable for managing the Company on behalf Division of responsibilities of its shareholders and each Director acts in a way which promotes The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibilities between the long-term success of the Company for the benefit of the the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The roles of the Chairman, shareholders as a whole.
The Board ensures that an appropriate Chief Executive and other Directors are clearly defined so that no balance between promoting long-term growth and delivering single individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
Roles and responsibilities The Board is primarily responsible for: determining strategic Chairman Simon Heale direction and demonstrating leadership: focusing on matters In addition to being a Board member accountable to the Company, that consistently add value for shareholders of the Company, the shareholders and other stakeholders, the key roles and both present and future: the governance and stewardship of the responsibilities of the Chairman include: Group to provide protection and security for the shareholders assets: the management of the Groups employees: setting the promoting the interests of the Company with special regard Groups standards and values, and ensuring that its obligations to to Group planning and development to secure the Groups shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met: and future success: determining the nature and extent of the significant risks the ensuring the effective operation of the Board and its committees Group is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
Another in conformity with the highest standards of corporate governance: key responsibility of the Board is to ensure that management providing leadership to the Board, setting its agenda, style and maintains a system of internal control that provides assurance of tone of meeting discussions to promote open and constructive effective and efficient operations, internal financial controls and debate and effective decision-making, as well as ensuring that compliance with laws and regulations.
adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items and The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for taking account of all views of the Directors: its decision which is reviewed regularly.
A summary of the matters reserved for the Board is set out below.
These are matters that are significant to the Group as a whole because of their strategic, financial and reputational implications or consequences.
MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD Key matters reserved for the Board include the approval of: the authorisation of Directors conflicts or potential conflicts of interest: the Groups strategy, inclusive of short and medium-term plans: the annual performance evaluation of the Board, its major acquisitions, mergers and disposals: committees and individual Directors: major Group financing: the annual report and accounts and half-yearly reports: major capital investments and projects: all circulars, reports, prospectuses or other related documents the annual production and financial budget: for shareholders: the Groups risk management strategy and insurance: the principal regulatory filings with stock exchanges: and health, safety, environmental and ethical policies: the rules and procedures for dealing in the Companys shares: the Companys dividend policy: and the appointment and removal of any Directors or the the appointment or removal of the Companys external Company Secretary of the Company: auditor and main financial, legal and technical advisers.
72 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GOVERNANCE REPORT ensuring that shareholders and the Board receive accurate, recommending to the Board an annual budget and timely and clear information on all important matters, medium-term financial and production plan: and including Director remuneration, corporate governance ensuring the flow of information to the Board is accurate, and strategic issues: timely and clear.
chairing the Nomination Committee and assembling an effective, Senior Independent Director Michael Lynch-Bell complementary Board by initiating change and succession In addition to being a Board member responsible to the planning of Board and Committee members: Company, shareholders and other stakeholders, the key roles ensuring comprehensive induction programmes for new and responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director include: Directors and the needs of all Directors are identified and met: acting as a point of contact for shareholders and other stakeholders ensuring the performance of the Board, its committees and to discuss matters of concern which would not be appropriate individual Directors is formally evaluated annually, with an through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman, externally facilitated evaluation performed every three years: Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
No such matters of promoting effective and constructive relationships and concern were raised by shareholders during the year ended communications between non-executive Directors and 31 December 2014: executive Directors and senior management, and holding acting as a sounding board for the Chairman and serving meetings with the non-executive Directors without the as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary: executive Directors being present: meeting with the non-executive Directors without the ensuring effective communication with shareholders Chairman being present at least annually and leading the and that their views are understood by the Board: and Board in the ongoing monitoring and annual performance maintaining an effective working relationship with the evaluation of the Chairman: Chief Executive.
monitoring the training and development requirements of Chief Executive Oleg Novachuk Directors: and In addition to being a Board member accountable to the availability to meet with a range of major shareholders when Company, shareholders and other stakeholders, the key roles requested, to develop a balanced understanding of their issues and responsibilities of the Chief Executive include: and concerns and reporting the outcome of such meetings at subsequent Board meetings.
ensuring the creation and maintenance of a safe working environment and a safety-focused culture within the Non-executive Directors Groups operations: The non-executive Directors provide a strong independent ensuring the Groups operations comply with all relevant health element to the Board and a solid foundation for good corporate and safety standards, and activities are undertaken with special governance.
Although all Directors are equally accountable under regard for environmental and social concerns in the countries the law for the stewardship of the Companys affairs, the nonin which the Group operates: executive Directors fulfil a vital role in corporate accountability.
leading the management team in the day-to-day running They have responsibility for constructively challenging the of the Groups business, including chairing meetings of the strategies proposed by the executive Directors, scrutinising the Executive Committee: performance of management in achieving agreed goals and developing the Group objectives and strategy having regard objectives, as well as playing a leading role in the functioning to the Groups responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, of the main Board committees.
Between them, the current employees and other stakeholders: non-executive Directors have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, knowledge and independent judgement gained establishing and maintaining an organisational structure that will through experience in a variety of business sectors.
enable the Groups strategy to be implemented effectively: responsibility to the Board for the performance of the business, Effectiveness consistent with agreed plans, strategies and policies: Composition of the Board developing through investment and divestment an appropriate Effective management and good stewardship of the Group are led asset base for the Group to execute its strategy: by the Board.
The Board is currently comprised of the Chairman, developing and promoting effective communication with two executive Directors and six non-executive Directors.
John shareholders and other interested parties: MacKenzie will be joining the Board as an independent nonensuring at all times that the Group conducts its business executive Director on 1 March 2015 although Lord Renwick, in accordance with the legal requirements of the countries who has served on the Board as an independent non-executive in which it operates and the Companys standards, if higher: Director since December 2005, will be stepping down from planning human resourcing to ensure the Company has the the Board at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General capabilities and resources required to achieve its plans: Meeting.
The balance of Directors on the Board ensures that no individual or small group of Directors can dominate the establishing a senior management team which has the decision-making process and that the interests of the minority knowledge, skills, attitude and motivation to achieve the shareholders are protected.
Biographies of all current Directors Groups business objectives both now and in the future: are set out on pages 32 and 33. developing and maintaining an effective framework of internal controls over risk in relation to all business activities: managing the Groups risk profile in line with what is deemed acceptable by the Board: www.
com 73 GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK CONTINUED CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Day-to-day running of the Group Shareholders Ongoing dialogue Appointment Elect the external Chief Executive to seek and provide removal of auditor information Directors Executive Committee Management Team External Auditor Findings and recommendations in relation to financial Board of Directors reporting Remuneration Committee Group Health, Safety and Nomination Committee Audit Committee Environment Committee Board composition Remuneration framework Developing a framework Integrity of financial and succession and individual Director of HSE policies and information and internal packages standards to manage risks controls Projects Assurance Committee Provides assurance on major capital projects Board carries out a review of the independence of its Directors on Board composition an annual basis.
Vladimir Kim is not considered by the Board to be independent due to his significant shareholding in the Company.
Diversity The Group takes account of diversity when recruiting, including Independent non-executive Directors 5 when considering Board appointments.
However, whilst we Executive Directors 2 see significant benefit to our business in having a Board drawn Non-independent non-executive Director 1 from a diverse range of backgrounds, which brings the required Chairman 1 expertise, cultural diversity and different perspectives to Board discussions, we do not believe this is achieved through simple quotas, whether it be gender or otherwise, and will continue to appoint candidates based on merit and relevant experience It is the Companys policy that at least half the Board should be in accordance with the requirements of the Code.
Other than Vladimir Kim, The Board recognises the need to create conditions that foster the Board considers each of its current non-executive Directors talent and encourage all employees to achieve their full career to be independent in character and judgement.
In reaching its potential in the Group.
As part of the Groups overall approach to determination of independence, the Board has concluded that human resource management it encourages employee diversity each provides objective challenge to management, is willing to and aims to ensure that KAZ Minerals future senior leadership team stand up and defend his or her own beliefs and viewpoints in reflects the demographics of the countries in which it operates and order to support the ultimate good of the Company and there the general employee base.
are no business or other relationships likely to affect, or which could appear to affect, the judgement of Lynda Armstrong, Clinton Dines, Michael Lynch-Bell, Lord Renwick or Charles Watson.
The 74 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board consists of Directors with a wide range of skills and Eduard Ogay, Vladimir Kim and Lord Renwick missed one Board business experience drawn from a number of industries, which meeting each due to a conflict in schedules and Michael Lynch-Bell is critical for bringing both the expertise required, and to enable missed one Board meeting due to personal circumstances.
They different perspectives to be brought to Board discussions.
provided any comments to the Chairman or Company Secretary Furthermore, the Board comprises a range of nationalities, on matters to be discussed in advance of the meetings they missed.
which brings cultural diversity as well as different geographical In addition to the six scheduled meetings of the Board during the experiences and viewpoints.
The combination of these year, two further meetings were held, one which focused solely factors means that the Board benefits from a diverse range on a review of the Groups strategy and one which related to the of competencies, perspectives and thoughts, which provides consideration and approval of the terms of the Restructuring.
Despite these meetings being held at short notice, all Directors Commitment received the relevant meeting papers before the meeting and All Directors are expected to attend each Board meeting and attendance levels were high.
each committee meeting for which they are members, save for Development in exceptional circumstances.
To help enable this, scheduled On appointment, all new Directors receive a comprehensive Board and committee meetings are arranged at least a year and structured induction, tailored to their individual requirements.
in advance to allow Directors to manage other commitments.
The induction programme, which is arranged by the Company All Directors are provided with the papers for consideration Secretary, includes visits to the Groups businesses and meetings and other relevant information around seven days in advance of with senior managers and advisers, as appropriate.
Regular agenda items this year included: reports is designed to facilitate their understanding of the Group, the key on health, safety and environmental matters: cash forecasts: drivers of business performance, the role of the Board and its updates on Bozshakol, Aktogay and Bozymchak: operational and committees, the Companys corporate governance practices and financial performance: business development: corporate procedures, as well as providing them with appropriate training and responsibility reporting: corporate communications: changes in guidance as to their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a director corporate governance: and reports received from Board of a public limited company.
If a Director is unable to attend a meeting because of To assist Directors in the performance of their duties, there are exceptional circumstances, he or she still receives the papers and procedures in place to provide them with appropriate and timely other relevant information in advance of the meeting and has the information, including receiving information between meetings opportunity to discuss with the relevant chair or the Company regarding Group business development and financial performance.
Secretary any matters he or she wishes to raise and to follow up This enables the Directors to discharge their duties on strategic, on the decisions taken at the meeting.
The Chairman, Chief financial, operation, compliance and governance issues effectively.
Executive and Company Secretary are always available to discuss issues relating to meetings or other matters with the Directors.
Where appropriate, additional training and updates on particular Reasons for non-attendance are generally prior business and issues are provided.
During the year, the Board received briefings personal commitments or illness.
on changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code, narrative reporting, the Takeover Code and new regulations relating to the The attendance of Directors at scheduled Board meetings, which extractive industries.
The Board also sought advice from advisers they were eligible to attend and the number of meetings attended regarding the Restructuring and it was concluded that the terms of during 2014 is shown below: the transaction were fair, reasonable and in the best interests of all Number of Number of shareholders.
scheduled Board scheduled Board meetings eligible meetings All Directors are provided with the opportunity for, and Directors during the year to attend attended encouraged to attend, training to ensure they are kept up to Simon Heale 6 6 date on relevant legal and financial developments or changes in Oleg Novachuk 6 6 best practice.
Typical training for Directors includes attendance 1 Eduard Ogay 5 4 at seminars, forums, conferences and working groups as well 2 Andrew Southam 1 1 as receiving updates from relevant bodies on various legal, regulatory and corporate governance matters.
Lynda Armstrong 6 6 Clinton Dines 6 6 To ensure the Board as a whole remains fully informed of the Vladimir Kim 6 5 views of shareholders, the Board receives regular reports on shareholder sentiment from the Head of Investor Relations.
Michael Lynch-Bell 6 5 Although not part of their induction programme, all non-executive Lord Renwick 6 5 Directors can attend shareholder meetings and analyst presentations, Charles Watson 6 6 and shareholders may meet informally with all Directors at the Annual General Meeting.
1 Eduard Ogay stepped down as a Director on 31 October 2014, following completion of the Restructuring.
Information and support 2 Andrew Southam was appointed as a Director on 1 November 2014.
Prior to The Company Secretary, through the Chairman, is responsible for his appointment, he attended all Board meetings held during 2014 in his capacity as Chief Financial Officer.
advising the Board on all governance matters and for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, applicable rules and regulations are complied with and that due account is taken of relevant codes of best www.
com 75 GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK CONTINUED practice.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring The results of the Board performance evaluation report were communication flows between the Board and its committees, and presented at the February 2014 Board meeting and it was between senior management and non-executive Directors.
All concluded that the Board and its committees operated effectively.
Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary and, The main areas identified for improvement and corresponding in appropriate circumstances, may obtain independent professional actions taken during 2014 were as follows: advice at the Companys expense.
The appointment and removal of Area identified Action taken the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
Board composition with The Board initiated The Company Secretary is Stephen Hodges, who joined the Group a focus on mining expertise a recruitment process in 2007 as Deputy Company Secretary and was appointed to for a Director with his current position in May 2014 following the departure of the mining experience previous Company Secretary, Robert Welch.
Stephen Hodges Management of Board meetings The agenda is drafted in is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and and focus of discussion accordance with key priorities Administrators and is secretary to all of the Board committees, of health, safety and the except the Audit Committee.
The secretary to the Audit environment, cost control, cash Committee is Susanna Freeman, Deputy Company Secretary, forecasts, business development who joined the Group during the year.
and updates on Bozshakol, Aktogay and Bozymchak to Performance evaluation ensure major points are covered In line with the Companys policy and in compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, a full Succession planning The executive directorships Board performance evaluation process, facilitated by an external were reviewed in 2014, consultant, Independent Audit Limited, commenced in early 2015 ahead of the Restructuring.
in respect of the 2014 calendar year.
The process was carefully Eduard Ogay stepped down structured but pragmatic, designed to bring about a genuine from the Board on completion debate of issues that were relevant, and assist in identifying any of the Restructuring and after potential for improvement in the Companys processes.
It entailed recommendations from the the completion of tailored questionnaires on the performance Nomination Committee, of the Board, its committees and its executive and non-executive Andrew Southam was Directors by each Director excluding Andrew Southam who was appointed to the Board appointed to the Board on 1 November 2014 and the preparation of a composite report.
The results of the performance evaluation During the year, the Chairman held a number of meetings report will be presented and discussed at the May 2015 Board with non-executive Directors without executive Directors meeting and will be disclosed in next years annual report and being present.
The Senior Independent Director also led the accounts.
The last externally conducted Board performance non-executive Directors in evaluating the performance of the evaluation was conducted in 2011.
Following the evaluation of the performance of the has no other connection with the Company.
Chairman, the Board remains satisfied that the Chairman is able to fulfil all of the commitments required of his role.
As set out in last years annual report and accounts, an internal Board performance evaluation process was undertaken in late Re-election 2013 early 2014 in respect of the 2013 calendar year.
The Directors newly appointed by the Board are required to submit process entailed the completion of detailed questionnaires on themselves for election by shareholders at the Annual General the performance of the Board, its committees and its executive Meeting following their appointment.
Andrew Southam, having and non-executive Directors by each Director excluding Lynda been appointed by the Board on 1 November 2014 and John Armstrong who was appointed on 21 October 2013.
MacKenzie who will be appointed to the Board on 1 March 2015, will retire and submit themselves for election at the forthcoming The Board questionnaire focused on: Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with best practice and Board composition, expertise and dynamics: the Code, all other Directors will be submitted for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, save for Lord Renwick adequacy of information provided by management who will be stepping down from the Board at the conclusion of and time allocated for discussion: the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and therefore will not performance and composition of Board committees: be seeking re-election.
the Boards strategic and operational oversight: risk management and internal control: During 2014, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA published succession planning and human resource management: amendments to the Listing Rules, which include changes affecting premium listed companies with a controlling shareholder.
Under the overall role the Board played in relation to the the Listing Rules, the concert party is classed as a controlling disposal of the Groups 26% interest in ENRC PLC: and shareholder of the Company.
This means that the independent the priorities for improving the Boards performance non-executive Directors of the Company must be elected or in the future.
re-elected by a majority of votes cast by all shareholders.
Therefore, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the resolutions for the election or re-election of the independent non-executive Directors will be taken on a poll and passed only if a majority of votes cast by independent shareholders in addition to a majority of the votes cast by all shareholders being in favour.
76 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GOVERNANCE REPORT Conflicts of interest Payments Policy, a Gifts and Hospitality Policy, a Third Party Due The Companies Act 2006 introduced a statutory duty requiring Diligence Compliance Programme, a Conflicts of Interest Policy Directors to avoid situations in which they have or can have a and a Speak-Up Policy.
direct or indirect interest that conflicts or may conflict with the An independent review of the adequacy of the Programme in interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the existing meeting the requirements of the Bribery Act was carried out by duty that a Director owes to the Company to disclose to the the external consultant, GoodCorporation, originally during 2012.
Board any transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association include During 2013, outcomes from the external review carried out by provisions giving the Directors authority to approve such situations GoodCorporation on the Programme were reviewed.
The review and to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way found that since the Programme was introduced in 2011 many of to the position that existed prior to the coming into force of this the important key compliance milestones had been accomplished legislation.
There is no breach of duty if the relevant situation has but provided recommendations for further improvement, including been authorised in advance.
ensuring communication of the Programme was rolled out to the wider workforce and for the programme to evolve into a The Board has a procedure for authorising conflicts or potential cross-functional issue.
The Group has sought to work on the conflicts of interest.
Under this procedure, Directors are required recommendations and during the year a number of actions to declare all directorships or other appointments outside the were taken to enhance and further embed the Programme.
Group which could give rise to a conflict or potential conflict of interest.
In considering each conflict or potential conflict of interest A further review of the progress on the implementation of the declared by a Director, firstly, only independent Directors will recommendations was carried out by GoodCorporation in 2014. be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking The further review found that since the last review in 2013 a the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider to number of important changes had been made to procedures be in good faith and will most likely promote the success of within the Group and the Group has sought to continue to take the Company.
In addition, the Directors can impose limits or steps to implement the recommendations.
The Company will conditions when giving authorisation if appropriate.
work with GoodCorporation to assess the recommendations in light of the change to the Groups business profile following The Company Secretary minutes the consideration of any conflict completion of the Restructuring.
or potential conflict of interest and authorisations granted by the Board, and maintains a register of conflicts of interest.
On Related party transactions policy an ongoing basis, the Directors inform the Company Secretary Following completion of the Restructuring on 31 October 2014, of any new, actual or potential conflict of interest that may arise the Group implemented a policy on concluding transactions with or if there are any changes in circumstances that may affect an the Kazakhmys group due to Vladimir Kims substantial authorisation previously given.
Even when authorisation is given, shareholdings in both the KAZ Minerals Group and the Kazakhmys a Director is not absolved from his duty to promote the success group.
The policy is to remind all KAZ Minerals employees of their of the Company.
obligations under the Listing Rules that all arrangements, contracts and transactions between any KAZ Minerals Group company and Furthermore, the Companys Articles of Association include any Kazakhmys group company must be carried out on an arms further provisions relating to confidential information, attendance length basis and on normal commercial terms.
at Board meetings and availability of Board papers to protect a Director from breaching his or her duty if a conflict of interest Competition policy arises.
These provisions will only apply where the circumstance A competition policy was launched following completion of the giving rise to the potential conflict of interest has previously been Restructuring.
The policy applies to any dealings between the KAZ authorised by the Directors.
Minerals Group and the Kazakhmys group and their employees as the two groups are competitors.
The aim of the policy is to prevent UK Bribery Act 2010 the Bribery Act anti-competitive behaviour.
Prior approval is required internally The Bribery Act established criminal offences for bribing another within the KAZ Minerals Group before any Group company enters person, receiving a bribe, bribing foreign officials and failure by into any arrangement with a Kazakhmys group company.
commercial organisations in preventing bribery.
In response to the legislation, the Group has implemented a Group Anti-Bribery Accountability and Corruption Compliance Programme the Programme The Board considers the Annual Report and Accounts, taken to assist in the prevention of the involvement of individuals or as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides Group entities in unlawful activities.
The Board has a clear stance the necessary information required for shareholders to assess on bribery and corruption and attaches the utmost importance the Companys performance, business model and strategy, and to the Programme in clarifying the standards expected of all that the business continues to operate as a going concern.
employees of the Group wherever it conducts business.
Internal control The Programme includes a clear statement on anti-bribery and The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent corruption, which is fully supported by the Board, by the use of: of any significant risks the Group is willing to take in order to corruption risk assessments across the Group: clear and practical achieve its strategic objectives as well as maintaining sound risk policies and procedures: due diligence of business partners: management and internal control systems.
The Board has training: as well as monitoring and assurance.
As part of the established a Group-wide system of internal control which Programme, a number of Group policies have been established identifies, evaluates and manages the significant risks associated including an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Code, a Facilitation with the Groups achievement of its business objectives, with a www.
com 77 GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK CONTINUED view to safeguarding the shareholders investment and the Groups implementation of appropriate strategies to deal with significant assets.
This system is bespoke to the Companys particular needs risks, including measures such as insurance and the use of and the risks to which it is exposed and is designed to manage external specialists: rather than eliminate risk.
Due to the limitations inherent in any a centrally coordinated internal audit programme to support system of internal control, this system provides reasonable, but the Board in its role of ensuring a sound control environment: not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
a Speak-Up policy and helpline in place to allow staff to raise The effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control is concerns about possible legal, regulatory, financial reporting reviewed by the Board annually.
or any other improprieties: regular reports to the Audit Committee on the adequacy The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December and effectiveness of internal control: 2014 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and regular reports to the Projects Assurance Committee on Accounts, there have been processes in place to identify, evaluate progress against targets of the Groups major growth projects and manage the significant risks faced by the Group in accordance at Bozshakol and Aktogay: and with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Company is aware that the FRC published a revised edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code a remuneration policy for executives which motivates in September 2014, together with its Guidance on Risk Management them, without delivering excessive benefits or encouraging and Internal Control.
Accordingly, the Company is reviewing its excessive risk-taking.
internal control and risk management policies and procedures to The Board, in conjunction with management, continues to review incorporate these changes and it is anticipated that it will report and develop the internal control environment where appropriate.
on any changes made in the 2015 annual report and accounts.
It is Group policy that all acquired businesses are brought within The Board has adopted a risk-based approach in establishing the Groups system of internal control as soon as practicable and the Groups system of internal control and in reviewing its in any event within 12 months of acquisition.
To assist in the identification and management of key risks, the Board has: established a number of Group-wide The Groups approach to risk management and how it profiles procedures, policies and standards: set up a framework for the risks identified is set out in the Risk Management Overview reporting matters of significance: authorised the Audit Committee on pages 28 and 29. to review the Groups approach to risk management and the Internal audit effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, internal control Internal audit advises management on the extent to which systems and assurance systems: developed a system of regular reports of internal control are adequate and effective to manage business from management: and reserved specific key matters for its risk, safeguard the Groups resources, and ensure compliance with decision.
The process is designed to provide assurance by way legal and regulatory requirements.
It provides objective assurance of cumulative assessment.
on risk and controls to senior management, the Audit Committee All of the Groups internal control and corporate governance and the Board.
policies and procedures are contained in a single document Internal audits work is focused on the Groups significant risks entitled Group Policy Guidelines on Corporate Governance and the Head of Internal Audit and the Group Risk Manager work with the aim of promoting a culture of pragmatic corporate closely when considering the internal audits to be performed.
The governance by raising awareness of the policies and procedures mandate and programme of work of the internal audit department amongst senior management.
is approved by the Audit Committee.
Based on the approved audit Key elements of the Groups system of internal control which plan, a number of internal audits took place across the Groups have operated throughout the year are: operations and functions to facilitate improvement of the Groups internal controls and report findings to relevant operational Group financial, treasury, operating, compliance and management.
The Head of Internal Audit reports regularly to administrative policies and procedures which incorporate the Audit Committee and the chair of the Audit Committee statements of required behaviour: is responsible for reviewing the remuneration of the Head continuous review of safety, operating and financial of Internal Audit.
performance of the Groups businesses: The Audit Committee receives reports from the Head of Internal regular reports to the Board and Group Health, Safety Audit on the departments work and findings, and the effectiveness and Environment Committee on health, safety and of internal audits are reviewed and discussed on an annual basis environmental matters: with the Head of Internal Audit.
monitoring by the Board of a comprehensive reporting system, including monthly results, periodic short-term Internal audit reports include recommendations to improve forecasts, annual budgets and medium-term plans: internal controls together with agreed management action well-defined procedures for appraisal, approval, control and plans to resolve the issues raised.
Internal audit follows up monitoring of major capital projects, including acquisitions on the implementation of recommendations and reports on and disposals: progress to senior management and the Audit Committee.
an established methodology for ranking the level of risk in each of its business operations and the significant risk issues associated therewith:.
78 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GOVERNANCE REPORT Board committees Relations with shareholders The four principal committees of the Board are: Audit: Group Dialogue with shareholders Health, Safety and Environment: Nomination: and Remuneration.
The Board recognises the importance of good communication Board committee members are appointed by the Board upon the with all its shareholders and maintains an active dialogue with its recommendation of the Nomination Committee, which reviews key financial audiences including institutional shareholders, sell-side the composition of each committee regularly.
The committee analysts and potential shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Chief memberships are spread between the independent non-executive Financial Officer are closely involved in investor relations and the Directors, drawing on each of their relevant skills and experience.
Head of Investor Relations has day-to-day responsibility for such matters.
Each of them provides the Board with shareholder Committee members are expected to attend each committee feedback at Board meetings.
meeting, unless there are exceptional circumstances which prevent them from doing so.
Only members of the committees The executive Directors are available, through the Head of are entitled to attend their meetings, but others may attend at Investor Relations, to discuss the concerns of major shareholders the committees request.
at any time during the year and the Chairman is available to discuss governance and strategy with major shareholders.
Non-executive The terms of reference of each committee are available to view Directors make themselves available to attend meetings with on the Companys website www.
com and on request shareholders in order to develop an understanding of their views.
from the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
The Company responds as necessary to requests from individual The terms of reference are reviewed annually.
shareholders on a wide range of issues.
Board committee membership There is regular dialogue with key institutional shareholders, The current membership of the Boards committees is shown in fund managers and sell-side analysts to discuss strategy, financial the table below: performance and investment activities throughout the Group, Group who also from time to time visit Group operations.
During 2014, Health, executive Directors and senior management held meetings Safety and with institutional investors in the United Kingdom, continental Audit Environment Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Europe and the United States of America and attended several conferences in these locations, providing a comprehensive Simon dialogue with shareholders.
Heale M C M Oleg During 2014, the Company issued quarterly production updates Novachuk in January, April, July and October and interim management Andrew statements in April and October.
These, together with copies Southam of institutional analyst presentations each half year, the Groups Lynda preliminary and half-yearly results and all announcements issued Armstrong M M to the London Stock Exchange and Hong Kong Stock Exchange in English and in Chinese, are available on the Companys Clinton website www.
Dines M M Vladimir Annual General Meetings Kim The Notice of Annual General Meeting is circulated to all Michael shareholders at least 20 working days prior to such meeting and Lynch-Bell C M it is Company policy not to combine resolutions.
All shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General Meeting where there Lord is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Renwick M C Chairman and, through him, the chairs of the principal Board Charles committees.
After the Annual General Meeting, shareholders Watson M C M can meet informally with the Directors.
C: Chair of committee At the Annual General Meeting, the Chairman provides a brief M: Member of committee summary of the Companys activities for the previous year to shareholders.
All resolutions at the 2014 Annual General Meeting were voted on by way of a poll.
The procedure for voting on a poll follows best practice and allows the Company to count all votes rather than just those of the shareholders attending the meeting.
As recommended by the Code, all resolutions proposed at the 2014 Annual General Meeting were voted separately and the voting results, which included all votes cast for, against and those withheld, together with all proxies lodged prior to the meeting, were announced to the London Stock Exchange and Hong Kong Stock Exchange and made available on the Companys website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
As in previous years, the Form of Proxy clearly advised that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not used in calculating the votes for or against a resolution.
com 79 GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK CONTINUED Responsibilities AUDIT COMMITTEE The Board relies on the Audit Committee to provide effective governance in financial reporting, internal control and assurance processes together with the identification and management of risk.
The current members of the Committee are: Michael Lynch-Bell, Chair Clinton Dines Charles Watson The primary responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the diagram below.
Whilst the Committee has very specific duties set out in its terms of reference, it serves a much greater purpose in reassuring shareholders that their interests are properly protected in respect of the Companys financial management and reporting.
The Committee regularly reports on this to the Board.
The Committee has delegated responsibility for reviewing the Companys procedures and system of internal control in relation to risk management, with a focus on the methodology used by management.
It also oversees the internal and external audit processes.
Dear fellow shareholder, Governance During 2014, the Committee reviewed the Groups financial Michael Lynch-Bell has recent and relevant financial experience: results, including significant financial reporting estimates and his biography is set out on page 32.
The other members of the judgements, the Groups system of internal control, management Committee, Clinton Dines and Charles Watson, have broad of the Groups risks and oversaw the relationship with the commercial experience and knowledge of international businesses external auditor.
There have also been a number of transactions which they bring to the Committees deliberations.
The Chairman of which we have considered the financial effects, including of the Board, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Company the disposal of the Groups 50% interest in Ekibastuz GRES-1 Secretary, Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor are and the Restructuring.
normally invited to attend Committee meetings.
In my role as chair of the Committee I have again met with At the end of each meeting the Committee normally meets our external auditor, KPMG, outside the normal meeting separately with both the external auditor and Head of Internal schedule and with various senior managers to increase my Audit, without management being present, to discuss any matter understanding of the Group.
I intend to continue with such relating to its remit and any issues arising from external and meetings in order to deepen my knowledge of the Group, internal audits.
the risks it faces and its internal control framework.
Finally, I would like to acknowledge the continued work of the Projects Assurance Committee in identifying and monitoring the activities critical to the successful commissioning of two of the Groups major growth projects at Bozshakol and Aktogay.
AUDIT COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES Michael Lynch-Bell Chair, Audit Committee Analysing Reviewing integrity of Group internal financial reporting control and risk management systems Overseeing Monitoring relationship with e ectiveness of external auditor Groups internal audit functions 80 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GOVERNANCE REPORT External auditor considering and making recommendations to the Board on Following a formal, competitive tender process for the provision the appointment and re-appointment of the external auditor: of external audit services conducted in 2012, the Board approved developing and implementing a policy on the provision of the Committees recommendation to appoint KPMG Audit Plc non-audit services by the external auditor with due regard as external auditor of the Group.
In 2014, KPMG Audit Plc to ethical guidance: formally changed the entity which conducts the Companys reviewing annually the Committees own performance, audit to KPMG LLP KPMG.
constitution and terms of reference: and reporting to the Board on how the Committee has discharged The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit its responsibilities.
process during the year, considering performance, objectivity, independence and relevant experience and recommended to the A copy of the Committees terms of reference is available Board the re-appointment of KPMG as the Companys auditor.
to view on the Companys website www.
The Group continues to benefit from the insight and knowledge Activities in 2014 that the auditor has of its business processes and controls and At its meetings in 2014, the Committee considered and discharged therefore the Board has approved resolutions to be proposed its responsibilities on the following matters: at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, to re-appoint KPMG as the Companys auditor and to authorise the Directors Financial reporting to set KPMGs remuneration.
reviewed annual and half-yearly results and interim management statements including accounting policies, significant financial The Committee is aware of the Competition and Markets reporting estimates and judgements applied in preparing them Authority reforms on tendering audit contracts at least every and the transparency and clarity of the disclosures within them: 10 years.
Accordingly, it is the intention of the Committee that the external audit is put out to tender by 2022 at the received reports from management and the external auditor latest, subject to any further regulatory change.
on accounting, financial reporting and taxation issues: considered impairment reviews performed by management Attendance at Audit Committee meetings in relation to the Groups investments: During 2014, there were six scheduled meetings of the Audit reviewed the methodology for producing the disclosure of ore Committee, including two meetings which were convened to reserves and mineral resources and other relevant disclosures in discuss one item of business only, the financial disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts: the interim management statements, with each member considered the financial impact of the terms of the Restructuring attending as shown below: on the Groups financial statements: and Committee Attendance at scheduled reviewed the basis for preparing the Group accounts on a going Members member since meetings during 2014 concern basis.
Michael Lynch-Bell 27 February 2013 6 6 Clinton Dines 1 October 2009 6 6 Internal control reviewed the structure and effectiveness of the Groups Charles Watson 24 August 2011 5 6 system of internal control as set out on pages 77 and 78 and the disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts Charles Watson missed one Committee meeting during the year on this matter: due to personal circumstances.
He was provided with Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board amendments papers prior to the meeting and provided comments to the to the Group Treasury Policy: Committee chair for discussion at the meeting.
reviewed the Groups processes for disclosing information Role of the Audit Committee to the external auditor and the statement concerning Key roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: such disclosure in the Annual Report and Accounts: and received reports from the Projects Assurance Committee.
monitoring and challenging, where necessary, the integrity of the financial statements of the annual and half-yearly results, interim Risk management management statements and any other formal announcement reviewed the risk management activities undertaken and relating to financial performance, including a review of the the process and frequency of reporting on risks to the financial reporting judgements which they contain: Committee in order to identify, measure and assess the reviewing the Companys internal controls, including financial Groups significant risks: controls and risk management systems: reviewed and challenged the Groups significant risks identified monitoring the role and effectiveness of the internal audit function: by management in the Group risk map, and reviewed the overseeing the work of the Projects Assurance Committee: effectiveness of the Group risk management framework establishing and overseeing the Companys relationship with the as described on pages 28 and 29, and reports arising out external auditor, including the monitoring of its independence and of the risk management process: and expertise, the terms of reference of its engagement and fees, and monitored the Groups significant insurance arrangements assessing the effectiveness of the audit process with due regard and reviewed the Groups insurance broking arrangements.
to relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: agreeing the scope of the external auditors annual audit plan and reviewing the output: www.
com 81 GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK CONTINUED Internal audit Policy on the provision of non-audit services approved the annual operational plan and reviewed reports The Committees policy on the use of the external auditor for from the internal audit department relating to control matters: non-audit services includes the identification of non-audit services which may be provided and those prohibited, as well as a process received a presentation of the results of an internal audit carried through which other non-audit services may be approved.
out by GoodCorporation on the Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Compliance Programme: and Any project or engagement with the external auditor in excess of agreed to engage external specialists to assist the internal audit 20,000, that is not included in the list of those non-audit services department in connection with specialist audits including which may be provided by the external auditor, must be approved anti-bribery and corruption, and health and safety.
in advance by the Committee or a sub-committee of any two members.
Any services up to a limit of 20,000 must be approved External auditor by the Chief Financial Officer.
approved the terms of engagement of the external auditor, the fees paid to them and the scope of work carried out by them: Any new engagement with the external auditor for non-audit performed an annual review of the policies on the independence services in excess of 100,000 must be approved in advance and objectivity of the external auditor, the use of the external by the Chief Financial Officer and the Committee chair or a auditor for non-audit services, and the employment of former sub-committee of any two members, with any non-audit services employees of the external auditor: up to a limit of 100,000 being approved by the Chief Financial reviewed the performance and effectiveness of the external Officer.
In addition, any non-audit services in excess of 100,000 auditor in respect of the previous financial year: must be subject to a competitive tender process other than in assessed the independence and objectivity of the external respect of certain types of services.
auditor and in this process reviewed a report from the external The policy requires that non-audit services of the external auditor auditor on all relationships that might reasonably have a bearing will only be used where the Group benefits in a cost-effective on its independence and the audit partner and staffs objectivity, manner and the external auditor maintains the necessary degree and the related safeguards and procedures: of independence and objectivity.
Details of all non-audit services are received reports on the findings of the external auditor reported to the Committee twice a year.
The policy is kept under during the half-yearly review and annual audit and reviewed review and may be amended from time to time as necessary.
the recommendations made to management by the external auditor and managements responses: The Group engaged KPMG on the Restructuring as reporting reviewed the quality assurance processes of the external auditor: accountant and in the opinion of the Committee, KPMGs reviewed letters of representation to the external auditor: and knowledge of the Group and presence in Kazakhstan as well as the efficiency of using KPMG, made them the most appropriate recommended the re-appointment of the external auditor.
The Committee believes thatthe Other matters compliance nature of the work and the fact that the work reviewed reports on changes to UK and Kazakhstan tax legislation: performed was reviewed by staff from KPMGs transaction reviewed the Speak-Up policy as well as the independent and services which is independent of the audit team, meant that confidential arrangements in place by which staff may raise there would be no impact on auditor independence.
concerns about possible legal, regulatory or other improprieties Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor for audit and in matters of financial reporting and other matters: non-audit services for the year ended 31 December 2014 and received reports on matters raised via the Speak-Up facilities, information on the nature of non-audit fees appear in note 10 the process for the investigation of those matters raised, the to the consolidated financial statements on page 128. outcome of the investigation and any actions taken: received an update from management on the latest technical Projects Assurance Committee accounting and regulatory issues: During 2012, the Audit Committee considered and approved approved the appointment of the external auditor to provide the establishment of a sub-committee, the Projects Assurance non-audit services in relation to the Restructuring: Committee, for the purpose of assisting the Audit Committee reviewed its terms of reference and the results of the in procuring third party, independent operational and financial performance evaluation of the Committee: and assessments of the Groups major growth projects at Bozshakol and Aktogay.
The Projects Assurance Committee currently reviewed the training requirements of the Committee members.
comprises Charles Watson chair, Oleg Novachuk and Lynda Armstrong and met four times during 2014.
The significant issues the Projects Assurance Committee considered during 2014 related to health, safety and environmental standards at sites, reviewing the performance of the contractors, progress against construction plans, andthe monitoring of capital expenditure at Bozshakol and Aktogay, the appointment of an additional contractor at Aktogay and the processes to be put in place for the operational start up at Bozshakol.
The chair of the Projects Assurance Committee reported on its activities to the next Audit Committee meeting following each of its meetings.
82 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GOVERNANCE REPORT Significant issues considered by the Committee The Committee considered, amongst other matters, a number of significant issues in relation to the financial reporting of the Group, including: Significant issues Committee actions Divestment of the Disposal Assets The divestment of a number of the Groups relatively mature mining and power operations, primarily located Having discussed and reviewed managements proposed in the Zhezkazgan and Central Regions the Disposal Assets, was approved by independent shareholders accounting treatment, the Committee concurred with on 15August2014.
On this date, the Disposal Assets were considered by management to be assets held the proposals and disclosures.
for sale and accounted for in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
An impairment charge of $1.6 billion was recognised to reflect these assets at their fair value less costs to sell of nil.
On completion of the divestment on 31October2014, the Disposal Assets were derecognised with a total loss of $2.3billion, including the recycling of foreign currency translation reserves, reflected in the Group income statement within loss on discontinued operations.
Taxation matters arising from the divestment In light of the Restructuring and the legal re-organisation required to effect the transaction, The Committee considered papers setting out the management considered the tax implications on the Groups entities in the territories in which taxation impacts of the Restructuring and challenged they operate and how they should be reflected in the Annual Report and Accounts.
management on the positions taken in arriving at their conclusions.
The Committee agreed with the positions adopted and disclosures made by management.
Operating segments Following the classification of the Disposal Assets as assets held for sale, management reassessed the Having discussed and reviewed managements proposals on operating segments of the continuing operations in line with IFRS 8 Operating Segments and identified the definition and presentation of the operating segments, the revised operating segments to be reflected in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
the Committee concurred with the proposals and disclosures.
Impairments Group At 31December2014, the Groups net asset value was below its market capitalisation and, in The Committee considered papers setting out the results response, management undertook impairment indicator reviews on certain of the Groups cash of the impairment reviews and managements assessment and generating units.
An impairment of the Bozymchak project of $128million was recognised.
Having received input from the external auditor and challenged the appropriateness of key assumptions used by management in the discounted cash flow models and evaluated the sensitivity of the outcomes of the reviews, the Committee agreed with managements assessment and disclosures.
Impairments KAZ Minerals PLC Following the divestment of the Disposal Assets on 31 October2014, an impairment review The Committee considered papers setting out the results of the investments held on the Companys stand-alone balance sheet at 31December2014 of the impairment review and managements assessment and was performed.
Following the review, KAZMineralsPLC recognised an impairment charge assumptions.
Having received input from the external auditor on its stand-alone balance sheet.
and challenged the appropriateness of key assumptions used by management in the discounted cash flow models and evaluated the sensitivity of the outcomes of the reviews, the Committee agreed with managements assessment and disclosures.
Going concern It is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial The Committee considered papers prepared by management statements for the year ended 31December2014.
In reaching this conclusion, management have taken and, taking into account the external auditors review of the into account the Groups financial position, the available borrowing facilities, the planned capital expenditure papers and their assumptions, concluded that managements programme and the outlook for the Groups products and major growth projects, and believe there is recommendation to prepare the accounts on a going concern sufficient funding available to meet the Groups anticipated cash flow requirements in its current form basis was appropriate.
for the foreseeable future which is for this purpose a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements.
Significant accounting matters affecting the Disposal Assets while under the control of the Group a Excess Profits Tax EPT The Committee considered papers prepared by management Until completion of the divestment, uncertainty over the recoverability of $39million of EPT paid in setting out the status of the dispute surrounding the recoverability prior years remained as the tax authorities in Kazakhstan had continued to challenge its refund in 2014. of the EPT paid in prior years and concurred with the accounting treatment up to the date of the divestment.
b Disability benefits provisions The Committee considered papers prepared by management The provision for disability benefits was reassessed by management on 31October2014 outlining the key assumptions and variables applied in the actuarial on an actuarial basis in line with the relevant accounting standards applying various actuarial valuations for future disability payments relating to the Disposal and management assumptions.
Having challenged management on the assumptions applied, the Committee concurred with the calculation, accounting treatment and disclosure thereof.
Accounting standards and tax developments Management considered the implications of the new accounting standards issued and applicable Having discussed and reviewed managements technical update for the year ended 31December2014 as well as enacted and proposed tax amendments across the papers, the Committee concurred with the conclusions territories in which the Group operates.
The new accounting standards have not had a material impact reached and accounting treatment and disclosure thereof.
on the financial position or performance of the Group and no restatements were made to the 2014 financial statements and the comparatives included therein as a result of the new standards.
Management considered tax developments across the jurisdictions in which the Group operates and their impact on the tax positions and disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts.
com 83 GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK CONTINUED Responsibilities GROUP HEALTH, SAFETY AND The current members of the Committee are: ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE Charles Watson, Chair Lynda Armstrong Clinton Dines Simon Heale The Committee is primarily responsible for keeping under review the development and maintenance of a framework of policies and standards which are used to assess, manage and report on health, safety and environmental risks and their impact on the Groups activities.
All meetings of the Committee during the year were held in Kazakhstan and involved meetings with management responsible for health and safety, with all visits lasting for two or three days.
Attendance at Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee meetings There were three scheduled meetings of the Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee during 2014, with each member attending as shown below: Attendance at Dear fellow shareholder, Committee scheduled meetings Implementing and maintaining good health, safety and Members member since during 2014 environmental practices is critical to KAZ Minerals, which is Charles Watson 16 November 2011 2 3 why the Group is working hard to put in place clear processes Clinton Dines 25 August 2010 2 3 and training to make continual improvements in these areas Lynda Armstrong 21 October 2013 2 3 and to develop a safety-first culture.
The role of the Simon Heale 13 March 2013 3 3 Committee is to assist the Board in overseeing managements processes, standards and strategies for managing health, safety Clinton Dines missed one Committee meeting due to a conflict in and environmental commitments and responsibilities.
schedules and Charles Watson and Lynda Armstrong each missed During the year, the Committees agenda covered a range one Committee meeting due to personal circumstances.
of health, safety and environmental issues including: vehicle The Senior Independent Director is normally invited to attend meetings.
safety and monitoring: development of cardinal rules: health and safety strategy: environmental strategy: reviewing outcomes Role of the Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee from DuPonts assessments and recommending further actions: Key roles and responsibilities of the Group Health, Safety and monitoring reports of concern raised via the Speak-Up facilities: Environment Committee include: reports from internal audit: receiving updates on corporate responsibility reporting: and changes to labour agreements.
keeping under review the development and maintenance of a The Committee also addressed leadership behaviour and framework of policies and standards for managing health, safety cultural change issues during its meetings.
and environmental risks and their impact on the Groups activities: reviewing compliance by the Group with relevant health, safety This year we established a new Health, Safety and Environment and environmental legislation: team led by the new Group Health and Safety Director.
This assessing the impact of health, safety and environmental decisions team has expert health and safety experience gained from and actions taken by the Group on its reputation, employees, working within the mining industry and has initiated important communities and other stakeholders, and ensuring remedial improvements to the processes in place.
action is taken where appropriate: In order to give the Committee a full understanding of the monitoring and assessing the commitment and behaviour of Groups safety culture and practices at an operational level, management towards health, safety and  risks: the Committee visited the Bozshakol site and the Irtyshsky reviewing significant safety incidents, considering the key causes mine during the year.
We met with locally based staff and thereof and ensuring actions are taken and communications contractors which enabled us to understand better the made by management to prevent similar incidents occurring processes and risks involved at the Groups operations.
in the future: facilitating the promotion by management of a culture of care and sensitivity towards the environments and communities in Charles Watson which the Group operates: Chair, Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee making proposals to the Remuneration Committee regarding appropriate health, safety and environmental performance objectives for executive Directors and certain senior managers and providing its assessment as to performance against such objectives: 84 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GOVERNANCE REPORT reviewing the findings of any internal or external reports on the Groups health, safety and environmental systems, assessing any strategies and action plans developed by management in response to issues raised and where appropriate, making recommendations to the Board on such matters: and reviewing annually the Committees own performance, constitution and terms of reference.
The Committees terms of reference are available to view on the Companys website www.
Activities in 2014 At its meetings in 2014, the Committee considered, amongst other matters, the following: reviewed and evaluated fatal and serious incident reports through the Fatal and Serious Incidents Review Panel: reviewed the outcomes of a safety culture assessment conducted by DuPont in 2013 and resulting action plan for 2014: monitored compliance with changing environmental legislation and emission levels: monitored and evaluated a number of key safety and environmental initiatives vehicle safety, additional training for inexperienced workers and emission levels at Group projects : reviewed and evaluated reports on the implementation and effectiveness of a number of health, safety and environmental policies and procedures and assessed performance against the Groups five year health and safety management plan and five year environmental plan: monitored the performance of DuPont, a third party health and safety consultant: received reports on matters raised and actions taken in respect of calls made to the Trust Hot Line and the Speak-Up helpline on the process for the investigation of those matters, as well as the outcome of the investigation and any actions taken: reviewed and approved the Groups cardinal rules for open cast mining, smelters, concentrators and power stations: provided guidance to management on the development of a health and safety strategy and environmental strategy: reviewed its terms of reference and the results of the performance evaluation of the Committee: and reviewed the future role and direction of the Committee.
com 85 GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK CONTINUED Responsibilities NOMINATION COMMITTEE The current members of the Committee are: Simon Heale, Chair Michael Lynch-Bell Lord Renwick The Committee is primarily responsible for leading the process for Board and committee appointments and for keeping under review the balance of skills, industry and commercial experience, independence and diversity, including gender, on the Board to ensure the balance and composition of the Board and its committees remains appropriate.
The Committee, which provides a rigorous, formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, generally consults with external consultants and advisers on prospective Board appointments.
The Committee keeps under review the planned and progressive refreshing of the Board and its committees.
Under the recruitment process, the Committee prepares a description of the specific experience and skills needed for an appointment, considers candidates put forward by external Dear fellow shareholder, consultants, and recommends to the Board the appointment of any The Nomination Committee reviews the composition of the new Directors after having met short-listed candidates.
It supervises Board and its committees and oversees succession planning in and puts in place succession planning for non-executive Directors respect of skills, knowledge, experience and general diversity.
By and certain senior managers and where appropriate, makes identifying and recommending candidates with the necessary recommendations to the Board on Directors conflicts of interest.
range of skills and experience as Directors, the Committee aims to ensure that the Board and its committees are fit for Governance purpose and able to meet any challenges that are brought The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Company and before them.
the members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors, in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
If a During 2014, the Group underwent a major restructuring which matter were to concern the Chairman, then he would leave the resulted in a change to the composition of the Board.
It was meeting and Michael Lynch-Bell would instead take the chair.
agreed that Eduard Ogay would step down from his role as executive Director following completion of the Restructuring.
Recruitment process The Committee recommended the appointment of Andrew When considering the recruitment of new Directors, the Southam, Chief Financial Officer, to the Board due to his Committee evaluates the particular skills, knowledge, independence, seniority, experience and knowledge of the Company.
experience and diversity, including gender, that would benefit and Andrew was subsequently appointed to the Board on 1 balance the Board most appropriately for each appointment.
In the recent search for a new non-executive Director, resulting Recently, the Nomination Committee has worked on securing in the decision to appoint John MacKenzie to the Board, a formal, the appointment of a new independent non-executive Director.
rigorous and transparent search process was put in place with a To ensure a wide pool of candidates was available for us to candidate profile and position specification prepared, including choose from, we appointed Spencer Stuart, who specialise time commitment expected and experience required.
Spencer in the recruitment of high calibre executives.
I managed the Stuart presented the Chairman with a long list of candidates and relationship with Spencer Stuart and I confirm that they provide the Chairman put together a short list of candidates.
Interviews no other recruitment service to the Company, although they were then conducted by the Chairman, the other members were appointed as the external recruitment consultancy for of the Committee and the Chief Executive.
The preferred the appointment of Lynda Armstrong in 2013. candidate was then recommended by the Committee to the Board for approval.
As a result of this search, I am pleased to welcome John MacKenzie who will be joining the Board as an independent non-executive Director with effect from 1 March 2015.
As the former CEO of Copper for Anglo American, John brings extensive experience of the copper mining industry and we look forward to him joining us.
Simon Heale Chair, Nomination Committee 86 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GOVERNANCE REPORT The key stages of the recruitment process are set out below.
reviewing annually the Committees own performance, constitution and terms of reference: RECRUITMENT PROCESS recommending to the Board suitable candidates for the role of Senior Independent Director, and membership of the Audit, Group Health, Safety and Environment, and Remuneration Committees: Vacancy identified recommending the re-appointment of any non-executive Director at the conclusion of their specified term of office Prepare candidate profile and position specification having given regard to their length of tenure, performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board in the light of the Enlist search agency skills, experience, independence and knowledge required: and recommending the re-election by shareholders of any Director Long list of candidates in accordance with the provisions of the Code having due regard to his or her performance and ability to continue to contribute Short list of candidates selected by the Chairman to the Board taking into consideration the skills, experience and knowledge required and the need for progressive refreshing Interviews of short-listed candidates by members of the of the Board.
Nomination Committee and Chief Executive The Committees terms of reference are available to view on the Recommendation by the Nomination Committee Companys website www.
to the Board Activities in 2014 At its meeting in 2014, the Committee considered, amongst other matters, the following: Appointment approved by Board the appointment of a new independent non-executive Director, resulting in the appointment of John MacKenzie: following Eduard Ogay stepping down as an executive Director, Attendance at Nomination Committee meetings recommended the appointment of Andrew Southam as an There was one scheduled meeting of the Nomination Committee executive Director: during 2014 with each member attending as shown below: in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, recommended to the Board the re-election of all Directors by Committee member Attendance at scheduled Members since meetings during 2014 shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting having due Simon Heale 1 January 2007 1 1 regard to the performance and ability for each Director to continue to contribute to the Board and its committees: Michael Lynch-Bell 1 September 2013 1 1 the time commitment required by non-executive Directors Lord Renwick 1 December 2005 1 1 to fulfil their duties: and its terms of reference and the results of the performance Role of the Nomination Committee evaluation of the Committee.
Key roles and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include: regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition including skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity, including gender of the Board and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes: overseeing succession planning for Directors and certain senior managers, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company, and the skills and expertise that will be needed on the Board in the future: before any appointment is made by the Board, evaluating the balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity, including gender, on the Board and preparing a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: responsibility for identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: keeping under review Directors existing and any new conflicts of interest and making recommendations as to whether a conflict should be authorised: reviewing the results of the Board performance evaluation process in relation to the composition of the Board and reviewing annually the time commitment required from the non-executive Directors to fulfil their duties: www.
