STRATEGIC REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS EXPERIENCED LEADERSHIP 2 3 4 5 1 1 Simon Heale, Non-executive Chairman 4 Michael Lynch-Bell, Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2007 and Senior Independent Director Nationality: British Appointed to the Board: 2013 Skills and experience: Simon Heale has significant global marketing Nationality: British and business operations and management experience having been chief Skills and experience: Michael Lynch-Bell has extensive experience in operating officer of Jardine Fleming Limited, deputy managing director of the mining, oil and gas industries having spent his whole 38 year career Cathay Pacific Airways and chief executive of The London Metal Exchange.
with Ernst & Young developing and later leading its global mining and He has also been a non-executive director and chairman of Panmure energy practices.
During his time with Ernst & Young, he played a key role Gordon & Co plc, and a non-executive director of PZ Cussons plc, in establishing Ernst & Youngs practice in Kazakhstan and advised a number Morgan Advanced Materials PLC and Coats plc.
of major CIS companies on transactions.
He retired as senior partner of Other appointments: Chairman of Gulf Marine Services PLCand a Ernst & Youngs transaction advisory practice for mining and metals and non-executive director of Marex Spectron Group Limited.
He is also as an elected member of its global advisory council in June 2012.
He was a trustee and treasurer of Macmillan Cancer Support.
previously a non-executive director of Equus Petroleum Plc.
Committee memberships: Chair of the Nomination Committee Other appointments: Non-executive director ofSeven Energy and member of the Group Health, Safety and Environment, and International Limited, Lenta Ltd and Transocean Partners LLC.
also atrustee and treasurer of Action Aid International, a trustee of 21st Century Legacy and The Children of Sri Lanka Trust, and a member 2 Oleg Novachuk, Chief Executive of the United Nations Expert Group on Resources Classification.
Appointed to the Board: 2005 Committee memberships: Chair of the Audit Committee and Nationality: Kazakhstani member of the Nomination Committee.
Skills and experience: Oleg Novachuk joined the Group in 2001 and was appointed Chief Executive in 2007, having been Finance Director 5 Lynda Armstrong OBE, Non-executive Director since 2005.
He was formerly vice president of financial projects for Appointed to the Board: 2013 Kazakhmys Corporation LLC and the financial adviser to the president Nationality: British of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC, and chairman of the board of Skills and experience: Lynda Armstrong, a geophysicist by training, has directors of Kazprombank JSC.
over 30 years natural resources experience with Shell.
During her time with Shell she held a number of senior exploration and operational roles, 3 Andrew Southam, Chief Financial Officer including director UK Exploration and New Business Development, Appointed to the Board: 1 November 2014 exploration director of Petroleum Development Oman and technical vice Nationality: British president for Shell International.
Skills and experience: Andrew Southam joined the Company in February Other appointments: Chair of the trustees of the British Safety Council, 2006 where he has held a number of positions in Finance, including Group a non-executive director of the Central Europe Oil Company Limited, Financial Controller.
He was appointed Chief Financial Officer in May 2013. a director of Calyx Consulting Ltd and a member of the supervisory Andrew is a chartered accountant who began his career at Deloitte in board of SBM Offshore N. V. London, where he provided audit and transaction services to a number Committee memberships: Member of the Group Health, Safety of UK listed companies.
Prior to joining the Company, Andrew worked and Environment, and Remuneration Committees.
in corporate development at GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Directors experience background Directors nationality Metals and mining 6 British 6 Finance 6 Kazakhstani 2 Oil and gas 3 Australian 1 Health and safety 2 32 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT For more information, see pages 72 Governance Framework 79 Board Committees 6 7 6 8 9 9 6 Clinton Dines, Non-executive Director 8 Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG, Appointed to the Board: 2009 Non-executive Director Nationality: Australian Appointed to the Board: 2005 Skills and experience: Clinton Dines has been involved in business in China Nationality: British since 1980, including senior positions with the Jardine Matheson Group, Skills and experience: Lord Renwick has had a diplomatic career spanning Santa Fe Transport Group and Asia Securities Venture Capital.
In 1988, he over 30 years, including serving as British Ambassador to the United States joined BHP as their senior executive in China and, following the merger of and to South Africa.
He was a non-executive director of BHP Billiton plc, BHP and Billiton in 2001, became president, BHP Billiton China, a position SABMiller plc, British Airways plc, Liberty International plc, Fluor Corporation, from which he retired in 2009 prior to joining KAZ Minerals.
He brings Harmony Gold Mining Company Limited and Bumi plc.
Lord Renwicks exceptional knowledge of China combined with global resource industry diplomatic, financial and mining experience make him a valuable contributor and management experience.
He was previously executive chairman, Asia to the Board.
He previously served as vice chairman, Investment Banking of of Caledonia Private Investments Pty Limited and a member of the J. P. Morgan Europe and vice chairman of J. P. Morgan Cazenove.
advisory board of Pacific Aluminium.
Other appointments: Senior adviser to J. P. Morgan, deputy chairman Other appointments:Non-executive director of Zanaga Iron Ore of Fleming Family & Partners Limited and a non-executive director of Company Limited and Aurecon Group Brand Pte Ltd and a director Compagnie Financire Richemont SA.
Committee memberships: Chair of the Remuneration Committee Committee memberships: Member of the Audit, and Group Health, and member of the Nomination Committee.
9 Charles Watson, Non-executive Director 7 Vladimir Kim, Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2011 Appointed to the Board: 2005 Nationality: British Nationality: Kazakhstani Skills and experience: Charles Watson has an extensive background in Skills and experience: Vladimir Kim joined the Group in 1995, when both operational management and major project delivery, having spent 29 he was appointed managing director and chief executive officer of years at Shell.
During his time at Shell he held a number of senior executive Zhezkazgantsvetmet JSC and was elected chairman of the board of positions throughout the world, culminating in his appointment as executive directors of that company in 2000.
He was appointed Chairman of the vice president covering Russia and the CIS, including oversight of Shells Company in 2005 prior to its listing on the London Stock Exchange.
activities in Kazakhstan, chairman of Shell Russia and chairman of the board With extensive knowledge of the mining industry, a thorough working of directors for the Sakhalin Energy Investment Company.
knowledge of the CIS and an exemplary understanding of the political Other appointments: Non-executive director of Taipan Resources Inc. and regulatory environment in Kazakhstan, Vladimir Kim brings extensive and JSOC Bashneft.
Kazakh mining experience and effective Board management skills.
Vladimir Committee memberships: Chair of the Group Health, Safety and Kim stepped down as Chairman in May 2013 but remains on the Board as Environment Committee, and member of the Audit and Remuneration a non-executive Director.
Length of tenure of independent non-executive Directors 03 years 2 36 years 1 69 years 2 www.
