DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance Appointment and replacement of Directors The combined roles of Chairman and Chief Executive It is the policy of the Board that all Directors wishing to continue in From July 2009 to the end of March 2014, Bill Halbert held the office will stand for election or re-election each year at the AGM, in roleof Executive Chairman, combining the roles of Chairman and accordance with Provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Given the particular circumstances of the Group in2009, the decision to combine the two roles was taken with the The Articles of Association allow the Board to appoint a new Director at support of our largest shareholders, to provide strong leadership any time: however the Articles state that the new Director will only hold through a period of transformation for the business.
This office until the next AGM, at which point he or she must stand for transformation continued through the economic downturn and, election or vacate the office.
inboth 2011 and 2012, consultation with our largest shareholders indicated that there was strong support for Bill to continue in his The Nomination Committee, and the Board as a whole, has reviewed dual role.
the performance and contribution of Bill Halbert, Graham Holden, TonyIllsley, Paul Simpson and Martin Towers and has no hesitation The combined role was reviewed regularly by the Nomination inproposing the re-appointment of each of these Board members.
Committee and during the year it was agreed that the Group had KevinWalsh has indicated his intention to retire from the Board during progressed beyond the specific circumstances requiring the dual the summer of 2014 and therefore will not stand for re-election at role and that therefore it was the right thing for the Group to theAGM.
splitthe role once again, to ensure compliance with best practice.
Therefore from 1 April 2014 the roles of Chairman and Chief The Articles of Association state also that the Company may remove a Executive have been separated, with Bill becoming the Chief Director by ordinary resolution with special notice before the expiration Executive and Graham Holden, previously one of our Non-Executive of their period of office.
There have been no Directors removed from Directors, becoming Non-Executive Chairman.
Having a combined Executive Chairman role is in breach of Independence Provision A.
2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The main The two Non-Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Chairman, principle of the Code, which is supported by Provision A.
2.1, is areconsidered to be independent in relation to the criteria set out in There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of Provision B.
1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the National the Company between the running of the Board and the executive Association of Pension Funds NAPF Corporate Governance Voting responsibility for the running of the Companys business.
No one Policy and Guidelines.
individual should have unfettered powers of decision.
To ensure that we complied with this principle while the dual role was in The Board reviews the independence of the Non-Executive Directors operation, we had the following measures in place throughout: each year, taking into account the length of tenure, relationships and circumstances as well as considering the behaviour of each Director I we had a strong Board, including experienced Non-Executive atBoard meetings and whether or not they contribute to unbiased Directors.
Our Senior Independent Director, Tony Illsley, along andindependent debate.
All of the Non-Executive Directors and the with the Executive Chairman and the other Non-Executive Non-Executive Chairman were independent upon appointment and Directors, was responsible for ensuring that there was a culture theBoard believes that all three remain wholly independent.
of openness, debate and challenge among the Board members.
Also, Tony Illsley and the other Non-Executive Directors were Commitments of the Chairman always available to any shareholders who requested a meeting During the year under review, Bill Halbert worked full-time for the or wanted to voice concerns, although no such meetings Company as Executive Chairman.
He also sat on the boards of a wererequested: number of smaller private limited companies but these did not require asignificant time commitment and he managed successfully these I we had an equal number of Executive and Non-Executive commitments alongside his role at KCOM Group.
His commitments Directors on the Board and a clear schedule of Matters havenot changed significantly in the year.
Reserved for the Board so that no single group or individual was able to dominate decision-making: From 1 April 2014, Graham Holden was appointed as Non-Executive I the Company Secretary, along with the Executive Chairman, Chairman.
Graham currently has no other significant commitments.
was responsible for ensuring that there was the right flow of information to the Board and that the Board agenda covered all of the topics that the Board should be considering: I each of our four operating brands has its own Managing Director, separate from the Executive Chairman, who all had access to the other Executive Directors and, along with other members of senior management, met with the Non-Executive Directors on a regular basis to enable information to be exchanged first hand and to provide the Non-Executive Directors with greater insight and understanding of Group operations outside of the boardroom: and I our Executive Chairman received training on his responsibilities as an Executive Director and as the Chairman of the Board and was careful to ensure that he did not perform one role at the expense of the other.
The Senior Independent Director supported him in this and acted as a sounding board for the Executive Chairman when required.
KCOM Group PLC 32 Annual report and accounts 2013 14 Directors report Board length of service Director Appointment 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Graham Holden 27 November 2007 Bill Halbert 1 September 2006 Paul Simpson 24 May 2004 Kevin Walsh 24 May 2004 Tony Illsley 2 June 2009 Martin Towers 2 June 2009 UK Corporate Governance Code strategicprogrammes and regular reports on health, safety and Apart from the exception noted opposite, the Board considers that environmental matters and other areas of corporate responsibility.
ithas complied with all the detailed provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2014.
Board meetings are held at various KCOM Group sites throughout the year and the Board seeks to regularly meet with senior management Since 1 April 2014, following Graham Holdens appointment as from the four brands to gain further insight into the day-to-day Chairmanofthe Board, there are currently two Non-Executive Directors operation of the business and the key risks and opportunities facing andthree Executive Directors which is in breach of provision B.
1.2 of the code, each part of the business.
which requires at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman to beindependent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is actively seeking There is a schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board which is reviewed anewNon-Executive Director to correct this imbalance.
In addition, and updated each year.
This schedule requires that specific matters KevinWalsh has chosen not to stand for re-election at the AGM which relating to budgets, strategy, performance against objectives, financial willreduce the number of Executive Directors to two.
In addition, provision reporting, internal controls, communications, remuneration and governance, C. 3.1 of the code requires the Audit Committee membership to be made along with any proposed changes to business operations or the upof at least three independent Non-Executive Directors.
Since 1 April 2014 structure and capital of the Company, are referred to the Board for the Group has therefore been inbreach of this requirement, but will consideration and approval.
rectify this when the new Non-Executive Director is appointed to theBoard.
The Board reviews also contractual clauses escalated to the Board through our contracting risk framework and business cases escalated The Board as a whole is committed entirely to the principle of achieving inaccordance with our Group-wide delegations of authority.
and maintaining a high standard of corporate governance.
The UK Corporate Governance Code is available on the Financial Reporting The Board considers the role of the Company Secretary to be pivotal in Council website at www.
ensuring that the Group and the Board has the right governance in place and that Board processes follow best practice.
Our Company Secretary, How the Board operates Kathy Smith, was appointed to the role in 2010 and has been with the The Board has eight scheduled meetings a year, with other adhoc Group for over eight years.
She is a Chartered Accountant and Graduate meetings held as needed.
During the year, the Board met 10 times.
member of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Thetwo additional meetings were specifically held to review the details of a significant sales contract and to review progress in relation to a The Company Secretary meets with each of the Directors individually large-scale internal project.
Attendance at the meetings during the year asnecessary to discuss governance-related matters and provides a is shown in the table opposite.
Five of the meetings were preceded the governance report to the Board on a monthly basis.
The Directors are evening before by an informal meeting, allowing more time todebate able also to obtain independent professional advice at the Groups issues in depth.
At each meeting the Board considers all aspects of Group performance, including past performance and the future long-term success and Attendance at Board meetings strategic aims of the Group.
Director Number of meetings Out of possible The Board agenda is set each month by the Chairman with input from Graham Holden 10 10 the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary.
In addition, any of the Non-Executive Directors can request a matter to be added to the Bill Halbert 10 10 agenda at any time.
Paul Simpson 10 10 The Board receives reports each month on financial performance, people Kevin Walsh 10 10 matters, investor relations, governance, compliance and risk.
These Tony Illsley 10 10 reports are circulated every month, regardless of whether or not a Board meeting is scheduled.
There are also regular updates on key projects and Martin Towers 10 10 Chairman for the year under review.
KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 14 33 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance continued Balance of Executive and Senior management team by gender, Non-Executive Directors as at 31 March excluding Directors as at 31 March Executive Directors Female 50% 6 Non-Executive Directors Male 50% 11 The balance of the Board While we do not have currently any female representation on the The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the balance of Groups Board of Directors, 35 per cent of our senior management team the Board to ensure that it continues to meet the current and future is female.
This is broadly comparable with the proportion of women requirements of the Group.
across the Group as a whole, which sits at 37 per cent.
There is a Board Appointments policy in place, which sets out the Training and development procedure that will be followed in the event of a Board vacancy being The Board receives monthly updates on governance-related matters identified, along with the approach of the Board to diversity.
andmore formal training where appropriate.
Potential training needs are discussed as part of individual performance evaluation, plus each Director The key principle set out in the policy is that the Board will seek always is given the opportunity to flag any additional training requirements which toappoint on merit, in line with the current and foreseeable future they may have identified as part of the annual Board evaluation process.
The Board recognises the benefits of diversity of all types, including gender diversity, and will aim always to develop Performance evaluation thediversity of the Board, while remaining true to the key principle of For the previous 10 years the Board has undertaken a formal internal appointing on merit.
The Board is currently actively seeking a new process to evaluate the effectiveness of its own performance, as well independent Non-Executive Director and has specifically requested that asthat of its various Committees.
Following the admission of the Group there should be female candidates on the shortlist.
The Board has back into the FTSE 350 in September 2011, the Board wishes to comply committed to appoint at least one female director to the Board by the with the requirements ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code to perform time of the AGM in 2015, whether it is through this next appointment or an externally facilitated evaluation in 2014.
Given the changes to the an additional future appointment.
Board that were announced inNovember 2013, which came into effect on 1 April 2014, it was decided todelay this external review until the new The Board Appointments policy states also that the Nomination Board structure was in place.
Thereview is therefore currently underway Committee will ensure that it only uses executive search firms that have and is being facilitated by Independent Audit Limited, who do not provide signed up to the voluntary Code of Conduct addressing gender diversity any other services to the Group.
and best practice, that female applicants are given the same consideration and opportunity asmale applicants and that gender In addition to the evaluation process, the Executive Chairman met diversity is considered specifically when drawing up a list of witheach Board member individually during the year to discuss their potentialcandidates.
own performance and the Non-Executive Directors met separately to discuss the performance of the Executive Chairman.
The feedback In addition, through the Board Appointments policy, the Board has fromthis meeting was then passed on to the Executive Chairman by committed to: the SeniorIndependent Director.
The individual evaluation process will continue under the new Chairman, with feedback to the Non-Executive I continue to seek to identify and develop the talented individuals Chairman again being provided by the Senior Independent Director.
inthe Group, regardless of gender: I review regularly the proportion of women at each level in the The Non-Executive Directors have regular dialogue with each other organisation to ensure that equal opportunities are being presented concerning Board matters and the Executive Chairman met with the to individuals at every level: and Non-Executive Directors, without the other Directors present, at regular I ensure always that there is a confidential way in which concerns intervals during the year.
The Non-Executive Directors also met formally canbe raised without fear of repercussion if anyone, regardless of during the year without any of the Executive Directors presentto gender, has a concern about the opportunities available to them.
discuss matters, including the performance of the ExecutiveChairman.
In 2013 the areas of focus that were identified through the Board evaluation process were: Area identified What have we done?
Succession planning at both a Board Succession planning at a Board level has been much discussed during the year as a result of the andsenior management level.
Board changes that have been announced.
At a senior management level there has also been a greater focus and it has been agreed that this will be a regular area for Board discussion in the future.
Future brand strategy in relation to There have been regular brand strategy updates provided to the Board throughout the changing customer requirements as year, including presentations from each of the brand Managing Directors.
Future customer aresult of developingtechnology.
requirements are frequently discussed, as well as new developments in technology.
KCOM Group PLC 34 Annual report and accounts 2013 14 Directors report Attendance at Committee meetings Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Director Numberof Out of Director Numberof Out of Director Numberof Out of meetings possible meetings possible meetings possible Martin Towers Tony Illsley Graham Holden Chairman 3 3 Chairman 4 4 Chairman 3 3 Graham Holden 3 3 Graham Holden 4 4 Tony Illsley 3 3 Tony Illsley 3 3 Martin Towers 4 4 Martin Towers 3 3 Board Committees During the year, the decision was taken to appoint Graham Holden as The Board has established and delegated specific responsibilities to the Chairman of the Board.
This was a recommendation to the Board from following Committees.
Each Committee reports back to the Board after the Nomination Committee, following consultations with our largest each meeting and minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to all shareholders and detailed discussions relating to the skills and Board members, where appropriate, to ensure that the whole Board is experience required from the Chairman.
aware of the matters considered by the Committees.
It was decided following these discussions, and taking into account his Audit Committee existing experience of the Group, that Graham was the best candidate The membership and attendance at Committee meetings during for the role and that anexternal search would therefore not be theyear is shown in the table above.
Details of the role of the Audit beneficial for the Group.
Committee are given on pages 38 to 40.
From 1 April 2014 Graham Holden stepped down from the Audit Committee.
The Board is currently The Committee is responsible also for considering succession planning actively seeking a new independent Non-Executive Director, who will for the Directors and for key senior management across the Group, join the Audit .
although this is a matter considered also by the full Board.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee reviews annually the time required from The membership and attendance at Committee meetings during the each of the Directors to perform their role effectively.
Following this year is shown in the table above.
review in the year, the Committee is satisfied that each of the Directors has committed sufficient time during the year to fulfil their duties as From 1 April 2014 Tony Illsley stepped down as Chairman of the Directors of the Company.
Nomination Committee and Graham Holden has been appointed as Committee Chairman in his place.
Tony will continue as a committee The Committee reviews the re-appointment of all of the Directors member going forward, alongside Martin Towers.
standing for re-election at the AGM, giving regard to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the requirements of the Board.
The Nomination Committee meets as often as required and is responsible The Nomination Committee then makes recommendations to the for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and ensuring Board on whether each Director should be put forward for re-election.
that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board is right for the Group, both in terms of the current challenges and opportunities facing The Committees Terms of Reference are in line with the recommendations the Group and the skills and expertise that are expected to be needed on in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the ICSA Guidance on Terms the Board in the future.
The approach of the Nomination Committee to of Reference for Nomination Committees.
Copies of the Terms of diversity on the Board is noted on the page opposite.
Reference are available from the Company Secretary and are on our website, www.
When Board vacancies arise, the Nomination Committee is responsible for preparing a description of the role and capabilities required for Remuneration Committee aparticular appointment and then identifying and nominating The membership and attendance at Committee meetings during the candidates for the approval of the Board.
In order to identify suitable year is shown in the table above.
The report of the Remuneration candidates the Committee uses open advertising or the services Committee and details of its role are given on pages 44 to 60. ofexternal advisors to facilitate the search, where appropriate.
The Board is currently seeking a new Non-Executive Director and appointed CTPartners as the executive search firm to lead the search.
The Nomination Committee provided the criteria for the required candidate to CTPartners and specifically requested that there should befemale candidates on the shortlist.
CTPartners does not provide any other services to the Group.
KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 14 35 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance continued Business model and key performance indicators Relations with shareholders Details of our business model can be found on pages 7 to 9 and our key We place a great deal of importance on communicating with our performance indicators are on pages 16 and 17. shareholders and understanding their views.
Our Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer meet regularly with our institutional Proposal to re-appoint the external auditors shareholders to discuss the strategy, performance and governance  LLP have advised of their willingness to of the Company and to obtain feedback.
During the year, meetings continue in office and have confirmed their continued independence.
have been held with 26 such shareholders.
There are also general Following consideration of the relationship with the external auditors, presentations following the half year and final results as described on page 40, the Audit Committee has recommended to announcements each year.
the Board that  LLP are re-appointed and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the AGM.
They have Feedback from meetings with shareholders is included as part provided an independent audit opinion on these accounts which can be ofthe monthly report to the Board and discussed at each Board found on pages 61 to 63. meeting, along with details of any analyst reports, to ensure that each of our Directors has a clear understanding of the views of Powers of the Directors ourshareholders.
Our Non-Executive Directors and Non-Executive The business of the Company is managed by the Directors, who may Chairman are available to meet face-to-face with our institutional exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the shareholders if requested to do so, although no such requests have Articles of Association, relevant statutes and any special resolution of been received during the year.
A large number of our individual shareholders live in the Hull and The Articles of Association give the Directors the power to authorise East Yorkshire region and, as a Group: we are very much involved in conflicts of interest in relation to transactions or arrangements with the local life in the area.
More information about our community Company, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Conflicts of activities is on page 26.
We believe that being a part of local life interest are a standing agenda item at Board meetings and each enables us to learn more about our local shareholders and the Director proposes any potential conflicts for consideration as soon as issues that matter to them.
they become aware of them.
The Director with the potential conflict is excluded from the vote to authorise the transaction or arrangement.
We consider our AGM to be an important means of communication between our shareholders and Directors.
All of our Directors are Any conflicts that are authorised are then logged on a register, along available at the AGM to answer questions and we seek to encourage with details of any specific terms imposed upon authorisation.
Internal shareholder participation by inviting questions in advance.
controls are in place to ensure that transactions or arrangements which may lead to a potential conflict of interest are conducted on an arms We use electronic voting at our AGM each year.
The results ofvoting, length basis.
including the proxy votes lodged, are shown to shareholders in the meeting and are made available subsequently on our website.
All of our Company announcements are published on our website, www.
com, together with presentation materials and financial reports, so that all of our shareholders can keep up to date with our news.
KCOM Group PLC 36 Annual report and accounts 2013 14 Directors report Managing risk Risk management framework effectively is key We have a risk management framework in place to help us to formally identify, assess, measure, manage and monitor our key risks.
We define key risks to be anything that may toeverything prevent us from meeting our objectives.
The framework has been developed in accordance thatwedo.
with guidance from the Financial Reporting Council and provides us with a single picture ofthe threats and uncertainties we face.
This enables the Board and senior management We believe that by to make appropriate decisions to manage the key risks.
understanding and Risk identification anticipating our risks we canmanage them properly: By our whistleblowing By external or wetherefore do not seek to By our people process internalaudits eliminate risk but instead we take considered risks where necessary to help the business remain competitive and to Risk recording achieve our objectives.
Risks are assigned a senior management Risk management is built Risks are added to our risk register and owner who is responsible for documenting rated for probability and impact intoall our processes.
We also a mitigation plan on the risk register have a Risk team, which has specific responsibility for health, safety, environmental and legal risks, internal audit, Auditing insurance, governance and all Audit issues, management Audit issues are assigned a matters relating to standards If a risk is auditable it is responses and progress senior management owner added to the internal against action plans are and compliance.
to determine the action auditplan reported to the Audit plan to mitigate the issue Committee three times a year We recognise that our internal control systems can provide only reasonable and not Risk reporting absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The risk registers are The risk registers are reviewed by the Risk The risk registers are reviewed and updated by Committee three times a reported to the Board three the risk owners on a year for completeness and times a year regularbasis consistency in ratings Risk management responsibilities The Board Risk Committee The Board has overall responsibility for deciding the acceptable level The Risk Committee consists of senior management representatives ofrisk that the Group may take to achieve its objectives.
It is responsible from across the Group and meets bi-monthly to consider all types also for ensuring that the Group maintains sound internal control and risk ofrisk.
External advisors and subject-matter experts from within the management systems, as well as reviewing the effectiveness of those Group are invited to attend the meetings as and when appropriate systems.
In order to do this, the Board receives regular reports from senior toprovide insight or expertise on particular risk topics.
management, the Internal Audit team and the external auditors, via the Audit Committee, on the effectiveness of the systems of internal control The Committee is responsible for reviewing progress in mitigating risks and risk management.
The Board is satisfied that the systems are and discussing and agreeing actions relating to any new risks that have embedded within the day-to-day activities of the business and cover all been identified.
The Committee prepares a report for the Board after material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls each meeting.
and that the Group continues to be compliant with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to internalcontrol.
KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 14 37 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance continued Meetings Audit Committee There were three meetings held in the year: in June, November and March.
The June meeting was used to review the year end external Responsibilities audit and year end financial reporting, the November meeting to The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the Board and is consider the half year review and financial reporting and the March responsible for reviewing all aspects of the financial reporting of the meeting to consider the planning for the year end.
Group and all aspects of internal control.
In doing so, the Committee represents the interests of the shareholders of the Group in relation to Each meeting included agenda items relating to internal audit, financial the integrity of information and the effectiveness of the audit processes reporting and external audit.
The areas discussed under each item are in place.
noted in the table below: Composition The Audit Committee during the year under review has consisted of the Area Discussion three Non-Executive Directors.
Further information on the membership Internal audit The internal audit agenda item focuses on the audits and meeting attendance is on page 35.
From 1 April 2014 Graham performed in the period, including any significant issues Holden was appointed to the role of Non-Executive Chairman and identified.
A report setting out previous audit issues raised and the progress made to mitigate the issues is also consequently stepped down from the Audit Committee, in accordance discussed at each meeting.
A review of the internal audit with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The plan for the period to the next Audit Committee meeting Board is currently seeking an additional Non-Executive Director and, also takes place.
when appointed, the new Non-Executive Director will become a Financial The Group Financial Controller talks through the key member of the Audit Committee.
reporting judgement areas in relation to financial reporting and sets out the decisions made and the rationale behind these.
The Committee is chaired by Martin Towers, who has significant These are covered in more detail on page 20. recentfinancial experience.
He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered External audit The representatives from  LLP set Accountants in England and Wales and has held a number of senior out the audit approach, the key audit risks, an overview of finance roles, including working as Group Finance Director at Kelda Group internal controls and a view on the key audit and accounting PLC until 2008.
The Board considers therefore that he has the relevant matters, as well as how  LLP financial experience to fulfil the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee.
ensures its continuing independence from the Group.
Committee meetings are also attended by the Executive Directors, the Group Financial Controller, the Company Secretary, the Head of Internal Audit and representatives from the external auditors.
The external Each year the Audit Committee is also responsible for: auditors meet also with individual members of the Audit Committee I seeking the view of the external auditors on any accounting during the year, without the other attendees present.
The Head of judgements made in the year: Internal Audit also meets separately with the Chairman of the Audit I considering the consistency and appropriateness of the accounting Committee without the other attendees present.
policies adopted: I reviewing the financial statements of the Group and the clarity of the disclosures made, although the ultimate responsibility for reviewing andapproving the annual report and financial statements remains withthe Board: I reviewing the adequacy of the whistleblowing procedures in place toenable employees and third parties to raise concerns in confidence, as well as the effectivenessand independence of any investigations undertaken as a result of suchconcerns beingraised: I reviewing the procedures in place for the detection of fraud and the prevention of bribery across the Group: and I overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, as noted inmoredetail on page40.
The Committees Terms of Reference are in line with the recommendations in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators Guidance on Terms of Reference for Audit Committees.
Copies of the Terms of Reference are available from the Company Secretary and are on our website at www.
See also 18 Risk management KCOM Group PLC 38 Annual report and accounts 2013 14 Directors report Audit Committee continued Significant issues relating to the financial statements The specific issues considered by the Audit Committee in the year under review, in relation to the financial statements, are shown in the table below.
How the Committee was satisfiedwith the Any changes arising from discussion by the Nature of the issue treatment adopted bymanagement Committee Pension accounting assumptions Pension accounting is complex and there are a number The approach to the assumptions made was in line The assumptions were debated bytheCommittee.
of assumptions that have to be made, which can have a withprevious years and the Committee was satisfied No changes were made as the Committee concluded significant impact on the valuation of scheme liabilities.
that this was satisfactory given the reasonable nature that it was inagreement with the treatment adopted of the previous assumptions and the fact that there This is a recurring matter.
were no reasons identified to require a revision to theseassumptions.
Capitalisation of intangible assets on internal projects There is a significant internal project currently ongoing The approach adopted by management in relation to The Committee challenged the approach to the to implement a new back office system.
Costs relating the capitalisation of internal salaries was consistent capitalisation and the proposed useful economic life tothis are being capitalised in line with accounting with that previously adopted for other IT projects.
and concluded that it was in agreement with the standards but there have been judgements made treatment adopted by management.
Management also noted that the expected benefits inrelation tothe proportion of internal salaries ofthe project were still believed to be in line with thatshould be capitalised for this project and the theoriginal business case and therefore there was recoverability of the carrying value ofthe asset.
notrigger to indicate a potential impairment of the This will be a recurring matter while there are significant asset carrying value.
Valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets Testing goodwill and other intangible assets for A full impairment assessment was performed at the year The Committee challenged the assumptions and potential impairment is complex and requires a number end and this was discussed in detail by the Committee, concluded that nochanges were required.
of management estimates to be made, which inevitably along with the assumptions made and the sensitivities in require judgement.
It was concluded that there was no indication of impairment and that the This is a recurring matter.
Accounting for judgements in significant contracts There are a number of significant contracts in place The rationale for each judgement was clearly set out The Committee discussed the rationale for each area within the Group, some of which have changed during tothe Committee and discussed at length.
It was ofjudgement and agreed with the rationale applied the year.
The contract changes require some management concluded that the rationale for each was reasonable bymanagement.
judgement in relation to how to account for the changes.
and consistent with previous years, where applicable.
This is a matter that is specific to the year under review.
Exceptional costs Management judgement around when costs should be There is an established and well-defined policy in place No changes were made as the Committee was in treated as exceptional is always an area for review.
in relation to the classification of costs as exceptional agreement with the treatment adopted by management.
and this has not changed in the year.
Management had This is a recurring matter.
followed this policy and therefore the Committee was satisfied with the treatment adopted by management.
KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 14 39 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance continued Risk management and internal control Audit Committee continued The Audit Committee reviews the Groups internal controls and risk management systems through the work performed by the internal and External audit external auditors and reports to the Board on the effectiveness of such The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the relationship with systems.
The internal control and risk management systems have not the external auditors to ensure that the external auditors continue to be changed during the year and the Committee is satisfied that any audit independent, objective and effective in their work, as well as issues raised by either the internal or external auditors are being considering the re-appointment of the auditors each year.
adequately followed up and closed down on a timely basis.
 LLP were appointed as auditors in 2006 Internal audit following a comprehensive tender process.
Following a partner rotation, Our Internal Audit team consists of two qualified accountants, both the current audit partner, Ian Morrison, was appointed to the audit in with a Big Four background.
The team performs financial, operational 2011.
Each year the Committee considers the continued independence and compliance audits, assessing each potential audit area according of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the external audit to the risk associated with it and the level of assurance already in place: process, to determine whether to recommend to the Board that the this then enables the audit to be appropriately prioritised and built into current auditors be re-appointed, also taking into consideration the the audit plan as necessary.
The audit plan is brought to each Audit desire to comply with the requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Committee meeting, where it is considered and approved.
Code to tender the external audit at least every 10 years and the transitional arrangements in place in relation to this.
The internal auditors report to the Audit Committee at each meeting onthe adequacy and effectiveness of the financial, operational and There are no contractual obligations in place which would restrict the compliance controls in place across the Group.
The Audit Committee choice of external auditors by the Committee.
isresponsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit team and does this through reviewing the internal audit The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the external reports presented to the Committee and through the Chairman of the audit process in the year through the reports received from the external Audit Committee meeting separately with the Head of Internal Audit auditors and the close working of the internal audit team with the outside of the Committee.
The Committee has concluded that the external auditprocess was effective and is satisfied that the scope of the The Committee also reviews the adequacy of management responses auditisappropriate and that significant judgements have been to the audit issues raised and monitors the closure of issues on a timely robustlychallenged.
basis through a regular report from the internal audit team.
In addition  LLP has formally confirmed its The internal and external audit teams work closely together to ensure continued independence and the measures they have taken to ensure that all key risk areas are covered and that the work performed by one that they comply with best practice and professional and regulatory team feeds into the work of the other.
The Committee believes that audit partner rotation is a significant factor in ensuring continued independence and Financial risk management objectivity by reducing the risk of familiarity while retaining the detailed Each part of our business produces an annual budget which is reviewed understanding of the business which the external auditors have gained by senior management and ultimately approved by the Board.
longer-term six year plan is also in place which is updated annually and approved by the Board to enable it to have a clear longer-term view of We have an Engagement of External Auditors policy which covers the financial projections.
selection of firms to perform non-audit work.
This policy excludes the auditors from providing certain services, such as internal audit services, We also prepare a quarterly forecast and performance against budget and litigation support, remuneration advice and legal advice services.
All quarterly forecast is monitored at monthly senior management meetings other non-audit work is assessed separately and is awarded to the firm and reported to, and reviewed by, the Board each month.
Further information considered best suited to perform the work.
Any such work with a fee about the financial risk management policies in place, and in particular the greater than 25 per cent of the annual audit fee must be approved by way in which credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency the Chairman of the Audit Committee before the external auditors may risk are managed, is in note 26 to the accounts.
Controls around consolidation During the year the fee for the external audit of the Group and its The basis of consolidation for the financial statements is detailed in note subsidiaries, along with other services pursuant to legislation, was 2 to the accounts.
Strong controls are in place around the process for 263,000 2013: 228,000.
In addition to this, the external auditors preparing consolidated accounts.
The work of consolidation is performed provided services to the value of 111,000 2013: 21,000 relating to by experienced, qualified accountants and a review of the consolidation taxadvisory services and pensions-related work.
In these areas the forms part of the audit work performed by our external auditors.
auditors were considered the mostappropriate firm to perform the work.
Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out onpages 18 and 19 of the Strategic report.
KCOM Group PLC 40 Annual report and accounts 2013 14
