Nomination Committee report Phil White Committee Chair Dear shareholders, Chief executive succession The major decision taken by the Committee during the The principal purpose of the Nomination Committee the year related to the chief executives succession.
Committee is to lead the process for the appointment of new directors to the Board whether executive or The Committee assessed the skills, competencies and non-executive, ensuring that the Board has an appropriate qualities required for the position and JCA Group, which is balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge.
a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive In particular, the Committee is responsible for Board Search Firms, was engaged to undertake the search to succession in order to ensure that the composition identify potential candidates.
JCA Group has no other of the Board is appropriate to manage future growth.
The Committee assessed and compared the merits of the candidates, before The Committee oversaw a number of changes to the recommending the appointment of Haydn Mursell to the Board during 2014 and its role in relation to each Board.
When making its recommendation, the Committee of these changes is set out below.
The appointments noted that Haydn was well-regarded by key stakeholders of both Haydn Mursell as chief executive and Kirsty in particular, shareholders and employees and had Bashforth as a non-executive director illustrate the gained significant experience of the Groups operations Boards commitment to planning succession and diversity.
since joining in 2010, having assumed operational responsibility for the property division in June 2013.
One of the key areas of focus for the financial year ending 30 June 2015 will be to continue to work with the executive Finance director management on succession planning, ensuring that the The Committee also engaged JCA Group to identify a future leaders of the business are identified and developed.
finance director following Haydns appointment as chief executive.
Having interviewed and assessed a number Composition of internal and external candidates, the Committee The members of the Committee are: recommended to the Board that Beverley Dew should be Phil White chair appointed to the role.
The Committee was impressed, in Richard Bailey particular, with Beverleys recent experience of operating Kirsty Bashforth within the construction, services and residential sectors.
Amanda Mellor The Committee was of the opinion that he would work well Nick Winser with the other members of the Board and would provide appropriate challenge to the other executive directors and At the invitation of the Committee, any other director support to the Board on financial and other matters or other person may attend meetings of the Committee.
The secretary of the Committee is the company secretary.
The Committee met formally three times in 2014.
Changes to non-executive roles Following the retirement of Chris Geoghegan from the Role Board in February 2014, the Committee recommended The role of the Committee includes: that the Board should make the following changes to the Regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition roles of the non-executive directors: including the skills, knowledge, experience and Richard Bailey became the senior independent diversity of the Board and making recommendations non-executive director, in addition to his existing role as to the Board with regard to any changes: the chair of the Risk Management and Audit Committee: Identifying, reviewing and recommending candidates Amanda Mellor became the chair of the Remuneration to the Board: and Committee: and Considering succession planning for the Board and I took on the role of chair of the Nomination Committee.
other senior executives, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and the skills and The Committee was of the view that each of these expertise required by the Board in the future.
individuals had recent and relevant experience for their new roles.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 60 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appointment of non-executive director Priorities for 2015 Following Chris Geoghegans retirement from the Board, The priorities for the Committee during 2015 will include: the Committee considered the overall composition of the Ensuring that the results of the 2014 Board Board.
The Committee agreed that the Board needed performance evaluation process are implemented to appoint a non-executive director so as to ensure an satisfactorily: appropriate balance between the number of executive and Overseeing the completion of Kirsty Bashforths non-executive directors, in terms of their respective skills, induction: experience, independence and knowledge.
Ensuring that, upon arrival, Beverley Dew receives When considering the required skills and experience of an appropriate induction: and the new non-executive director, the Committee focused Senior management succession planning to establish on the recent significant change in the business the internal pipeline for potential Board members, and decided to appoint an individual with experience ensuring that the future leaders of the Group in organisational design.
As Head of Organisational are identified.
Effectiveness at BP plc, Kirsty Bashforth has recent and The terms of reference for the Committee can be viewed relevant experience in this area and is highly regarded on the Companys website: http: www.
within the organisation, having worked closely with members of BPs senior management over a number of years in a variety of different roles.
A brief biography Phil White setting out Kirstys experience is set out on page 54.
Having identified its requirements, and on the basis of its Chair of the Nomination Committee own, internal process which included taking references from senior and experienced sources, the Committee did not consider it necessary to use an external search consultancy or advertising in relation to the appointment.
The Committee welcomes the introduction of provisions in the Code which require the consideration of diversity at board level.
However, the Committee does not consider that the setting of targets is necessarily in the best interests of the Group and, instead, prefers to consider all aspects of diversity including gender when assessing the composition of the Board and any future appointments.
The range of skills and experience which the last two non-executive directors to have been appointed, Kirsty Bashforth and Amanda Mellor, bring to the Board clearly demonstrate the Committees commitment to diversity.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61
