Resources, relationships and sustainability As we provide a greater breadth of services to more customers across a wider geography, we maintain our emphasis on our responsibility to deliver social, environmental and economic value.
In response to these requirements, a stakeholder Introduction engagement exercise was undertaken to identify and This year a number of new factors have significantly fully understand the social, environmental, governance influenced the Groups approach to social and and ethical issues that are today most important to our environmental matters.
These include: customers, staff, investors, supply chain partners and The growing impact of the Social Value Act on clients other stakeholders in their relationship with the Group.
contract procurement criteria: Further details are set out below under Stakeholder The changing investor view of risk and responsible engagement.
business, including changes to the FTSE4Good grading assessment process: Governance The introduction of the Governments CAESER During the year, we revised the composition of the Group Corporate Assessment of Environmental, Social and Corporate Responsibility CR Steering Committee to better Economic Responsibility Supplier Sustainability develop and launch, then implement and manage our Reporting: new strategy for sustainability from 2015.
This committee The evolving legislative and regulatory framework within comprises representatives from the central CR, environmental, which we operate, including mandatory greenhouse gas HR and procurement functions as well as from the business.
emissions reporting: In addition, we established a new central CR function to The acquisition and integration of May Gurney: and develop the Groups revised CR programme and reporting The Groups growing international portfolio of work.
strategy, as well as to advise and support the operational Recognising the critical importance of several of these teams in the delivery of this strategy.
key intangible, non-financial issues, we are taking steps to address all of our corporate responsibilities to help improve and sustain the future value of our business.
Our performance Employees and training Social The Group has continued to increase investment in new entrant Accident Incidence Rate AIR programmes and training across the business, demonstrated by a 20% The Groups AIR rate reflects its commitment to create safe working increase in the number of apprenticeships offered by the Group and a environments through clear and disciplined leadership.
Our aim is 50% increase in the vocational qualifications delivered to our operatives.
to achieve continuous improvement in AIR and remain below the Number of employees in registered development Health and Safety Executive HSE benchmark for the industry in the UK.
programmes: Kier Group AIR per 100,000 HSE benchmark AIR Programme 2014 2013 employees and subcontractors : per 100,000 : Day release Further Education 147 137 1 Craft Apprenticeships 294 230 344 414 2 Foundation Degrees 123 148 2013: 506 32% reduction 2013: 589 30% reduction NVQ operatives 742 505 1 This figure includes delivery of a 43% improvement in the AIR of Kier MG to 663 2013: 1,168 and a 26% improvement in Kier UK to 248 2013: 333.
NVQ supervisory management 58 61 The combined UK business and the Group as a whole have AIR rates below Undergraduates sponsored the HSE UK benchmark.
2 students 47 45 Adjusted pro forma comparative figure.
Graduate schemes 238 251 Community engagement Total 1,649 1,377 The Group is committed to supporting and engaging with the communities in which it works.
Through the continued enthusiasm and energy of our employees, we continue to support a wide range Diversity of community projects across the UK and in doing so supported At the end of the financial year, the breakdown of male female over 39,000 individuals.
employees was as follows: Employee hours given Equivalent value of Male Female employee hours Main Board directors inc. non-executive directors 6 2 161,799 2.9m Directors senior managers 221 15 2013: 185,486 2013: 3.5m Managers 2,004 303 The integration of May Gurney and restructuring affected the extent of data All employees 10,694 2,756 capture for our community activity for 2014.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 28 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Stakeholder engagement In June 2014, we formally engaged with our stakeholders The most important areas identified were: to identify relevant sustainability issues when interacting Carbon and greenhouse gas emissions with the Group.
This exercise will also help the Group to define Energy how it reports to its stakeholders, what benchmarking it Local communities adopts and how it measures its performance in the future.
Training, education and apprenticeships Participants included representatives of the Waste management, materials use and market following organisations: influence Financial performance and customer satisfaction Clients: Investors analysts: Health and safety Grainger Plc Broker Profile EDF Energy Legal & General Other issues identified and discussed were: East Sussex County Council Investment Water Network Rail Biodiversity Employee Circle Housing Group Labour practices representation: Watford Borough Council Governance Property Test Valley Borough Council Construction The process was facilitated by KPMG who have produced British Land Services a report for the stakeholders who participated.
This Anglian Water will assist in the development of a new Strategy for Supply chain: Sustainability to be launched in 2015, following Through the Supply Chain further consultation with these stakeholders.
Sustainability School These companies submitted responses to our stakeholder exercise and continue dialogue and interaction on sustainability issues.
Environmental Our mission is to reduce the impact of our activities on the environment by improving resource efficiency, prioritising reduction in waste and carbon emissions.
Emissions data in respect of the 2013 14 reporting period is as follows: Notes: Our methodology is based on the principles of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol using Emission type CO e tonnes 2 the boundary of financial control.
For further detail on our reporting methodology please see our reporting guidelines at www.
co. uk  Scope 1: Operation of Facilities 0 downloads.
Scope 1: Combustion 113,399 The period of our report is 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 to mirror our reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
TOTAL Scope 1 Emissions 113,399 The acquisition of May Gurney has led to an additional 26,689 tCO e being reported 2 in this period.
Scope 2: Purchased Energy 12,192 The Group has not previously reported our international operations carbon TOTAL Scope 2 Emissions 12,192 footprints.
The impact of this is to add 10,666 tCO e to our carbon footprint.
2 Turnover figure represents calendar year, not financial year.
Total Emissions 125,590 Statement of exclusion: The Group has excluded our fugitive emissions associated with refrigerant leaks as Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity Ratio: insufficient information is available across the Group to report these at this time.
Action has already been taken to ensure reporting of this in future years.
Total Footprint Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO e 125,590 2 Turnover 2,439,243,000 Intensity Ratio tCO e 100,000 5.15 2 Turnover figure represents calendar year, not financial year.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29 Resources, relationships and sustainability continued During the year we reviewed the roles and responsibilities This strategy will also seek to address better the different of business unit CR representation, resulting in the issue demands of our growing international operations.
of a revised CR Representatives job description and the Benchmarking and KPIs re-appointment of a network of such roles across most Some of our CR KPIs and benchmarking criteria are shown business streams.
They are key to gathering and collating on pages 28 to 30.
These are currently under review to align data on many front-line CR-related activities, particularly in them with the Groups Vision 2020 strategy.
the areas of community engagement and local skills support.
Having achieved 95% Platinum Big Tick in the Business Health and safety in the Community BITC CR Index retained for 2014, 80% Operating safely is a priority.
Every accident is preventable, in CAESER reporting, 81 in our Carbon Disclosure Project and it is part of our vision to have a zero Accident Incidence submission and many national sustainability awards in the Rate AIR across the Group.
We are already achieving this in past, including Considerate Constructors Scheme and Green some of our operations and we have significantly reduced the Apple awards, we are now re-examining the criteria through rate of accidents within the May Gurney business since we which we will benchmark in future, including which Global acquired it.
However, despite this improving trend, there were Reporting Initiative GRI guidelines we adhere to GRI3 or G4.
tragically two work related fatalities during the year in our joint venture operations, one in Hong Kong and one on the Crossrail project.
Both accidents are subject to further investigations.
Strategy for Sustainability The findings from the stakeholder engagement survey are being used to develop the Groups new Strategy for Sustainability to be launched in early 2015.
Subsequently each division and business stream will adopt their own sustainability strategies which will be aligned with the Groups strategy, and focus on their specific stakeholders.
Our performance Customer performance Services Marketplace The Services division has piloted a method of measuring customer Customer satisfaction surveys Construction loyalty to drive customer focus across the business.
Construction division data relates to KPIs taken from across the Results of pulse check surveys have allowed us to better business and includes specific data on customer satisfaction based understand customer loyalty, customer effort i. e. how easy we are on a questionnaire completed by clients.
to do business with, general satisfaction with our service and how we compare to our competitors.
2013 2014 Target This insight, combined with regular contract level client and Satisfaction product 8.17 8.31 8.5 consumer satisfaction surveys, is used to put in place service excellence plans tailored to individual customers.
Satisfaction service 8.48 8.58 8.5 Perception 9.18 8.95 8.7 Results Defects 8.22 8.43 8.2 Average score 8.5 8.6 8.5 Customer Loyalty 13% This reflects the percentage improvement in client survey scores for the Supply Chain Sustainability School Services division excluding May Gurney.
Number of unique company members of the school supplying to the Group: 1,081 2013: 800.
Customer satisfaction Group From 2014 we are introducing a consistent way of measuring client Considerate Constructors Scheme satisfaction across the Group.
Targets for responses and Since becoming an associate member of the Considerate Constructors performance will be set in line with Vision 2020 and its goals Scheme CCS in January 2008, Kier has registered over 2,000 sites relating to customer experience.
The Group is an associate member, proving its commitment to comply with all aspects of the Schemes Code of Considerate Practice: respect for the community, protection for the environment, securing everyones safety, valuing our workforce, caring about our appearance.
Average Industry 37.62 35.29 2013: 38.17 2013: 35.24 Target: To consistently exceed the industry average score by 2 points Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 30 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Continued engagement case study We are currently working closely with British Land through the use of one of the Groups projects, Glasgow Fort, acting as a pilot to test the implementation of their new Supply Chain Sustainability Charter.
This Charter addresses 12 major issues of sustainability under the four headings of: Social: Environmental: Ethical: and Management.
Since most of these topics selected by British Land mirror those identified through our stakeholder engagement exercise, our participation in this pilot scheme will help us to develop and then verify our alignment with other customer aspirations.
Customer engagement such as this will help the Group ensure that we understand and better deliver the financial and nonfinancial value to customers.
Customer satisfaction The Kier Foundation In order to demonstrate a sector-leading customer experience, The Kier Foundation, the registered charity that supports Kier we are introducing a new and consistent way of measuring employees in raising funds for good causes throughout the UK, customer service and client satisfaction across the Group.
provided 33,124 of support funding in the year for 123 employee events in aid of 76 charities and good causes.
The As we provide more services to more customers and a wider Foundation also concluded its relationship with the Groups mixture of individual clients, it is critical that we build upon the corporate charity partner, Barnardos, having raised 250,000 loyalty of our current clients and fully understand their service by June 2014.
The new Group corporate charity until June level expectations.
The data given opposite relates to both the Construction and The Kier Foundation is now an important part of the Kier Services divisions.
We have now agreed a new set of questions culture and provides an invaluable link between our employees for measuring client satisfaction in a consistent way across and their businesses and the local communities in which the Group.
Regular face-to-face discussions about our they operate.
performance take place throughout the life of our contracts and relationships with clients.
Formal measurement will be Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 recorded no less than annually.
Targets for responses and The full Kier Group CR Report 2014, which gives a broad performance levels will be set in line with Vision 2020 and review of our sustainability programme, activities and its goals relating to customer experience.
achievements in the year to 30 June 2014, is available to download from the Corporate Responsibility section of our Going forward, we will benchmark our performance against the website at www.
best in and out of sector and focus our business improvement This full report covers all of our CR performance data in the activities on delivering a sector-leading customer experience.
period and provides a range of information with a focus on social, environmental, marketplace and management issues.
Adding social, economic and environmental It also articulates in greater detail the work and achievements value to customer experience of The Kier Foundation.
The Groups financial success and ability to win new work will be affected by how we address our social and environmental KPMG LLP were engaged to deliver a limited assurance over responsibilities.
selected performance data presented in our full CR report.
For further details, KPMGs full assurance statement is on our The CR function works very closely with the bidding teams in website.
The full report has also been self-assessed to meet Construction and Services establishing a CR sustainability data the GRI reporting guidelines at level C in accordance with the base of best practice, data and case studies in support of G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
our tender activities which include an increasing number of  questions.
Members of the bid and best The CR section of our website www.
co. uk corporatepractice teams for Construction, Services and Property sit in the responsibility is regularly updated with the latest activities Group CR Steering Committee to ensure a joined-up approach and performance data and contains all of our latest to these issues.
reports, policies and contact details for the Group CR team.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31
