Board of directors Phil White CBE 65 Haydn Mursell 43 Steve Bowcott 59 Chairman Chief executive Chief operating officer Appointed chairman of the Group in Appointed chief executive with Re-joined Kier in January 2007 as January 2008, having joined as effect from 1 July 2014.
Joined Kier a director within the Construction non-executive director in July 2006.
He in August 2010 as finance director division.
He was appointed to the Board served as chief executive of National designate and took over the role of in July 2010 and was appointed as the Express Group plc from January 1997 group finance director in November chief operating officer in June 2013. to September 2006.
He also assumed operational He has operational responsibility for accountant and has extensive responsibility for the Property division the Groups construction and services experience within both listed in June 2013.
He has over 35 years and private companies.
He is currently deputy group finance director at experience in building, civil engineering chairman of Lookers plc and The Unite Balfour Beatty plc and, prior to that, and utilities with experience in both Group plc and a non-executive director UK finance director at Bovis Lend the UK and overseas and has led the of Stagecoach Group plc and Vp plc.
He is a member of the Institute integration of May Gurney and the He is chair of the Nomination of Chartered Accountants, having Groups recent business-efficiency Committee and a member of the trained and qualified at KPMG.
Committee membership Richard Bailey 62 Kirsty Bashforth 44 Key: Risk Management Non-executive director Non-executive director and Audit Committee Appointed to the Board with Appointed to the Board with effect effect from October 2010.
She has Remuneration Committee chartered accountant and a partner over 20 years of experience with BP in Rothschild, the global financial plc BP.
Her current role is Group Nomination Committee advisory business, where he has Head of Organisational Effectiveness, S afety, Health and spent most of his career.
He is having undertaken a number of other Environment Committee currently chairman of Rothschilds roles within BP, including leading a regional business.
He has been process and capability improvement involved in a range of private and programme across its global b2b public company work with a focus on marketing businesses, running its mergers, acquisitions, private equity European petrochemicals marketing, and capital raising.
He is the senior supply and logistics business and independent non-executive director, financial engineering and risk the chair of the Risk Management management roles.
She is a member and Audit Committee and a of all four Board committees.
member of the Nomination and Committee membership Remuneration Committees.
Committee membership Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 54 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Amanda Mellor 50 Nick Winser CBE 54 Hugh Raven 42 Non-executive director Non-executive director Company secretary Appointed to the Board with effect Appointed to the Board with effect from Joined the Group in April 2010, from December 2011.
He was a member of the having previously worked for top Group Secretary and Head of Corporate board of directors of National Grid plc City law firms, latterly as a partner Governance of Marks and Spencer from April 2003 to July 2014, during in Eversheds corporate department.
Group plc, having previously been which time he undertook a number of He has significant experience of a Head of Investor Relations at Marks senior roles within the organisation.
wide variety of legal and regulatory and Spencer and Director of Corporate He is a chartered engineer and a Fellow issues, having advised a number of Relations at Arcadia Group plc.
Prior to of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
clients in the construction sector.
this, she worked in investment banking He is Chairman of the IETs Power He has responsibility for the at James Capel and Robert Fleming.
Academy, Chairman of CIGRE UK and Groups legal affairs and is the She is a member of the Council of President of the European Network of company secretary.
Leeds University, where she is also a Transmission System Operators for visiting professor.
He is the chair of the Safety, secretary and a Fellow of the Chartered Health and Environment Committee Institute of Secretaries.
She is the chair and a member of the other three of the Remuneration Committee and a Board committees.
member of the other three Board committees.
Committee membership Committee membership Composition of the Board Length of tenure of non-executive director Richard Bailey: Executive 10 2010 Kirsty Bashforth: Non-executive 9 2014 Amanda Mellor: 12 2011 Phil White: 7 2006 Nick Winser: 3 2009 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55
