Corporate governance statement Compliance with The UK Corporate Governance Code The Board recognises the importance of high standards of corporate governance and is committed to managing the Groups operations in accordance with The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
A full version of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website: http: www.
The September 2012 edition of the Code applied throughout the year: however, the Listing Rules require the Company also to comply with the previous edition of the Code, which was issued in June 2010.
The Company complied with both editions of the Code throughout the year, the Main Principles having been applied as follows: A.
Effectiveness A1 The Boards role B1 The Boards composition B5 Provision of information and support The Board met formally 11 times during The Nomination Committee is responsible for The chairman, in conjunction with the company the year.
There is a clear schedule of matters regularly reviewing the composition of the secretary, ensures that all Board members reserved for the Board, together with delegated Board.
In making appointments to the Board, receive accurate and timely information.
the Nomination Committee considers the wide B6 Board and committee range of skills, knowledge and experience A2 A clear division of responsibilities performance evaluation required in order to maintain an effective board.
The roles of the chairman and chief executive During 2014, the Board and its committees are clearly defined.
Phil White, the chairman, is B2 Board appointments undertook an evaluation of their respective responsible for the leadership and effectiveness The appointment of new directors to the Board performances during 2014.
Details of the of the Board.
Haydn Mursell, the chief executive, is led by the Nomination Committee.
Further evaluation can be found on page 59. is responsible for leading the day-to-day details of the activities of the Nomination B7 Re-election of the directors management of the Group within the strategy Committee can be found on pages 60 and 61.
All directors were subject to shareholder set by the Board.
B3 Time commitments election or re-election at the 2013 annual A3 Role of the chairman On appointment, directors are notified of the general meeting, as will be the case at the The chairman sets the agendas for meetings, time commitment expected from them which, 2014 annual general meeting.
manages the meeting timetable in conjunction in practice, goes beyond that set out in the with the company secretary and facilitates letter of appointment.
External directorships, open and constructive dialogue during which may impact existing time commitments, the meetings.
must be agreed with the chairman.
A4 Role of the non-executive directors B4 Training and development The chairman promotes an open and All directors receive an induction on joining the constructive environment in the boardroom Board and, as part of the annual effectiveness and actively invites the non-executive directors evaluation, the training and development needs views.
The non-executive directors provide of each director are assessed.
objective, rigorous and constructive challenge to management and meet regularly in the absence of the executive directors.
C. Accountability D. Remuneration E. Relations with shareholders C1 Financial and business reporting D1 Levels and elements of remuneration E1 Shareholder engagement and dialogue The strategic report is set out on pages 1 to 51 The Remuneration Committee sets levels of The Board takes an active role in engaging with inclusive and this provides information about remuneration appropriately so as to attract, shareholders.
The Board particularly values the performance of the Group, the business retain and motivate the Board, but also opportunities to meet with shareholders and model, strategy and the risks and uncertainties structures remuneration so as to link it to both the chairman ensures that the Board is kept relating to the Groups future prospects.
corporate and individual performance, thereby informed of shareholder views.
aligning managements interests with those C2 Risk management and internal E2 Constructive use of the annual of shareholders.
control systems general meeting The Board sets out the Groups risk appetite and D2 Development of remuneration policy The annual general meeting provides the annually reviews the effectiveness of the Groups and packages Board with an important opportunity to meet risk management and internal control systems.
Details of the work of the Remuneration with shareholders, who are invited to meet The activities of the Risk Management and Audit Committee and the approach to setting the the Board following the formal business Committee, which assists the Board with its remuneration policy can be found in the of the meeting.
responsibilities in relation to the management Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 85 of risk, are summarised on pages 63 to 66 inclusive.
C3 Role and responsibilities of the Risk Management and Audit Committee The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Risk Management and Audit Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the Groups financial reporting processes, internal control and risk management framework and the work undertaken by the external auditor.
The chairman of the Risk Management and Audit Committee provides regular updates to the Board.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 56 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board of directors Roles The composition of the Board and its committees during Summaries of the roles of the chairman, the chief executive and the senior the year is set out in a table on page 58.
The Board independent non-executive director are as follows: currently comprises the chairman, four other nonexecutive directors and two executive directors.
The new finance director, Beverley Dew, will increase the number Chairman Phil White of executive directors to three.
Is responsible for the Boards effectiveness During the course of the year, the following changes to Sets the agenda for Board meetings, ensuring that the directors receive the Board took place: accurate, timely and clear information Facilitates the effective contribution of the non-executive directors On 31 January 2014, it was announced that Chris Is responsible for effective communication with shareholders Geoghegan would retire as a non-executive director Ensures that the directors continually update their skills and knowledge, from the Board with effect from 21 February 2014 and and familiarity with the Group, in order to fulfil their roles.
that, as a result, Richard Bailey would assume the role of senior independent non-executive director, Amanda Mellor would take over as chair of the Remuneration Committee and Phil White would take over as chair of the Nomination Committee: Chief executive Haydn Mursell On 18 February 2014, it was announced that Paul Is responsible for the operational management of the Group Sheffield would retire from the Board as chief executive Is accountable to the Board for the implementation of the with effect from 30 June 2014 and that Haydn Mursell Groups strategy would become the chief executive with effect from that Meets regularly with other members of senior management, focusing date: and on a variety of matters, including strategy, significant operational issues, On 27 June 2014, it was announced that Kirsty Bashforth succession planning and other material issues facing the Group.
would become a non-executive director of the Company with effect from 1 September 2014.
Following the announcement of Paul Sheffields retirement from the Board, it was agreed that, as part of the handover of duties, Haydn Mursell would begin to assume a number Senior independent non-executive director Richard Bailey of the chief executives responsibilities prior to becoming chief executive.
While the Company identified a new Acts as chairman of the Board if the chairman is conflicted finance director, Dave Benson the group financial Acts as a conduit to the Board for the communication of shareholder controller acted as the interim finance director and concerns if other channels of communication are not appropriate attended all Board meetings since and including Ensures that the chairman is provided with effective feedback on April 2014. his performance.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, each of the current directors will offer himself herself for re-election at the annual general meeting in November 2014.
Following the performance evaluations of each of the non-executive directors seeking re-election, it is confirmed that the performance of each of these individuals continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
As it is the first annual general meeting since her appointment, a resolution will be proposed to elect Kirsty Bashforth as a director.
Beverley Dew will not have joined the Group by the date of the annual general meeting in November 2014.
However, a resolution to elect him as a director will be proposed at the 2015 annual general meeting.
All directors may serve on a number of other boards, provided that they can demonstrate that any such appointment will not interfere with their time commitment to the Company and that they obtain the agreement of the chairman to the appointment before acceptance.
The major commitments of the executive and non-executive directors are outlined in their biographies on pages 54 and 55.
The Nomination Committee remains satisfied that all non-executive directors have sufficient time to meet their commitments to the Company and was also satisfied that, during the year, the chairmans other commitments did not interfere with the day-to-day performance of his duties to the Company.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57 Corporate governance statement continued Material human resources issues affecting the Group, Board meetings including succession planning and diversity both Details of the number of meetings of the Board and at Board level and throughout the Group: and its committees held during the year, and attendance The Groups strategy with respect to disputes or of directors at those meetings, are set out below.
Outside proceedings including the issues relating to the the formal schedule of meetings, the non-executive Castlepoint shopping centre car park, Bournemouth directors met without the executive directors during or issues otherwise potentially adversely affecting the the year.
Meetings are normally held in Tempsford Hall, Groups reputation.
London and, when appropriate, at different regional locations and sites.
Senior executives are regularly invited to attend meetings for specific items.
The meeting agenda for Board meetings focused on key priorities for the Group, including: Responsibility and delegation The Groups strategy and budgets: The duties of, and those decisions which can only be made The Groups annual and interim financial statements by, the Board are clearly defined in the schedule of taking into account the views of the Risk Management matters reserved for the Board.
The matters requiring and Audit Committee : Board approval include, amongst others: The efficiency of the Groups operating structure and The Groups strategic plans: cost base: Mergers, acquisitions and disposals of a material size The implications of prevailing economic conditions and nature: and the appropriate strategy relating to them: Material changes to the Groups structure and capital: Potential acquisitions and disposals: The payment of dividends: and The integration of May Gurney: The approval of material Group policies.
Material operational issues and opportunities: Health and safety issues: Board committees The Groups pension schemes: The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to its committees.
The terms of reference for each committee are available on the Companys website: http: www.
The current membership of each Board committee is as follows: Risk Safety, Management Health and Director and Audit Remuneration Nomination Environment Richard Bailey Kirsty Bashforth Amanda Mellor Phil White Nick Winser Denotes the chair of the relevant committee.
Board and committee meeting attendance Board and committee attendance during the year was as follows: Risk Safety, Management Health and Board and Audit Remuneration Nomination Environment 11 4 3 3 4 Richard Bailey 11 4 3 3 Steve Bowcott 11 1 Chris Geoghegan 5 2 1 Amanda Mellor 11 4 3 3 4 Haydn Mursell 11 2 Paul Sheffield 7 Phil White 11 3 3 Nick Winser 11 4 3 3 4 1 Retired from the Board with effect from 21 February 2014.
He attended all Board meetings and those of the committees of which he was a member up to and including the December 2013 meetings.
2 Retired from the Board with effect from 30 June 2014.
He attended all Board meetings up to and including the March 2014 meeting.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 58 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The principal activities of each of these committees during The evaluation process concluded that the Board had the year are set out in their respective reports on pages experienced a challenging year, having taken some 60 to 85 inclusive.
Executive directors also attend significant decisions and, at the same time, changed its meetings of the committees when required by the chair composition.
Overall, the Board members felt that the of the relevant committee to do so.
Board operated effectively in terms of its culture and decision-making.
However, the feedback also identified Professional advice and Board support opportunities for the Board to improve its effectiveness All directors have access to the advice and services of the and, during the year ending 30 June 2015, the Board company secretary and the directors are also able to seek plans to: independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Focus on succession planning for the senior Companys expense.
Training is available for new directors management team: and subsequently as is considered necessary.
Continue to ensure that sufficient time is set aside Induction to focus on strategy: On appointment, each director takes part in an induction Enhance the quality of the information provided to programme, during which s he: the Board: Keep the schedule of Board and committee meetings Receives relevant information relating to the Group: under review to ensure that the Board continues to Meets members of senior management below Board level: develop its knowledge of the business: and Meets representatives of the Companys key advisers: Strengthen the resources available to support the Board.
Receives information about the role of the Board and matters reserved for its terms of reference and Relations with shareholders membership of Board committees and the powers The Company regularly communicates to and meets delegated to these committees: investors, investment analysts and brokers, delivering Is advised of the legal and other duties and obligations detailed presentations when it releases its annual of a director of a listed company: and and interim results and its interim management Visits key sites and locations within the Group.
These assist the Board to understand the views of major shareholders about the Groups Kirsty Bashforth was appointed to the Board with effect performance and its strategic objectives.
Kirstys induction, which was feedback is also provided to the Board by analysts and organised by the company secretary, has included each institutional shareholders.
of the elements set out above.
The Board invites investors, brokers and analysts to visit Board performance evaluation the Groups projects to demonstrate the scope and scale During the year, an external evaluation of the Boards of its activities and to more formal investor days.
These performance, the performance of its individual directors site visits also include a series of presentations by and that of its committees was carried out by Independent members of the Board and members of senior Board Evaluation which has no other connection with management about the Groups operations.
The Board uses the annual general meeting as an The aim of the evaluation was to obtain the views of Board opportunity to communicate directly with shareholders.
members that would: The chairman of the Board also meets regularly with individual shareholders to obtain their views on a variety Provide an insight into the Boards effectiveness: of matters, as does the chair of the Remuneration Highlight actions required to improve its performance: Committee in relation to remuneration matters.
and Establish a benchmark for measuring future progress.
The Group regularly engages with a range of stakeholders including shareholders in relation to its corporate The review process comprised: responsibility CR programme.
During the year, it also Attendance at a Board meeting and meetings of each liaised with a number of shareholders in relation of the Board committees: to environmental, social and governance issues, Formal, structured meetings with all members of the in particular obtaining their views on its CR strategy and Board and the company secretary: reporting, to ensure that the Groups priorities are aligned Meetings with members of senior management below with those of its key stakeholders.
Further information the Board: and can be found on pages 28 to 31 inclusive.
Meetings with key advisers to the Board.
The areas covered by the evaluation included: Board culture: Time management: Composition of the Board: Processes and support: Governance and compliance: Risk management: Succession planning: Board focus, including priorities: and The Boards role in the development of the Groups strategy.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59
