Strategic Report Governance Accounts Corporate governance Maintaining and promoting the highest standards of corporate governance remains central to my role as Chairman and I believe the changes implemented during the year have enhanced the framework governing the Groups operations.
Daniel Bernard Chairman activities to support the directors in reaching that conclusion.
Dear Shareholder A fuller description of the activities of the Audit Committee in this area can be found on pages 42 to 45, along with other additional I am pleased to present the Companys Corporate Governance disclosures required in respect of how the Committee addressed report for the year ended 1 February 2014. the key issues it considered during the year.
Over a number of years, the Board of Kingfisher plc has put in The Board constantly reviews its governance framework, adjusting place a robust, efficient and effective governance framework and associated systems by which the whole Group is governed and where necessary the roles, structure and accountabilities of its mechanisms of governance.
During the year, the governance reviewed.
This report aims to provide a clear explanation of those structure below the Board and primary committee level was again arrangements which we consider to be essential for the longreviewed to ensure the correct and accurate flow of information term success of the Company and the continued promotion and responsibility.
The review included a full review of the terms of the highest standards of Corporate Governance across the of reference of the Group Executive Committee, the Kingfisher Kingfisher Group.
Capital Expenditure Committee and the Financial Initiatives, It is the role of the Board to support, advise and where necessary Tax and Treasury Committee, and, where necessary, these provide appropriate challenge to the executive team.
I believe were amended to reflect the operations of those committees and that the Kingfisher Board, with its vast experience and diversity the authorities delegated to them.
As part of the review, in order of expertise, assists the Company in delivering its strategy and to make the governance structure below primary committee maximising shareholders long-term interests, whilst conducting level more relevant and agile, the focus on trading and operational itself in line with the Groups Code of Conduct, which mandates matters was transferred to the Group Executive Committee and minimum standards of behaviour for employees and suppliers of the implementation of strategy is now the focus of the One Team the Group.
Our Code of Conduct can be found within the Net Board.
In addition, a Health and Safety Committee, with the remit Positive section of our website www.
to review health and safety matters across the Group as a whole and better enable the sharing of best practice, was established.
The Company is required to review its operations annually by A Disclosure Committee was also established to formalise the reference to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
review and verification of the Groups full, half-year and quarterly Last year I advised that the Company was confident of reporting announcements of results.
compliance with the revised September 2012 edition of the Code and a statement of compliance with the Code is set out on The revised Group governance structure, together with an overview page 36. of each of these Committees, is set out on pages 40 to 46.
During the year, we have enhanced and formalised elements Maintaining and promoting the highest standards of corporate of our governance framework to ensure compliance with the governance remains central to my role as Chairman and I believe Code and also the Large and Medium-sized Companies and the changes implemented during the year have enhanced the Groups Accounts and Reports amendment Regulations 2013 framework governing the Groups operations.
I am pleased to the Regulations which requires us to report in a different way to endorse this Report, which I believe demonstrates how, through previous years.
The most significant reporting changes have its actions, the Board and its Committees fulfil their governance occurred within the Directors Remuneration Report and are fully responsibilities and how the Board works proactively to embed detailed within that report which can be found on pages 47 to 68. good governance practices across the Group on an ongoing basis.
An additional change to reporting requires a statement from the Companys directors that we consider the Annual Report and Daniel Bernard Accounts, when taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and Chairman understandable.
During the year, the Board requested that the 24 March 2014 Audit Committee advise on the statement and conduct such www.
com 35 35 Governance Corporate governance continued During the year, as part of its annual review process, the Compliance with the UK Corporate matters reserved for the Board were reviewed, and where necessary amended to reflect best practice.
The schedule Governance Code of matters reserved for the Board includes the consideration Kingfisher is subject to, and has reviewed, its operations and and approval of: governance framework to ensure that it reflects the principles the Groups overall strategy, medium-term plans and of the UK Corporate Governance Code, published by the annual budgets: Financial Reporting Council the FRC and available on their website, www.
The edition of the Code, published in financial statements and Group dividend policy, including September 2012, applied throughout the financial year ended recommendation of the final dividend: 1 February 2014.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure: UK Listing Authority, the Board confirms that, throughout the year ended 1 February 2014, and as at the date of this report, major changes to the capital structure including tax and the Company has complied with the provisions set out in treasury management: Section 1 of the Code, save for as set out below.
major changes to accounting policies or practices: Provision D. 1.1 provides that grants under long-term incentive the Groups corporate governance and compliance schemes should normally be phased rather than awarded in arrangements: one large block.
the system of internal control and risk management policy: As reported in our 2011 12 annual report, the Company set stretching long-term targets for management as part of the the Groups risk appetite statements: and Creating the Leader phase of Kingfishers strategy.
The review of management development strategy.
Remuneration Committee approved awards under the Performance Share Plan the Plan of up to 500% of Composition of the Board base salary.
The Board is made up of the non-executive Chairman, four executive directors and six non-executive directors.
The The award was higher than the normal award of 200% but current balance of the Boards skills, experience and knowledge, in making it the Committee took into account the fact that together with regular briefings by executives below Board level, no further awards would be made under the Plan until the ensures that views, perceptions and discussions are not financial year 2014 15, and felt that it created a better focus dominated by any one specific view.
The structure, size and on a single performance period aligned to the next phase of composition of the Board is continually reviewed to ensure it the Groups strategy, rather than the more commonly used remains suitable for the needs of the business.
There is an established, formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the selection and appointment of new directors Leadership to the Board, and this is described in the Nomination Committee Report on page 46.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on The role of the Board 12 June 2014, shareholders will be asked, in accordance with The Boards primary responsibility is to promote the long-term Principle B.
7.1 of the Code, to re-appoint all their directors.
success of the Company and deliver sustainable shareholder value.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the management, Role of the non-executive directors direction and performance of the Group, and leads and controls Non-executive directors provide a strong, independent and the Groups business.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring external insight to the Board and its Committees, and have a appropriate resources are in place to achieve its strategy and wealth of experience and business knowledge from other sectors deliver sustainable performance.
Through authorities delegated and industries.
The terms and conditions of appointment of each to its Committees, the Board directs and reviews the Groups of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the operations within an agreed framework of controls, allowing risk Companys registered office and will also be available for to be assessed and managed within agreed parameters.
The inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Board is collectively accountable to the Companys shareholders At its meeting in January 2014, the Board considered the for the proper conduct and success of the business.
independence of each of the non-executive directors other than The Boards powers are set out in the Companys Articles of the Chairman, who was deemed independent by the Board at Association, which are available to view on its website, and the date of his appointment against the criteria specified in the may be amended by a special resolution of its members.
The Code, and concluded that each remained fully independent of Board may exercise all powers conferred on it by the Articles, management and free from any relationship that could interfere in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and other with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board has established a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval, and has delegated other specific responsibilities to its principal committees: the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
These are clearly defined within the written terms of reference of the respective committees.
Information on the responsibilities and work of each of the Boards committees is set out on pages 42 to 68.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 36 36 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Role of the Senior Independent Director Diversity on the Board Since his appointment in January 2012, Mark Seligman has In September 2011, the Board announced its approach to acted as Senior Independent Director SID, supporting the diversity.
The statement, which is available on the Companys Chairman, and is available for approach or representation from website, confirmed that the Board is committed to ensuring significant shareholders who feel they are unable to raise issues directors of the Company possess and demonstrate a broad with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and Director.
In accordance with the FRC guidelines, the role of diversity, including gender diversity.
In order to maintain the the SID is formally set out in writing, and available on the appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge on the Companys website.
Board, the Nomination Committee considers each prospective candidate on their individual merits, regardless of gender, age, Roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive race, nationality, religion or disability, in the belief that balanced The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Group and diverse Boards are effective.
The Board is committed to Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined.
As part of maximising the benefits of a diverse workforce to deliver real the annual review process, the written roles of the Chairman sustainable benefits for the Group and its shareholders.
The and Group Chief Executive were reviewed to ensure they Board remains committed to this statement.
remained compliant with, and took account of, best practice developments, and were in line with FRC guidance.
The written Charts demonstrating the gender split at Board level, Senior roles for both are available to view on the Companys website.
Management level, and for the workforce as a whole can be found on page 19.
In accordance with best practice, the Chairman is responsible for the overall operation, leadership and governance of the Board, Effectiveness setting the tone and style of Board discussions, and creating the conditions for overall Board and individual director effectiveness.
Board meetings He is also responsible for ensuring that all members of the Board The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, the year and unscheduled supplementary meetings as that there is an open dialogue with shareholders, and that the and when necessary.
These meetings are structured to allow Chairmen of the Boards principal committees are available to open discussion.
At each meeting the Board receives certain answer shareholder questions at the Annual General Meeting.
regular reports which include an update from the Group Chief Executive, current trading finance including liquidity reports The Group Chief Executive is responsible for executive from the Group Finance Director, capital expenditure approvals management of the Groups business, consistent with the and reports from the Company Secretary including governance, strategy and commercial objectives agreed by the Board.
legal, insurance and risk updates, people-related updates He leads the Group Executive team in effecting decisions from the Group Human Resources Director and Net Positive of the Board and its Committees, and is responsible for the progress updates and public affairs updates from the Group maintenance and protection of the reputation of the Company Sustainability Director.
The Group Chief Executive is also responsible for promoting and conducting the affairs of the All directors participate in discussing strategy, trading and Group with the highest standards of integrity, probity and financial performance, and risk management of the Group.
Comprehensive briefing papers are circulated to all directors approximately one week before each meeting in digital format.
Company Secretary Should a director be unable to attend a particular meeting, they The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and its are provided with all relevant briefing papers and are given the committees and, with the consent of the Board, may delegate opportunity to discuss any issues with the Chairman or the Group responsibility for the management of the committees to other Chief Executive and, where possible, participate by telephone suitably qualified staff.
The Company Secretary is responsible for critical discussions and approvals on specific matters.
for ensuring that good quality information flows from executive management to the Board and its committees and that correct The Board generally meets at the Groups head office in London Board procedures are followed.
She advises the Board on but holds at least one meeting each year overseas.
During the corporate governance matters and facilitates the inductions of year under review, the Board held a meeting in Marseille, France new directors and assists in providing professional development where it reviewed the Brico Dpt and Castorama brands and as required.
All directors have access to the advice and services visited a number of stores in the area.
It is the Boards intention of the Company Secretary, and her appointment and removal to hold one off-site meeting within the UK in the coming year, is one of the matters reserved to the Board.
The Board also to receive presentations from the UK Executive team, and also has access to the Group General Counsel for legal and conduct at least one meeting outside the UK in a country in compliance advice.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors meet regularly without executive directors being present.
The Chairman maintains regular contact with the SID.
com 37 37 Governance Corporate governance continued Activities during the year As part of the interview process, interviewees were also During the year, in addition to its regular business, the Board: encouraged to raise any issues which they considered were pertinent to the process, and following each meeting, the received a progress update on the Groups Net interviewee was provided with a short synopsis of the facilitators Positive strategy: understanding of the interview and an opportunity for further comment was provided.
reviewed and approved the Groups renewed IT programme and processes: A report on the findings of the evaluation process was reviewed the Groups risk profile and reviewed the Group prepared by ICSA and presented to the Board at its meeting in January 2014. risk appetite statement: The report concluded that the review had been extensive considered the Groups capital structure and cash position: and the Board was assessed as being in the upper quartile considered post-investment reviews of capital expenditure of FTSE companies on governance.
The report was positive projects over three years: about the overall performance of the Board and recognised continued improvement since the last external review reviewed and approved the Groups Health and Safety conducted in 2010.
No significant issues were highlighted action plan for 2014: and the evaluation indicated that the Board continued to reviewed the Groups anti-bribery and corruption policies work efficiently and effectively, that the contribution of each and procedures to ensure continued compliance with director and their interaction with each other was good and the UK Bribery Act: and that the non-executive directors offered robust challenge where appropriate.
received regular strategic presentations from management and held deep dive discussions with management of the Groups As a result of the evaluation, a number of actions were agreed Operating Companies, information technology and Group and will be implemented in the 2014 15 financial year: sourcing management.
review of format and timing of strategy days: Board evaluation review of annual standing agenda schedule for meetings of To ensure that they continue to be effective and each director the Nomination Committee: and remains committed to their role and has sufficient time to manage their commitment to their roles, the Board and its continuing improvement of the quality of information and committees conduct a review of their performance each year.
papers submitted to the Board.
6.2. of the Code, the Board commissioned an externally facilitated evaluation during the As part of the evaluation process, the Group Chief Executive carried out a performance review of the executive directors.
The evaluation was conducted by Geoffrey Shepheard of ICSA Board Evaluation ICSA.
Mr Shepheard and The non-executive directors, led by the SID, conducted a performance review of the Chairman in respect of the ICSA are both completely independent and, other than having conducted a similar evaluation in 2010, have no connection with financial year.
The Board has confirmed that the contribution of each of the directors continues to be effective and that shareholders The evaluation was carried out in November and December 2013 and Mr Shepheard conducted one-to-one interviews with should be supportive of their re-appointment to the Board.
each member of the Board, the Group Executive Committee and The Board will continue to review its procedures, effectiveness the Company Secretary.
Each interview lasted approximately two and development in the year ahead, and the Chairman will use hours and covered topics agreed in advance of the process with the output of the ICSA evaluation in his individual meetings with the Chairman and Company Secretary.
The topics were as directors during the year.
follows: Board responsibilities: Oversight: Board meetings: Support for the Board: Board composition: Working together: and Outcome and achievements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 38 38 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Board and Committee meeting attendance The following table shows the number of years each director has served on the Board as at the financial year end, and their attendance at the scheduled Board and Committee meetings: Tenure Audit Remuneration Nomination in years Board Committee Committee Committee Daniel Bernard 7 8 8 5 5 1 1 Andrew Bonfield 4 8 8 4 4 5 5 1 1 1 Pascal Cagni 3 8 8 1 1 1 Clare Chapman 3 8 8 5 5 1 1 Ian Cheshire 13 8 8 Anders Dahlvig 4 8 8 3 4 1 1 Janis Kong 7 8 8 4 4 5 5 1 1 Kevin OByrne 5 8 8 Mark Seligman 2 8 8 4 4 1 1 Philippe Tible 1 8 8 Karen Witts 1 8 8 1 Directors were not present during the part of the meeting where their own reappointment was considered.
Induction, information and professional development The Board also receives regular reports and feedback from All new directors appointed to the Board receive an induction discussions with the Companys institutional shareholders and pack as part of their comprehensive induction programme are informed of any issues or concerns raised by them.
This tailored to their experience, background and particular areas process allows directors to develop necessary understanding of of focus.
The induction programme is designed to develop the views of these shareholders and also enables the Board to directors knowledge and understanding of the Groups judge whether investors have a sufficient understanding of the operations and culture.
In addition to planned development and briefings, each director is expected to take responsibility for The induction programme includes: identifying their own individual needs and to take necessary steps to ensure that they are adequately informed about the individual one-to-one meetings with the Chairman, the Group and their responsibilities as a director.
The Board is Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and confident that all its members have the requisite knowledge, other directors: ability and experience to perform the functions required site visits to the Groups stores and those of its competitors: of the directors of a listed company.
There is also an agreed procedure whereby directors may take independent professional meetings with management of the Groups Operating advice at the Groups expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Companies and other senior management: and Conflicts of interest if required, external training courses at the Groups expense.
Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid In accordance with best practice, the Chairman considers and a situation where he or she may have a direct or indirect interest addresses the development needs of the Board as a whole, if that conflicts with the interests of the Company.
The Company any, and ensures that each director updates their individual has robust procedures in place to identify, authorise and manage skills, knowledge and expertise.
such conflicts of interest, and these procedures have operated effectively during the year.
During the year, the Company Secretary arranged for the Groups corporate lawyers to provide an update session on the duties and A register of directors situational and transactional conflicts is responsibilities of directors of a UK listed company.
Amongst maintained by the Company Secretary and reviewed by the other topics, the training covered Listing Rules compliance and Board on a regular basis and directors have a continuing duty the control and release of inside information, and provided case to update the Board with any changes to their conflicts of studies and practical situations for the directors to consider.
Following review, the Board confirmed that there were no situations of which they were aware which would, or Detailed updates have also been provided on the new reporting potentially could, give rise to conflicts with the interests of the requirements contained within this years Annual Report and Company, other than those that might arise from directors Accounts, and, in particular, the new remuneration regulations other appointments, which are set out in the directors and the fair, balanced and understandable statement directors biographies on pages 32 to 33. have been required to make.
Subsequent training in specific aspects of the Groups businesses is provided to directors, when requested, or regularly as part of site visits.
Directors are briefed on issues at Board and Committee meetings and have full and timely access to relevant information ahead of each meeting.
com 39 39 Governance Corporate governance continued Relations with shareholders Annual General Meeting The Company is committed to communicating its strategy The principal means of communication with private investors is and activities clearly to its shareholders and, to that end, by electronic communications and through the Annual General maintains an active dialogue with investors through a planned Meeting, which is attended by all the Companys directors, and programme of investor relations activities.
The investor relations allows all shareholders present the opportunity to question the programme includes: Chairman and the directors, as well as the chairmen of the Boards Committees.
After the Annual General Meeting, formal presentations of preliminary and interim results: shareholders have the opportunity to meet informally with directors.
A summary business presentation is given at the Q1, Q2 pre-close and Q3 trading statements with conference Annual General Meeting before the Chairman deals with the calls at Q2 and Q3: formal business of the meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting regular meetings between institutional investors and senior in June 2014, the Chairman will use his discretion to call for management to ensure that the investor community receives a poll on all resolutions.
The results of the poll in relation to a balanced and complete view of the Groups performance all resolutions will be disclosed to those in attendance at the and the issues faced by the Group: meeting, published on the Companys website and announced to the London Stock Exchange shortly after the conclusion of hosting investors and analysts sessions at which senior the Annual General Meeting.
managers from relevant Operating Companies deliver presentations which provide an overview of their individual Committees businesses: The Board has delegated authority to its principal committees to carry out certain tasks as defined in each committees respective responding to enquiries from shareholders through the terms of reference.
The written terms of reference in respect of Companys investor relations team: the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are regular meetings between institutional investors and available on the Companys website.
The Board is satisfied that analysts and the Group Chief Executive and Group the terms of reference for each of these committees satisfy the Finance Director to discuss business performance: and requirements of the Code.
The terms of reference of the principal committees are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
a comprehensive investor relations section on the Companys website.
The minutes of committee meetings are made available to all directors on a timely basis.
In addition, at each Board meeting, The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the the chairmen of the principal committees provide the Board with chairmen of the Boards committees are available to meet major a brief synopsis of the work carried out by their committee, if any, investors on request.
The Senior Independent Director has a between Board meetings.
specific responsibility to be available to shareholders who have concerns, and for whom contact with the Chairman, Group Chief In addition to the principal committees, the Board is supported Executive or Group Finance Director has either failed to resolve by the work of the Group Executive Committee and its their concerns, or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
Together these committees form a fundamental element of the Companys corporate governance framework.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee consulted with The Groups governance structure and a brief explanation of the major shareholders on the comprehensive review of the work of the Group Executive Committee and the other Companys remuneration arrangements and took on board their management committees is set out below: views when proposing the design and policy changes detailed within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 68.
Organisation and Governance Structure Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Group Executive Committee Committee Committee Committee Financial Initiatives, Kingsher Capital Group Health and One Team Disclosure Tax & Treasury Expenditure Safety Committee Board Committee Committee Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 40 40 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Group Executive Committee The decisions of the Committee are reported to the Board The responsibilities, structure and composition of the Group following each meeting, and the Committee will review and make Executive Committee were reviewed during the year.
The recommendations to the Board regarding all projects exceeding Committee consists of the executive directors, the CEO Group its agreed approval threshold of 15m.
The Committee Productivity and Development, and the CEO Group Sourcing and comprises the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Offer.
The Committee meets formally ten times a year under the Group Property Director, CEO Group Productivity and chairmanship of the Group Chief Executive.
The members Development, the Group General Counsel, and the Head of details are set out on page 34.
The Committees primary focus is the strategic direction of the Financial Initiatives, Tax and Treasury Committee Group.
In addition, the Committee monitors top talent within the The primary purpose of the Committee is to monitor compliance business and reviews key items requiring formal Board approval, with policies and control issues relating to Group Finance, and including dividend planning, key projects and strategic capital to review key proposals from Group Finance, Treasury, Tax expenditure decisions.
and Secretariat functions, and, where appropriate, recommend certain initiatives for approval of the Board.
The Committee In accordance with its formal terms of reference, the Group comprises the Group Finance Director, Group Finance and Executive Committee is also responsible for reviewing and Planning Director, Group Treasurer, Group Tax Director, making recommendations to the Board on: Head of Group Pensions, Group General Counsel, Company strategic and business plans of individual businesses: Secretary and Group Audit and Risk Management Director.
Disclosure Committee the Groups capital structure and funding: The primary purpose of the Committee is to ensure that strategic capital expenditure proposals, major acquisitions or information to be disclosed by the Company in its reports is disposals of businesses: properly identified, recorded, processed, summarised and reported to senior management of the Company and to the Audit the Groups key risks: Committee.
The Committee assists in ensuring that disclosures management development and senior executive succession fairly represent the financial position of the Company and the plans: and Group and, in the case of the Annual Report and Accounts, ensure that when taken as a whole, they are fair, balanced and the Groups Net Positive programme.
understandable and provide shareholders with the information During the year, the Committee met ten times and, in addition needed to assess performance, business model and strategy.
to its standing agenda, reviewed: The Committee comprises the Group Finance Director, Group Finance and Planning Director, Group Company Secretary, the Groups branding strategies and Group procurement Group Chief Accountant, Group Communications Director and sourcing arrangements: and Group General Counsel.
operating budgets and monthly trading performance: Group Health and Safety Committee the Groups IT strategy and planning: The Committees primary purpose is to review the management of health and safety risks across the Group and monitor the strategy for embedding sustainability into Group performance on, and compliance with, Group policies, behaviours: and procedures and practices in relation to all aspects of health HR proposals for management development and and safety with the aim of providing safe environments for succession planning.
employees, customers, suppliers and contractors and driving continuous improvements.
The Committee comprises the Group One Team Board General Counsel, the Director of Risk & Compliance, a regional The One Team Board consists of the Group Executive representative of each of Kingfishers Divisions and the Group Committee, the CEOs of each of the Groups Operating Property Services Director.
The Group Finance Director has Board Companies and other senior Group employees who report responsibility for health and safety and attends meetings of the directly to members of the Group Executive Committee.
The Committee on a regular basis and delegates day to day oversight primary purpose of the Board, which meets four times a year, is to the Group General Counsel as Chairman of the Committee.
the implementation of Group Strategy and the day to day management of the Groups businesses.
At its meetings, the One Details of each of the Boards principal committees, including Team Board considers performance against strategy and budget membership, are set out in the following reports.
and reviews Group-wide people-related activities.
Kingfisher Capital Expenditure Committee The Capital Expenditure Committee is responsible for reviewing and approving all capital expenditure projects relating to property and non-property proposals in excess of an agreed threshold of 0.75m, which is reviewed periodically.
com 41 41 Governance Corporate governance continued Audit Committee Report A fuller description of the operations of the Committee is set out below.
I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to Andrew Bonfield answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
For and on behalf of the Committee Andrew Bonfield Chairman of the Audit Committee 24 March 2014 Dear Shareholder Committee composition I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for The Audit Committee comprises four non-executive directors: 2013 14.
Andrew Bonfield Chairman During the year under review, the Committee was required Anders Dahlvig to carry out its duties in line with the revised UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Committee reviewed its Janis Kong operations in relation to the Code and where necessary amended Mark Seligman its actions and terms of reference to reflect any changes.
All Committee members are considered independent in Last year, in anticipation of the changes to the Code, this report included enhanced disclosure in a number of areas, including accordance with provision B.
1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
the assessment of the effectiveness of the external auditors and the external audit process.
In this report the Committee Audit Committee meeting attendance is required to include a description of those significant issues considered by it during the year and, as such, further detail is From Attendance provided later in this report.
Andrew Bonfield Chairman 11 02 2010 4 of 4 The Board has asked the Committee to oversee the process for Anders Dahlvig 16 12 2009 3 of 4 determining whether the Annual Report and Accounts, when Janis Kong 11 02 2011 4 of 4 taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and Mark Seligman 01 01 2012 4 of 4 further description of this process is also contained later in the report.
Duties The Committee is appointed by the Board from amongst its In accordance with its terms of reference, the Audit Committee non-executive directors, and its principal duties are to provide is required, amongst other things, to: effective oversight and governance of the internal control and monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group: risk management processes of the Company, to review the financial statements and related accounting policies, review the review, understand and evaluate the Groups internal financial effectiveness of the internal and external audit functions and risk, and other internal controls and their associated systems: provide updates and recommendations to the Board.
monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal In addition to the activities outlined above, during the year, the audit function on an annual basis: Committee continued the analysis of the Companys risks and oversee the relationship with the external auditor, associated mitigating controls and focused on compliance, making recommendations to the Board in relation to their financial governance and internal audit functions.
It maintained appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement: its good working relationship with the Group Audit and Risk Management Director, the Group Finance and Planning Director, agree the scope of both the external and internal auditors the Company Secretary and the Groups external auditor, Deloitte annual audit programme and review the output: and LLP.
The Committee maintained, reviewed and where necessary monitor and review the external auditors independence, amended its standing agenda, which is linked to the Groups objectivity and effectiveness and to approve the policy financial calendars.
on the engagement of the external auditor to supply In order to improve the understanding of their operations, during non-audit services.
the year the Committee received in-depth presentations from The Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the management of the Groups Operating Companies, including year and following amendment to reflect the changes to the the key strategic risks impacting each business.
The Committee Code, in particular in relation to oversight of the fair, balanced considered and reviewed the Groups adequate procedures and understandable nature of content in the Annual Report in relation to bribery and corruption, the provision of a and Accounts, are considered fit for purpose and reflect best whistleblowing service and approved accounting judgements practice.
The terms of reference are available on the Companys in relation to the Groups investment in Hornbach.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 42 42 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Governance As part of the Committees continuing programme to increase In accordance with the requirements of provision C. 3.1 of the its awareness of the Groups operations and to understand the UK Corporate Governance Code, Andrew Bonfield is designated implementation of Operating Company control processes, as the Committee member with recent and relevant financial the Committee met with, and received presentations from, experience.
All other members of the Audit Committee are the senior management of Operating Companies in the UK deemed to have the necessary ability and experience B&Q and Screwfix, China, Russia, Turkey, Poland and to understand financial statements.
The significant matters the Committee considered members at Committee meetings is set out on page 42. in the year included: All members of the Committee receive appropriate induction, Internal audit perform store audits in each of our Operating in addition to the induction which all new directors receive.
As part of this work, control issues relating to The induction programme includes an overview of the business, health and safety processes were identified across the Group.
its financial dynamics and risks.
New Committee members The issues have been isolated instances of non-compliance also obtain access to the Groups operations and staff, and with our health and safety procedures.
Action plans have all members of the Committee undertake ongoing training been put in place to address these issues.
An initiative has as required.
also been launched by the Group Chief Executive to raise awareness of the importance of health and safety and how The Committee is required, under its terms of reference, to non-compliance will not be tolerated.
This is supported by meet at least three times a year.
During the year, the Committee the Group Health and Safety Committee.
The Committee met four times.
The Committee has a standing agenda linked to was satisfied that the necessary steps were being taken to events in the Groups financial calendar for consideration at each improve the standards of health and safety across the Group.
meeting, and within the annual audit cycle, to ensure that its work is in line with the requirements of the Code.
At the invitation several control issues were raised in B&Q China during the of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board and the Group year in relation to non-compliance with health and safety Chief Executive attended all meetings, as did the Group Finance policies, compliance with new social payment regulations and Director, Group Audit and Risk Management Director, Group store operational controls.
The Committee considered papers Finance and Planning Director and the external auditor.
Private detailing the steps being taken locally and at Group level to meetings were also held with the external and internal auditors improve the situation.
Project teams have been established at which management were not present.
to address these issues and these are supported by Group resources.
The Committee concluded that the issues would be The effectiveness of the Audit Committee was considered as rectified by rigorous control of process management and the part of the external Board evaluation detailed on page 38. monitoring of the projects by fortnightly governance meetings.
At its meeting in January 2014, the Committee considered the Progress is reported to the Committee regularly.
contents of the review and concluded that the evaluation had found the Committee to operate effectively and provide robust In addition, the Committee continued to monitor the progress challenge to the business.
It was agreed that no specific actions on the standardisation and improvement of the Groups internal were required by the Committee as a result of the review.
control processes, in a number of key areas.
Detailed below is the key work undertaken by the Committee The Committee reviewed the operation of the Group during the year under review and up to the date of this whistleblowing helpline which allows employees within the Annual Report.
Group and its suppliers to make disclosures about alleged financial and operational improprieties.
The SpeakUp Activities of the Audit Committee during the year service was reviewed along with arrangements to acknowledge, Internal controls and risk investigate and close down reports at the Committees meeting The Committee received and considered reports during the in January 2014 and, having considered the output from the year from the Groups external auditor, Deloitte LLP, and the service, and the number, location and type of incidents reported, Groups internal audit function on the work they had undertaken the Committee concluded that the Group continued to maintain in reviewing and auditing the Group, in order to assess the adequate mechanisms for recording disclosures.
quality and effectiveness of the internal control system.
Financial reporting and significant financial issues The Committee considered reports on the output from the During the year, the Committee formally reviewed the Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate Companys annual and interim financial statements and risks and reviewed the annual report on the Groups systems of associated announcements.
The reviews considered significant internal control and their effectiveness, and reported the results accounting principles, policies and practices and their of the review to the Board.
Further information on the Groups appropriateness, financial reporting issues and significant risk management and internal control procedures can be found judgements made.
The Committee also considered whether on page 45. the 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable, having received input and guidance from the Disclosure Committee.
com 43 43 Governance Corporate governance continued In conducting these reviews, the Committee considered the During the year, the Committee considered the effectiveness work and recommendations of the Group finance function and independence of the external auditor.
In consideration and received reports from the Groups external auditor on their of its effectiveness, the Committee reviewed the experience findings, including any control observations relevant to their and expertise of the audit team, the fulfilment of the agreed audit work.
The significant reporting matters the Committee audit plan and any variations to it, feedback from the Groups considered in the year are detailed below: businesses and the contents of the external audit report.
the Committee considered the carrying value of goodwill to In considering the independence of the external auditor, the determine whether any impairment had been suffered.
The Committee received a statement of independence from the Committee reviewed the significant financial assumptions auditor, a report describing their arrangements to identify, used, including validity of cash flow projections and the report and manage any conflicts of interest, and reviewed selection of appropriate discount and long-term growth rates: the extent of non-audit services provided to the Group.
The Committee concluded that it is satisfied with the effectiveness the Committee considered the treatment of exceptional items, and independence of the external auditor.
which are presented as exceptional to help provide an indication of the Groups underlying business performance: In addition to their statutory duties, the services of Deloitte LLP are also engaged where, as a result of their position as external the Committee reviewed significant judgemental provisions auditor, they either must, or are best placed to, perform the work and accruals held, including those in respect of tax, legal, in question.
This is primarily work in relation to matters such as property and inventory risks: and shareholder circulars, Group borrowings, tax advice, regulatory filings and certain business acquisitions and disposals.
Other the Committee considered the judgements made by work is awarded on the basis of competitive tendering.
management in concluding that the Group ceased to have the ability to exercise significant influence over the Hornbach The Committee reviewed and approved the scope of non-audit businesses.
The Committee was satisfied that this conclusion, services provided and proposed by the external auditor to ensure the balance sheet classification and measurement, and the that there was no impairment of independence and objectivity, resulting net exceptional loss were appropriate.
and subsequently monitored the non-audit work performed to ensure it was within policy guidelines.
Group Internal Audit The Committee considered and reviewed updates from the The Group has a policy on the use of its external auditor for internal audit programme at each of its meetings during the non-audit work and this is regularly reviewed.
Reports from the internal audit function to the Committee auditor is precluded from engaging in non-audit services that included updates on the Groups risk management systems, would compromise their independence or violate any laws or findings from reviews, and reviews of the remit, organisation, regulations affecting their appointment as external auditor.
annual plan and resources of the internal audit function.
During The approval of the Chairman of the Committee is required the year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the internal prior to awarding contracts for non-audit services to the external audit function.
The review was conducted using an internal auditor, where in excess of specified amounts.
The Groups questionnaire with input from the functions key stakeholders policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit work within the Group, in addition to the Committee.
No significant can be found on the Groups website.
issues were highlighted by the review.
During the year, Deloitte LLP charged the Group 1.8m External Audit 2012 13: 1.6m for audit and audit-related services and a During the year, the Committee agreed the approach and further 0.4m 2012 13: 0.4m for non-audit services.
scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditor, Deloitte LLP, and undertook an assessment of their qualification, The Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the expertise and resources, independence and the effectiveness of Board with regard to the reappointment of the external auditor.
The Committee also reviewed and In doing so, the Committee takes into account auditor agreed the terms of engagement, the fees, and areas of independence and audit partner rotation.
Deloitte LLP were responsibility and the work to be undertaken by the external appointed as external auditor in 2009 10 following a formal auditor, and agreed the fees payable in respect of the 2013 14 tender process.
Panos Kakoullis was appointed lead audit audit work.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor partner at that time and will step down following the conclusion for their audit services are given in note 7 to the accounts on of the 2013 14 audit process, when he will be replaced by page 92.
In addition, the external auditor provided the Richard Muschamp.
Richard will serve as lead audit partner Committee with a schedule of each matter on which there was until the external audit contract is put out to tender, which will an initial difference between them and management in relation be in 2019 at the latest.
During the year under review, Deloitte to the accounting treatment, and with the final decisions on also replaced the lead audit partner for B&Q UK.
noted provision C. 3.7 of the Code in relation to audit tendering and has taken into account the UK Competition Commissions recent decision to introduce mandatory audit tendering at ten-year intervals, in making the decision to tender the external audit contract by 2019 at the latest.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 44 44 Strategic Report Governance Accounts The Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte Monitoring LLP be proposed for re-appointment by shareholders as the There are clear processes for controlling and monitoring the Companys external auditor at the forthcoming Annual General system of internal control and reporting any significant control Meeting.
As a result of its work during the year, the Committee failings or weaknesses together with details of corrective action.
has concluded that it acted in accordance with its terms of These include: reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity an annual planning process and regular financial reporting, of the external auditor.
comparing results with plan and the previous year on a Accountability, Risk Management and Internal Control monthly and cumulative basis: Internal control written reports from the Group Chief Executive and Group The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of Finance Director submitted at each Board meeting: internal control, which is designed to safeguard the assets of the Group and ensure the reliability of the financial information for Operating Company management report formally to the both internal use and external publication, and to comply with Audit Committee on a regular basis on the control environment the Turnbull guidance and the Code.
in their business and actions taken to maintain or improve the environment as appropriate: and The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system, including financial, operational and reports and presentations to the Board on certain areas compliance controls and risk management in accordance with of specialist risk.
These include treasury, insurance, tax the Code, for the period from 2 February 2013 to the date of and pensions.
approval of this Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14.
A formal bi-annual certification is provided by the CEO and If significant losses were to be incurred during the year as a Finance Director of each Operating Company stating that result of a failure of controls, a detailed report would be provided appropriate internal controls were in operation and confirming to the Audit Committee and the Board.
The Board confirms that compliance with Group policies and procedures.
Any no significant weaknesses were identified in relation to the review weaknesses are highlighted and the results are reviewed by carried out during the year and therefore, no remedial action Operating Company management, the Group Audit and Risk was required.
Management Director, the Group Finance and Planning Director, the Audit Committee and the Board.
The internal audit function The Board has approved a set of policies, procedures and monitors and selectively checks the results of this exercise, frameworks for effective internal control.
The Group has ensuring that representations made are consistent with the procedures for the delegation of authorities for significant results of its work during the year.
matters, to ensure approval is sought at the appropriate level.
These procedures are subject to regular review and provide an The internal audit function follows a planned programme of ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the reviews that are aligned to the Groups risks.
The function: significant risks faced by the Group.
Such a system is designed works with the Operating Companies to develop, improve to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve and embed risk management tools and processes into their business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not business operations: absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
reports directly to the Audit Committee and has the authority The responsibility for designing, operating and monitoring the to review any relevant part of the Group: system and the maintenance of effective control is delegated to the management of each of the Groups Operating Companies.
oversees the operation of the individual Operating Companies The Groups risk management and reporting process helps audit committees: and Group management to identify, assess, prioritise and mitigate provides the Audit Committee and the Board with objective risk.
Management at each Operating Company has responsibility assurance on the control environment across the Group.
for the identification and evaluation of the significant risks applicable to their business and any mitigating actions to be Risk appetite taken.
The Group Executive Committee reviews, identifies and During the year, the Board also considered the nature and level evaluates the risks that are significant at a Group level, as well of risk that it was prepared to accept in order to deliver business as the mitigating actions against those risks.
These are then strategies, and has reviewed and approved the Groups internal considered by the Board.
The types of risks identified included statement of risk appetite.
This describes both the current both strategic and material operational risks and are detailed on and desired levels of acceptable risk, supported by high level pages 28 to 31 of the report.
qualitative risk statements, ensuring that risks are proactively managed to the level desired by the Board.
Management is required to apply judgement in evaluating the risks facing the Group in achieving its objectives, in determining the risks that are considered acceptable to bear, in assessing the likelihood of those risks materialising, in identifying the Groups ability to reduce the incidence and impact on the business of risks that do materialise, and in ensuring the costs of operating particular controls are proportionate to the benefit provided.
com 45 45 Governance Corporate governance continued review the leadership needs of the organisation, both Nomination Committee Report executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the Daniel Bernard continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the year and were amended in line with best practice and are available on the Companys website www.
Activities during the year During the year, the Committee considered the reappointment Committee composition of Clare Chapman and Pascal Cagni, following the expiry of The Committee comprises the Chairman and all the nontheir initial three-year terms of appointment as directors.
The executive directors and meets periodically as required.
External Committee concluded that both directors continued to provide advisers may be invited to attend meetings when particular the necessary balance of skills and experience to the Board, issues are to be considered.
During the year the Committee including considerable Human Resources and Remuneration met once.
The members of the Nomination Committee are: experience, and in-depth IT and ecommerce knowledge.
The Committee therefore recommended to the Board that each be Daniel Bernard Chairman reappointed as a director of the Company for an additional Andrew Bonfield three-year term.
Pascal Cagni At its meeting in October 2013, the Committee considered a talent and succession review presented by the Group HR Clare Chapman Director, which outlined succession planning and talent pipeline Anders Dahlvig considerations across the entire Kingfisher Group in support of the Groups Creating the Leader strategy.
Janis Kong Following the reappointment of Ms Chapman and Mr Cagni, Mark Seligman and a review of the Board and its Committees, the Committee Nomination Committee meeting attendance firmly believes that the current composition represents a strong, well balanced and diverse Board.
The Board membership From Attendance is made up of specialists in retail, technology, finance and human resources, and possesses considerable knowledge, Daniel Bernard Chairman 24 05 2006 1 1 experience and skills to meet the current and future Andrew Bonfield 11 02 2010 1 1 requirements of the Group.
The Chairman will be available Pascal Cagni 17 11 2010 1 1 at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about Clare Chapman 02 12 2010 1 1 the work of the Committee.
Anders Dahlvig 19 12 2009 1 1 Janis Kong 08 12 2006 1 1 Daniel Bernard Mark Seligman 01 01 2012 1 1 Chairman of the Nomination Committee 24 March 2014 Directors did not attend those parts of the meeting where their own reappointment was considered.
Duties The primary objective of the Nomination Committee is to review the composition of the Board and plan for its refreshment as applicable with regard to composition, balance and structure.
The Committee is also asked to lead, on behalf of the Board, the selection process for new Board appointments and to make recommendations in respect of such appointments while maintaining an appropriate balance of diversity and skills.
In accordance with its terms of reference, the Nomination Committee is required to: review the structure, size and composition of the Board and make recommendations to the Board, as appropriate: identify the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity and experience on the Board and nominate candidates to fill Board vacancies: review the time commitment required from the non-executive directors: consider succession planning, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and the future skills and expertise needed on the Board: and Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 46 46
