44 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT BOARD ATTENDANCE 2014 In 2014 the Company complied with all of the provisions of the UK Details of Board meetings held during the year and the attendance of Corporate Governance Code the Code published in 2012 by the directors is shown below: Financial Reporting Council which is available at www.
In Entitled to attend Attended September 2014 the Financial Reporting Council published a revised Peter Erskine 10 10 version of the Code effective for accounting periods beginning on 1 Richard Glynn 10 9 orafter 1 October 2014.
The Company will report formally under the 1 Ian Bull 10 9 Codes new requirements in its 2015 Annual Report.
Sly Bailey 10 10 Christine Hodgson 10 10 BOARD John Jarvis 4 4 1 John Kelly 10 9 Role 1 David Martin 10 9 The Board provides strategic leadership and oversight.
It is Richard Moross 10 10 responsible for the Companys culture, values and ethical standards Darren Shapland 10 10 and is committed to high standards of corporate governance throughout the Groups operations.
1 Of the ten Board meetings held during the year, eight were scheduled and two were unscheduled meetings.
Richard Glynn, Ian Bull and John Kelly did not attend one of the unscheduled meetings.
David Martin was unable to attend one of the scheduled meetings duetoa Each director brings experience, independence of character and priorcommitment.
The independent non-executive directors bring a broad perspective to the deliberations of the Board.
They In addition, the Chairman met during the year with the non-executive support the development of the Groups strategic direction, provide directors without the executive directors present.
critical and constructive challenge to the executive directors and exercise oversight through their participation in the work of the MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD Boardsprincipal committees on matters such as remuneration, The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its riskmanagement systems, financial controls and financial reporting.
decision and approval which includes: Composition approval of the strategic and annual profit plans: The Boards composition includes the Chairman, two executive directors and six independent non-executive directors.
key announcements e. g. financial statements: dividends declarations: The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed major acquisitions and disposals: by the Board.
material contracts: and The Chairman has a primary responsibility for the running of the treasury policy and other Group policies.
Board and for relations with shareholders.
The section Financial reporting, internal control and risk management The Chief Executive is responsible for operations and for the systems on pages 45 and 46 contains further information on how the development of strategic plans and initiatives for consideration Board operates.
The significant commitments of the Chairman are contained in his BOARD SUPPORT biography on page 42.
There were no significant changes to those The Company has systems in place to ensure that the Board is supplied commitments during 2014. with appropriate and timely information to enable it to discharge its John Kelly acts as Senior Independent Director.
The role of Senior duties.
A fully encrypted electronic Board Portal is used to distribute Independent Director is to provide a sounding board to the Chairman Board and Committee papers and to provide efficient distribution of and to serve as an intermediary for the other directors where business updates and other resources to the Board.
The Senior Independent Director is also available to request additional information or variations to regular reporting as shareholders if they have concerns, where contact through the required.
A procedure exists for directors to seek independent usualchannels of Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary.
Officer has failed to solve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
DIVERSITY All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company The Company recognises the value that diversity brings to its Secretary.
All directors receive an induction on joining the Board.
Boardroom and believes that the Board performs better and supports Acombination of tailored Board and committee agenda items and its overall objectives within the business strategy when it includes other Board activities, including briefing sessions, assist the directors thebest people representing a range of capabilities, experience and in continually updating their skills and the knowledge and familiarity perspectives.
In line with this, the Company aims to foster a diverse with the Company required to fulfil their role both on the Board and on Board, including a mix of gender, ethnicity and backgrounds.
In addition, external seminars, workshops and report of the Nomination Committee on pages 48 and 49 contains presentations are made available to directors.
The Company provides further information on Board composition and diversity.
the necessary resources for developing and updating directors knowledge and capabilities.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 Principal committees BOARD EVALUATION The principal committees are the Audit Committee, Nomination An annual formal Board evaluation is undertaken focusing on the Committee, Remuneration Committee and Social Responsibility performance of the Board and of its committees and individual Committee, and their membership is comprised of only independent directors.
In 2014 the evaluation was externally facilitated by Lintstock non-executive directors.
Terms of reference for the principal Limited.
Lintstock has no other connection with the Company.
The committees are available on the Companys website at evaluation exercise used questionnaires tailored to the requirements www.
Details of the work programmes and specific circumstances of the Company.
The questionnaires were and activities of the principal committees are shown on pages 47 to 49 completed by each director in relation to their own performance and and 52 to 69. on the effectiveness of the Board and its committees.
Standing committees The evaluation is thematic and considers: In addition to the principal committees the Board has established two standing committees which manage routine operating and regulatory Board composition, expertise and dynamics: matters.
These committees generally comprise any two of the Board support and time management: Chairman and executive directors.
Board committees: The Finance Committee meets as required to deal with all routine Strategic oversight: business excluding matters that are specifically reserved to the Board Risk management and internal control: or to another committee and specific matters delegated to it by the Succession planning and human resources management: and Board requiring attention between scheduled Board meetings.
The Disclosure Committee meets on an ad hoc basis to consider andmake decisions relating to the handling of inside information The Chairman conducts an appraisal of each director.
The Senior concerning the Company and the Group.
Independent Director, having consulted with each of the other directors, conducts an appraisal interview with the Chairman.
The The Disclosure Committee is responsible for ensuring the timely and results of the evaluation are considered by the Board and the individual accurate disclosure of inside information to the market in accordance committees and actions arising are agreed.
with the Companys obligations under the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules and for monitoring compliance with the The Boards 2014 evaluation highlighted a number of areas of focus, Companys disclosure controls and procedures.
including: Attendance at meetings of the Finance Committee and Disclosure Reviewing the structure and content of papers presented to Committee are set out in the table below: theBoard: Increasing the proportion of time at meetings devoted to Finance Committee Disclosure Committee discussions on strategic issues and a range of specific topics: Peter Erskine 1 3 Richard Glynn 19 5 Increased focus on the Groups risk management process, Ian Bull 20 7 principal risks and key dependencies: Greater exposure to senior management and more engagement In addition, the Executive Committee, Risk Committee, Investment inthe evaluation of the Groups talent pool.
Committee, and Compliance Committee referred to elsewhere are not formal Board committees.
An update on progress in these areas will be provided in the 2015 Annual Report.
FINANCIAL REPORTING, INTERNAL CONTROL AND BOARD COMMITTEES RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS The Board has four principal committees and two standing The Board has ultimate responsibility for the internal control and risk committees: management systems operating throughout the Group and for reviewing their effectiveness.
No such systems can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups BOARD systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide the Board with reasonable assurance that potential problems will normally be prevented or will be detected in a timely manner for appropriate action.
The Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring that the annual report SOCIAL is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Board has reviewed the AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION RESPONSIBILITY annual report 2014 and, taken as a whole, considers it to be fair, COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE balanced and understandable and provides shareholders with information necessary to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
In arriving at this conclusion, the Boards review draws on its collective knowledge of the business, which is DISCLOSURE FINANCE regularly updated by management reports and presentations at COMMITTEE COMMITTEE scheduled Board and Committee meetings and other business updates provided between meetings.
46 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Company had procedures in place throughout the year and up to Risk 25 February 2015, the date of approval of this Annual Report, which An ongoing process is in place for identifying, evaluating and accord with the Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the managing the risks faced by the Group.
Key risks and their financial Combined Code published in October 2005. implications are appraised by the Executive Committee which is assisted by a committee of Business Support Unit executives the Risk The Board has delegated the detailed design of the systems of internal Committee.
This is an integral part of the strategic planning process.
control and risk management to the executive directors.
The appropriateness of controls is considered, having regard to cost Control framework benefit, materiality and the likelihood of risks crystallising.
Key risks and The control framework and key procedures during 2014 in relation to actions to mitigate those risks are considered at Board meetings and the financial reporting process were as follows: are formally reviewed and approved by the Board twice yearly.
Each key risk is assigned executive director Executive Head ownership.
A The Group operates through two primary Business Channels and programme is underway to incorporate within the current control fourBusiness Support Units: framework additional systems to establish and monitor risk appetite Operations and tolerance, within the Group as a whole and at divisional business unit level.
The control framework will enhance theGroups existing risk management culture.
Retail Digital Policies and controls Key policies and control procedures including treasury, compliance and information system controls are documented and have Groupwide application.
There are also operating procedure manuals that Trading, areintegrated with Group-wide controls.
High standards of business Pricing and Information Human Finance and ethics and compliance with laws, regulations and internal policies are Liability Technology Resources Development Management demanded from employees at all levels.
To underpin the effectiveness of controls, it is Group policy to recruit and develop management and other employees of high calibre, integrity and with appropriate Business Support disciplines.
A system of annual self-certification of compliance with keycontrols and procedures is operated throughout the Group.
There is an Executive Head responsible for each of these Business Channels and Business Support Units.
The role of the Audit Committee in reviewing the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management is explained in the Business planning Audit Committee section.
The Group has an internal audit function, Corporate strategy and Group-wide business objectives are reviewed outsourced to Deloitte LLP, which reports to management and the annually by the Board and the Group profit plan is approved by the Audit Committee on Group operations.
The Business Support Unit management integrate Groupwide objectives into business strategies for presentation to the Board The Board also conducts an assessment of the effectiveness of the with supporting financial objectives.
Operating plans for each internal control and risk management systems.
The assessment takes Business Support Unit comprise financial and operating targets, account of all significant aspects including: risk assessment: the capital expenditure proposals and performance indicators and are control environment and control activities: information and reviewed by the Executive Committee.
Reporting and oversight The Chief Executive and the Executive Heads comprise the Executive ANTI-BRIBERY AND WHISTLEBLOWING POLICIES Committee and meet monthly to consider Group strategy, financial The Board recognises that as a global betting and gaming business performance, business development and management issues.
Other there is potential for exposure to bribery and corruption.
Failure by senior executives participate as appropriate.
In addition, there are employees, suppliers or agents to comply with anti-bribery and weekly and monthly financial and operational review meetings corruption legislation including the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign together with an annual programme of plan reforecasting and strategy Corrupt Practices Act, or any failure in policies and procedures to reviews attended by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer monitor and prevent non-compliance, anywhere in the world, could together with, as appropriate, other Executive Heads and executives.
result in substantial penalties, criminal prosecution and significant The Board regularly receives reports from Executive Heads covering damage to the reputation of the Company.
areas such as operations, forecasts, business development, strategic The Board ensures that there are a number of policies, procedures, planning, human resources, legal and corporate matters, compliance, management systems and internal controls in place across the health and safety and corporate responsibility.
business to prevent bribery and corruption occurring.
This includes policies on whistleblowing, anti-bribery, gifts and hospitality, charitable Investment donations and sponsorship.
Supplementary audit, monitoring and There is a Group-wide policy governing appraisal and approval review processes are designed to identify breaches of Group controls.
ofinvestment expenditure and asset disposals.
An Investment Committee comprising of the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial The whistleblowing policy enables and encourages employees to Officer, consider all significant financial commitments, including past report in confidence any possible malpractice, impropriety or other investment appraisals.
Major projects are reported on at each matters of concern which may arise in the business.
Any matters scheduled Board meeting.
Post-investment appraisals are raised in accordance with the policy are investigated thoroughly and undertaken on a systematic basis and are formally reviewed by reports are provided at each meeting of the Audit Committee.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 Details of the number of Committee meetings held during the year and RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS the attendance of Committee directors is shown below: There is a regular programme of meetings with major institutional shareholders to consider the Groups performance and prospects.
In Entitled to attend Attended addition, presentations are made twice yearly after the announcement Darren Shapland 4 4 of results, the details of which, together with the Groups financial John Kelly 4 4 Christine Hodgson 4 4 reports and announcements, can be accessed at www.
During 2014 the Chairman met with several institutional The Audit Committee has established a US sub-committee to oversee investors and their representative bodies in addition to results regulatory matters connected with the application for, and subsequent presentations and the Annual General Meeting.
Other directors are operation of, gaming licences in Nevada.
The Committee would also available to meet the Companys major shareholders if requested.
have oversight of any additional licences arising from future A report on investor relations, which includes updates on meetings opportunities in other US states with regulated or looking to regulate with major institutional shareholders, is given at each Board meeting.
sports wagering or internet gaming activities.
The membership of the The Companys brokers also present to the Board annually.
Principles sub-committee comprises Peter Erskine and Christine Hodgson.
The of ownership, corporate governance and voting guidelines issued by Committee has met three times during 2014 with both Peter Erskine the Companys major institutional shareholders, their representative and Christine Hodgson in attendance.
bodies and advisory organisations are circulated to, and considered Committee support by, the Board.
The Committee is provided with sufficient resources to undertake its The Company corresponds regularly on a range of subjects with its duties.
It has access to the services of the Company Secretary who individual shareholders who have an opportunity to question the acts as secretary to the Committee and all other employees.
The Board at the Annual General Meeting.
Further information on our Committee is able to take independent legal or professional advice relations with shareholders is contained in the Shareholder when it believes it necessary to do so.
The main activities of the Committee in 2014 included: oversight of the transition of external audit services from Ernst & AUDIT COMMITTEE Young LLP to  LLP: The Audit Committee monitors and reports to the Board on the P  LLP was appointed as auditor at the integrity of the financial statements of the Company: reviews the Annual General Meeting held on 7 May 2014 following a tender effectiveness of the Companys internal financial control and risk process conducted in October 2013.
The Committees policy management systems and internal audit function.
It oversees the istoconduct a formal tender at least every ten years: Companys relationship with the external auditor, which includes the critical review of the significant financial reporting issues in assessing the auditors independence and making recommendations connection with the preparation of the Companys financial and to the Board on the auditors appointment and remuneration.
related formal statements, with the assistance of reports received The members of the Committee that served during the year were: from management and the external auditor, including the process for assessing whether the going concern basis of accounting Appointment date Committee role remains appropriate: Darren Shapland 16 February 2010 Chairman assessing the scope and effectiveness of the systems established John Kelly 1 September 2010 Member to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and non-financial Christine Hodgson 1 May 2012 Member risks: All members of the Committee are independent non-executive monitoring the integrity and effectiveness of the Companys internal directors.
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board at financial controls.
The Committee does so by reference to: the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, which consults a summaries of business risks and mitigating controls: with the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
b r egular reports and presentations from the heads of key risk The Board has satisfied itself that the Committees membership functions, internal audit and external audit: and includes directors with recent and relevant financial experience.
c th e results of the system of annual self-certification of compliance Meetings and attendance 2014 with key controls and procedures: The Committee meets as required, but not less than three times a year.
Other directors, including the Chief Financial Officer, attend Audit monitoring and reviewing the plans, work and effectiveness of the Committee meetings.
The Committee met for private discussions with internal audit function, including any actions taken following any the external auditor, whose representatives attend all of its meetings, significant failures in internal controls: together with the internal auditor, Deloitte LLP.
reviewing, with the external auditor, its terms of engagement, the findings of its work, and at the end of the audit process reviewing its effectiveness: and reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
48 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The external auditor reports to the Committee on the actions taken Details of non-audit services are presented to the Committee for its tocomply with professional and regulatory requirements and with review at each meeting.
Fees for non-audit services provided by bestpractice designed to ensure its independence.
In addition, the Ernst& Young LLP in the year up to the date it ceased to be auditor Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement of external amounted to 0.1m 2013: 0.2m.
Fees for non-audit services auditors for the provision of non-audit services which can be viewed provided by  LLP in the year from its atwww.
appointment as Auditor on 7 May 2014 amounted to 0.4m.
The Committee is satisfied that the overall level of fees for non-audit services The policy sets out controls intended to ensure that the independence is not material in the context of the total fee incomereceived by the of the external auditor is not impaired and stipulates: auditor and that the provision of approved non-audit services has not the nature of non-audit services that are permitted to be performed compromised the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
by the external auditor: The performance of the external auditor is reviewed by the levels of authority for management to engage the external auditor Committeeon an annual basis through a qualitative assessment for approved non-audit services: and oftheservices provided against the agreed audit plan and taking account of feedback received from management.
Following this that any non-audit services to be provided by the external auditor review the Committee is satisfied that the external audit process for a single project or specific services for fees in excess of operates effectively.
100,000 must be approved in advance by the Audit Committee.
Accounting and key areas of judgement The main areas considered by the Committee in relation to 2014 are set out below: Matter considered Action Taxation Accounting for uncertain tax positions and the level of deferred tax The Audit Committee received regular reports from management on the corporation tax rate asset recognition and disclosure in relation to accumulated tax losses as well as the judgements exercised in arriving at the corporation tax rate and the deferred tax are based on a series of judgements.
These judgements have an recognised and disclosed.
Assumptions underlying the positions taken on significant deferred impact onthe corporation tax rate and recognition of deferred tax tax assets were supported byreports from other tax, advisory and legal firms.
Inaddition to the recognition, the Audit Committee also discussed the key judgements in relation to both the uncertain tax positions and understood considered the appropriateness of the disclosures provided in the the basis on which deferred tax was recognised or disclosed.
also reported on the tax position to management and the Audit Committee.
Accounting for acquisitions During the year, the Group has acquired the Betstar business Management is required to estimate the fair value of the contingent consideration and to inAustralia.
The recognition of goodwill, other assets and liabilities estimate the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired, including any separate intangible andestimates of thefair value of contingent consideration, assets.
Management engaged Ernst & Young LLP to support this process.
The Audit Committee The Committee has reviewed the valuation reports prepared by Ernst & Young LLP and considered thevaluation ofthe assets and liabilities, and challenged managements accounting papers on the acquisition.
The accounting for the acquisition managements assumptions that underpinned these.
wasalso reported on by  LLP.
Carrying value of long-lived assets In addition to the licences in the Retail estate, as a result of recent The carrying value of all long-lived assets are tested for impairment annually.
acquisitions and the significant level of investment in technology The Audit Committee reviewed the methodology and the outcome of the various impairment overthe past three years, the Group has significant goodwill and review papers presented by management and reviewed the key assumptions in respect of other intangible assets which needed to be reviewed for impairment.
each of the Retail and Digital businesses, understanding how these related to Board approved plans and forecasts.
The Committee also reviewed analysis and support for the Groups software assets and debated the basis for the impairments recorded.
These have also been reported on by  LLP.
Exceptional items The Group classifies certain items in the income statement The Committee has reviewed the items considered exceptional by management which have asexceptional, to allow a clearer understanding of the trading been discussed at each of the past four Audit Committee meetings.
The Committee has performance on a consistent and comparable basis together challenged the appropriateness and classification of these items of costs as well as income as withanunderstanding ofthe effect of non-recurring or large exceptional.
Exceptional items have also been reported on by  LLP.
individual transactions upon the overall profitability of the Group.
The members of the Committee that served during the year were: NOMINATION COMMITTEE Appointment date Committee role The Nomination Committee reviews and makes recommendations to Sly Bailey 1 May 2013 Member the Board on: the composition of the Board, taking account of the Peter Erskine 18 February 2009 Chairman balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity: succession 1 John Jarvis 14 May 2010 Member planning for the directors and other senior executives: the search and John Kelly 15 February 2011 Member nomination of candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they David Martin 7 May 2014 Member arise: candidates for the role of Senior Independent Director and for Darren Shapland 1 May 2012 Member membership of the Audit, Remuneration and Social Responsibility Committees, in consultation with the Chairmen of those Committees: 1 John Jarvis ceased to be a Committee member on his retirement from the Board on 7 May 2014. and makes recommendations to the Board concerning the directors The members of the Committee are the Chairman of the Board and standing for re-election by shareholders.
two or more independent non-executive directors.
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49 Meetings and attendance 2014 The Committee considered the make-up of the Board Committees The Committee meets as required but not less than twice a year.
and recommended to the Board that David Martin would replace Details of the number of Committee meetings held during the year JohnJarvis as a member of the Nomination Committee on John andthe attendance of Committee directors is shown below: Jarvis retirement from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2014.
It also considered the composition Entitled to attend Attended ofthe newly established Social Responsibility Committee and made 1 Sly Bailey 3 2 recommendations to the Board on the Committees initial members.
Peter Erskine 3 3 On 23 February 2015, the Committee met to consider the output of the John Jarvis 1 1 2014 Board evaluation and in terms of candidates for re-election at the John Kelly 3 3 2014 Annual General Meeting and the Boards composition in terms David Martin 2 2 ofsize, experience and diversity.
The Committee concluded that each Darren Shapland 3 3 of the current directors is devoting sufficient time to their duties and 1 Sly Bailey was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to illness.
responsibilities and brings relevant skills and judgement to the work Committee support ofthe Board.
Each of the current directors, with the exception of The Committee is provided with sufficient resources to undertake Richard Glynn, will stand for election at the 2015 Annual itsduties.
It has access to the services of the Company Secretary GeneralMeeting.
whoacts as secretary to the Committee and all other employees.
TheCommittee is able to take independent legal and professional SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE advice when it believes it necessary to do so.
The Social Responsibility Committee reviews and advises the Board Diversity on the effectiveness of the Groups strategy and policies for ensuring The Company has a well established and published equal that the Group operates a socially responsible and sustainable opportunities policy that guides all colleagues in how they fairly deal business that protects the young, protects the vulnerable, and with all colleagues and customers irrespective of age, gender, sexual ensuresthe business is not associated with crime and disorder orientation, religion, disability or ethnic origin.
That policy applies on andthat the Groups reputational standing is maintained.
how people are selected to work at the Company and applies at all The members of the Committee that served during the year were: levels.
The Company has a succession policy that ensures all key rolesincluding director positions are considered and the Company Appointment date Committee role considers candidates for roles from the widest possible field.
The Christine Hodgson 3 July 2014 Member Board regularly reviews succession arrangements for all key roles John Kelly 3 July 2014 Chairman andthe Nomination Committee reviews succession arrangements fordirectors.
The Boards Strategic report includes details of wider The members of the Committee comprises of two or more independent workforce gender diversity which are shown on page 40. non-executive directors.
The Board endorses the aims of the Davies Report entitled Women Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board on the on Boards and when considering future appointments, with the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
support of the Nomination Committee, will aim to build on its current Meetings and attendance 2014 position.
The Company currently has two women on the Board The Committee meets as required but not less than twice a year.
Christine Hodgson and Sly Bailey and therefore over 20% of the Details of the number of Committee meetings held during the year Board ismade up of women.
The Companys current aspiration is andthe attendance of Committee directors is shown below: toincrease the percentage of women on the Board to 25% by 2016 and to continue to ensure appropriate representation by women, Entitled to attend Attended bothon theBoard and throughout the business, whilst at all times Christine Hodgson 2 2 ensuring theCompany selects on merit.
John Kelly 2 2 Committee activities Committee support During 2014 the Committee started a search to find a successor to The Committee is provided with sufficient resources to undertake Richard Glynn who is due to stand-down as Chief Executive Officer itsduties.
It has access to the services of the Company Secretary in2015.
The Committee has appointed JCA Group and Korn Ferry whoacts as secretary to the Committee and all other employees.
toassist with the Executive search process.
TheCommittee is able to take independent legal and professional As part of the Committees support for fostering and developing talent advice when it believes it necessary to do so.
and increasing diversity in the talent pool, members of the Committee Committee activities have been involved with the Companys newly established Females in The Committee was established in July 2014.
Since that time it has Leadership Group.
Committee members provide advice and support met twice and its initial focus has been on reviewing: to this Group and the Chairman addressed the Group during the year on the topic of leadership.
In addition, a programme of informal managements plans designed to embed Responsible Gambling meetings and dinners has been arranged so that members of the into the culture of the business and reinforce its importance: Committee are able to meet and engage with the Groups rising stars details of KPIs to be used to assess performance against delivery within the talent pool, providing opportunities for giving feedback, of key social responsibility goals: and coaching and mentoring.
appropriate reward measures for executives and senior managers, and make recommendations to the Remuneration Committee.
