Laird PLC 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance report The Corporate governance report is designed to provide The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of shareholders with an explanation of how the Company the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief has applied the main principles of the UK Corporate Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management Governance Code the Code as relevant to the of the Company and implementation of the strategy and Company in 2014. policies adopted by the Board.
The Chairmans other significant commitments are detailed in his biography onpage 50.
Statement of Compliance The directors considered that during the year ended Non-executive directors 31 December 2014, the Company was in compliance with Non-executive directors constructively challenge the provisions set out in the Code.
and scrutinise the performance of management and help develop proposals on strategy.
The letters of The Code is available from the Financial Reporting appointment of the non-executive directors are available Councils website at https: www.
uk corporate from the Company on request and will be on display at ukcgcode.
The Role of the Board Senior Independent Director The Board is appointed by the shareholders who are Paula Bell was the Senior Independent Director SID of the owners of the Company.
The Boards principal the Company during 2014.
As announced on 29 January responsibility is to act in the best interests of the 2015, Mike Parker will become the SID with effect from shareholders, as required by the Companies Act 2006. his appointment to the Board on 3 March 2015.
The Board establishes the aims and objectives for the Company, sets the strategic direction and plans, and As well as being available to shareholders, whose the operating budgets which are proposed by the Chief concerns have not been resolved through normal Executive, and monitors performance against them.
channels or when such channels would be inappropriate, the SID provides a sounding board for the Chairman and The Board is also responsible for identifying, evaluating serves as an intermediary for the other Directors, where and monitoring the key risks faced by the Company, necessary.
The SID also has responsibility for leading the for exercising proper and appropriate corporate annual appraisal of the Chairmans performance.
governance, for establishing and ensuring the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and Composition of the Board for reviewing management performance.
Through the The composition of the Board, as outlined on pages Chief Executive, the Board has regard to the necessary 50 and 51, includes an appropriate balance of the financial and human resources required to meet the skills and experience appropriate for the requirements Companys objectives.
Further information relating to There is a schedule of key operational matters reserved appointments to the Board and the Boards policy on for Board approval.
diversity, including gender, is included in the Nomination Committee section of this report.
The Board also delegates certain other responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Administration The Chairman, Dr Martin Read, was appointed to the Committees the Committees.
The written Terms Board as an independent non-executive director in of Reference of the Committees are available on February 2014 and succeeded Nigel Keen as Chairman the Companys website at www.
com, from when he retired at the conclusion of the Annual General the Company on request and will be on display at Meeting on 2 May 2014.
Dr Martin Read fulfils the criteria the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman of each for independence as set out in the Code.
Further details Committee reports to the Board, as appropriate, and the are included in Other Statutory Information on page 96. minutes of all Committee meetings are circulated to the Board, unless it is inappropriate to do so.
More details about these Committees can be found in this report.
Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are held separately and there is a clear written division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, which has been agreed by the Board.
Laird PLC 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Attendance at Board meetings and Committee meetings of the Board There was full attendance at all meetings in the year except for an additional meeting held in April to approve the acquisition of Model Solution which Sir Christopher was unable to attend.
He was fully briefed prior to the meeting.
The table below sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its Committees during the year and individual attendance by the Board and Committee members at these meetings.
Director Board 9 Audit 5 Remuneration 5 Nomination 4 1 N J Keen 4 2 1 2 Dr M Read 7 3 3 D C Lockwood 9 J C Silver 9 - P Bell 9 5 5 4 J B Boyer 9 5 5 4 Sir Christopher Hum 8 5 5 4 Professor MJ Kelly 9 5 5 4 1 Retired from the Board on 2 May 2014.
2 Joined the Board on 28 February 2014.
Operation of the Board executive directors to be independent of management and in character and judgement, and are therefore The Board and Committees have regular scheduled free from any business or other relationship that meetings and hold additional meetings as and when could interfere with the exercise of their independent required.
The Board meets at least eight times a judgement.
The Chairman, Dr Martin Read, was year.
A schedule of meetings and principal matters considered independent in accordance with the Code to be discussed is normally set out at least 12 months prior to his appointment as Chairman.
The Board makes periodic visits to the Companys operations.
During the year under review, Normally the Chairman and the non-executive directors the Board as a whole visited the Companys facility in meet at least twice a year without the executive the Czech Republic.
The Chairman, Chief Executive directors present and the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also meets at least annually with the non-executive directors visited the Companys facilities in China and Mexico.
Additionally, the heads of the business units and other Non-executive directors do not participate in any of the senior executives holding functional responsibilities Companys share or bonus schemes and their service is periodically give presentations at Board meetings.
The Board held nine meetings in 2014.
There were Induction and training five Audit Committee Meetings, five Remuneration Committee Meetings and four Nomination Committee New directors are provided with an induction process Meetings during the year.
Details of attendance at when they take on the role and existing directors are Board and Committee meetings are given in the table provided with training as necessary.
This can take the above, and are discussed in more detail in the separate form of reports and briefings from external advisers Committee sections of this report.
Directors are and senior employees, attendance at seminars and expected, where possible, to attend all Board meetings, conferences and bespoke training.
During the year the relevant Committee meetings and the Annual General Board received updates from independent advisers on Meeting.
Whenever a director is unable to attend a changes to reporting requirements and the September meeting, the director, if possible, consults with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
In addition, as Chairman prior to the meeting and is briefed by the part of the Annual Performance Review, each director is Chairman after the meeting.
asked about their individual training needs so that this can be factored into forthcoming programmes.
Independence Time Commitment Currently the Board comprises a non-executive Chairman, four other non-executive directors and two A schedule of meetings and principal matters to be executive directors.
The Code requires that at least discussed is normally set out at least 12 months in half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be advance, enabling the Board to assess the expected time independent non-executive directors.
Furthermore, the letters of appointment continues to be met.
The Board considers all of the nonof each director include an approximate estimate of Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance report continued time required per annum to cover meeting attendance, Re-election of directors preparation for meetings and overseas visits.
The Board All of the directors stand for annual re-election at each is satisfied that each director is able to devote sufficient Annual General Meeting.
Biographical details of the time to fulfil their duties.
directors are included in the Notice of Annual General Information and support Meeting and on pages 50 and 51.
Further information on Board changes during the year is given in the It is important that the Board should be supplied with Nomination Committee section of this report and in information in a timely manner, in a form and of a Other Statutory Information on page 96. quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Minutes of meetings are circulated to the relevant Internal control Committee members prior to each Committee meeting.
Laird PLC is a holding company registered in the UK with Prior to Board meetings, all directors receive Board businesses primarily located overseas.
These businesses papers which include detailed financial information, are organised as subsidiary companies where the a strategic report from the Chief Executive and an management of these companies are appointed to operational overview from the Chief Financial Officer.
manage within the framework established by the Laird Directors may also take independent professional advice Board, as well as to comply with local statutory and where necessary at the Companys expense and have regulatory requirements.
Overall responsibility for access to the services of the Company Secretary.
Lairds systems of internal control including financial, Board evaluation operational and compliance controls, and reviewing their effectiveness lies with the Laird Board, which ensures The performance of individual directors was considered that a review is carried out at least annually to assess the by the Chairman in discussion with other non-executive adequacy of those systems.
The non-executive directors considered the systems of internal control rests with the managers of performance of the Chairman, taking into account the subsidiaries.
Laird executive directors are responsible the views of the executive directors.
The Chairman for implementing Group policy and for monitoring the considered the performance of the executive business unit and divisional performance and reporting directors which was also discussed with the nonto the Board thereon.
Financial information is reviewed executive directors.
at business unit level as well as by Lairds Finance An external evaluation of the Board and its Committees Department, which prepares the consolidation and was carried out in respect of 2014 by Korn Ferry, an financial statements to ensure that the financial position independent third party.
All directors and the Company and results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
Secretary completed detailed questionnaires on the An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and workings of the Board and its Committees, including: managing the significant risks faced by the Group is in the balance of skills and experience: place and complies with the Code and the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control and is relations between executive and nonat least annually reviewed by the Board.
This process executive directors: has been in place for the full financial year and up to the timeliness of information provided to the Board: the date the accounts were approved by the Board.
The systems of internal control are designed to manage the way in which Board meetings are conducted: and rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the way in which the Board has fulfilled its duties.
business objectives as well as safeguarding the Groups assets.
These systems can only provide reasonable but Korn Ferry then conducted individual interviews with not absolute assurance against material misstatement each director and the Company Secretary to discuss the or loss.
Korn Ferry produced a report which was presented to the Board.
It concluded Group operating rules, authorities and delegations are that, in overall terms, the Board and its Committees had issued periodically to the managers of subsidiaries performed well and that whilst there are areas to be setting out their responsibilities and delegated addressed, these are not considered an impediment to authorities.
These rules require approval for specific the proper functioning of the Board.
To complete the transactions and call for accurate and relevant financial process, the Chairman is holding one-to-one interviews information to be delivered on a timely basis.
The ability with each of the directors and the Company Secretary to identify risk is enhanced by the timely reporting todiscuss Korn Ferrys report.
of management information and the short lines of communication with operating managers.
Laird PLC 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Business units and corporate functions participate in an The Director of Investor Relations, working closely with annual strategic planning process to set out strategic the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer on a objectives and identify the related key risk and control day-to-day basis, has full responsibility for devising and issues and mitigating actions.
This process provides implementing the Companys investor communications the baseline for them to submit their budgets annually plan to service its current and prospective shareholders to management and to Lairds executive directors and provide information to financial analysts.
In addition, through a risk and controls Written and verbal reports are presented to the Board at assessment process embedded in business performance each meeting on ongoing Investor Relations activity and review process, emergent risk and control issues are reports from the investor community are fed back on a managed transparently.
A risk management update, regular basis.
reporting emergent risks and any changes to the risk environment, is presented at all Board meetings.
During 2014, there was continued focus on engaging This process is supplemented by papers submitted to with Lairds institutional shareholders and private the Board by the executive directors throughout the year client brokers to ensure the Companys prospects and and by meetings from time to time between the Board developments were understood and to emphasise the and the management of the businesses, some of which strategic progress that has been achieved.
take place at the premises of the operating companies.
Dr Martin Read, following his appointment as Chairman, The Chief Executive presents the Groups business undertook a series of introductory meetings with objectives which are approved by the Board, and the key shareholders.
Board also addresses those risks which affect the Group as a whole.
The Board instigates further reports and Throughout the year, the Company participated in investigations as it considers necessary.
shareholder and prospective shareholder meetings in the UK and Europe, with activity mainly centred Oversight of the management of risk and governance is around key reporting dates, the March Full Year Results effected through the Risk and Governance Group RGG.
announcement, July interims announcement and the The RGG is chaired by the Chief Executive and includes May and October Interim Management Statement dates.
the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, the Whilst a programme of co-ordinated activity is followed Chief Human Resources Officer, the Chief Strategy throughout the year, where appropriate we alsorespond & Technology Officer and the Company Secretary.
to ad-hoc requests for meetings.
The majority of The RGG met five times in 2014, including an ad-hoc the meetings were attended by a combination of meeting to review risk management plans for a key fastthe Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and or track new country venture.
Meetings are held at least the Director of Investor Relations.
The Chairman and quarterly with additional ad-hoc meetings for specific Senior Independent Director are also available for risk issues or projects as required.
Outcomes, actions meetings with shareholders in the event that there and issues from all meetings are reported to the Board are any concerns which cannot be addressed through as part of the Chief Financial Officers report at each management, or in connection with any significant meeting.
Minutes of the RGG are circulated to the Board.
change to the Companys strategy, remuneration policy Remuneration Committee or governance arrangements.
Information on the Remuneration Committee is included Wherever possible, the Chairman and non-executive in the Directors remuneration report.
directors attend results presentations and they welcome the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity Relations with shareholders to communicate with both private investors and The Company is committed to increasing shareholder institutional shareholders.
Shareholders are invited to value and ensures it communicates its prospects ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet and achievements to shareholders in a timely the directors informally after the meeting.
The Chairman manner and within the limits imposed by the Listing gives a formal report on the Companys progress at Rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority.
the meeting and a copy of his statement is issued to Regular communication with shareholders takes place a regulatory information service and published on the through the Annual Report and Accounts, the Final Companys website.
All of the directors attended the and Interim Results presentation materials and other Annual General Meeting in 2014 and the Chairmen press releases of business significance throughout of the Remuneration and Audit Committees were the year.
Significant matters relating to the trading or available to answer questions relating to their areas development of the business are communicated to the of responsibility.
The number of proxy votes cast for, market by way of announcements through a regulatory against and withheld on the resolutions are reported information service.
These announcements also appear tothe meeting and following the meeting are published on the Companys website, along with other press onthe Companys website.
releases, presentations, webcasts, informative videos and business case studies.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Report of the Nomination Committee Chairmans overview During the year, the Committee: drew up and debated a skills and experience matrix for the composition of the Board, resulting in the Committee agreeing the specification for the recruitment of a further non-executive director: undertook the annual review of the Chief Executives performance: engaged Egon Zehnder to assist with the recruitment of a new Chief Financial Officer following the announcement that Jonathan Silver, the current CFO, would be stepping down at the 2015 AGM: considered and recommended to the Board the renewal of Sir Christopher Hums and Professor Kellys term of appointment for a further year: and reviewed its terms of reference.
Looking ahead, the Committee is giving particular thought to the replacement of two long-serving directors, Professor Michael Kelly and Sir Christopher Hum, who will be completing nine years service as Dr Martin Read, CBE directors during the course of 2015.
We are particularly Chairman of the Nomination Committee conscious that Laird needs a strong Board to guide it through its growth trajectory.
The skills, experience and diversity of the Board discussed further in this report will be crucial factors in shaping the search process for the new non-executive directors.
Dr Martin Read, CBE The Committees main focus is Chairman of the Nomination Committee on strengthening and balancing the range of skills, experience anddiversity of the Board.
Laird PLC 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Objective Korn Ferry were appointed to assist the Committee with refreshing the Board and to carry out an independent To lead the process for Board appointments, and make Board Evaluation.
They were reappointed in 2014 to recommendations to the Board.
carry out a further independent Board Evaluation.
More information on this Board Evaluation can be found Responsibilities on page 54.
In 2014, Egon Zehnder was appointed The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are to assist with the process for selecting a new Chief documented and agreed by the Board.
The key terms Financial Officer.
Apart from Korn Ferrys and Egon are outlined below and the full terms of reference are Zehnders work on these matters and assisting with the available on the Companys website, www.
recruitment of other senior executives within the Group, responsibility for identifying and nominating, for Korn Ferry and Egon Zehnder have no other connection the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board with the Company.
vacancies as and when they arise: The selection for the new Chief Financial Officer is being leading the process for Board appointments and led by the Chief Executive and the Chairman working making recommendations to the Board: closely with the current Chief Financial Officer to ensure a smooth transition.
in consultation with the Chief Executive, regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition Diversity including the balance of skills, knowledge, The Board supports the recommendations of the Davies independence, experience and diversity required of Report entitled Women on Boards and recognises the Board and making recommendations to the Board the benefits of having diversity across all areas of the with regard to any changes: and Group.
It is the Companys aim to have the appropriate level of diversity in the boardroom to reflect the diverse at least annually, reviewing the performance of the nature of the Companys operations whilst remaining Chief Executive.
committed to ensuring that appointments are ultimately Membership made on merit against agreed selection criteria.
The Committee consists of the Chairman of the Board Korn Ferry and Egon Zehnder have undertaken to and at least two independent non-executive directors.
ensure that at least 30% of candidates for their long list are women, unless they can explicitly justify why this is It was chaired by Nigel Keen until his retirement on 2 May not the case.
This undertaking supports the Committees 2014 and thereafter by Dr Martin Read.
It also comprises policy of considering diversity generally when making Paula Bell and Sir Christopher Hum.
Following his appointments to the Board, taking into account relevant appointment as Senior Independent Director, Mike skills, experience, knowledge, gender and ethnicity.
Parker will succeed Paula Bell as a member of The Committee believes that diversity of thought and the Committee.
business experience is paramount when considering the make-up of the Board.
More information on the Meetings Companys gender profile is included in the Corporate The Nomination Committee met four times during the social responsibility report.
Details of attendance at these meetings can be found on page 53.
At the invitation of the Committee, and as appropriate to the matters under discussion, meetings may be attended by members of the Board and external advisers.
Minutes are kept by the Company Secretary of the matters considered and decisions taken by the Committee.
Minutes are circulated to the Board, unless it is inappropriate to do so.
The Committee has authority to seek any information it requires from any officer or employee of the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
The Committee can take such independent professional advice, at the expense of the Company, as it considers necessary.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Report of the Audit Committee Chairmans overview The Committee engages with the business effectively and assesses the adequacy of the internal financial control environment.
During the year, the business has continued its review of the financial shared services centres in Europe, North America and Asia, which continues to bring strength to the already robust financial processes within the organisation.
The Committee receives regular updates throughout the year on any changes in the financial controls environment and also receives assurances from external professional advisers.
The Committee continues to challenge and develop the scope of Lairds internal audit programme to match the evolving growth of the business in terms of regional expansion into new territories and as the organisational structure adapts and changes.
The Committee also reviews and discusses with the external auditor the scope of the audit to ensure it appropriately responds to risk.
The Committee monitors and reviews annually the whistleblowing policy and any incidents of whistleblowing are brought to the Committees attention.
A review of the independent telephone and Paula Bell internet provider is currently underway and will be Chairman of the Audit Committee concluded shortly.
Following the introduction of the audit tendering provisions in the Code, the recent findings of the Competition Commission, the EU regulations and the Guidance for Audit Committees issued by the Financial Reporting Council, the Committee has decided that As a Committee we are keen a competitive audit tender will take place in 2015 to to constantly evolve our focus coincide with the five-year rotation of the audit partner, with a view to the change being implemented in 2016, on financial risks that face the following the 2015 audit.
business as operations continue The Committee advises the Board as to whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is to grow globally, whilst ensuring fair, balanced and understandable and provides the robust reporting is underpinned information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
by appropriate and effective At the beginning of each financial year, the Committee processes, controls and assurance.
agrees the annual agenda of activities identifying key areas of focus and emerging topics.
The Committee recognises the Paula Bell requirement to keep primary areas Chairman of the Audit Committee of judgement under review and report accordingly and is committed to fulfilling its responsibilities in this regard.
Laird PLC 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Objective Membership To provide effective oversight and governance over the The Audit Committee members are all independent Groups financial reporting, including the adequacy of non-executive directors.
The Chairman of the Audit related disclosures, the performance of both the internal Committee is Paula Bell and the other members of the audit function and the external auditor and the internal Audit Committee during the year were Sir Christopher financial control environment and the processes in place Hum, Professor Michael Kelly and Jack Boyer.
The Board to monitor this.
ensures that at least one member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
Paula Bell, Responsibilities the Chairman of the Committee, is the Group Finance The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are Director for John Menzies plc andJack Boyer is a documented and agreed by the Board.
The key terms non-executive director on the Boardof Mitie Group PLC are outlined below and the full terms of reference are and is a member of their AuditCommittee.
Furthermore, available on the Companys website, www.
the Board is satisfied that the Audit Committee as a whole has sufficient financial, international and commercial reviewing the financial results announcements and experience to enable it to carry out its duties.
financial statements and any significant financial reporting issues and judgements which they Meetings may contain: The Audit Committee met five times during the year.
advising the Board on whether the Annual Report Details of attendance at these meetings can be found on page 53.
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Risk Officer and the external auditor are given notice of all necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: meetings and may be invited to attend and speak at any meeting.
The external auditor has the opportunity to ensuring compliance with applicable accounting meet with the Audit Committee without any executive standards and reviewing the appropriateness of directors present whenever necessary and the Audit accounting policies and practices in place: Committee ensures that this happens at least once a year in order to discuss any issues or concerns from assessing the adequacy of the internal financial control either party.
Additionally, the Chairman of the Audit environment and the processes in place to monitor Committee has regular contact with the external audit this, including reviewing the performance of the partner outside of Committee meetings.
During the year, internal audit team: the Audit Committee held two meetings with EY without overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, management being present, in order to receive feedback reviewing their performance and advising the Board from them on matters such as the quality of interaction on their appointment and remuneration: with management.
ensuring appropriate safeguards are in place for The Audit Committee has authority to seek any individuals to raise issues with the Board where information it requires from any officer or employee abreach of conduct or compliance, including any of the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
financial reporting irregularity, is suspected: and It believes that it has received sufficient, reliable and timely information from management to enable it to fulfil reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys its responsibilities during the year.
The Audit Committee internal controls to guard against and detect fraud can take such independent professional advice, at the and to consider the Companys response to any expense of the Company, as it considers necessary.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Report of the Audit Committee continued Main activities during the year Financial reporting The Committee has assisted the Board in carrying The primary role of the Committee in relation to out its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting financial reporting is to review the half year and annual requirements and the assessment of internal financial financial statements.
The review is carried out with both control.
It has reviewed the effectiveness of the management and the external auditor, and focus areas internal audit function and their work and oversaw the include evaluating whether: relationship with the external auditor.
the Annual Report and Accounts represent a fair, balanced and understandable view of information The Committee, which comprises all non-executive for shareholders: directors, normally meets prior to Board meetings and before half year and full year announcements and the material areas of significant judgement have been given two Interim Management Statements.
At least twice a due consideration by management and reviewed with year the Committee receives and reviews reports from the external auditor: the Chief Risk Officer on internal financial control.
the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices: In accordance with the Code, the Board requested that the Committee advise them on whether they believe clarity of disclosures and compliance to financial that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, reporting standards and relevant financial and is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the governance reporting requirements: and information necessary for shareholders to assess the any correspondence from regulators in relation Companys performance, business model and strategy.
During 2014, the Committee has continued to monitor The primary areas of judgement considered by the and review the effectiveness of the shared services Committee in relation to the 2014 accounts, and how model to ensure that high levels of assurance are being these were addressed, were: maintained.
The Committee oversees the assurance Goodwill impairment testing process to target priorities in a new control model for The review for impairment of goodwill and intangible theshared services environment.
assets is based on cash flow projections to calculate The Committee has continued to challenge and develop a value in use for each division.
These projections are the scope of Lairds internal audit programme to match based on forecasts which have been prepared by each the evolving growth of the business in terms of regional division.
The achievability of the forecasts is a risk, given expansion into new territories and as the organisation the inherent uncertainty within any financial projection.
The Committee has also The Committee addresses this risk by reviewing the reviewed and discussed with the external auditor the assumptions used for each division and the financial scope of the audit to ensure it appropriately responds models used to assess value in use are reviewed as part to risk.
Taxation Provisioning for potential current tax liabilities and the level of deferred tax asset recognition in relation to accumulated tax losses are underpinned by a range of judgments.
The Committee addresses these issues through a range of reports from the taxation department and senior management and a process of challenging the appropriateness of managements views including the degree to which these are supported by professional advice from external legal and other advisory firms.
During the year, there has been a recognition of an exceptional 20.1m deferred tax asset in relation to US losses.
This deferred tax asset recognition has been discussed in detail and verified with both the taxation department and senior management.
The provisioning for current tax liabilities and levels of deferred tax asset recognition is an area of higher audit risk and accordingly the Committee received detailed verbal and written reporting from EY on all these matters.
Laird PLC 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Acquisition accounting Effectiveness There is judgement involved in identifying the value of the The Audit Committee considers and reviews the assets of an acquired business.
The accounting policies of effectiveness of the external audit on an annual acquired companies are examined and where they differ basis, reporting its findings to the Board as part of from Group policies an adjustment is made in the opening its recommendation.
This process is supported by balance sheet to ensure consistency.
Intangible assets and the completion of questionnaires by the Committee goodwill are separately identified as part of this process, which include consideration of the audit partner, the with any need for impairment considered at December approach, communication and reporting.
The results 2014 based on current factors.
The Committee has of the questionnaires are reported to and discussed by reviewed the disclosure in the financial statements and the Committee.
The Committee also considered the has sought further explanation where necessary.
scope and planning of the external financial audit and assessed the effectiveness of the audit process, including The acquisition of Model Solution during 2014 included a report on the audit firms own internal quality control put and call options over the non-controlling interests and procedures.
Additionally, the Committee received and has required the Committee to consider their fair value on reviewed the Financial Reporting Councils Annual Audit acquisition and at 31 December 2014.
Further information Quality Inspections Report.
After taking into account the is included at note 18 on page 132. above factors, the Committee concluded that the external Exceptional costs auditor remains effective.
The Committee also reviewed the nature and Non-audit services classification of some costs as exceptional in the year and The Audit Committee recommends for Board approval its compliance with the Groups accounting policy.
a policy for non-audit services to be performed by the External auditor auditor.
This policy prohibits the use of the external audit Appointment and Independence firm for certain specified matters and the hiring of its former employees, without prior approval from the Audit During the year, the Committee reviewed the Committee Chairman.
The auditor will not be engaged to appointment and terms of engagement of EY, the provide internal audit services, systems implementations external auditor, including the proposed fee structure.
or valuations as such services would be deemed to The Audit Committee has noted the changes to the Code, conflict with their independence.
the recent findings of the Competition Commission, the The ratio of fees for non-audit work to audit services EU regulations and the Guidance for Audit Committees was 1:1 in 2014.
There are often sound commercial and issued by the Financial Reporting Council, in the context practical reasons, including confidentiality, for using EY to of tendering for the external audit contract every provide non-audit services.
Laird continues to use other 10years.
EY were appointed as external auditor in 1989 providers for tax planning advice and acquisition due and their appointment has been subject to annual diligence.
As previously reported, tax compliance fees reviews.
Following the introduction of the audit tendering have been unusually high as EY has been advising Laird provisions in the Code, the Committee has decided that a over a number of years on a Bilateral Advanced Pricing competitive audit tender will take place in 2015 to coincide Agreement, a major tax compliance project involving with the five-year rotation of the audit partner, with a view the Chinese and US tax authorities.
These fees, which to the change being implemented in 2016, following the amounted to 0.6m in 2014, represent a significant push 2015 audit.
There are no contractual obligations which for closure of the outstanding issues and the successful restrict the Committees recommendation to the Board conclusion of the US negotiations.
Negotiations with the ofstatutory auditor.
Chinese authorities are expected to conclude in 2015.
The Audit Committee has reviewed EYs key policies for Excluding these fees, the ratio of non-audit fees to audit maintaining objectivity and independence, including the was 1:0.5.
Details of fees for non-audit work are set out policy for the rotation of audit partners which requires a innote 6 on page 121. new lead audit partner to be appointed every five years.
In accordance with this policy, there was a change in lead audit partner in 2011.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the policy on employment of former employees of the external auditor and confirmed it remained effective.
The Audit Committee recommended to the Board the re-election of EY as the external auditor.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Report of the Audit Committee continued Internal audit Whistleblowing The Audit Committee oversees the internal audit function.
The Audit Committee reviews the Companys procedure The Audit Committee considers the scope and planning for handling allegations from whistleblowers as set of internal financial audits and reviews the internal audit out in the Companys Global Code of Conduct which process for identifying and managing financial risk and is available on the Companys website and any the findings of those audits.
Deloitte LLP, who provide whistleblowing events are brought to its attention.
global internal audit services under the direction of Following the policy and process review, the Audit the Chief Risk Officer, attended four Audit Committee Committee agreed that the policy works well and no meetings during the year.
The Chief Risk Officer briefed changes were recommended.
A whistleblowing service, the Audit Committee four times on key internal audit which offers a relevant language service in all countries in matters and findings of internal audit investigations which Laird operates, is made available to all employees and had the opportunity at each meeting to meet with through an independent telephone and internet provider.
the Audit Committee without any executive directors Employees have the right to remain anonymous.
present and he met or had phone calls separately with A monthly report on any calls received is sent to the Chairman of the Audit Committee on nine further senior management.
Investigation of all whistleblower occasions during the year.
communications is overseen by the Chief Risk Officer with findings reported to the Board.
In order to continue Internal financial control to highlight the existence of the service, it was agreed As noted above, the Audit Committee reviews the that an organisation-wide awareness refresh would be Group and Companys financial statements.
The intention is that this will be undertaken responsibility for reviewing the process for identifying and once the review of the independent telephone and managing financial risk, for reviewing the internal financial internet provider has concluded.
controls and considers the scope and planning of internal and external audits.
It reviews reports on internal financial control including reports by the Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Financial Officer and the results from internal financial audits.
As part of its audit, the external auditor, to the extent it considers necessary to support its audit opinion, reviews and tests the systems of internal control and the data contained in the accounts, including an independent and objective review of the approach of management to the reporting of the operating results and financial condition.
Laird PLC 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Report of the Administration Committee Objective Membership To deal with items of a routine and administrative nature.
The Committee consists of any two or more directors.
Responsibilities Meetings The terms of reference of the Administration The Administration Committee met two times during Committee are documented and agreed by the Board.
The key terms are outlined below and the full terms Full minutes are kept by the Company Secretary of of reference are available on the Companys website, the matters considered and decisions taken by the www.
Committee and are circulated to the Board.
to consent to the appointment of a director, or directors of any subsidiary company, where this is required under the subsidiarys Articles of Association: to appoint or remove a director, or directors of any subsidiary company where this is permissible under the subsidiarys Articles of Association: to approve any increase or reclassification or subdivision of the authorised and issued share capital of any subsidiary company where this is required under the subsidiarys Articles of Association: to forfeit unclaimed dividends in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company: and to approve the terms of any bank facility.
By order of the Board A M Downie Secretary 2 March 2015 Registered office 100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ Registered in England No.
55513 Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report
