Lonmin Plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate Governance Report Corporate governance is the system by which companies are directed and controlled.
Boards of directors are responsible for the governance of their companies.
The shareholders role in governance is to appoint the directors and the auditors and to satisfy themselves that an appropriate governance structure is in place.
The responsibilities of the board include setting the companys strategic aims, providing the leadership to put them into effect, supervising the management of the business and reporting to shareholders on their stewardship.
Brian Beamish Chairman Dear Shareholder, As a company with a premium listing in London, Lonmin is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Code encourages chairmen to report personally on how its principles relating to the role and effectiveness of the board have been applied, and it is right that I demonstrate my ownership of these important issues.
As Chairman my role is to lead the board and ensure it is effective in discharging its function.
But what is that function?
The widely-accepted definition of corporate governance above highlights the duality of the boards role simultaneously to provide entrepreneurial leadership to the business, but also to exert control.
In the graphic illustrating our business model on page 13, we show governance as one of the means by which the Company preserves value for shareholders and others, but this must not be the dead hand of bureaucracy.
Instead, a board comprising the right individuals, with a common understanding of the shared mission, must reflect upon the right issues at the right time, when in possession of all necessary information.
While this sounds straightforward, achieving this requires care, thought and action over an extended period.
We choose to maintain the highest standards of corporate governance as we believe these should help to facilitate the success of the Company and sustain this over time.
Crucially management, led by the CEO, is responsible for running the business while the Board, acting under my leadership, reviews and approves strategy and provides the constructive challenge to management necessary to create accountability and drive performance, with the long-term success of the enterprise as the central aim.
Our effectiveness in doing this should make a material difference in terms of creating and preserving value for shareholders and other stakeholders.
Board composition is therefore of enormous importance and there are three critical dimensions: creating the right balance of skills and experience: maintaining a strong level of independence and objectivity: and ensuring that all Directors have sufficient knowledge of the Company and the context in which we operate.
As we act in shareholders interests, it is right that shareholders have the opportunity to vote on the re-election of every Director on an annual basis.
This year we have undertaken reviews of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors, all managed in-house.
The process and key findings are explained in section 1.6 below, and I found this process to be hugely valuable.
The main issue revealed was that, perhaps inevitably given the intense challenges we experienced in the year, the Boards focus had crept into areas that in more normal circumstances would be handled by management, and we therefore need to redefine our respective roles and responsibilities, and respect those boundaries.
Equally understandably, the Board believes that it needs to strengthen further its approach to the identification and management of risk.
Both of these tasks relate to the core control purpose of the Board, and will be pursued with energy and urgency in the months ahead.
The remainder of this report explains the governance structures and processes the Board has implemented and what we did during the year.
Given the importance of the work of the Board Committees, each of those now provides separate reports, which follow this statement.
I hope the statement and reports provide a useful and interesting insight into how the Board has performed as stewards of your company during the year.
Yours faithfully Brian Beamish Chairman 01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate Governance Report Compliance statement As noted in the Chairmans introduction, Lonmin is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council and available on their website, www.
During the year to 30 September 2014 FY2014 the Company has in all respects complied with the provisions of the September 2012 edition of the Code, save for: the period from 1 October 2013 to 31 October 2013, during which less than half the Board excluding the Chairman were independent Non-executive Directors.
This was remedied with the appointment of an additional Non-executive Director, Brian Beamish, on 1 November 2013: and the period from 1 May 2014 to 30 September 2014 and to the date of this report.
Following Mr Beamishs appointment as Chairman on 1 May 2014 and the retirement of Roger Phillimore independent Non-executive Directors again comprised less than half the Board excluding the Chairman.
The Board intends to return to full Code compliance at the earliest opportunity and has engaged a search firm to identify candidates for appointment as independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board is satisfied that this numerical difference has not posed, or poses, any risk to shareholders.
There is sufficient presence of high calibre independent voices among the Board members, and our existing processes in identifying and managing conflicts of interest are felt to be fully effective.
Role and effectiveness of the Board The Company is led and controlled by a Board of Directors, which is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
It does so by creating and preserving value, and has as its foremost principle acting in the interests of shareholders.
How the Board of Directors operates 1.1 The role of the Board The Board is the custodian of the Companys strategic aims, vision and values.
It provides entrepreneurial leadership to management within a framework of prudent controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed appropriately.
It assesses whether the necessary financial and human resources are, and will continue to be, in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives and ensure that it takes full account of safety, environmental and social factors.
The graphic below shows the iterative nature of the Boards role: Develop the business model and provide entrepreneurial leadership Appoint the CEO Report to shareholders on business performance, and ascertain their views Consider and approve strategy, business plans and budgets Oversee reporting to other stakeholders HOW THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OPERATES Monitor the delivery of strategy Challenge or support management as necessary Monitor and understand the Oversee governance environment, risk environment in which the including through oversight delegated Company operates to Board Committees Oversee the internal control framework The schedule of matters reserved to the Board, last reviewed in January 2012 and available on the Companys website, sets out the Boards ultimate responsibility for the Groups strategy, operations and risks, and reserves to the Board power to approve a range of decisions of a significant nature.
Importantly, the Board determines the Companys risk appetite which we define as the risks we actively seek or accept in pursuit of our long-term objectives, decides the Companys business strategy, and then determines the risk tolerance which we define as the limit of risk we are prepared to face in pursuit of those long-term objectives.
Naturally, these must be supported by sound risk management and internal control systems, the design and maintenance of which is also the responsibility of the Board.
In the early part of each financial year the Board sets a number of short-term objectives it intends to pursue in the year, aligned with the Companys long-term strategic goals.
These objectives are used to drive the agenda-setting process for each scheduled meeting of the Board, so that we ensure that time is focussed on these key areas.
The objectives also form a useful framework within which the effectiveness of the Board can be assessed.
com Lonmin Plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate Governance Report 1.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 1.2 Key Board roles The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer is set out in writing and is summarised below, together with the primary responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director and Non-executive Directors, providing a system of checks and balances in which no individual has unfettered decision making power.
Chairman Brian Beamish based in the United Kingdom Chief Executive Officer Ben Magara based in South Africa Lead and manage the Board Provide leadership to the executive team in running the business Lead the Boards consideration of strategy Develop proposals for the Board to consider in all areas reserved for its judgement, particularly strategy Promote the highest standards of corporate governance Ensure effective internal controls and risk management systems are in place Ensure effective communication with shareholders Implement agreed strategy and all Board approved actions The Chairman is in regular contact with the CEO to discuss current material matters, and the Chairman also visits the operations outside the Board meeting schedule to meet a range of senior executives, managers and external stakeholders.
Senior Independent Director Jim Sutcliffe Non-executive Directors Act as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary Provide input to, review proposals for and then approve strategy Be available to shareholders if they have concerns which Scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve, or where such contact would be inappropriate Provide a sounding board for Chairman Review the integrity of financial information and determine whether internal controls and systems of risk management are robust Determine appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive Directors, be involved in the appointment and, where necessary, the removal of Executive Directors and monitor succession planning Detailed knowledge of the mining industry, the PGM business, Lonmins operations and of doing business in South Africa is crucial to the Boards ability to lead the Company.
On appointment each Director is provided with a tailored induction programme, and they are expected to develop and refresh their knowledge and skills on an on-going basis.
The Company supports this by organising site visits and working sessions with a wide range of operational managers and external experts throughout the year and the Chairman agrees with each Director their training and development needs as and when required.
The Non-executive Directors have regular opportunities to meet members of the Executive Committee see section 3 below and the broader management team, both at the working sessions and at social occasions.
At the end of every Board meeting the Chairman holds a discussion with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present followed by a meeting of the independent Non-executive Directors.
The Directors also meet, without the Chairman being present, under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director at least once in each year.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate Governance Report 1.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 1.3 Appointments to the Board The Companys Articles of Association empower the Board to appoint new Directors.
To ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for appointing new Directors to the Board, a Nomination Committee comprising the independent Non-executive Directors has been created, whose work is described on pages 74 and 75.
In order for any board to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively, it must comprise the right blend of individuals, whose skills and experience were gained in a diverse range of backgrounds.
Above all, the Directors must exhibit independence of mind, integrity and the courage to challenge constructively when appropriate.
Appointments are therefore made on personal merit and against objective criteria.
In the case of candidates for non-executive directorships, care is taken to ascertain that they have sufficient time to fulfil their Board and, where relevant, Committee responsibilities.
As part of this process, candidates disclose all other time commitments and, on appointment, undertake to inform the Board of any changes.
The Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are available for public inspection and the generic template is provided on the Companys website.
Shanduka Group, the ultimate parent of our BEE partner Incwala Resources, has a contractual right to nominate one Director for membership of the Companys Board, subject to the recommendation of that individual by the Nomination Committee.
No other party has any legal right to nominate Directors to the Board.
Once appointed, we require all Directors to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders on an annual basis.
As the current composition of the Board and Exco demonstrates, Lonmin strongly supports the benefits of diversity, both in the boardroom and in the business.
Our principal challenge is in meeting the transformation and employment equity targets we face in South Africa.
In order to prioritise these, we have decided not to impose further, gender-based targets upon ourselves, as these could create an unhelpful constraint on future Board appointments.
1.4 The Board of Directors As at the date of this report, the Board has ten members: the Chairman, seven Non-executive Directors of whom four are judged to be independent and two Executive Directors.
The names of the Directors serving at the end of the year and their biographical details are set out on pages 48 and 49.
All Directors served throughout that year, save for Brian Beamish, who was appointed as an independent Non-executive Director on 1 November 2013.
In addition David Munro and Mahomed Seedat served as Non-executive Directors until 30 January 2014 and Roger Phillimore served as a Director and as Chairman of the Board until his retirement on 30 April 2014.
Mr Beamish was appointed Chairman on an interim basis effective 1 May 2014, this appointment being confirmed on a permanent basis on 21 July 2014.
This change is discussed in more detail in the Nomination Committee Report on page 75.
1.5 Balance and independence of the Board members Notwithstanding the current search for additional Non-executive Directors, the Board believes that it and its Committees have an appropriate composition and blend of backgrounds, skills and experience to discharge their duties effectively.
No one individual or small group dominates decision-making.
The Board keeps its membership, and that of its Committees, under review to ensure that an acceptable balance is maintained, and that the collective skills and experience of its members continue to be refreshed.
It is satisfied that all Directors have sufficient time to devote to their roles and that undue reliance is not placed on any individual.
The Board determines whether Non-executive Directors are independent.
As noted above, Phuti Mahanyele was nominated to the Board by Shanduka and the Board does not regard her as being independent.
Gary Nagle and Paul Smith are senior executives of, and were nominated for appointment by, Glencore which owns 24.5% of the Companys shares.
As a result, the Board does not regard either as independent.
The Board considers the four other Non-executive Directors serving at the date of this report to be independent and is confident that they are of sufficient calibre and number that their views can carry sufficient weight in the Boards deliberations.
Mrs fide Segundo has commenced the tenth year of her appointment, but the Board continues to believe that she has independence of thought and judgement, and therefore can be regarded as an independent Non-executive Director.
She has indicated her intention to retire from the Board at the 2015 AGM.
com Lonmin Plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate Governance Report 1.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 1.5 Balance and independence of the Board members continued The experience, professional backgrounds, international diversity, independence and length of service since first appointment of the current eight Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, can be summarised as follows: Industry Sector Experience Professional Background Current country of primary residence Financial services 3 Mining Engineering 1 Switzerland 1 Accounting 3 Management 2 United Kingdom 4 South Africa 3 Legal 1 Acluarial 1 Natural resources 5 Board Balance Tenure of appointment 9 Chairman 1 9 8 7 7 6 5 5 4 4 3 2 1111 1 Independent 4 0 Non-independent 3 This analysis excludes the two Executive Directors A number of the Non-executive Directors have lived and worked in countries other than those in which they currently reside, and the vast majority have strong links with South Africa as evidenced in the biographical details on pages 48 and 49.
1.6 How we assess and refresh the Board and its Committees There are three ways in which we make sure that the Directors continue to provide suitable leadership and direction to the Company: performance evaluation, succession planning and annual re-election by shareholders.
Performance evaluation The Board believes that annual evaluations are helpful and provide a valuable opportunity for continuous improvement.
Brian Beamish Gary Nagle Paul Smith Phuti Mahanyele Len Konar Jonathan Leslie Jim Sutcliffe Karen fide Segundo Number of years completed 01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate Governance Report 1.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 1.6 How we assess and refresh the Board and its Committees continued In 2013, an  review of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors including the Chairman was undertaken by Sheena Crane, an independent practitioner with no other connection to the Company.
Progress against the 2013 actions is summarised below: Area Action Progress during FY2014 Strategy Identify and evaluate strategic options The CEO developed his strategic plans with the Board through the year, and the agreed strategy was approved in November 2014 Set hard measurable outcomes for the Progress in this area was severely impeded by the transformation programme and drive an unprecedented five month strike, but remains a key increased pace of delivery by management goal.
Performance is discussed on pages 40 to 43 Operational excellence Improve operational excellence further, and Despite the prolonged strike, significant progress has ensure that cultural and environmental factors been made in the year in identifying the means by are taken fully in to account which productivity and production can be improved Risk Undertake a comprehensive review of the top The Directors undertook a top-down risk priority risks and mitigation plans, and give identification and assessment exercise during the more attention to second tier risks year, which confirmed the validity of the corporate risk register.
The strategy development process also included an assessment of key risks, and a review of second tier risks identified by management People Further develop executive and Board Two key management appointments were made succession planning, in support of the CEO during the year Johan Viljoen, Chief Operating Officer and Ben Moolman, Head of Business Support Office.
Work is underway in refining succession plans for executive appointments, which is being overseen by the Remuneration Committee The 2014 Board effectiveness review took the form of a structured questionnaire which covered a range of key topics including composition, skills, balance and experience of the Board, the respective roles and responsibilities of the Non-executive and Executive Directors, quality of strategic and risk debate, the effectiveness of decision making and interactions with management.
All Directors and members of the Executive Committee participated in the evaluation, and the findings were collectively considered by the Board.
The evaluation process identified the following key priorities for FY2015: Area Action Strategy Further develop our corporate strategy as distinct from operating strategy, given the current risk concentration Further refine our operating strategy as we develop additional insights into PGM markets and South African risks Risk Identify means of bolstering the Boards role in the identification, assessment, mitigation and management of risk Create time in the Board schedule to obtain a range of views on South African risks People Given the significant personnel changes at Board and Exco levels, create opportunities for deeper engagement and interaction Governance Redefine the respective roles of the Board and management Improve the quality, and reduce the volume, of materials submitted to the Board No significant areas of weaknesses were highlighted during the evaluation and the Board concluded that it had operated effectively throughout the year.
The effectiveness of each Board Committee was assessed through a separate exercise, again using a structured questionnaire.
The findings of this process were discussed with each Committee and the Board, and some minor improvement opportunities identified.
The Chairman maintains contact with each Director throughout the year, and held a formal conversation with each of them to discuss their effectiveness in their allotted roles.
No material actions flowed from any of these review sessions.
com Lonmin Plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate Governance Report 1.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 1.6 How we assess and refresh the Board and its Committees continued Succession planning The Board is ultimately responsible for succession planning for directorships and key management roles.
This requires a programme of performance and talent assessment, to ensure that able successors for key roles are identified and then provided with suitable opportunities through agreed career and personal development plans.
It is crucial that we remunerate our most talented people fairly and properly, so that they are more likely to stay in our employment.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the status of our succession planning and also how the processes for recruitment and selection support this programme and our employment equity objectives.
That Committees views were provided to the Board.
Re-election of Directors All Directors will retire from the Board at the Companys AGM in January 2015 and other than Karen fide Segundo, each wishes to seek re-election.
The Nomination Committee has conducted a formal performance evaluation of each Non-executive Director seeking re-election and concluded that their performance continues to be effective and that they demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The Committee is also satisfied that the backgrounds, skills, experience and knowledge of the Company of the continuing Directors collectively enables the Board and its Committees to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
We believe that sufficient biographical and other information on those Directors seeking re-election is provided in this Annual Report and Accounts and the AGM Circular to enable shareholders to make an informed decision.
1.7 Board meetings The Directors met fourteen times during the year, of which six were scheduled meetings.
The other eight meetings were called in relation to specific events or to issue approvals, often at short notice and did not necessarily require full attendance.
In addition, the Directors had a standing invitation to join weekly updating calls with management during the five month long strike.
As in prior years, the Board visited the operations in South Africa twice during the year.
Although we no longer hold Lonmin board meetings in South Africa, this provides a useful opportunity to investigate operational and especially transformation issues in depth and to meet members of the Exco and other managers.
In addition to their meeting commitments, the Non-executive Directors also make themselves available to management whenever required and there is regular contact outside the Board meeting schedule.
Attendance at Board meetings during each Directors period of service in FY2014 is set out in the table below.
Scheduled Extra Director meetings meetings Brian Beamish appointed 1 November 2013 6 of 6 6 of 6 Len Konar 6 of 6 8 of 8 Jonathan Leslie 6 of 6 7 of 8 Ben Magara 6 of 6 6 of 8 Phuti Mahanyele 5 of 6 5 of 8 David Munro retired from the Board 30 January 2014 2 of 2 0 of 1 Gary Nagle 6 of 6 5 of 8 Roger Phillimore retired from the Board 30 April 2014 3 of 3 1 of 1 Simon Scott 6 of 6 5 of 8 Mahomed Seedat retired from the Board 30 January 2014 2 of 2 1 of 1 Karen fide Segundo 6 of 6 8 of 8 Paul Smith 6 of 6 4 of 8 Jim Sutcliffe 6 of 6 7 of 8 When a Director is unable to participate in a meeting either in person or remotely, the Chairman will solicit their views on key items of business ahead of time, in order that these can be presented at the meeting and influence the debate.
Ms Mahanyele was unable to attend the Directors meeting in July 2014 because she was representing Shanduka Group at a funeral in South Africa and her views were sought by the Chairman.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate Governance Report 1.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 1.8 Board Committees, and how they support the Board To fulfil its role in the time available, the Board must delegate some of its duties and powers to committees.
As well as the committees recommended in the Code, the Board has established two other Committees to oversee business-specific issues, the Safety, Health & Environment Committee formerly called the Safety & Sustainability Committee and the Social, Ethics & Transformation Committee formerly called the Transformation Committee.
Each Committee and its members are provided with accurate, timely and clear information and sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties.
Membership of the Committees during the year to 30 September 2014 is shown below, together with individual attendance at the Committee meetings held during each Directors period of service in FY2014.
Safety, Health Social, Ethics & & Environmental Transformation 8 Audit & Risk Nomination Remuneration SHE SET Non-Executive Directors 1 5 6 6 Brian Beamish Member 1 of 1 Member 3 of 3 Member 3 of 3 Member 3 of 3 Len Konar Chairman 6 of 6 Member 1 of 2 Chairman 3 of 3 Jonathan Leslie Member 2 of 2 Member 5 of 6 Chairman 3 of 3 Phuti Mahanyele Member 3 of 3 Member 2 of 3 2 2 2 David Munro Member 1 of 2 Member 1 of 1 Member 1 of 1 Gary Nagle Member 2 of 3 3 Roger Phillimore Chairman 2 of 2 7 7 Mahomed Seedat Member 1 of 1 Member 1 of 1 Karen fide Segundo Member 6 of 6 Member 2 of 2 Member 6 of 6 Member 3 of 3 Paul Smith 4 Jim Sutcliffe Member 6 of 6 Chairman 2 of 2 Chairman 6 of 6 Member 2 of 3 Executive Directors Ben Magara Member 3 of 3 Member 3 of 3 Footnotes: 1.
Mr Beamish was appointed a member of the Nomination Committee on 1 November 2013.
Mr Munro retired as a Non-executive Director on 30 January 2014 and ceased to be a member of the SHE and SET Committees.
Mr Phillimore retired as a Non-executive Director on 30 April 2014.
Mr Sutcliffe was appointed Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 1 May 2014.
Mr Beamish was appointed a member of the Remuneration Committee on 21 July 2014.
Mr Beamish was a member of the SHE Committee and the SET Committee from 1 November 2013 to 11 September 2014.
Mr Seedat retired as a Non-executive Director on 30 January 2014 and ceased to be a member of the SHE and SET Committees.
The SET Committee met formally twice, and also held an open deep dive session on transformation matters led by Dr Konar.
An open invitation was extended to all Board members and a number of Directors joined each of the meetings.
com Lonmin Plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate Governance Report 1.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 1.8 Board Committees, and how they support the Board continued Each Committee has written terms of reference, approved by the Board, summarising its objectives, remit and powers, which are available on the Companys website.
All Committee members are provided with appropriate induction on joining their respective Committees, as well as on-going access to training.
Minutes of all meetings of the Committees save for the private sessions of Committee members at the end of meetings or where the information in the minutes would conflict with the information protocol discussed below are made available to all Directors and feedback from each of the Committees is provided to the Board by the respective Committee Chairmen at the next Board meeting.
The Committee Chairmen attend the AGM to answer any questions on their Committees activities.
The interaction between the Board, its Committees and the management of the Company can be summarised as follows: Board of Directors Chief Executive Audit & Risk Nomination Remuneration SHE SET Officer Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee See Page 54 See Page 64 See Page 74 See Page 84 See Page 76 See Page 78 Key: Board Committees Management Committees Exco Price & Risk Committee Executive Directors, COO and four other senior Executive Directors, executives plus one nominee Head of Tax, Treasury & Risk, of Shanduka Resources Head of Financial Planning See Page 63 and Analysis, Executive Manager, Marketing See Page 63 A report from each Board Committee explaining its composition, remit and principal activities during the year follow this report.
1.9 How the Board manages conflicts of interest Directors have a statutory duty to avoid actual or potential conflicts of interest.
Where these have occurred, or may occur, the Board can authorise conflicts, on such terms as it may decide, under a documented procedure.
This requires that when a Director becomes aware that he or she is in a situation which does or could create a conflict of interest, or has an interest in an existing or proposed transaction in which the Company also has an interest then they are required to notify the Board in writing of the situational or transactional conflict as soon as possible and, in any event, prior to any conflicted transaction being concluded.
Directors have a continuing duty to update the Board on any changes to their other appointments which, by way of further check, are reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
The interests of new Directors are reviewed during the recruitment process and authorised if appropriate by the Board at the time of their appointment.
Two of the Non-executive Directors, Gary Nagle and Paul Smith, are senior executives of Glencore, a significant shareholder in the Company.
In addition, Glencore owns and operates a PGM business located in South Africa producing concentrates and their Nickel division produces by-product PGMs from its operations in Canada which are processed through to refined metal and then marketed.
As a result, Glencore is a competitor of Lonmin for competition law purposes.
An Information Sharing Protocol has been adopted by the Company and these two Directors in order to minimise the risk of breaching applicable law or regulation, whilst at the same time ensuring sufficient information is provided to enable them to discharge their duties as Directors of the Company.
Another Non-executive Director, Phuti Mahanyele, is CEO and a director of Shanduka Group Pty Limited, a leading BEE investor in South Africa.
A subsidiary of the Shanduka Group, Incwala Resources, owns a 26% equity stake in the Lonmin Group company which controls the Akanani project and, indirectly, 18% equity stakes in Lonmins two principal operating companies, Eastern Platinum Limited and Western Platinum Limited.
Her interests have been disclosed to, and authorised by, the Board.
No Director had a material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the Companys business at any time during the year or to the date of this report.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate Governance Report 1.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 1.10 How we support the Board The Board and its Committees are supplied with regular, comprehensive and timely information in a form and of a quality that enables them to discharge their duties effectively.
All Directors are able to make further enquiries of the Executive Directors or management whenever necessary, and have access to the services of the Company Secretary.
There is a procedure in place for Directors to take independent professional advice, if they judge this to be necessary, at the Companys expense.
1.11 Directors remuneration A report on Directors remuneration is set out on pages 84 to 113.
Interests in the Companys shares held by the Directors in office during the year, and to the date of this report, are shown in that report.
No Director held any beneficial interest in the share capital of any other Group company at any time during the year and to the date of this report.
1.12 Protection available to Directors In law, Directors are ultimately responsible for most aspects of the Companys business dealings.
As a consequence, they face potentially significant personal liability under criminal or civil law, or the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure & Transparency Rules, and face a range of penalties including private or public censure, fines and or imprisonment.
In line with normal market practice, the Company believes that it is in the Companys best interests to protect the individuals prepared to serve on its Board from the consequences of innocent error or omission.
The Company maintains, at its expense, a Directors & Officers liability insurance policy to afford an indemnity in certain circumstances for the benefit of Group personnel including, as recommended by the Code, the Directors.
This insurance policy does not provide cover where the Director or Officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
In addition, Deeds of Indemnity have been issued by the Company which, in general terms, protect all past, present and future Directors and officers of the Company to the extent permissible by law from all costs and expenses incurred in the defence of any civil or criminal proceedings in which judgement is given in their favour or the proceedings are otherwise disposed of without a finding of fault or where there is a successful application to court for relief from liability.
Under the terms of these indemnities, the Company may advance money to fund a Directors defence costs which, should the Director not be exonerated, would be repayable to the Company.
Each indemnity operates only to the extent that the applicable Director is not able to recover the relevant amounts under the Directors and Officers liability insurance policy.
All these indemnities were in force throughout the financial year and to the date of this report, and are available for inspection at the Companys Registered Office.
Accountability to Shareholders The Boards primary duty is to promote the long-term success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders taken as a whole.
As seen from the schematic illustrating the role of the Board in section 1.1 above, accountability to shareholders is important.
This is a combination of reporting on what has been achieved, outlining our plans for the future and also assessing and reflecting on the views expressed by shareholders.
Wherever possible, we hold open and frank discussions with our key shareholders, which can span a range of issues.
2.1 Owners of the Company Lonmin Plc has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and our UK share register has circa 13,250 registered shareholders.
We also have a secondary listing on the JSE Securities Exchange, South Africa.
Our South African branch register has approximately 6,000 beneficial owners of our shares, including those who hold their shares in dematerialised form in STRATE, representing approximately 48% of the Companys shares in issue.
We also have a sponsored Level I American Depositary Receipts programme, with around 625 participants.
Like most listed companies, ownership of the Companys shares is concentrated in a number of institutional and other corporate shareholders.
The Company had been notified pursuant to DTR5 of the following interests in 3% or more of the Companys total voting rights up to 9 November 2014: Holdings in the Companys shares and voting rights At date of notification At date of this report Number of Number of shares and shares and Nature of voting rights %age voting rights %age Holding Glencore Plc 139,513,430 24.54 139,513,430 24.45 Indirect Old Mutual Investment Group 40,708,131 7.13 40,708,131 7.13 Direct shares South Africa Limited Indirect voting rights Investec Asset Management Pty 29,442,350 5.16 29,442,350 5.16 Indirect Limited All ordinary shares of the Company carry the same rights, and no shareholder enjoys any preferential rights, regardless of the size of their holding.
com Lonmin Plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate Governance Report 2.2 How we communicate with our institutional shareholders The Code encourages a dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The Executive Directors have regular discussions of operational trends and financial performance with institutional shareholders where they believe this to be in the Companys best interests, but no information is shared which is not available to shareholders generally.
Detailed feedback from these visits is shared with the Board.
Investors views in relation to governance and remuneration are sought ahead of the AGM are summarised to the Board.
The Board is provided with insight into the views of shareholders and their representative bodies on a more generalised basis, and all Directors have the opportunity to meet major investors.
Copies of key sell-side analysts notes on the Company are circulated to all Directors, as are summaries of their views collected anonymously by the Companys advisors.
An independent review of the perceptions of the Companys major institutional shareholders is conducted every 18 months, and presented to the Board.
The Chairman is available to meet with institutional investors to hear their views and discuss any issues or concerns, including in relation to board composition, governance and strategy.
Mr Beamish participated in several meetings with institutional investors during the course of the year and has also met a range of retail shareholders.
He has scheduled a series of meetings with institutional investors in December 2014.
In addition, Jim Sutcliffe, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, has given a standing invitation to key institutional shareholders and their representative bodies to discuss the Companys remuneration policy and practice whenever necessary.
As the Senior Independent Director he is also available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
He held numerous discussions in FY2014 with key institutional shareholders and their representative bodies in relation to remuneration matters, discussing a range of topics including levels of remuneration, the design of bonus plans, the Companys draft Directors remuneration policy and also the Long Term Incentive Plan which is to be presented for approval at the 2015 AGM.
A full discussion of these issues is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report, from page 84 onwards.
2.3 How we communicate with our private shareholders The Code urges boards to use the AGM to communicate with private investors and to encourage their participation, and the Board has followed these principles for many years.
A presentation is given to shareholders by the CEO, and all Directors are available to answer questions both formally at the meeting and informally afterwards.
Shareholders vote on separate resolutions on substantially different issues, and we use electronic poll voting, with the results being announced to the markets and displayed on our website at the conclusion of the AGM.
Voting on a poll recognises the geographical spread of our investor base and enables the votes of all shareholders to be taken into account whether they are able to attend the meeting or not.
The use of electronic voting tools at the AGM provides a means of voting democratically.
2.4 Formal reporting to shareholders We report formally in a number of ways: Regulatory news announcements or press releases are issued in response to events or routine reporting obligations.
Production reports are published quarterly, generally within one month of the calendar quarter end.
We publish an unaudited interim statement in May of each year, outlining performance to 31 March.
This is announced to the markets and presented in London later in the day, with a webcast available to all.
The presentation slides, a transcript and the interim statement are all made available on the Companys website.
We publish our audited financial statements in November of each year, for the year ended 30 September, including a detailed management commentary.
We follow the same publication process as the interims, with the same materials made available on our website.
In December we publish the formal Annual Report and Accounts, which comprises the audited financial statements and the narrative reporting with many other items of statutory, regulatory or voluntary reporting across a range of issues.
In line with best practice, our default means of communication with shareholders is online.
This saves the expense, paper and other resources that would be entailed in printing and distributing large numbers of documents without knowing whether they are wanted.
Shareholders can opt to receive paper documents at any time, should they so wish.
A wealth of information is provided on the Companys website, www.
The Code requires that the Board provides a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects in its external reporting.
The Board considers that this Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, meets that test and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Directors stewardship of the Company.
2.5 Formal reporting more widely While UK law has a presumption of shareholder primacy, we also have a range of other key stakeholders whom we support with a flow of information and with whom we engage whenever appropriate.
This covers a very broad range of constituencies, and includes lawmakers and regulators including the UK and South African governments, our employees and their representative trade unions, the communities who host our operations and a range of NGOs and external commentators including newswires and other media.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Corporate Governance Report 2.5 Formal reporting more widely continued While describing the vast number of interactions that take place is beyond the scope of this report, and numerous bespoke reports are issued privately to a number of these counterparties, there is one key document aimed at these important audiences.
We publish annually a Sustainable Development Report which is made available through the Companys website, www.
This can be downloaded in pdf form, using an editing tool to extract the required pages.
These audiences will also utilise the additional materials on our website.
2.6 The AGM The 2015 AGM will be held at 10.00 a. m. on Thursday 29 January 2015 at The Assembly Hall, Church House Conference Centre, Deans Yard, Westminster, London SW1P 3NZ.
A separate circular containing the Notice of Meeting, together with an explanation of the items of special business has been sent to all shareholders and is available on the Companys website.
Among the resolutions proposed are those seeking renewal of shareholders authority for the Directors to allot equity securities and an authority for the Company to make market purchases of its own shares.
In addition, resolutions are proposed in relation to a revised directors remuneration policy and adopting an employee share scheme, the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Further information on the remuneration matters is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 84 to 113.
Full details of all of the matters to be considered at the meeting are set out in the AGM Circular.
2.7 Dividend As noted in the Chairmans Letter at the beginning of the Annual Report and Accounts, the Board is not recommending a final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2014.
Under our dividend policy, the Board no longer declares interim dividends, and so no dividends will have been recommended or declared for that year.
Management Committees As with any business, power is delegated from the Board to the CEO, and through him to the management team via a documented Cascade of Authorities, setting out the responsibilities, decision-making and approval powers of managers at different levels of the enterprise.
To support the CEO in managing the business, two management Committees have been created as explained below.
Executive Committee The names and biographical details of the Exco members are set out on pages 50 and 51, and are the two Executive Directors, Ben Magara and Simon Scott, a number of senior executives and Thandeka Ncube, a non-executive Exco member nominated by Shanduka Resources, the Companys principal BEE investor.
The CEO chairs the Exco, which meets monthly and has a weekly updating call.
It has formal terms of reference, which were last reviewed in October 2010 and which dovetail into the schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision.
Its responsibilities include the following key areas: to develop strategy for submission to the Board: to develop, implement and monitor operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets: to review financial performance, forecasts and targets: to prioritise initiatives and allocate resources: to identify and drive efficiencies across the Group: to approve capital expenditure proposals within the authority levels delegated by the Board and otherwise recommend to Board: to develop and monitor the Groups policies and practices in respect of health, safety and environmental matters taking into account legal requirements, regulations and best practice: to review ICAM findings for all serious incidents: to oversee risk management including identifying risks and developing and implementing risk mitigation plans: to develop and monitor the internal control environment: and to develop and implement Group-wide evaluation, training, reward and remuneration practices and manage wage negotiations benefits with unions.
Price & Risk Committee The Price & Risk Committee is chaired by the CEO and the other members are the CFO, the Head of Group Finance and the Executive Manager, Marketing.
The primary purpose of this Committee is to review and agree proposals in relation to the forward sale of by-products, principally nickel and copper, but also including gold.
The Committee meets as and when required.
The Committees terms of reference were last reviewed in March 2012. www.
