Lonmin Plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Nomination Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 1.
Role of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee has delegated authority from the Board set out in its written terms of reference, available on the Companys website, which were last reviewed by the Board in November 2006.
The primary purposes of the Nomination Committee are: to ensure that a regular, rigorous and objective evaluation is undertaken of the structure, size, composition, balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board: to recommend any proposed changes to the composition of the Board and to instigate and manage the recruitment process: to ensure the Companys adherence to applicable legal and regulatory requirements in relation to the above: and to oversee compliance with the Code and other applicable corporate governance regulations.
The Committee Chairman reports material findings and recommendations at the next Board meeting and copies of the minutes of its meetings are circulated to all Directors.
Composition of the Nomination Committee All of the independent Non-executive Directors are members of the Committee.
Roger Phillimore, Chairman of the Board until 30 April 2014, chaired the Nomination Committee until his retirement, and from 1 May 2014 Jim Sutcliffe, Senior Independent Director, was appointed Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
No individual, participates in discussion or decision-making when the matter under consideration relates to him or her.
The Committee is supported by the services of the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee and it has full access to the CEO.
It is empowered to appoint search consultants, legal, tax and other professional advisors as it sees fit to assist with its work.
Activities of the Nomination Committee during the year The Committee met twice during the year and attendance at those meetings is shown in section 1.8 of the corporate governance report.
Matters considered by the Committee in FY2014 included the following material items: considered and recommended the appointment of Brian Beamish as a Non-executive Director and as a member of various Board Committees: reviewed the Committees report within the 2013 Annual Report and recommended its approval to the Board: considered the historic approach of offering three year terms of office to Non-executive Directors and approved the transition to one year terms of office, in line with our practice of seeking annual re-election of Directors: noted Mr Phillimores decision to retire as Chairman and approved the appointment of two executive search consultancy firms, Spencer Stuart and Egon Zehnder, to support the Committee in the search for a new Chairman: approved the formation, membership and remit of a sub-set of the Committee tasked with considering Board succession planning matters, and specifically overseeing the search for a new Chairman of the Board: supported the Board through the process of appointing Brian Beamish as interim chairman, and subsequently confirming his appointment: commenced a process of seeking two new independent Non-executive Directors, including the appointment of Spencer Stuart to assist with the identification and assessment of candidates: and after the FY2014 year-end, considered the outcome of the board evaluation when discussing the effectiveness of the Non-executive Directors seeking re-election at the 2015 AGM.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Nomination Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 4.
Policy on appointments to the Board Our policy is outlined in section 1.3 in the Corporate Governance Report, but in brief all Board appointments are made on merit, against objective criteria.
The issue of diversity was debated by the Committee in July 2011, and a formal policy adopted.
This is predicated on appointing the best possible candidates and, to avoid precluding any deserving candidate from consideration, requires that short-lists contain candidates from a diverse range of backgrounds, and that these lists are gender-neutral.
The Board will maintain its practice of embracing diversity in all its forms, but has chosen not to set any measurable objectives for the reasons given in the Corporate Governance Report.
The process of identifying candidates for Board appointment commences with drawing up a job specification which includes, in the case of non-executive appointments, an estimate of the time commitment required.
A skills analysis of the current Board members has been completed, and future appointments of Directors will take these findings into account.
Generally, the Committee will engage executive search consultants, or consider open advertising, to assist in ensuring a comprehensive listing of potential candidates from a range of backgrounds for the Committees consideration.
Brian Beamish was appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director following an external search managed by Spencer Stuart.
Spencer Stuart does not have any other connection to the Company.
Following Roger Phillimores decision to retire as Chairman effective 30 April 2014, Mr Beamish was appointed interim Chairman with effect from 1 May 2014.
Following a search for a permanent successor to Mr Phillimore, supported by Spencer Stuart and Egon Zehnder, the Board concluded that Mr Beamish best fulfilled the brief developed by the Committee and was identified an outstanding candidate.
Mr Beamishs appointment as Chairman was confirmed on a permanent basis on 21 July 2014.
As a consequence of Mr Beamishs appointment as Chairman and in anticipation of Mrs fide Segundos retirement from the board at the 2015 AGM, Spencer Stuart have been retained to identify and assess two candidates for appointment as independent Non-executive Directors.
