Lonmin Plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Len Konar Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee Dear Fellow Shareholder, In addition to the core duties of the Audit & Risk Committee, which largely mirror the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, it serves a much greater purpose: that of reassuring shareholders that their interests are properly protected in respect of the Companys governance, internal controls, financial management and reporting.
There are a number of key elements to this, starting with assessing whether we have robust systems and procedures for recognising assets and liabilities whose values are recorded in our books accurately and fairly.
We use appropriate accounting policies and practices, supported by the responsible exercise of judgement.
In support of this is a significant, developed and implemented assurance framework, in which the internal control framework, internal audit function, external auditors and regular internal reporting against budgets, forecasts and prior year actuals all play an important part.
The Committee reviews the input into and output from all of these activities, with the ultimate aim being that the Company should produce accounts which shareholders can expect to portray a reliable recording of the financial position of the Company, and on which they can base their investment decisions.
As discussed in the Corporate Governance Report, risk remains a key priority in FY2015 for both the Board and the Committee.
Whilst the Board remains ultimately responsible for the identification, assessment, mitigation and management of risk, the Committee oversees the Companys risk management practices and procedures.
Management is currently in the process of: a reviewing the effectiveness of the methodology used to quantify risk exposures: b assessing the level of linkage between identified risks and the Groups operational and strategic objectives: and c determining whether roles and responsibilities have been appropriately defined throughout the risk management process, from a strategic, operational, management and Board perspective.
The Committee has always favoured greater alignment between the Groups risk profile and the internal audit programme and we are pleased that management have placed the risk management function under the management of the head of internal audit, who is also responsible for oversight of investigations and the whistleblowing programme.
We reported last year that we intend to tender the external audit contract next year to coincide with the rotation of the current lead audit partner, which is due to occur in November 2015.
Our preparations are underway and we will report on the process and outcome of the tender in next years report.
The tender presents us with an ideal opportunity to also review our policy on non-audit services provided by the external auditors to ensure that the external auditors are free from any perceived conflict of interest.
The significant issues considered by the Committee during the year were the going concern position of the Group, the accounting treatment for special costs related to the five month long strike, the impairment review of the Groups operational assets at Marikana and Akanani, the carrying value and the recoverability of the loans made to an entity within the Shanduka Group and the degree of estimation involved in the measurement of the various components of inventory.
These are discussed in detail in section 5 below, but the Committee is satisfied that these matters have been dealt with prudently and properly.
In addition to our normal business, we have agreed with the Chairman of the Board and management two key focus areas for FY2015: we will consider the findings from the risk management review and monitor the integration of risk and internal audit and, secondly, we will manage and implement the tender for the contract for the external auditor.
Both are important matters which have the interests of shareholders at their core.
Yours faithfully Len Konar Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee 01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 As noted in section 1.8 of the Corporate Governance Report, the Board delegates certain of its duties, responsibilities and powers to the Audit & Risk Committee, so that these can receive suitably focussed attention.
However, it acts on behalf of the full Board, and the matters reviewed and managed by the Committee remain the responsibility of the Directors taken as a whole.
Role of the Audit & Risk Committee The Audit & Risk Committee has delegated authority from the Board set out in its written terms of reference, available on the Companys website, which were last reviewed by the Board in March 2012.
The primary purposes of the Audit & Risk Committee are: to monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements and regulatory announcements relating to its financial performance and review significant financial reporting judgements: to keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls, including financial controls and risk management systems: to provide the Board with an independent assessment of the Groups accounting affairs and financial position: to monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and review its material findings: to oversee the relationship with the external auditors, including agreeing their remuneration and terms of engagement, monitoring their independence, objectivity and effectiveness, ensuring that policy surrounding their engagement to provide non-audit services is appropriately applied, and making recommendations to the Board on their appointment, reappointment or removal, for it to put to the shareholders in general meeting: and to report to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
Composition of the Audit & Risk Committee The members of the Committee are set out in section 1.8 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Len Konar, who chairs the Committee, is a Chartered Accountant with extensive financial and accounting experience, and is a member of the King Committee on Corporate Governance.
Jim Sutcliffe is an actuary by training, and serves as a non-executive director of the Financial Reporting Council, where he chairs the Codes and Standards Committee.
Karen fide Segundo had a long career in international business, including spells with P&L responsibility for major natural resource businesses.
All three members of the Committee are regarded by the Board as independent Non-executive Directors, and the Board regards Dr Konar as the member possessing recent and relevant financial experience.
The varied backgrounds of the Committees members, and their collective skills, experience and knowledge of the Company, allows them to fulfil the Committees remit and to oversee the Companys auditors.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the CEO, CFO, Head of Group Finance, Head of Internal Audit, Investigations & Risk, Head of Group Financial Reporting and the Assistant Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee, none of whom do so as of right.
The external auditors attend Committee meetings and a private meeting is routinely held with the internal and external auditors to afford them the opportunity of discussions without the presence of management.
Number of Audit & Risk Committee meetings and attendance The Committee met six times during the year and attendance at those meetings is shown in section 1.8 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Activities of the Audit & Risk Committee during the year The Committee has an annual work plan, developed from its terms of reference, with standing items that the Committee considers at each meeting in addition to any specific matters arising and topical items on which the Committee has chosen to focus.
com Lonmin Plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 4.
Activities of the Audit & Risk Committee during the year continued The work of the Audit & Risk Committee in FY2014 principally fell under three main areas and is summarised below.
Internal controls and risk External auditors and Internal auditors Accounting, tax and financial reporting Considered reports from the Considered and approved the Reviewed and approved the half internal auditors on their audits audit approach and scope of year and annual financial and assessment of the control the audit work to be undertaken statements and the significant environment by the external auditors and the financial reporting judgements fees for the same Considered reports from the Reviewed the Q2 and Q4 external auditors on their Reviewed reports on external production reports assessment of the control audit findings Considered the liquidity risk and environment Considered the independence the basis for preparing the Group Considered feedback from the of the auditors and their half yearly and full year accounts assurance letters submitted by effectiveness, taking into account: on a going concern basis and around 70 senior managers reviewed the related disclosures a non-audit work undertaken across the Group in the half year financial results by the external auditors and and in the Annual Report and Reviewed output from the risk compliance with the policy: Accounts reviews which required managers b feedback from a survey and the Exco to identify risks and Considered the capital targeted at various evaluate them before and after management philosophy, including stakeholders: and mitigating controls were agreed assessment of optimum level c the Committees own and implemented of gearing and sensitivities to assessment macro conditions Considered the scope of project Considered and approved letters focussed on improving the Reviewed an accounting matters of representation issued to the existing integrated assurance update, including consideration external auditors framework of relevant accounting standards Reviewed the resources of the and underlying assumptions Reviewed matters reported internal audit function, assessed to the external whistleblowing Reviewed and approved the level of alignment between hotline and a report from the disclosures in the Annual Report the Companys key risks and investigations department and Accounts in relation to approved the internal audit internal controls, risk management, Considered and approved the programme principal risks and uncertainties structure, scope of cover and Considered and approved the and the work of the Committee renewal terms of the Groups scope of the internal audit insurance programme Received an update on programme amendments to the SA Income Assessed the effectiveness of Considered the effectiveness of Tax Act and dividend withholding the Groups internal control the internal auditors tax regime environment Considered report on IT Strategy including assessment of IT risk management and control environment 01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 5.
Significant issues considered by the Audit & Risk Committee After discussion with both management and the external auditor, the Committee determined that the key risks of misstatement of the Groups financial statements related to: Going concern: Impairment of non-financial assets excluding inventories and deferred tax : Recoverability of the HDSA receivable: Physical quantities of inventory excluding consumables and net realisable value: and Special costs strike related costs.
These issues were discussed with Management during the year and with the external auditor at the time the Committee reviewed and agreed the external auditors Group audit plan, when the external auditor reviewed the half year interim financial statements in May 2014 and also at the conclusion of the audit of the financial statements.
Going concern As more fully explained in note 1 to the financial statements, in determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the financial statements, the Directors are required to consider whether the Group can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In assessing the Groups ability to meet its obligations as they fall due and comply with its financial covenants, management prepared cash flow forecasts for a period in excess of 12 months and considered various scenarios to test the Groups resilience against operational risks including: Adverse movements in the Rand US Dollar exchange rate and PGM commodity prices or a combination thereof: Failure to meet forecast production targets.
Management reported to the Committee the results of its going concern assessment, noting to the Committee that the Groups capital structure provides sufficient head room to cushion against downside operational risks and minimises the risk of breaching debt covenants.
The Committee interrogated managements key assumptions used for determining the cash flow forecasts used in the assessment as well as the scenarios applied in testing the Groups resilience against downside risks.
The Committee was satisfied that key assumptions had been appropriately scrutinised, stress-tested and were sufficiently robust.
The Committee was further satisfied with the going concern disclosures in the financial statements and that an appropriate basis of preparation of the financial statements had been arrived at.
The auditor explained their audit procedures to test managements going concern assessment and considered the Groups disclosures on the subject.
The Committee considered the conclusions reported by the auditor based on the findings of their work as set out in the audit report.
Impairment of non-financial assets excluding inventories and deferred tax As more fully explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the Groups principal non-financial assets are grouped into cash generating units CGUs for the purpose of assessing the recoverable amount.
The Group has two key CGUs, being Marikana and Akanani.
Marikana includes goodwill, and is therefore tested for impairment on an annual basis.
Akanani is an exploration and evaluation asset which was impaired in 2012.
Any change in assumptions could lead to further impairment or a reversal of impairment.
Akanani, like Marikana, has been subject to an impairment assessment at the year-end.
In assessing impairment for these CGUs, management determined the recoverable amount of each CGU, and compared this to their respective carrying amounts at 30 September 2014.
Management reported to the Committee the results of its impairment assessment, noting to the Committee that future cash flows for each CGU had been estimated based on the most up to date business forecasts or studies for exploration and evaluation assets, and discounted using discount rates that reflected current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the assets.
Management highlighted to the Committee how they arrived at the key assumptions to estimate future cash flows for the CGUs, specifically PGM metal prices, foreign exchange rates and discount rates.
Management also brought to the attention of the Committee the sensitivity analysis disclosed in note 1 of the financial statements with regards to the recoverable amounts of the Akanani CGU.
The Committee interrogated managements key assumptions used for determining the recoverable amounts of non-financial assets to understand their impact on the CGUs recoverable amounts and the Committee was satisfied that key assumptions had been appropriately scrutinised, challenged and were sufficiently robust.
The Committee was further satisfied with the impairment disclosures in the financial statements.
The auditor explained their audit procedures to test managements assessment of impairment and considered the Groups disclosures on the subject.
com Lonmin Plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 5.
Significant issues considered by the Audit & Risk Committee continued Recoverability of the HDSA receivable At 30 September 2014, the Group was owed an amount of $417 million by a subsidiary of Shanduka Resources Proprietary Limited the Shanduka subsidiary as detailed in note 14 to the financial statements.
The Impairment financial assets section of note 1 to the financial statements notes that a financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence of impairment.
Management reported to the Committee that the receivable is secured on the shares in the Shanduka subsidiary, whose only asset of value is its ultimate holding in Incwala Resources Pty Limited Incwala.
Incwalas principal assets are investments in Western Platinum Limited WPL, Eastern Platinum Limited EPL and Akanani Mining Pty Limited Akanani, all subsidiaries of Lonmin Plc.
Management further reported that one of the sources of income to fund the settlement of the receivable is the dividend flow from these underlying investments, but that given the current state of the PGM industry, there had not been any substantial dividend payments to Incwala in recent times.
Management reported concerns that the value of the security was below its carrying amount and reported to the Committee that an assessment had been made to determine the extent of any impairment, or reversal thereof, that may be required.
The key drivers in arriving at the value of the security are Incwalas underlying investments in WPL, EPL and Akanani.
Management reported that the same valuation models for the Marikana and Akanani CGUs as described in the Impairment of non-financial assets section above had been used as the basis for determining the value of Incwalas investments, and ultimately the value of the Shanduka subsidiary.
A similar assessment was previously done at 31 March 2014 and the decrease in the value of WPL and EPL, mainly as a result of a decline in the PGM price outlook, resulted in the value of the security falling below the carrying amount of the HDSA receivable.
As a result, the asset was impaired by $160 million as reported in the interim results.
The assessment conducted at 30 September 2014 to evaluate the value of the security at the end of the financial year revealed that the value of the security increased, mainly as a result of the weaker Rand and improved metal price assumptions which indicated the requirement to reverse $80 million of the impairment.
Management also brought to the attention of the Committee the sensitivity analysis included in note 20a of the financial statements.
The Committee interrogated managements procedures in arriving at the valuation and also scrutinised managements valuation of the underlying security.
The Committee was satisfied that a sufficiently robust process was followed to confirm the recoverability of the receivable.
The auditor explained their audit procedures to test managements impairment assessment and considered the Groups disclosures on the subject.
On the basis of their audit work, the auditor reported no inconsistencies or misstatements that were material in the context of the financial statements as a whole.
Physical quantities of inventory excluding consumables and net realisable value As detailed in the Use of estimates and judgments section in note 1 to the financial statements, inventory is held in a wide variety of forms across the value chain, and prior to production as a final metal, is always contained in a carrier material.
As such inventory is typically sampled and assays taken to determine the metal content and how this is split by metal, the accuracy of which can vary quite significantly depending on the nature of the vessels and the state of the material.
Furthermore, as detailed in the Inventories section in note 1 to the financial statements, inventory is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Over the years, the PGM industry has seen costs increase, whilst prices continue to be subdued and volatile.
As such there is a risk that the cost of inventory exceeds its net realisable value.
Management reported to the Committee the procedures undertaken to determine the physical quantities of inventory at year end which included observation of count and sampling procedures by independent metallurgists.
Management highlighted to the Committee the estimation uncertainty in sampling and assays, and that a downward adjustment had been made to inventory quantities to allow for estimation uncertainty at various stages of the process.
Management reported to the Committee its calculations of the adjustment, and noted that the adjustment is dependent on the degree to which the nature and state of material allows for accurate measurement and sampling.
Finally, management reported that calculations had been undertaken to verify that the cost of inventory does not exceed its net realisable value.
The Committee scrutinised the inventory estimation adjustment calculations in conjunction with a history of stock count results and process losses as well as the procedures undertaken by management to confirm the physical existence of inventory.
The Committee was satisfied that a sufficiently robust process was followed to confirm the quantities of inventory, and that the net realisable value of inventory exceeds its cost at year end.
The auditor explained their audit procedures to test the physical quantities of inventory and to check the net realisable value calculations performed by management.
On the basis of their audit work, the auditor reported no misstatements that were material in the context of the financial statements as a whole.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 5.
Significant issues considered by the Audit & Risk Committee continued Special costs strike related costs As explained in note 3 to the financial statements, production was impacted by the disruptions as a result of the five month strike action.
Consistent to prior reporting periods, certain costs incurred during the strike action have been classified as special items and reported separately in the income statement to assist in the understanding of financial performance achieved by the Group, and for consistency with prior periods.
Included in special costs are fixed production overheads incurred during the strike, costs of additional security and costs relating to contractors not being able to fulfil their obligations.
Management reported to the Committee the procedures and approach followed to identify and determine the amounts to be classified as special items.
The Committee interrogated managements procedures in arriving at the costs classified as special items and scrutinised managements calculation of special costs.
The Committee was satisfied that a sufficiently robust process was followed to identify special costs.
The auditor explained their audit procedures to test managements calculation of special costs and considered the Groups disclosures on the subject.
In summary Management reported to the Committee that they were not aware of any material misstatements or immaterial misstatements made intentionally to achieve a particular presentation.
The auditors reported to the Committee the misstatements that they had found in the course of their work and no material amounts remain unadjusted.
The Committee confirmed that it was satisfied that the auditors had fulfilled their responsibilities with diligence and professional skepticism.
After reviewing the presentations and reports from management and consulting, where necessary, with the auditors, the Committee was satisfied that the financial statements appropriately addressed the critical judgments and key estimates both in respect to the amounts reported and the disclosures.
The Committee was also satisfied that the significant assumptions used for determining the value of assets and liabilities had been appropriately scrutinised, challenged and were sufficiently robust.
Internal audit The Company has an internal audit department comprising three in-house auditors, supported by the South African arm of  LLP PwC who provide specialist services in connection with matters such as IT security and treasury, which it would be inefficient to resource internally.
The Head of Internal Audit reports jointly to the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee and to the CFO.
The internal audit plan, approved in September 2013 by the Committee, reflected a risk based approach targeting financial and operational processes.
The main objective was to test the robustness of the mitigating controls and identify improvement opportunities.
A total of 11 audits were undertaken during the year: significantly less than had been planned as a result of the five month long strike which affected the vast majority of the operations in South Africa.
The audits that were conducted focused on business critical and high risk areas which were prioritised by the internal auditors with input from management and the Committee.
The planned audits that were not conducted during the year have been rolled forward in to the following year.
Internal audit reports in relation to the 11 audits were reviewed by operational and line management and further reviewed by the Exco.
Audit findings and the related management actions were tracked by Internal Audit, and verified periodically after being reported by management as complete.
The Committee was provided with reports on material findings and recommendations and regular updates on the progress made by management in addressing the findings were also provided during the course of the year.
All action points were recorded on a Company-wide database to facilitate monitoring and accountability.
The Head of Internal Audit is also responsible for the Companys whistle-blowing programme and heads up the investigations unit comprising six investigators.
The primary focus of this team is addressing the risk of theft of PGMs, but they also have a significant role in helping counter copper cable theft, white collar crime and other criminal and unauthorised activities which could have a material impact on the business.
A review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit was carried out during the year by way of a questionnaire completed by those in the business who had been audited and the external auditors.
Having considered the results of this survey and a number of other factors, including the quality of reporting to the Committee and impartiality of the internal auditors, the Committee concluded that Internal Audit was in all respects effective.
com Lonmin Plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 7.
External audit The external auditors are appointed by shareholders to provide an opinion on the financial statements and certain other disclosures prepared by the Directors.
Following their re-election at the 2014 AGM, KPMG LLP acted as the external auditors to the Lonmin Group throughout the year.
The Senior Statutory Auditor is based in London and supported by an audit partner based in Johannesburg.
The Committee is responsible for oversight of the external auditors, including approving the annual work plan and, on behalf of the Board, approving the audit fee.
To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditors, the Company adopted an Audit Engagement Policy in 2010, a copy of which is available on the Companys website.
Under this policy, the external auditors are not permitted to perform any work that they may subsequently need to audit or which might either create a conflict of interest or affect the auditors objectivity and independence.
Non-audit services are normally limited to assignments that are closely related to the annual audit or where the work is of such a nature that a detailed understanding of the Group is necessary.
Management regularly provides the Committee with reports on audit, audit-related and non-audit expenditure, together with proposals of any material non-audit related assignments.
The Committee reviews and, where necessary, challenges management to ensure auditor objectivity and independence is not impaired.
The policy provides for the following annual authorisation limits: Audit-related services Non-audit related services Chief Financial Officer $200,000 $100,000 Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee $500,000 $250,000 Audit & Risk Committee $500,000 $250,000 Fees for audit related and non-audit services incurred during the year amounted to $0.4 million 2013 $1.3 million representing 36% of the audit fees.
Audit related and non-audit services provided by the external auditors included their review of the half year Interim Review and their assurance review of the Groups sustainability reporting.
Further information can be found in note 4 to the financial statements.
The Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit related and non-audit fees are not material relative to the income of the external audit offices and firm as a whole and therefore the objectivity and independence of the external auditors was not compromised.
The Committee has evaluated the performance, independence and objectivity of KPMG and also reviewed their effectiveness as external auditors.
As part of this process, the Committee considered feedback on the years audit gathered through a survey facilitated by the Secretary to the Committee.
Respondents to the survey included the financial management team at corporate and business levels, company secretariat, the safety and sustainability, tax and stock-taking teams and the internal auditors.
The following factors were also considered: the external auditors progress achieved against the agreed audit plan and communication of any changes to the plan, including changes in perceived audit risks: the competence with which the external auditors handled the key accounting and audit judgements and communication of the same with management and the Committee: the external auditors compliance with relevant regulatory, ethical and professional guidance on the rotation of partners: the external auditors qualifications, expertise and resources and their own assessment of their internal quality procedures: and the stability and continuity that would be provided by continuing to use KPMG.
After taking into account all of the above factors, the Committee concluded that the external auditors were effective and has recommended to the Board that their re-election at the 2015 AGM should be proposed to shareholders.
The Committee also recommended the Board seek authority for the Directors to fix the external auditors remuneration, having first compared the proposed fees to the prior years fees and also relative to other companies of similar size, sector and complexity.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 7.
External audit continued A predecessor firm of KPMG Audit plc was first appointed in 1970 and, since that time, the lead audit partner at group level has changed regularly and in recent years every five years in accordance with professional and regulatory standards designed to safeguard independence and objectivity.
The most recent lead audit partner rotation was in November 2010 when Robert Seale was appointed Senior Statutory Auditor.
In addition, senior audit staff, who are located both in the United Kingdom and South Africa, rotate periodically in accordance with KPMGs internal policies on independence.
A formal tender of the external audit contract has not been carried out since first appointment.
As disclosed in last years report, the Committee has committed to tender the external audit contract in 2015 to align with the rotation of the current lead audit partner, which is due to occur in November 2015.
There are no contractual obligations which restrict the Committees choice of statutory auditor.
The Committee intends at the same time to review its policy on non-audit services provided by the external auditors to ensure that the external auditors are free from any perceived conflict of interest.
Internal controls As in any business, Lonmin faces risk and uncertainty in everything it does.
Section 9 explains how we consider risk, and how the corporate strategy, which is reviewed on a regular basis, seeks to capitalise on identified opportunities while mitigating known downside risks.
Where material risks have been identified within our business, we have implemented an appropriate internal control environment to endeavour to protect shareholders interests.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and risk management, and it discharges its duties in this area by: Determining Lonmins risk appetite the risk we actively seek or accept in pursuit of our long-term objectives, in the expectation of an economic return and risk tolerance the risk we are prepared to face in achieving our strategic goals : Overseeing the risk management strategy: and Ensuring management implement effective systems of risk identification, assessment and mitigation and internal controls.
These systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and cannot provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Key features of Lonmins internal control framework include: Clear delegation of power Agreed objectives Agreed ways of working Transparency Charter, values Clear accountability and Code of Management reporting Schedule of Matters Group Strategy, supported Business Conduct against budgets, reserved for the by Life of Business Plan, Documented policies, plans and forecasts Boards decision resource database procedures, processes and model Annual management Remit and terms of and standards confirmation letters reference of Board Annual financial and Risk management Committees technical budgets supported by policy and procedures Delegation of authority Risk tolerance Annual audit and Appropriate tools to each level appetite clearly defined other external including SAP, mine of management assurance providers planning, metallurgical tracking and accounting, Internal audit and other and risk systems in-house review processes Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting, including over the Groups consolidation process.
Internal controls over financial reporting are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes.
A comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting system is in place.
Monthly financial information, including trading results and cash flow statements, are reported to the Board and management.
The Exco reviews performance against budget and forecast on a monthly basis and senior financial managers regularly carry out group consolidation reviews and analysis of material variances.
com Lonmin Plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 8.
Internal controls continued Responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the internal controls has been delegated to the Audit & Risk Committee.
The Committee uses information drawn from a number of different sources to carry out this review: Internal Audit provides objective assurance their annual work plan is developed in conjunction with management and focuses on key risks and key internal controls.
In the light of Internal Audits recommendations, management develops and implements corrective action plans, which are tracked to completion by Internal Audit, with the results reported to executive management and to the Committee: Annual self-assessments completed by around 70 executive and senior managers in the Group each manager confirms whether there have been any breaches of internal controls or their awareness of any weaknesses in the control environment within their area of the business.
The principle of individual accountability and responsibility at operational level is an important component in the Groups overall risk philosophy.
Managers are responsible for the identification and effective management of all risks in their areas of responsibility and these letters have a wide ranging scope: and Further objective assurance is provided by the external auditors and other external specialists.
Throughout the year Lonmin complied with the provisions of the Code as these relate to internal controls and the relevant sections of Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors the Turnbull guidance and Guidance on Audit Committees.
No significant weaknesses or material failings were identified in the annual review.
Risk Management Lonmin has an integrated approach to risk management and internal controls to ensure that our reviews of risk are used to inform the internal audit process and the design of internal controls.
The risk management process, which has been in place throughout the year under review and to the date of approval of the accounts, identifies, evaluates, manages and monitors the risks facing the business.
Those risks that are identified as significant, in addition to the associated mitigating controls, are reviewed regularly by the Exco and then by the Board.
The Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of the risk identification process and the methodology used to evaluate and quantify the risks, in line with the guidance appended to the Code.
The corporate strategy, which is reviewed on a regular basis, seeks to capitalise on identified opportunities while mitigating known downside risks.
Lonmins Risk Management Framework, policy and procedures aim to: Enable management to implement effective systems of risk identification, assessment and mitigation and internal controls: Assist management and the Board to determine Lonmins risk appetite and risk tolerance: Embed a risk based approach and awareness into the corporate culture so that risks are communicated and understood at all levels and functions within the Group: Encourage line management accountability for identifying and managing the risks within their area of the business: and Develop and implement risk management strategies which address the full spectrum of risks, including compliance, industry-specific, competitiveness, environmental, business continuity, strategic, reporting, security, privacy, and operational.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The top risks and the associated mitigating controls are reviewed at least annually by the Exco and the Board.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 9.
Risk Management continued Review of Risks Top-down and bottom-up risk reviews are carried out in each area of our business, involving the Exco, operational and middle managers respectively.
All senior managers are responsible for managing and monitoring risks in their area of responsibility and recording these in the risk register.
It is mandatory for this process to take place at least once a year, but in practice, reviews often take place more frequently.
For each risk identified, management assesses the root causes, consequences of the unmitigated risks, probability of occurrence, effectiveness of the existing controls and the level of exposure after mitigation measures had been implemented.
Each of the business areas is supported by either a Risk Officer or an Operational Risk Champion who co-ordinates all risk management activity in that business area and ensures that actions are implemented appropriately.
This process ensures all risks are measured, monitored and reported on a consistent basis.
In order to protect our strategic objectives, it is important that we manage these risks as effectively as possible.
The work of the Risk Management Department is closely aligned to that of the Internal Audit Department.
Risks related to sustainability Risks related to safety, labour and community relations, social development, transformation and environmental impacts make up a significant portion of Lonmins risk profile.
Each business area is responsible for managing safety and environmental impact mitigation and for monitoring the relevant action plans in place.
In this way, the Company ensures that focus on these areas is maintained and that accountability is embedded at operational management level.
Reviews of these risks and their associated management plans are conducted by the SHE and SET Committees, the results of which are presented to the Board.
Risk Information Management System RIMS To assist with the risk management process, the Company implemented the CURA Risk Management System in 2012.
The application allows all users within the Group access to the risk registers through a web based system.
RIMS has improved managements oversight of risks through its enhanced tracking and reporting functionality.
