Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 44 Risk in action We continue to recognise the signi cant interdependency between our key risks.
The following diagrams are based on our current Group Risk Pro le.
Both are designed to highlight how changes to one risk could impact on those connected to it, and therefore on the pro le as a whole.
By understanding the relationship between our key risks if they were to materialise, we are better placed to ensure that we are managing them appropriately and to understand the entirety of our risk exposure.
GM customer engagement and margin M&S.
com business resilience GM customer IT change engagement 2 1 GM logistics Information Our people International and supply security 3 2 chain network 3 1 M&S.
com GM margin business resilience 1 1,2, 3 To ensure M&S.
com business resilience, it is important 1.
To drive GM customer engagement we will continue to that the key dependencies of our online business are build our product design and quality credentials and our identi ed, understood and mitigated: brand momentum, which in turn should drive sales.
As we improve GM margin by strengthening our design, trading 1.
A disruption to operations within the GM logistics and and sourcing capabilities, it is essential that we continue to supply chain network could prevent the complete and deliver the product quality our customers expect of us.
timely ful lment of customer orders.
Failure to drive GM customer engagement may have a 2.
As we transform our business, there is a risk that IT knock-on impact on International sales which would, in change to our systems has an unforeseen impact on the turn, affect GM margin.
operation of our website or our GM logistics and supply chain network.
Our ability to drive GM customer engagement and GM margin is dependent on Our people, in terms of the 3.
It is also important that we manage our cyber security risk effectiveness of our organisational set-up and the skills a key aspect of Information security to protect customer data and competencies to deliver change.
and prevent website performance issues or denial of service.
Risk and the role of Internal Audit Internal Audit & Risk comprises both the Group Risk function and Internal Audit.
Group Risk facilitates and manages the risk process that is ultimately owned by the Group Board.
Internal Audit, accountable to the Audit Committee, uses a risk-based approach to provide independent assurance over the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment, including controls related to key risks on the Group Risk Pro le.
The following examples illustrate how Internal Audit supports the business through driving improvements to our control environment and adding value in core business areas.
com Risk: GM customer engagement In support of the Groups international growth Internal Audit partnered with a specialist Internal Audit assessed controls over the plans, Internal Audit conducted a review of the third-party programme assurance provider at collection, analysis and reporting of store process to enter new countries, including key stages leading up to the launch of our new customer survey data.
Invitations to partner selection and ongoing governance website.
We assessed the adequacy of participate in the survey are issued at random post set-up.
The audit found that robust, programme governance controls, as well as with till receipts, resulting in approximately structured processes are in place for country business readiness to adopt new processes 50,000 responses per month rating our selection and that partners are selected and ways of working.
We also assessed product, environment and service.
Our audit objectively, based on well-fide ned criteria, with planning for the transition from the old Amazon con rmed that effective controls are in place up front due diligence.
The audit highlighted website to the new M&S.
over the completeness and accuracy of the an opportunity to better formalise the trigger Management implemented a number of reported survey results based on the current points that would initiate a partner due recommendations from the audit, which scope of the surveys.
Opportunities were diligence review post set-up, such as changes included extending the period for user identi ed to increase response rates in to ownership structures or relationships.
acceptance testing and formalising smaller stores and to extend the programme dependencies with other change programmes.
to include other payment points, such as Overall we found robust controls in place to self-service tills and our more recently ensure delivery on time, to budget and with introduced Browse and Order hubs.
Following the successful delivery of the M&S.
com website, this risk no longer features in the Group Risk Pro le.
Management actions from all of our audits are tracked to completion and the status of these actions is reported to the Audit Committee to ensure that the risks identi ed are appropriately addressed.
This will, in turn, further mitigate the risks included in our Group Risk Pro le.
For further information turn to page 15
