Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 40 Leadership and effectiveness This section looks at our Board members, their role, their directors and play a key role in supporting the Board.
We also look at their The Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration induction, their succession and provide particular insight Committees provide updates on the 2013 14 activities of each relating to Director: Committee later in this report.
Independence: Clear terms of reference outline the full schedule of matters Effectiveness: the annual Board review process, output and reserved for the Boards decision and that of its key action plan for the year ahead: and Committees.
These, along with the individual roles of the Board Ongoing development, business training, engagement and members, can be found in the Groups formal Governance mentoring.
Board Percentage The Board held eight scheduled meetings in the 2013 14 year, Whos on our Board Meetings attended individual attendance is set out in the table provided.
Suf cient AB Name of Director time is given at the end of each board meeting for the Chairman to meet privately with the Senior Independent Chairman Director and non-executive directors to discuss any matters.
Robert Swannell 8 8 100% As in previous years, the Board held a two-day strategy Chief Executive meeting away from the of ce: a brief overview of the key areas Marc Bolland 8 8 100% of discussion and other discussions during the year is provided Executive directors on the next page.
Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne appointed 6 6 100% Risk monitoring and oversight 9 July 2013 Protecting the business from operational and reputational risk 1 John Dixon 8 7 88% is an essential part of the Boards role.
During the year the Steve Rowe 8 8 100% business has continued to make progress towards implementing the key areas of our strategy.
This progress Steven Sharp retired 9 July 2013 3 3 100% continued despite the challenging trading environment in which Alan Stewart 8 8 100% the business was operating.
The Board, supported by the Audit Laura Wade-Gery 8 8 100% Committee, maintained close oversight and monitoring of the Non-executive directors key business risks throughout this change, assessing the progress of mitigating activities in the context of our risk Vindi Banga 8 8 100% appetite.
The Group Risk Pro le, owned by the Board, is Alison Brittain appointed 1 January 2014 2 2 100% compiled by Group Risk, using business area risk registers and Miranda Curtis 8 8 100% one-on-one interviews with each Board member and the 2 Jeremy Darroch retired 19 June 2013 3 2 67% director of each business unit.
Independence is embedded in Martha Lane Fox 8 8 100% the process with oversight from the Audit Committee, ensuring that the risks included in the Group Risk Pro le continue to Andy Halford 8 8 100% re ect the business strategic objectives.
The Internal Audit Steven Holliday retires 8 July 2014 8 8 100% plan is then mapped to the Group Risk Pro le to provide Jan du Plessis 8 8 100% assurance over mitigating activities.
A Maximum number of meetings the director could have attended B Number of meetings the director actually attended Strategic progress 1.
John Dixon was unable to attend the meeting on 4 December 2013 due to personal Progress against strategy is discussed at each Group Board reasons.
meeting and closely monitored by the Executive Board.
Jeremy Darroch was unable to attend the meeting on 1 May 2013 due to prior business commitments.
A two-day strategy meeting, held away from head of ce, provided the opportunity for more relaxed, freeowing and less The role of the Board structured discussion around a broad range of strategic issues.
The Board is responsible for ensuring leadership through This year the agenda focused on Food, General Merchandise, effective oversight and review, whilst setting the strategic Brand and Values, the UK and International.
Progress was direction and delivering sustainable shareholder value over reviewed against the intended plan.
The Board also debated the the long term.
longer term challenges and priorities, and the extent to which the business and management structures are placed to address While the Board is not managing the day-to-day operations these.
A number of opportunities were identi ed and areas for of the Group, its role is to establish and monitor strategy, attention highlighted.
The non-executive directors are able to to consider the impact of its decisions on wider stakeholders share their expertise and provide independent oversight to the including customers, employees, suppliers and the environment.
Discussions focused not only on the A number of key decisions and matters are reserved for the business plan but also the individuals leading and implementing Boards approval and are not delegated to management.
These, and the teams that support them, are key to include matters relating to the Groups strategy, approval of the delivery of the Boards objectives.
major acquisitions, disposals, capital expenditure, financial Board in action results and overseeing the Groups systems of internal control, Martha Lane Fox nongovernance and risk management.
The Board delegates executive director speaking certain responsibilities to its Committees to assist it in carrying at the launch of our womens out its functions of ensuring independent oversight.
Committees are made up of independent non-executive Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 41 Board activity 2013 14 Strategy Leadership and employees Trust & values Two-day off-site meeting provided Discussed the composition and Discussed the continued importance time to: succession of the Board and of Plan A and its initiatives in driving Test and review the corporate its Committees and approved the Companys values strategy the appointment of a new Brand and Values discussion Re ect on the signi cance, non-executive director importance and relevance of the Reviewed the talent and succession Shareholder engagement Companys brand and values report, focusing on the key leadership Discussed the Independent Investor Debate and continue to shape the positions across the business Audit, relaying the views of Institutional GM and Food strategies Discussed employee engagement Shareholders to the Board Discuss the opportunities and risks across the business Annual Your conducted by KPMG Makinson Cowell within Multi-Channel and Say survey and quarterly Pulse surveys Held our 3rd annual Governance Event International, and the impact on the for our top 20 shareholders and long-term strategy investor bodies, where the Board Review the retail and property engaged directly on the key elements strategy of the strategy, Audit, Remuneration Debated, scrutinised and approved and Plan A, and tackled key areas the three year plan and operating plan of concern Reviewed the funding plan for the Held speci c investor days with our DB Pension fund institutional shareholders on GM, Debated and approved the Groups Food, International, and E-commerce capital structure and funding plan Engaged our retail shareholders at Discussed the shape of the property the AGM portfolio, the impact of Multi-Channel Discussion on shareholder rewards and the part each play within the business Governance Customers Reviewed the outcome of the Board Reviewed and scrutinised the evaluation process, conducted by Reviewed and discussed cyber performance and customer the Group Secretary, and agreed the security, key risks and threats to perceptions of the Autumn Winter action plan for 2013 14.
Discussed the business and the Companys collection as a key pillar of the GM and agreed progress against the preparedness for a signi cant cyber strategy 2013 14 Board evaluation and information security breach Assessed the business case for the Agreed a full external tender of the Received an update on valuation, store modernisation programme and Companys statutory auditors, closely performance and governance from approved its continued roll-out across monitored the process and approved the Chairman of the Pension Trustees the portfolio the Audit Committees Reviewed BIS and other consultations Monitored and discussed growth of recommendation to appoint Deloitte and additional reporting requirements the M&S Bank branch network and as Statutory Auditor for the 2014 15 for the year the take up of current accounts financial year Received updates on key legal issues Reviewed and debated the findings and all court and regulatory proceedings from the external investigation Broadened our Committee updates commissioned by the Board following giving greater insight into the Committee the leak ahead of the 2013 Q3 IMS deliberations to the wider Board Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 42 Leadership and effectiveness continued Board structure Group Board Executive Principal Committees Board Management Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Executive Committees How We Do Property Fire, Health Business Customer Big Business Board & Safety Continuity Insight Unit Involvement Committee Committee Committee Group While the Board did not make any site visits as a group during Independence of directors the year, a number of our non-executive directors did have the The Board reviews the independence of its non-executive opportunity to visit some key operations and stakeholders directors as part of the annual Board Effectiveness Review.
across the business covering our suppliers and our logistics operations.
The Chairman is committed to ensuring the Board is made up Director induction of a majority of independent non-executive directors who On joining the M&S Board, directors receive a tailored induction objectively challenge management, balanced against the programme.
Led by the Chairman, this includes time with each need to ensure continuity on the Board.
of the executive directors, the Group Secretary, members of Steven Holliday will step down in July after 10 years on the the Management Committee, a wide range of senior Board.
When re-elected at the 2013 AGM, shareholders were management from across the business and the opportunity to particularly supportive of Steves continued service to assist meet with major shareholders.
and ensure the smooth transition of the Board and Committee changes over the last year.
This year, Alison Brittain received a comprehensive induction programme covering: Martha Lane Fox has served on the Board for seven years.
Company structure and strategy, including: our history: The Board approved the appointment of Martha for a third strategy including details of all key investment decisions, key term in May 2013.
Like Steve, Martha received strong support people and succession plans: Board procedures including the from shareholders for her re-election at the 2013 AGM.
Governance Framework, Code of Ethics and Behaviours: This year, given that Martha has served more than six years Board calendar, minutes from previous meetings, effectiveness with the Company, her appointment was the subject of reviews and action plans: nances, performance, operating particular review and scrutiny.
Taking Steves departure into plans, current KPIs and targets, operational overview of all account, the Board considers that all of the non-executive business areas: key relationships, including suppliers and major directors bring strong independent oversight and continue to contracts: Group Risk Pro le and our approach to risk: insight demonstrate independence.
With the exception of Martha, all into key audits and areas of focus.
continuing non-executive directors have served less than six years on the Board.
Details and experience of each director Industry and competitive environment including: customer can be found on pages 36 to 37. trends, consumer and regulatory environment including governance and all relevant consumer and industry bodies, Corporate Social Responsibility, environment and sustainability.
Board and succession Succession and the succession pipeline remains a key agenda Sentiment and reputation including: brand positioning and item for the Board.
Three changes were made to the Board media pro le, marketing campaigns, brand values, analyst and during the year, following the retirement of one executive and investor opinion, review of investor surveys, share register and two non-executive directors.
These retirements were known voting history, key stakeholder relations including employees, long in advance of their retirement date, which allowed the customers, suppliers and service providers, opinion leaders, an Board to focus suf cient attention on ensuring the new overview of our remuneration policy and pensions.
appointments came with the required quali cations, experience Alisons induction programme was supported by one-on-one and skills to meet the challenges and opportunities ahead.
meetings with management from General Merchandise, Food, Further detail on the appointments and other board changes M&S.
com, International, Retail stores, Finance, Property, IT, scheduled is covered on pages 50 to 51.
All appointments were Logistics, Marketing, Customer Insight, Human Resources, made against objective criteria.
Both internal and external Communications and Investor Relations, Internal Audit and candidates were considered for the executive position.
Risk, Plan A, Pensions, the Company Archive and the Governance Group.
Board in action Sept 2013 Robert Swannell in Kenya Alison visited a number of stores with the Retail team, met with visiting some of the farms and Belinda Earl and the Womenswear team, and visited our factories which supply M&S with distribution centre in Castle Donington with the Logistics team.
products such as cut owers, vegetables, tea and coffee.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 43 Board Effectiveness Review Board review insights 2013 14 Every year our review gives us the opportunity to re ect on the Overall, the Board is considered a high calibre, experienced, effectiveness of our activities, the extent of our deliberations, broad-based and diverse team offering a range of perspectives.
the quality of our decisions and for each member to consider It has a deep sense of commitment to M&S and there was positive their own performance and contribution.
feedback on the Boards most recent additions.
Our review was facilitated internally by the Group Secretary and Board discussions are generally considered open, challenging Head of Corporate Governance.
Amanda has signi cant insight but respectful.
Participation of all members is actively into both the day-to-day and strategic workings of the Board encouraged.
It is important to ensure the size of the Board and is a key point of contact and advice for Board members does not limit either debate or the decision-making process.
She is therefore considered a suitable and The Board awayday was much improved and therefore independent sounding board for this process.
Next year, after a considered more productive year-on-year in terms of: agenda gap of two years, we intend to use an outside facilitator.
structure, level of constructive discussion and debate, quality of papers and submissions, with strong pre-reads, and clear Board and Committee review process output for further discussion and action.
One-on-one interviews Senior Independent Particular progress was felt to have been made around the between Group Director meets other nontimeliness of Board papers.
However, quality and consistency Secretary and executive and executive of papers should continue to be a key area for improvement.
Board members directors individually Similarly, it was felt that tracking and re ection on the quality of past discussions and investments should continue to be Results collated Results collated another key action.
and evaluated and evaluated Board Committees were all considered to work well with thorough debate, a clear grasp of issues and subject Board discussion knowledge.
Committees are considered well chaired and managed, with greater clarity around agenda and decision process.
The external auditor tender process was considered Action Plan ef cient and well run.
Feedback from Committee meetings to the whole Board was felt to have further improved.
The process on succession planning and people is considered In line with previous years, and to ensure continuity, we agreed well run.
It was felt that we should continue to increase that a detailed and focused one-on-one discussion with each exposure to high potential employees across the business and director was the most effective way to facilitate constructive ensure greater insight on talent development and management.
and meaningful insight and output.
Directors were asked their We should also encourage the business to bene t from greater views on a broad range of subjects: access to non-executive directors and their wide range of Composition, skills, balance, experience and diversity: experiences.
Culture and quality of contributions: Strategic and risk debate: Induction programmes were considered thorough, but more Succession planning: could be done around ongoing development, particularly in Effectiveness of decision making: relation to UK retail and property.
Resourcing of meetings, agenda planning and quality of information and papers: Governance knowledge, information and engagement with Corporate governance, regulatory compliance and support: stakeholders was considered good and Board members felt Selection and induction of new members: well supported.
Evaluation of individual performance and scope for Board Action Plan for 2014 15 improvement: After a thorough debate of the review, the Board has agreed an Committee effectiveness and communications to the Board action plan for the year ahead.
The actions address the key Furthermore, the Senior Independent Director meets with the areas of Board oversight and focus, risk and information non-executive and executive directors at least once a year to management.
During the year, the Board is committed to: review the Chairmans performance.
This review is then shared Focus on driving performance, reviewing key performance with the Chairman.
indicators and benchmarking: All recommendations are based on best practice as described Continue to ensure appropriate debate and clarity around key in the UK Corporate Governance Code and other current business and strategic risks, and our risk approach: corporate governance guidelines.
Improve tracking, review and debate on the quality of past decisions: Continue to develop our succession planning, insights into high potential individuals and their development in the business: Continue to encourage greater interaction with our non-executive directors to bene t from their experience.
