Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 50 Nomination Committee appropriately balanced range of skills, experience and technical We will ensure ability so that we are well placed to achieve our objectives and longer-term strategy.
that our Board During the year, the composition of the Board and its Committees has been refreshed.
Some of these changes were composition communicated to shareholders in last years report.
On 21 May 2013, we announced that Steven Sharp, Executive Director, continues to be Marketing would be retiring after nine years with the business.
Steven stepped down from the Board on 8 July 2013 following appropriately the AGM, remaining as Creative Director until 28 February 2014.
Stevens continued employment facilitated a smooth balanced.
transition and induction for his successor, Patrick BousquetChavanne, who was appointed Executive Director, Marketing and Business Development in July 2013.
Andy Halford, who joined the Board as a non-executive director Robert Swannell in January 2013, succeeded Jeremy Darroch as Chairman of Chairman of the Nomination Committee the Audit Committee in June 2013, following Jeremys retirement.
Andy has since been appointed as a member of the In my overview last year, I highlighted the signi cant focus on Remuneration Committee with effect from 1May 2014. increasing the number of women on Boards by companies and regulators around the world.
When our 2013 Annual Report Last year, we also announced that Steven Holliday, nonwas published in June 2013, female representation on our executive director and Chairman of our Remuneration Board was at 21%.
This year I am pleased to report that, Committee, would be stepping down from the Board following following our 2014 AGM, female representation on our board the 2014 AGM.
Vindi Banga, who joined the Board as a will be over 30%.
Although we are pleased with this non-executive director in September 2011, will succeed Steven achievement, we believe that diversity should be considered in as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, having sat as a its broadest sense, encompassing experience and member of the Committee since his appointment.
Our progress against our Board diversity policy is provided the business with a signi cant period of notice prior to outlined on page 51.
As the Board continues to work towards his departure, ensuring that he would have the opportunity to transforming the business into an international, multi-channel assist the Company with the induction of his replacement, as retailer, we will ensure that our Board composition retains an well as liaise with investors ahead of the remuneration policy Board activity 2013 14 Who is on our Nomination Committee What has the Committee done during the year?
The Committee comprises the Chairman, independent We continued to refresh and review non-executive director non-executive directors and the Chief Executive.
tenure and skill set to ensure appropriate mix and diverse Terms of reference are available to view at experience.
As part of this, we agreed the process, marksandspencer.
timetable, shortlist and final recommendation for the appointment of Alison Brittain and discussed the Percentage of Meetings appointment renewal for Robert Swannell: Name of Director Date appointed A B attended We continued to support succession and development of Robert Swannell 4 Oct 2010 5 5 100% the executive directors.
As part of this, we reviewed and Committee Chairman recommended the appointment of Patrick BousquetChavanne to succeed Steven Sharp, and implemented Marc Bolland 1 May 2010 5 5 100% development initiatives for senior executives, including Vindi Banga 3 Sept 2011 5 5 100% international business school training, executive coaching, Alison Brittain 1 Jan 2014 2 2 100% and non-executive director mentor programme: appointed 1 January Committee members also participated in several employee- 2014 focused initiatives, giving increased access across the Miranda Curtis 3 Feb 2012 5 5 100% organisation, direct employee feedback and greater visibility 1 Jeremy Darroch 1 Sept 2006 to 19 22 100% of high potential talent: and June 2013 We also continued to look at ongoing business insight needs Martha Lane Fox 1 June 2007 5 5 100% and development for all directors.
Andy Halford 1 Jan 2013 5 5 100% What is the action plan for 2014 15?
Steven Holliday 15 July 2004 to 8 55 100% Continue to review succession plans for the Board and key Resigns 8 July 2014 July 2014 roles across the business: Jan du Plessis 1 Nov 2008 5 5 100% Continue to identify future talent pipeline: Review development initiatives for directors: and A Maximum number of meetings the director could have attended.
Develop programme for wider business exposure for B Number of meetings the director actually attended.
Jeremy Darroch was a member of the Committee until 19 June 2013 when he resigned from the Board.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 51 being put to a shareholder vote, in line with regulatory recent non-executive director, Alison Brittain, we identi ed requirements, at the AGM in July.
Steve leaves the company and interviewed a variety of candidates from a range of with our best wishes and utmost gratitude for his many years of backgrounds and industries, to ensure that we had exposure to service.
Whilst we do not currently openly advertise our non-executive director positions, we The final change to the composition of our Board and recognise the merit of taking a combined approach and will Committees this year was the addition of Alison Brittain, who keep this under review.
joined the Board as a non-executive director on 1 January 2014.
Alison was also appointed as a member of the Audit Ensure long lists of potential non-executive directors Committee with effect from 11 March 2014, ahead of Steven include 50% female candidates Hollidays departure in July.
The Board remains committed to ensuring that high performing women from a variety of backgrounds who have the requisite Board Diversity Policy 2014 skills, are given exposure to the Nomination Committees of We launched the Board diversity policy in 2012 with the FTSE 100 companies.
This year, the Board again met its intention of ensuring that diversity, in its broadest sense, commitment, and all non-executive director long lists in remains a central feature of the Board.
Since setting out our 2013 14 therefore included 50% female candidates.
ambitions and objectives, the Board has made some positive steps in broadening the diversity not just of the Board, but of Only engage executive search rms who have signed our senior management.
We have reported against each of our up to the voluntary Code of Conduct on gender policy objectives below and, in 2014, the Board intends to diversity and best practice review the policy to ensure that it continues to drive the bene ts The Board continues to support the principles of the Executive of a diverse Board and workforce across the business.
Search Firms Voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity, demonstrated by remaining committed to only engaging Maintain a level of at least 30% female directors on executive search rms who are signatories to this code.
We the Board over the short to medium term continued to work closely with JCA during the year, and remain We have made good progress refreshing the Board during the committed to maintaining our targets and ambitions around year, which has resulted in an increase in the proportion of representation of women on the Board.
The Board con rms female directors on the Board, from 21% at the end of March that JCA has no other connection with the Company.
last year to 29% in March this year.
This will increase further to 31% in July, when Steven Holliday steps down from the Board.
Report annually against these objectives and other initiatives taking place within the Company which We remain committed to at least maintaining this level of female promote gender and other forms of diversity representation in the medium-term, whilst ensuring that The Board has made some signi cant progress against the key diversity in its broadest sense remains a central feature of the policy objectives during the year, as highlighted above.
That said, the Nomination Committee will continue to the year, the business has continued to embrace all forms of recommend appointments to the Board based on merit and we diversity with the introduction or continuation of a number of remain opposed to mandatory quotas.
Despite the progress initiatives: that has been made, the Committee is conscious that the increase in the proportion of women on our Board has been The annual Board evaluation process includes an assessment driven largely by the appointment of non-executive directors.
of the Boards diversity including gender, helping to objectively The Board remains committed to strengthening the pipeline of consider its composition and effectiveness: senior female executives within the business and has taken Launched M&S Inspiring Women a network to support the steps to ensure that there are no barriers to women progress of women in our business, giving access to a range succeeding at the highest levels within M&S.
of role models, providing informal mentoring and networking opportunities, and creating a forum for discussion to explore Assist the development of a pipeline of high-calibre and address the career challenges women face: candidates by encouraging a broad range of senior Signed up to the 30% Club female mentoring scheme: individuals within the business to take on additional The MBA Leadership Programme is in its third year, recruiting roles to gain valuable Board experience and developing talented MBA graduates from international Strengthening the pipeline of executive talent in the Company business schools: to date intake into the programme has has remained a key focus during the year.
We are continuing to been over 50% women: learn and build on existing programmes while introducing new Gaining a better understanding of the longer-term causes of initiatives to build, broaden and develop the signi cant talent under representation of women at particular management which exists across the business.
levels across the business: and A number of programmes to help people in our communities, Details of key initiatives include: including Marks & Start, Marks & Start Logistics and Make A comprehensive talent review presented to the Board Your Mark are successfully helping young people, the annually, mapping successional candidates and opportunities homeless, lone parents and those with disabilities to nd work across all senior roles within the business: in our stores and distribution centres.
The Leadership Development Service has continued to Report annually on the outcome of the Board evaluation, identify and partner key senior talent across the business, the composition and structure of the Board as well as broadening their skills set and experience to ensure that they any issues and challenges the Board is facing when are well placed for future opportunities.
This has been considering the diverse make-up of the Company encouraged through greater boardroom exposure, nonWe continue to regard the Board and Committee evaluation executive and Trustee roles outside of M&S, and participation process as an important means of monitoring our progress.
in mentoring programmes: Full details of how we have progressed during the year and full Access to International Business School training: and details of the 2014 15 Action plan are on page 43.
We remain Senior management mentoring and coaching schemes, committed to getting the right balance of internal versus including non-executive director sponsored lunches and external hires and work towards understanding and managing breakfasts.
some of the challenges we face, such as: Consider candidates for appointment as nonObtaining visas for international candidates outside of Europe: executive directors from a wider pool, including those and with little or no listed company board experience Any main issues women face to reach regional management The Nomination Committee spends a great deal of its time positions and above, within the business.
evaluating the Boards successional needs, working closely with our executive search agency, JCA, in drawing up long and short lists of candidates.
As part of the search for our most
