Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 46 Audit Committee Report Swannell discusses in his overview on pages 38 to 39.
This The Committee will report provides an overview of what the Committee has done during the year, an overview of the audit tender process remain focused conducted, how it has assessed the effectiveness of the external auditors, greater detail on the non-audit fees incurred on the audit, and those forecast for the coming year.
Furthermore, it provides the Committees opinion on the Annual report when viewed as a assurance and whole, including how it has assessed the narrative reporting in the front of the report to ensure that the messages conveyed the risk process accurately re ect the financial statements in the back.
This report takes you inside the boardroom and shares some within the of the detail from the executive updates presented to the Committee from across the business.
Committee to better understand the challenges, key business areas, the risks being mitigated and progress against the strategic plan.
The Committee members challenge, discuss Andy Halford and debate with the presenters whilst sharing their own Chairman of the Audit Committee business experiences for the bene t of the Company.
In June 2013, I was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee updates Committee following the retirement of Jeremy Darroch, who Detailed updates from the business are now fully embedded as had provided seven years of service to the business.
My first xed agenda items for each committee meeting, with one or year as Committee Chairman has seen the introduction of more areas represented.
Business updates are planned on a many changes to corporate reporting, some of which Robert Effectiveness of the Audit Committee The Board is satis ed that Andy Halford and Jan du Plessis Discussed internal financial controls, changes in accounting have recent and relevant financial experience.
policies and impact on our financial statements, with speci c focus on the signi cant issues and matters of judgement: Percentage Discussed other areas of compliance, including the Grocery of Meetings Name of Director Date appointed A B attended Supply Code of Practice GSCOP, Bribery, Whistleblowing Andy Halford and Fraud: 1 Committee Chairman 1 Jan 2013 6 6 100% Continued to receive updates from executives managing key areas of the business, including Plan A: Multichannel Steven Holliday 15 July 2004 6 6 100% Foundation Programme: E-commerce Distribution Centre Martha Lane Fox 1 June 2007 6 6 100% EDC National Distribution Centre NDC : International Jan du Plessis 1 Nov 2008 6 6 100% Operations: Business Continuity, Fire, Health & Safety and 2 Jeremy Darroch Food Safety.
These account for around a quarter of the time resigned 19 June 2013 1 Sept 2006 1 1 100% allocated to the meetings: and Alison Brittain Conducted a comprehensive review of external auditor appointed 11 Mar 2014 11 Mar 2014 1 1 100% effectiveness, identifying areas for improved information ow.
A Maximum number of meetings the director could have attended.
What is the action plan for 2014 15?
B Number of meetings the director actually attended.
The Audit Committees performance is reviewed each year 1.
Andy Halford became Committee Chairman on 19 June 2013.
Jeremy Darroch was Committee Chairman until 19 June 2013 when he resigned from within the framework of the wider Board Effectiveness the Board.
Areas of improvement are highlighted, discussed and debated by the Committee, and included as part of the action What has the Committee done during the year?
During the year the Committee: Conducted a full tender of the external audit contract and Looking ahead, the Committee will remain focused on the recommended the appointment of Deloitte as the audit, assurance and risk process within the business, and Companys Statutory Auditor: maintain its oversight of financial and other regulatory Reviewed the three-year assurance plan, design and scope: requirements.
The action plan for 2014 15 will focus on: Reviewed and debated the risk pro le, classi cation and Ways of working and assurance following appointment of management of key risks, identi cation of new emerging Deloitte as the new Statutory Auditor: risks and movement in risk tolerance as we better manage The recommendations identi ed through the external auditor existing risks: effectiveness review: Received and discussed speci c risk presentations on key Assurance plan, design and scope, with particular focus on business areas: key strategic priorities: and Implemented the key findings from the external review of the Speci c business presentations relating to risks within the internal audit function, including a revised Audit Charter: Group Risk Pro le.
Discussed new Governance Code and reporting requirements with particular focus on how our messages are best reported to shareholders: Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 47 rolling 12-month basis and reviewed at every meeting.
This Updated on the implementation process and the staged years business insights included: transition from the Amazon platform: Discussed the go-live date, the implications should this not be Plan A annual achieved and the associated business contingency plans: and The Plan A update was provided to the Committee in May 2013 Discussed the business requirements and how the business prior to the next phase being introduced.
Plan A 2020 now sets was evolving to support the multi-channel operations.
out a new set of 100 commitments and represents another step in our journey towards becoming a truly sustainable retailer.
Full International operations details can be found in our online Plan A report at Updated on the risks and mitigating actions to deliver the marksandspencer.
com plana2014 international strategy: Updated on the infrastructure required to deliver future growth May 2013 update: and the integration of the international business into key Reviewed the progress made over the last year and the strategic programmes: businesss 180 ongoing objectives.
At the time of the update Discussed the various business formats operated throughout 139 were complete, 31 on plan, 5 were behind, 4 had not different regions: been achieved and 1 had been cancelled: Updated on the business continuity plans and discussed the Updated on the Marks and Start programme this is now results of test exercises undertaken, the levels of assurance highly supported in stores.
50% of those on the programme and the frequency of testing: have gone on to obtain jobs with M&S or other employers: Discussed tactical changes to deliver bene ts in the shorter Received an update on the Cheshire Oaks store and its term as the supply chain evolves: environmental bene ts, which were measured at being 15% Updated on franchise partner performance, operational greater than those anticipated during the design speci cation: management and anti-bribery measures: and Updated on the Shwopping programme and the momentum Discussed the scale of change required to build a truly building behind the initiative: and international business along with the impact on ways of Updated on the international strategy for Plan A. working, new structures and practices.
Integrated Controls Framework Tenure and tender of the external auditor Updated on the status of the financial control environment Last year we advised that PwC and its predecessor rms following a review by PwC: had been the Auditor for M&S since 1926.
To maintain Discussed the standardisation, integration and automation of objectivity of the Audit process, M&S actively supports the framework, focusing on inventory integrity, interface audit partner rotation.
management, control designs within projects and system complexity: Given the length of PwCs tenure and the changes to the UK Updated on the areas identi ed to have opportunities for Governance Code in 2013, we committed to putting the improvement: and external audit contract out to tender.
The tender process was Discussed opportunities to accelerate standardisation, initiated in June 2013, concluded in the latter part of 2013 and integration and automation, and any challenges presented by on 5 December the proposed change in Statutory Auditor was the current business change projects underway.
From the 2014 15 financial year, if agreed by shareholders, Deloitte LLP will be the Companys Food safety Statutory Auditor.
Updated on the risk pro le, the potential impact of the risks and M&Ss reputation: The process Updated on developments and behavioural changes within An audit tender team was created and led by the Head of the industry, including fraud and variable quality within the Internal Audit and comprised representatives from Corporate supply chain, increased testing and auditing, cost of technical Governance, Finance, IT and Central Procurement.
Six rms resource and media interest: were invited to participate, two of which were mid tier audit Discussed the M&S supply chain and how the close rms.
Three audit rms reached the final stage of the tender management of all stages protects the integrity of our process.
products: Committee members received detailed responses from each Received an overview of the governance structure and the rm to a formal Request for Proposal RFP, along with copies use of independent third-party specialists: of a full presentation for discussion at the meeting.
The audit Updated on the role of the regulator and current opinion tender team also prepared a summary of each proposal, an towards M&S: and overview of notable points from each RFP, and thoughts and Discussed the risks relating to the international operations, observations from the tender process.
how these are different and how they are being managed.
The Committee held meetings with each rm individually, E-commerce Distribution Centre EDC and National during which they received detailed responses to preset Distribution Centre NDC in Castle Donington accounting questions and to general matters closely linked to Updated on the progress and the challenges relating to the M&Ss corporate values.
The presentations were followed by an project and how these are being managed: extensive discussion and Q&A session with the Audit rm.
Received an overview of the transitional phase, and the Following each meeting, the Committee then discussed the removal of the legacy network: presentation, the views communicated and the perceived Discussed the customer impact should the project overrun or strengths and weaknesses of the team.
experience problems: Discussed resource capabilities, including technology, After reviewing all three proposals, the Committee held a communications, planning and the importance of learning for separate meeting to discuss the merits of each rm and their future projects: respective teams.
It considered the views of the internal team, Discussed business continuity plans, their robustness and the likely level of disruption as a result of any change, and the how these are embedded into the process: cost proposals presented by each rm.
Updated on the technical complexity, resilience and structure The outcome of the operation: and While the Committee acknowledged that all three rms had the Discussed how plans had been modi ed to align with other capability to deliver a high quality audit, the internal team were projects and forecast trading volumes.
asked to review two of the three rms and measure them Multi-Channel Foundation Programme against a number of speci c points from the RFP and to report Updated on the key risks and the mitigating actions: back with their findings.
The interim period gave Committee Discussed the governance processes embedded throughout the members additional time to re ect further on these two rms.
development and the quality of independent assurance provided: Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 48 The review further validated the assessment of the final two financial year, business forecasting and planning indicates that rms.
After extensive debate, Deloitte was felt to display a non-audit fees will again be impacted by exceptional items, greater ability to drive innovation and challenge for M&S and to much of which are the direct result of the change in Statutory implement more process automation, which in turn would drive Auditor.
Deloitte provided several non-audit services to the value and improvements in the Companys control systems.
business prior to their appointment, most of which were complete by March 2014.
Those that had not been completed The Committee agreed to propose to the Board that Deloitte are being tendered to another rm.
Fees relating to these prior be appointed as Statutory Auditor following completion of the services are not included in the above ratio as Deloitte were not 2013 14 year-end process and that this appointment would be the Statutory Auditor for M&S at the time.
However, fees for the subject to shareholder approval at the AGM in July 2014. ongoing services attributable to the new financial year will The Committee would like to thank each rm that participated impact the non-audit to audit services ratio in 2014 15. in the tender and speci cally thank PwC on the Boards behalf Furthermore, during 2013 14 Deloitte provided certain taxation for their signi cant contribution to M&S over the years.
services in relation to a claim for overpaid tax.
If this claim is successful contingent fees will be payable to Deloitte, again Effectiveness of the External Auditor impacting the non-audit to audit fee ratio.
The Committee believes the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit The business is committed to maintaining non-audit fees at a process are safeguarded and remain strong.
lower level at the earliest opportunity.
Equally, the Committee is Despite the intended change of Statutory Auditor, the mindful that non-audit fees should be kept to a minimum, Committee believes it remains necessary to report on how we therefore all further requests for Deloitte to undertake non-audit assessed the effectiveness of PwC for the 2013 14 period.
work during 2014 15 will be put to the Committee for approval, regardless of size.
Towards the end of 2013, a top-tier accounting rm published a Signi cant issues framework to assist companies in assessing the effectiveness The Audit Committee has assessed whether suitable of their external auditors.
The framework is divided into 10 accounting policies have been adopted and whether structured components setting out the key areas of the audit management have made appropriate judgements and process for the Audit Committee to consider, as well as the role estimates.
that management has contributed to an effective process.
The framework provides audit committees with a mechanism Throughout the year the finance team has worked closely with to encourage management to improve standards in a number PwC to ensure that the business is transparent and provides of key areas.
These include ensuring that information is the required level of disclosure regarding the signi cant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial presented with a culture of right first time, that the quality of statements, as well as how these issues were addressed, management papers is high, that robust internal systems and whilst being mindful of matters that may be business sensitive.
controls are maintained, that the audit process is respected and valued by the management team, and that proposed audit The main areas of judgement that have been considered by the adjustments are examined seriously.
The Committee believes Committee to ensure that appropriate rigour has been applied that this framework provides a robust process for monitoring are as follows: auditor effectiveness now and which can be measured against the findings of future external auditor effectiveness surveys.
Impairment of goodwill, assets and stores The Committee has considered the assessments made in The Committee members were asked to complete a survey in relation to the impairment of goodwill, brands and tangible xed March 2014.
While the survey itself was felt to be detailed, assets, including store assets.
The Committee received there were areas where the Committee Chairman was felt to detailed reports from management outlining the valuation have greater visibility of the overall process as a result of his methodology, the basis for key assumptions discount rate and one-to-one meetings with the audit partner at PwC.
This will be long-term growth rate and the key drivers of the cash ow built upon in the coming year to ensure greater visibility for forecasts.
The Committee has challenged these key other committee members.
Areas that were identi ed as being assumptions and are satis ed that they are appropriate.
The particularly strong were the timely manner in which signi cant Committee has also understood the sensitivity analysis used by audit and accounting issues were raised to the Committee and management in their review of goodwill and brand impairment.
the strength and commitment of the engagement partner.
In addition, the business plans detailing managements Areas where the Committee believed the process for assessing expectations of future performance of the businesses are the effectiveness of the external auditor could be improved will Board approved.
The Committee is satis ed that no impairment be discussed with the incoming audit rm and addressed over of goodwill or brand is required and appropriate impairment of the coming months.
tangible assets have been recognised.
See notes 14 and 15 to the financial statements for further information on Non-audit fees these items.
The business is very mindful of engaging the Statutory Auditor for non-audit services.
A robust auditor Inventory valuation and provisioning engagement policy is in place and adhered to.
It is Inventory provisions include stock in transit, obsolete stock, net reviewed annually and disclosed on the corporate realisable value below cost and general provisions.
Committee has examined in detail managements paper outlining the judgements made regarding provisioning for Last years report highlighted two projects that had increased inventory balances, and is satis ed that a suf ciently robust our non-audit fees higher than we would have preferred.
One process was followed to con rm quantities of inventory and that of these projects, integrated controls framework, bridged the net realisable value of inventory exceeds its cost at year end.
2012 13 and 2013 14 financial years, impacting the level of non-audit fees in both years.
Alongside this, the Companys EU Presentation of the financial statements Group Relief Litigation claim was successful, recovering The Committee gave consideration to the presentation of the 18.5m of tax plus interest, resulting in advisory fees payable financial statements and in particular the presentation of the to PwC.
These fees were approved by the Audit Committee in non-GAAP measures in accordance with the Group accounting prior years.
For the 2013 14 financial year, the non-audit to policy.
This policy states that adjustments are only made to audit services ratio was 0.83:1.
Note 4 on page 98 provides reported pro t before tax where income and charges are further detail on non-audit service fees.
one-off in nature, signi cant and distort the Groups underlying performance.
In the current year, management have included The Company is committed to providing greater transparency pro t on property disposal, one-off pension credits, interest with its reporting where possible.
Looking ahead at the 2014 15 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 49 income on tax repayments, restructuring costs, international feedback was incorporated into the draft report provided to the store review, fair value movement of embedded derivative, Audit Committee meeting for final comment and approval.
strategic programme costs and the reduction in M&S Bank When forming its opinion, the Committee re ected on the income for the impact of the financial product mis-selling information it had received and its discussions throughout the provision within this category.
The Committee has concluded year.
In particular, the Committee considered: that this presentation is appropriate.
See note 5 to the financial statements for further information on the nature of these items.
Is the whole story presented and has any sensitive material Retirement bene ts been omitted that should have been included?
The Committee has reviewed the actuarial assumptions such Is the reporting on the business segments in the narrative as discount rate, in ation rate, expected return of scheme reporting consistent with those used for the financial reporting assets and mortality, which determine the pension cost and in the financial statements?
the UK fide ned bene t scheme valuation, and has concluded Are the key messages in the narrative re ected in the financial that they are appropriate.
The assumptions have been reporting?
disclosed in note 11 to the financial statements.
Are the KPIs disclosed at an appropriate level based on the Revenue recognition in relation to refunds, gift cards financial reporting?
and loyalty schemes Is the report balanced?
Revenue accruals for sales returns and deferred income in Is there a good level of consistency between the narrative relation to loyalty scheme redemptions and gift card and credit reporting in the front and the financial reporting in the back of voucher redemptions are estimated based on historical returns the report and do you get the same message when you read and redemptions.
The Committee has considered the basis of them independently?
these accruals, along with analysis of historical returns and Is the Annual Report properly a document for shareholders?
redemption rates and has agreed with the judgements reached Are the statutory and adjusted measures explained clearly by management.
Each of the above areas of judgement have been identi ed as Are the key judgements referred to in the narrative reporting areas of focus and therefore the Committee has also reviewed and the signi cant issues reported in this Audit Committee detailed reporting from the external auditor, PwC.
Report consistent with the disclosures of key estimation uncertainties and critical judgements set out in the financial Fair, balanced and understandable statements?
How do these compare with the risks that PwC Towards the end of the 2013 14 financial period, the is planning on including in their report?
Committee had discussed what information and level of debate and insight it would need in order to satisfy members that Is the report understandable?
financial information was fair, balanced and understandable.
Is there a clear and understandable framework to the report?
Are the important messages highlighted appropriately At the request of the Board, the Committee has considered throughout the document?
whether, in its opinion, the 2013 14 Annual Report and Is the layout clear with good linkage throughout in a manner Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and whether it that re ects the whole story?
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Following its review, the Committee was of the opinion that the 2014 Annual Report is representative of the year The Committee was provided with a draft copy of the Annual and presents a fair, balanced and understandable Report early in the drafting process in order to assess the overview, providing the necessary information for broad direction and key messages being communicated.
The shareholders to assess the Groups performance, Committee received a further draft some two weeks prior to business model and strategy.
the meeting at which it would be requested to provide its final opinion.
Committee members provided feedback highlighting Andy Halford any areas where they believed further clarity was required.
This Audit Committee Chairman Assurance On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the Groups: Systems of internal control, covering all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems, primarily through approving the internal audit plan and reviewing its findings, reviews of the annual and half-year financial statements and a review of the nature, scope and reports of external audit: Management of risk by reviewing evidence of risk assessment activity and an internal audit report on the process: and Action taken or to be taken to manage critical risks or to remedy any control failings or weaknesses identi ed.
The Audit Committee has completed its review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control during the year and up to the date of this Annual Report, in accordance with the requirements of the revised Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, published by the FRC.
It con rms that no signi cant failings or weaknesses were identi ed in the review for 2013 14.
Where areas for improvement were identi ed, processes are in place to ensure that the necessary action is taken and that progress is monitored.
Further details of this process can be found within our full and detailed response to the Code, provided within the corporate governance section of marksandspencer.
com thecompany Furthermore, the Committee considers the Group has adopted appropriate accounting policies and where necessary, made appropriate estimates and judgements.
The Committee also believes that this Annual Report and Accounts provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
This year details on our Risk Management have been provided within the Strategic Report section of this document.
This can be found on pages 15 to 17 and page 44.
It should be noted that our risk management systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key features of the Groups internal control and risk management systems that ensure the accuracy and reliability of financial reporting include: clearly fide ned lines of accountability and delegation of authority, policies and procedures that cover financial planning and reporting, preparing consolidated accounts, capital expenditure, project governance and information security, and the Groups Code of Ethics and Behaviours.
