Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 78 Pensions governance The Group operates a fide ned bene t pension scheme the Each Trustee Board Director has an individual training plan, Scheme for employees with an appointment date prior to which is based on the Pension Regulators Trustee Knowledge 1 April 2002. and Understanding requirements, and tailored to address any skill gaps and speci c committee roles.
The majority of the The results of the triennial actuarial valuation of the Scheme as Trustee Board members hold the Pensions Management at 31 March 2012 revealed a fide cit of 290m.
This represents Institute Award in Trusteeship.
a substantial reduction in fide cit from 1.3bn as at 31 March 2009.
The next valuation is due as at 31 March 2015.
Funding All advisers, investment managers and suppliers are appointed progress is closely monitored and the investment derisking through a rigorous tender process.
They are monitored via journey has continued since the last valuation.
quarterly reports and periodic meetings and there is also a rolling programme of both informal and formal adviser reviews.
The assets of the pension scheme, which are held under trust separately from those of the Group, are managed by the Board In addition to six-monthly reports from Ernst and Young of the Pension Trust Trustee Board.
The Trustee Board as covenant adviser, the Trustee Board also receives comprises four company nominated directors, including the presentations from the Chief Finance Of cer after the Full Year Chairman, Graham Oakley, three member nominated directors and Half Year results.
All directors are appointed for The Scheme is a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible a five-year term and may stand for a second term.
The Trustee Investment and the Trustee has partnered with a specialist Board operates three main committees: Management and engagement service, Hermes Equity Ownership Services Governance, Investment, and Actuarial Valuation, which will EOS, to exercise its global equity voting rights in accordance be convened later this year for the 2015 valuation.
with a detailed Trustee policy, which addresses a range of During the year the Board has been recognised through governance, social and environmental issues.
EOS has also various external awards including those for trustee enhanced the Trustees stewardship and governance oversight development, risk management, portfolio structure and use of of investee companies by engaging with companies, on a alternative investments.
A website for members was launched global basis, where management is considered not to be in September 2013. acting in the best long-term interests of investors.
The results of these voting and engagement activities are published The Trustee Board has a business plan against which progress quarterly on the M&S Pension Schemes website.
The Scheme is measured on an ongoing basis in a similar approach to the is also a signatory to the Financial Reporting Councils UK Group Board.
There is also an annual Board Effectiveness Stewardship Code.
Review and both the Trustee Board and the Investment Committee hold annual strategy days which help drive the long-term agenda and the business plan priorities.
