Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 45 Engagement Robert Swannell Chairman store in September and a Food business update in October.
The Board believes that shareholder engagement is not merely Presentations are made by senior M&S managers and provide a task to be undertaken at year end in order to secure the investors with more detail on the progress of the Groups required votes at the AGM.
We believe that open and regular operations.
They do not include any additional statements on dialogue with investors provides the foundation for a long and current trading performance, nor do they disclose any new, trusted relationship.
Continual engagement provides investors material financial information.
The slides from the presentations with an opportunity to discuss particular areas of focus and are added to our corporate website for wider viewing and offer raise any concerns.
There will inevitably be some points on detailed insight into how we intend to develop our strategy over which we do not fully agree, however, we believe that clear and the short to medium term.
open discussion allows these to be debated and set in the Makinson Cowell, the capital markets advisory rm, continue to context of our wider business goals.
As a Board, we are the provide guidance to our Investor Relations team and carry out custodians of this fantastic brand and we are trying to do the an annual audit of our major investors views on the Companys right thing to secure its future for the long-term.
management and performance, the results of which are During the year the business had over 690 contacts with over presented to the Board every year.
350 separately identi able institutions in the form of one-to-one Amanda Mellor Group Secretary or group meetings hosted by an executive director or our The role of the Company Secretary has evolved considerably in Investor Relations team.
In addition to the AGM, we also recent years.
The key responsibility for ef cient company engaged with a number of leading private client brokers who administration, ensuring compliance with statutory and typically represent our retail investor base.
regulatory requirements and that decisions of the Board of In June, I hosted the third annual M&S governance event and Directors are implemented, remains fundamentally important.
was pleased to see more investors attending and sharing their However, today the Company Secretary is increasingly seen as views.
In addition to this, I met with investors, industry a sounding board for the Chairman, the executive and the representatives and the Chairmen of other leading FTSE non-executive directors, providing advice and support on best companies to discuss a range of governance matters including practice and a broad range of governance matters.
We provide Board diversity, remuneration and corporate reporting.
feedback on a wide variety of consultation documents to help shape the future of governance and reporting.
We participate in forums and debate on future issues and give presentations at Governance Event universities and conferences to help guide the talent pool of the Now in its fourth year, the M&S Governance Event is an future.
Throughout the year, I try to focus not just on our own annual xture on the calendar hosted by the Chairman, practices and procedures, but also on meeting investors, Robert Swannell.
Board attendees for 2014 will be Jan du investor advisory rms and other company secretaries to Plessis Senior Independent Director, Andy Halford discuss their views and approaches to governance matters.
Chairman of our Audit Committee, Steven Holliday However, engagement is not just about governance.
It is Chairman of our Remuneration Committee, Martha Lane Fox important that we maintain our trusted relationship with our Non-executive director and member of our Sustainable shareholders, 95% of whom are private investors.
A majority Retailer Advisory Board and Mike Barry our Head of of these are also valued customers, some of whom send us Sustainable Business.
feedback requesting additional discounts in return for shopping Invitations are sent to our 30 largest shareholders, in store or online.
Although we already distribute shareholder representatives from the in uential investor advisory rms vouchers with the January dividend payment, we are working and industry governance specialists.
Attendance is growing with Equiniti, our registrar, to look at how we can facilitate a year-on-year.
The event provides an opportunity to meet and new shareholder initiative that provides investors with wider discuss the considerations of the Board and its Committees bene ts that re ect their level of investment.
We will provide during the year and going forward.
The meeting is structured more information about this in due course.
around presentations on: AGM The Board Audit Risk The 2014 AGM will be held at Wembley Stadium in London on Remuneration Plan A Q&As Tuesday 8 July at 11am.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the schedule for the day and the resolutions to be proposed at the A copy of the presentation is available on our corporate meeting.
A copy of the Notice can be downloaded at website, marksandspencer.
In line with last year, the As a Corporate Governance analyst the information meeting will be webcast live and a recording of the meeting presented was exactly what I wanted to learn about the made available on our website after the event.
I really liked the format, which The AGM provides the Board with an opportunity to spend allowed the investors to learn how the Board and its time with our private shareholders.
The Board and M&Ss committees work and how the procedures t within the senior management team will be available for shareholders to broader picture of Plan A.
It would be very helpful if more speak to before the meeting.
The Chairman and Chairs of each major companies held similar meetings.
of our Committees will be available to answer shareholders questions during the formal proceedings of the meeting.
Feedback from an attendee The AGM in 2013 was a well attended and successful event at A number of broader investor presentations were hosted during which all of the proposed resolutions were passed.
These focused on a number of key areas and percentage of the Companys share capital who voted in favour provided thoughts into E-Commerce and the General of each resolution ranged from 81.88% and 99.99%.
Merchandise Autumn preview in May, a visit to the Pantheon
