Audit Committee Audit Committee Report Dear Shareholder Following my appointment as Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from 21 January 2014, I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for the year ended 4 October 2014.
Neil Goulden remains a member of the Audit Committee but has stepped down as Chairman to focus on his roles as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director, following Lord Hodgsons retirement.
Both Neil and I are considered by the Board to meet the requirements of the Code as having recent and relevant financial experience.
Robin Rowland has also become a member of the Committee with effect from 17 September 2014.
Each member of the Committee, all independent Non-executive Directors, contributes their own financial and business experience to effectively assess the external and internal audits of the Company and the internal control and risk management systems.
The Committee members challenge and debate the reports, statements and findings presented to them.
Membership Responsibilities Nick Backhouse Reviewing the integrity of the Companys financial statements including the Interim Results and the Annual Report and Accounts.
Rosalind Cuschieri Neil Goulden Reviewing the effectiveness of the internal controls and risk management Lord Hodgson until 21 January 2014 system.
Robin Rowland from 17 September 2014 Reviewing the Companys systems for detecting fraud, preventing bribery and allowing employees to raise concerns in a safe and confidential manner.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Overseeing the relationship with the external Auditors, specifically reviewing and approving their fees, the terms of engagement and their objectivity and independence on an annual basis.
Attendees Terms of reference The Corporate Risk Director and external Auditors attend each meeting.
Full terms of reference of the Committee can be found in the Investors Other individuals, such as the CEO and CFO are usually invited to attend all section of the Companys website.
or part of the Committees meetings.
During the year the Committee has conducted a formal retendering of the Internal Audit co-source which has been undertaken by Deloitte since 2005.
A number of audit firms were invited to tender for this work including two mid-tier firms.
In assessing the tender proposals and presentations received, the Committee considered the ability of each firm to deliver an effective, efficient service, their audit methodology, relevant experience, knowledge of key audit issues and the benefit of a fresh approach.
The Committee concluded that Grant Thornton should be appointed to deliver the internal audit plan with the first assignments to be undertaken in January 2015.
Following the tender of the external audit last year, PwC continue to provide an effective audit service and the Committee recommends to shareholders their re-appointment.
The audit partner is next due to rotate after the 2017 reporting period and the Company will conduct a full tender of the external audit at that time.
Further details are provided in the report that follows.
Nick Backhouse Chairman of the Audit Committee 28 Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Auditors In assessing the work of the external Auditors, the Committee was satisfied with the scope of their work and their effectiveness, and recommended their re-appointment to the Board.
The Committee has satisfied itself that the independence and objectivity of the external Auditors, and the safeguards to protect it, remain strong: The external Auditors conduct an annual review of their independence identifying all services provided to the Group and assessing whether the content and scale of such work is a threat to their independence.
The Committee accepts that some non-audit work is most appropriately undertaken by the external Auditors.
The Committees terms of reference set out what is permissible.
Where such work is expected to be in excess of a specified amount, the Chairman of the Audit Committee must approve the work.
Below that amount, the CFO has authority to approve such work once he is satisfied that the Auditors are the most appropriate providers.
The Group has used other accounting firms for some non-audit work.
In each case, consideration was given to the need for value for money, experience and objectivity required in the particular circumstances.
The audit partner is changed at least once every five years and a new partner was appointed during the 2012 13 financial reporting period.
The audit partner is next due to rotate after the 2016 17 financial year.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that a formal tender be conducted in 2016 17 and, given the length of their tenure, PwC will not be invited to tender at that time.
Fees paid to the external Auditors are disclosed in Note 3 of the Financial Statements on page 63.
Activities During the year the Committee met three times to consider and review the risks to the Group, the internal control and risk management systems, to assess the annual internal audit plan and to review the internal audit tender proposals and presentations received.
The Corporate Risk Director provided ongoing assurance to the Committee with regular updates on the scope and findings of internal audit.
The Committee also considered the Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Results.
In order to provide the Committee with the opportunity to review and challenge the integrity of the Companys financial reports, the external Auditors attended each meeting.
The external Auditors also presented their audit strategy, findings and conclusions in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts or Interim Results.
At least once a year, the external Auditors meet the Committee without any Executive Director present to provide an opportunity for open dialogue and feedback.
In addition the Committee reviewed a number of standing items including the Whistleblowing Policy and arrangements thereunder, matters arising from internal audits and compliance and legal developments.
Significant financial judgements In recommending the Interim Results and Annual Report and Accounts to the Board for approval, the Committee reviewed in particular the accounting for and disclosure of the following key matters: Non-underlying items.
The Committee considered management's assessment of each item disclosed as non-underlying, including, the appropriateness and consistency of disclosure and accounting treatment.
The Committee was satisfied that the items warranted separate disclosure by virtue of their nature, size or infrequency and concurred with management's classification and treatment.
The Committee also considered the quality of earnings in assessing the completeness of non-underlying items.
The Company had undertaken a review of property leases during the year and identified the need for a provision to reflect changed conditions in both the market and individual circumstances as well as some lease reversions.
Noting the judgements made, the Committee was satisfied that these provisions represented management's best estimate of the onerous element of future lease payments and, as such, was satisfied that the overall provision was acceptable.
The Committee considered the internal valuation process undertaken by management and noted that this had not identified any areas of significant difference between book and fair value of the core estate at the reporting date.
Impairments made during the year relating to the disposal group were based on management's best estimate of the achievable market price.
The Committee considered the approach taken to be reasonable and consistent with market conditions and the treatment in prior years.
The Company has a number of outstanding tax positions where recognition in the financial statements is judgemental given the uncertainty of settlement.
The Committee noted that the potential benefit in respect of the majority of positions has not been recognised.
The Committee was satisfied with the rationale behind this treatment.
Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29
