Corporate Governance Report Chairmans Introduction Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Boards annual report on corporate governance.
Marstons is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, which we regard as essential to support the sustainable growth of our business and to protect shareholder value.
This review, together with the reports of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees, provides an overview of our corporate governance practices and summarises our activities in this area during the year.
Succession There have been a number of changes to the Board during the year, reflecting the work of the Nomination Committee in ensuring the appropriate mix of skills and experience.
Lord Hodgson retired from the Board in January 2014 and Neil Goulden was appointed Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Whilst Neil remains a member of the Audit Committee, Nick Backhouse replaced him as the Chairman of that committee.
In September Rosalind Cuschieri announced her intention to retire from the Board following the 2015 AGM and, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Roz for her valued contribution during the last eight years.
During the year, we also announced the appointments of Carolyn Bradley and Catherine Glickman to the Board.
Their appointments will enhance the breadth of experience amongst our Board members.
Carolyn joined the Board with effect from 1 October 2014 and Catherine commences her appointment on 1 December 2014.
Further details on the Boards composition are given at page 25.
Remuneration The Remuneration Committee has continued to focus on ensuring there is a direct link between rewards and performance.
The Committee has also reviewed emerging best practice to ensure that disclosures meet the new regulations in a clear and concise manner.
Audit As part of the Boards commitment to ensuring fresh and appropriate challenge in managing risks and internal control assurances the Audit Committee conducted a tender of the internal audit outsource provision.
Statement of compliance The Board considers it has fully complied with the main principles of the September 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code during the reporting year under review.
The Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
Roger Devlin Chairman 27 November 2014 20 Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
