Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Report Dear Shareholder During the year we have refreshed the composition of our Board and Committees.
In September we announced the retirement of Roz Cuschieri, who will step down from the Board following the 2015 AGM and the appointment of two new Non-executive Directors.
Carolyn Bradley joined the Board on 1 October 2014 and Catherine Glickman will be appointed on 1 December 2014.
Both Carolyn's and Catherines appointments enhance and widen the Boards skillset with their respective experience in retail marketing and HR.
Both the Audit and Remuneration Committees have been refreshed with the appointment of a new Chairman and by Robin Rowland joining the Audit Committee and Catherine Glickman joining the Remuneration Committee.
Over the next year the Nomination Committee will continue to review the long-term succession plans for the Board and key roles across the business.
Membership Responsibilities Roger Devlin Chairman Ensure the Board and its Committees have the right balance of skills, knowledge and experience.
Ralph Findlay Rosalind Cuschieri To plan for the orderly succession of Directors to the Board and other senior Neil Goulden managers.
Nick Backhouse To identify and nominate suitable candidates for Executive and NonRobin Rowland executive Director vacancies having regard to, amongst other factors, the benefits of diversity, including gender diversity.
Attendees Terms of reference Full terms of reference of the Committee can be found in the Investors section Other Executive Directors, senior management and external advisers may be of the Companys website.
Activities The Nomination Committee met three times during the year specifically to consider the requirement for additional experience on the Board and the subsequent recruitment and appointment of two additional Non-executive Directors.
The Committee was initially supported by KORNFERRY Whitehead Mann and subsequently by Warren Partners during the recruitment and appointment process.
Neither KORNFERRY Whitehead Mann nor Warren Partners have any other connection to the Company.
The Committee also considered the membership of the Board and each of its Committees.
The Committee continues to actively review the long-term succession planning process for Non-executive Directors to ensure the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees continues to be effective, thus ensuring appropriate levels of corporate governance and best practice and support for the Company as it pursues its strategy.
Diversity Policy Succession planning at Board level is informed by guidance provided by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills BIS on both Board Effectiveness and Gender Diversity, and the process of recruitment to the Board recognises the benefits of diversity.
When recruiting, we require the search agency to have signed up to their industrys Voluntary Code of Conduct addressing gender diversity.
We have not set a specific target for numbers of female Directors and we will continue to make appointments on the basis of merit.
However, we recognise the benefits that greater diversity can bring and take into account such factors when considering any particular appointment.
Currently, two of Marstons nine Board members are female rising to three on 1 December when Catherine Glickman joins the Board.
The effectiveness of the Committee was considered as part of the wider Board evaluation process.
The Board concluded that it is satisfied that the Committee continues to perform its duties in accordance with its terms of reference.
Finally, the Committee considered the effectiveness and commitment of each Director standing for election or re-election at the 2015 AGM and, having concluded that their performance continues to be effective, recommends the election or re-election of each Director to the shareholders.
Roger Devlin Chairman of the Nomination Committee 30 Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
