Corporate Governance Report Chairmans Introduction Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Boards annual report on corporate governance.
Marstons is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, which we regard as essential to support the sustainable growth of our business and to protect shareholder value.
This review, together with the reports of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees, provides an overview of our corporate governance practices and summarises our activities in this area during the year.
Succession There have been a number of changes to the Board during the year, reflecting the work of the Nomination Committee in ensuring the appropriate mix of skills and experience.
Lord Hodgson retired from the Board in January 2014 and Neil Goulden was appointed Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Whilst Neil remains a member of the Audit Committee, Nick Backhouse replaced him as the Chairman of that committee.
In September Rosalind Cuschieri announced her intention to retire from the Board following the 2015 AGM and, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Roz for her valued contribution during the last eight years.
During the year, we also announced the appointments of Carolyn Bradley and Catherine Glickman to the Board.
Their appointments will enhance the breadth of experience amongst our Board members.
Carolyn joined the Board with effect from 1 October 2014 and Catherine commences her appointment on 1 December 2014.
Further details on the Boards composition are given at page 25.
Remuneration The Remuneration Committee has continued to focus on ensuring there is a direct link between rewards and performance.
The Committee has also reviewed emerging best practice to ensure that disclosures meet the new regulations in a clear and concise manner.
Audit As part of the Boards commitment to ensuring fresh and appropriate challenge in managing risks and internal control assurances the Audit Committee conducted a tender of the internal audit outsource provision.
Statement of compliance The Board considers it has fully complied with the main principles of the September 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code during the reporting year under review.
The Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
Roger Devlin Chairman 27 November 2014 20 Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Leadership and the Board of Directors Role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the long-term success of the Company.
The Board has met nine times this year, allowing it to effectively monitor the Companys progress against its strategic aims and within the risk management framework.
A schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Boards decision is in place and includes matters relating to: strategy, major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals, capital structure and financial results, internal controls, governance and risk management, committee membership and terms of reference.
The schedule was reviewed at the September 2014 Board meeting and is available on our website.
Roles and responsibilities There is a clear division of responsibility between the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer CEO which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Chairman Chief Executive Officer Roger Devlin is responsible for: Ralph Findlay is responsible for: Ensuring each Non-executive Director makes an effective contribution to the The performance of the Company in line with the strategies and objectives Board through debate and discussion with the Executive Directors.
established by the Board and under powers delegated by the Board.
The effective operation, leadership and governance of the Board.
Ensuring the Board is supplied with information relevant to its strategic role.
Ensuring effectiveness of the Board.
Leading the Executive Directors and senior management in dealing with the operational requirements of the business.
Setting the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions with a particular focus on strategic matters.
Providing clear and visible leadership in business conduct.
Ensuring through the Company Secretary that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
Senior Independent Director Neil Goulden acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and as an intermediary for the other Directors.
He is available to shareholders if they have concerns which the normal channels have failed to resolve or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
He also leads the Non-executive Directors in their annual assessment of the Chairmans performance.
Company Secretary Anne-Marie Brennan is responsible for, under the direction of the Chairman, ensuring effective information channels within the Board and its Committees, and between senior management and Non-executive Directors, as well as facilitating induction activities for Directors and assisting with their development as required.
Non-executive Directors The Chairman, who was independent on appointment, meets with the Non-executive Directors at least annually without the Executive Directors being present.
The Non-executive Directors are encouraged to constructively challenge proposals on strategy, contributing to the development of the strategy in the long term.
The Chairman is responsible for setting the correct environment and atmosphere to allow this to take place, particularly through his experienced chairmanship of meetings and control of agendas.
Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21
