Corporate Social Responsibility Our performance as a responsible corporate citizen is informed by a set of established principles.
They are reflected in management practice and enable us to respond with clarity to corporate social responsibility CSR reporting requirements.
Meggitts CSR principles sound corporate governance standards compliance with relevant legislation and regulations continual improvement of financial, social and environmental performance embracing: - a supportive, rewarding and safe working environment for employees - minimisation of the environmental impact of products and processes - ethical business conduct - local community support policy and processes during 2005, we will seek Principles into practice Governance to ensure such planning is embedded firmly in Responsible corporate citizenship at Meggitt Meggitt has always conducted its business every Meggitt business so that it remains a means protecting stakeholders interests by based on sound principles of corporate dynamic business tool.
protecting our businesses and the people who governance.
Our approach is set out in the work in them.
During 2004, Health and safety we made significant progress implementing Our stakeholders want financial probity and The health, safety and welfare of our the Revised Code on Corporate Governance.
real profits: effective risk identification: robust employeesand site visitorsis strongly We provided more information on corporate internal and external reporting and control promoted through safety training and governance issues to the financial community systems: business continuity plans that serve protective equipment.
through the London Stock Exchanges webas dynamic management tools: safe working In 2004, with the help of external risk enabled Corporate Responsibility Exchange environments reviewed by independent audits: consultants, we continued to roll out the groups among the first in the aerospace and defence internationally accredited environmental health and safety audit programme.
Our profits remained real as management systems: training and the further Meggitt sites were audited in the year the groups cash inflow from operating implementation of modern operational practices: and a similar number will be audited in 2005. activities in 2004 showed: 110 per cent of enduring relationships with a premium client operating profit, after excluding the impact base where repeat business is punctuated by Environment of exceptional costs.
awards and commendations: and social and As a manufacturer, we regard health, safety economic enrichment of local communities Risk and environmental issues as a CSR cornerstone.
through donations, sponsorships and Systems are in place across the group to Progress on environmental management educational initiatives.
identify and manage financial, operational, systems certification continues apace with environmental and compliance risk.
The seven more Meggitt businesses achieving Thats what we delivered in 2004and heres Operations Executive and Board of Directors the internationally accepted environmental how we did it: conducts risk reviews every six months.
Our management ISO14001 accreditation in CSR responsibility robust process for identifying, evaluating and 2004.
Eight sites are scheduled for Headquarters: Terry Twigger, managing internal risk is described under certification in 2005.
Chief Executive, assisted by Philip Green, Internal Control page 29.
Group Corporate Affairs Director Minimising the environmental impact of In 2004, we advanced our operations business our operations through good management Operations: strategic business unit continuity management plans.
Following the practices is also being honed via a programme managing directors 2003 review of all site plans with independent of external audits.
Eight businesses were consultants, new or developed plans were audited in 2004. implemented in 2004.
Some 88 per cent were rated excellent when reviewed against objective criteria.
As we standardise business continuity 22 Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2004 Employees by segment Employees by location Embedding business continuity management BCM planning at Meggitt The four-phase cycle Aerospace 4105 UK 2482 Defence Systems 408 Europe 850 Design and align Electronics 1073 North America 2184 performance indicators with PAS 56, the Other 46 Rest of world 116 international BCM standard Design toolkits: stage workshops for key skills Devise action plan to transfer to operating Employees by length of service Meggitts economic contribution in 2004 enhance BCM capability companies' BCM representatives 000 Under 5 years 2289 Wages and salaries 140,648 5 to 10 years 1075 10 to 15 years 464 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 22,031 15 to 20 years 601 Consolidate training: Social security costs 19,430 rehearse plans on site 20 to 25 years 357 Total 182,109 Over 25 years 846 Customers and suppliers Working at Meggitt The future Since the supply of safety and mission critical We are an international business with a diverse Meggitt will continue to develop and products requires the highest standards of workforce subject to equal opportunities implement CSR practices that benefit our performance, delivery and quality if we are to employment policies.
The adoption of modern, businesses, employees, customers, suppliers sustain and win new business, we promote a operational practice is seen as vital to the and local communities.
groups continuing success, with training In 2005, this includes implementing refined enhancing the value of employees personally The majority of our sites have been certified systems of risk identification, reporting as well as the businesses.
We sponsor to IS09001:2000, the international quality and control.
education through apprenticeships, MBAs management standard.
While our relationships and graduate courses.
As an engineering business, health, safety with aerospace and defence customers and environment will remain at the top of commonly span decades, many Meggitt Local communities our CSR agenda as we continue to roll out businesses receive additional endorsements We make an important economic contribution health and safety audits across the group as key suppliers through regular commendations to local communities.
Salaries, tax and social and implement effective environmental and awards for performance.
In particular, security contributions across the group management systems.
Vibro-Meter, Meggitts engine diagnostics amounted to around 182 million in 2004 business, regularly receives supplier-of-the- 38 per cent of sales.
And we will ensure our acquisitionsDunlop year awards from Airbus, most recently in Aerospace, Wilcoxon and Schreinerembrace Local, community-oriented donations, 2003 and 2004.
Meggitts CSR principles and other management sponsorships and education programmes standards.
In turn, we will adopt new examples Ethical business take place throughout Meggitt, exemplified at of best practice in any discipline to which we Our long standing business ethics policy operational level by Endevco, a Meggitt sensor are exposed during the integration process.
involves conducting business relationships business in the United States, which will continue openly and clearly, honouring contracts and to provide an annual engineering scholarship to eschewing the giving or receiving of a state university and at group level by Meggitts compromising gifts.
headquarters in the United Kingdom.
For many years, it has provided a local comprehensive Meggitts new whistle-blowing facility enables school with a board director as a governor, any employeewithout compromising their an annual award for outstanding student position or professional relationshipsto musicianship and sponsors a regional symphony report any breach of Meggitts ethics and orchestra to provide professional tuition and procedures to an independent organisation help stage public events to develop performance specialising in the correct and confidential skills.
Meggitt PLC continues to sponsor a local handling of such issues.
National Health Service hospital trust with educational bursaries, service and achievement awards and donations for specialist equipment and responds to ad hoc requests for financial help, particularly from schools.
Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2004 23
