Corporate responsibility training and reporting.
The review will also provide guidance MISYS ACKNOWLEDGES ITS ENVIRONMENTAL, ETHICAL AND SOCIAL to the Group on other corporate responsibility matters.
RESPONSIBILITIES AS A GROUP AND THAT ITS OPERATIONS IMPACT THE Code of ethics LOCAL COMMUNITIES IN WHICH IT OPERATES.
MISYS IS CURRENTLY During 2004, Misys plans to develop its code of ethics and UNDERTAKING A PROGRAMME OF WORK TO IMPROVE FURTHER ITS the process of distribution and full implementation across the PERFORMANCE IN THESE AREAS AND TO PROVIDE BETTER REPORTING Group.
The code will be communicated to stakeholders and will appear on the corporate website.
Misys is in the process of implementing a whistleblowing policy and each division will adopt the policy or adapt it to their specific requirements.
Employment Misys is committed to developing an inclusive workforce that reflects the diversity of the communities in which it operates Environment, health and safety and the businesses it serves.
Misys remains firmly committed to developing and maintaining Misys is also committed to promoting best practice in the sound environmental, health and safety standards across recruitment, development and retention of employees.
For its range of businesses and wherever it operates.
Misys example, in accordance with the Groups equal opportunities acknowledges that there are environmental impacts associated policy, people with disabilities are given the same consideration with running its operations.
It is committed to quantifying as others when applying for jobs.
We are also committed to these wherever possible and to evaluating the scope for retaining existing employees who become disabled, by making reducing them over the medium and long term.
reasonable adjustments to enable them to continue in their Misys has a global workforce of more than 6,000 people.
current role or exploring possibilities for their retraining or Their health and safety is of paramount importance.
During 2004, Misys appointed an expert, external, international The Group endeavours to be flexible in its approach towards consultancy to undertake a review of the Companys its employees in order to attract and retain the best people environmental, health and safety management systems.
The in todays highly competitive business environment and is consultancy will undertake audits of selected Misys sites in receptive to arrangements that support employees in achieving the United Kingdom, United States and India.
Based on the an optimum work life balance while meeting business needs.
information gained from these audits, the consultancy will Implementation of these arrangements will vary according provide recommendations and an action plan to improve the to regional and functional requirements, as determined by Groups environmental, health and safety management systems, local management.
24 The community Purchase of equipment grants may be given towards Misys main community contribution is through its employees.
the purchase of equipment for use in teaching information With more than 6,000 employees in 28 countries, Misys brings technology in educational institutions, notably primary schools, employment and all attendant benefits to many local that have limited funds for IT resources.
General grants in a few cases, the Foundation is prepared to Misys main charitable contributions are through the Misys support special projects where there is a broader contribution Charitable Foundation.
The Foundation was formed in towards the enhancement of information technology education.
November 1997 to support the advancement of education In this category the Foundation has made limited grants to in information and communications technology worldwide.
certain specific charities that are providing IT training to disadvantaged and homeless individuals.
IN ADDITION TO THE 1.1M ALREADY During 2003 04, 72 students have been funded in higher DONATED TO THE FOUNDATION, MISYS WILL education, both in the United Kingdom and other countries, and the Foundation has undertaken to support 93 students PROVIDE A MINIMUM OF 100,000 PER in 2004 05.
Since 1997 the Foundation has been successfully ANNUM FOR FIVE YEARS FROM 2003 supporting 123 students in the United Kingdom and 43 students in other countries.
Donations by the Group to charities other than the Foundation, FTSE4Good INDEX The Foundation is run independently of the Company by a amounted to 20,000 during the year 2003: 505,000.
FTSE Group is delighted to separate Director who is answerable to the four Trustees.
It confirm that Misys plc has been is funded through donations from Misys plc, whose Board is independently assessed according strongly committed to its aims.
In addition to the 1.1m already to the FTSE4Good criteria, and donated to the Foundation, the Board has agreed to provide has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the a minimum of 100,000 per annum for five years from 2003.
Created The Misys Charitable Foundation made grants totalling by the independent financial 118,916 in 2003 04 and the Trustees have committed index company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is a financial index a further 191,284 for 2004 05. series that is designed to identify and facilitate investment in There are three distinct areas in which the Foundation companies that meet globally offers support: recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Scholarships the main activity of the Foundation are Companies in the FTSE4Good provided through partnerships with leading educational Index Series are doing more to institutions to enable exceptional students, particularly from manage their social, ethical and environmental impacts, and are less privileged backgrounds, to undertake undergraduate better positioned to capitalise and postgraduate studies in information technology IT on the benefits of responsible related subjects.
