CORPORATE SOCIAL One of our key objectives is to RESPONSIBILITY make a positive impact on the communities in which we live and work.
MITIE recognises that our actions can make a difference and we are committed to acting responsibly to our people, the environment and the wider community.
Bull Ring Birmingham MITIE provides on-site planned and reactive maintenance to mechanical, electrical and fabric services.
These include a wide range of state-of-the-art equipment such as computerised emergency lighting control, security surveillance equipment and the spectacular futuristic glass roof and faade.
The team adopts a flexible working approach to servicing over 150 retail units and public areas with a constant flow of visitors.
Working together for the environment 16 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 People Ethics We want all of our employees to have the opportunity to MITIE operates according to business values and principles maximise their potential.
In order to achieve this we adopt that guide the Company and its employees.
robust Human Resources policies and procedures that are We have a Code of Ethics that is communicated to our fair and inclusive.
employees and is displayed on the Groups website.
We have We recruit, train and retain quality people by adopting best a responsibility to all of the groups with whom we interface: practice in every phase of the employment life-cycle.
employees, customers, suppliers, investors, competitors and the wider community.
We have a duty to act responsibly MITIE is an Investor in People.
IiP provides us with a and to show appropriate levels of care in delivering quality benchmark for communicating with and developing our services.
Our reputation and the trust and confidence of the people throughout their career with us.
Structured people with whom we deal are among our most important induction programmes are in place across the Group and all assets.
The protection of these assets is highly important.
employees are given regular opportunities to discuss their MITIE maintains the highest standards of professionalism, performance with their line manager.
integrity, openness, honesty and diligence.
Current training programmes in place across MITIE range MITIE adopts the highest ethical standards when we do from Craft Apprenticeships to an MBA Programme.
We business and we will not allow any behaviour that is not in provide in-house training in the areas of Health & Safety, accordance with our Code of Ethics.
The Board regularly Employee Relations and Management Development.
reviews this code as well as our ethical performance.
During the year more than 80 managers participated in the MITIE employees are made aware of this code and our aim four levels of Management Development Programme that is to create an atmosphere in which employees feel able to are available: voice concerns about behaviour or decisions that they Institute of Leadership and Management, Certificate in perceive to be unethical.
Management Health and Safety Chartered Management Institute, Diploma in The success of the business relies on the suitability and Management availability of our employees.
We therefore take seriously Business Leadership Programme our responsibility for managing and maintaining their health and safety.
Master of Business Administration MBA While Board-level responsibility for health and safety rests Managers are encouraged to develop continually their with the Chief Executive, the MITIE systems ensure leadership and motivation skills so that they are competent responsibility exists throughout all of the MITIE businesses.
to build teams and develop individuals.
All subsidiary company directors have received appropriate We support our people with a proactive HR strategy.
We training in health and safety in order to meet their spend a lot of time evaluating skills and potential for the responsibilities.
They are supported by specialist safety future.
Succession plans are put in place across the business advisors who are either company or regionally based.
to ensure that we will have the appropriate skills in place in In particular, during the year we have made improvements order to meet MITIEs future challenges.
to our Accident Reporting database.
As a result, we now have a better claims management and accident investigation ability.
MITIE companies will occasionally engage the services of a specialist subcontractor.
We manage these using the Contractor Health and Safety Assessment Scheme, coupled with close review of their performance.
MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 17 Environment Community Board-level responsibility for the Environment sits with the In the year under review, MITIEs Charities of the Year were Chief Executive, who receives appropriate support and advice the NSPCC and Children 1st in Scotland.
We selected these from MITIEs Head of Health, Safety and Environment.
charities because we felt that their focus on helping children matched our goal of providing opportunities for people to We endeavour to identify all of our environmental impacts fulfil their potential.
and, wherever possible, manage them.
During 2002 03 we carried out an initial exercise to identify where and what our A wide range of fundraising activities has taken place across impacts were.
That exercise identified greenhouse gas the country, promoted by MITIE charity champions.
The emissions, primarily related to our vehicle fleet, as being our activities ranged from quiz nights, Christmas fundraisers, most significant impact.
We monitor the level of CO parachute jumps, marathons, mobile phone and computer 2 emissions that our vehicle fleet produces and we have seen sales to dress down days and horse racing events.
The most a reduction during the period under review.
notable fundraiser was performed by Anj Moorhouse from Cleaning who was part of a sponsored expedition to climb Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania.
In addition to our national work on behalf of the NSPCC there have been several local initiatives.
These include our Scottish employees raising money for the neurosurgery department of South Glasgow University Hospital, our Property Services business in Colchester decorating the Keats Way aged persons scheme in Wickford in conjunction with Thurrock and Basildon College, and our sponsorship of Stoke Lane AFC, a community junior football club in Bristol.
Wherever possible we encourage our people to get involved with their community.
Achieving your goals Anj Moorhouses inspirational determination to achieve her goals of climbing Mount Kilimanjaro and of fundraising for the NSPCC was key to her success.
Her love of challenges and adventure, coupled with her selflessness and spirit, helped to raise over 16,000 for charity.
18 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004
