com 19 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility is an important part of how we run our regularly review other risks and issues.
Our independent assurance business, day-to-day.
We are committed to behaving responsibly and providers, Ernst & Young, verify our annual Corporate Responsibility to taking full account of the social, environmental and ethical impact report.
Our aim is to offer excellent mobile services to our customers, to provide lasting value for our shareholders, to consider Marketplace the views and interests of the communities we serve, and to strive to We believe that mobile telephony carries clear social benefits.
New find ways to put the benefits of our technology back into society and developing services are transforming many of the ways in which wherever we can.
But the technology also poses some important social challenges and we recognise these too.
For example, during The investment community has recognised our achievements in the year, our Executive Committee and Board have discussed how corporate responsibility and we are represented in some of the we can protect young people from getting access to inappropriate main sustainability indices and funds.
These include the Dow Jones material on their mobile phones.
As a result, the Company helped to Sustainability Indexes where mmO is at the top of the wireless develop and has signed up to an industry voluntary code of practice 2 communications sector the FTSE4Good index and the Business in for the self-regulation of content.
the Community Corporate Responsibility Index.
mmO is also a 2 member of the Ethibel investment and sustainability registers.
Our purchasing policies spell out the social and environmental standards we apply as a company and the standards we expect our mmO fully supports and seeks to follow the Disclosure Guidelines on suppliers to adopt in sourcing our materials.
So far, activities around 2 Social Responsibility laid out by the Association of British Insurers.
The ethical purchasing have included the development of action plans guidelines focus on the significant social, environmental and ethical and the raising of awareness among our suppliers.
We have also risks that affect the short-term and long-term value of the business.
actively contributed to the Global e-Sustainability Initiative, which Details of some of these risks and other material issues are included aims to promote ethical practices across the ICT industry.
here as well as in the report on corporate governance.
Health Management of corporate responsibility risks There are public concerns about the safety of handsets and Social, environmental and ethical issues are integral to all aspects other portable equipment and worries about the location of of our business and are included in our risk management procedures.
Our approach is to consult directly and openly These aspects are taken into account in determining the with communities.
Dedicated community relations managers are remuneration of senior employees, including Directors.
This has been employed to talk to and encourage open interaction with local an important step in encouraging good ethical conduct in all our communities.
In the UK, a helpline has been set up to handle public dealings and in providing a framework for managing, measuring and enquiries about mast location and health related issues.
accounting for the impact of our business.
We participate in and provide funding for a number of industry Our corporate responsibility programme is co-ordinated by a groups, including the UK-based Mobile Operators Association dedicated team of trained practitioners.
To give direction and MOA.
The MOA champions Ten Commitments to the responsible leadership to our policies and to monitor performance, we have positioning of mobile communications masts.
O Airwave our 2 established quarterly reporting on corporate responsibility issues to secure network provider for police forces in mainland Britain and our Executive Committee, and half-yearly reporting to the Board O UK are working openly to comply with them and to address the 2 under the leadership of the mmO Chief Executive Officer, Peter recommendations of an independent review, which found that 2 Erskine.
Direct responsibility for all the issues rests with individual communication had improved but could be made better still.
Our managers, Directors and, ultimately, the Board.
other operating businesses have committed to comply with similar guidelines, developed by GSM Europe.
During the year, the Board was brought up to date particularly on the issues of community investment, business ethics, health and Although research has found no evidence of health risks from safety, adult content and child safety, and environmental protection.
mobile technology below the scientifically verified exposure Specific training is always given to new Directors and, on request, guidelines, we are aware of public concerns in this area and are to existing Directors of the Board.
In common with other risks, we committed to funding independent and peer-reviewed research in manage social, environmental and ethical risks by assessing their this area.
We are therefore helping to fund the joint UK government potential impact on the Company, by measuring our ability, resource and industry Mobile Telecommunications and Health Research and tolerance in deciding how to manage them and by developing programme, and are contributing to EU WHO research programmes.
In Germany, we are also funding research jointly with other operators and the government including the Informationzentrum Our environmental and health and safety practices are monitored Mobilfunk IZMF group, set up to address concerns about radio through third party audits carried out by certification agencies and frequency emissions and to improve consultation with stakeholders.
through the operational risk reviews that underpin our insurance arrangements.
Internal auditors, reporting to the Audit Committee, Environment and sustainability The direct environmental impact and associated risk of our business 20 mmo2.
com Corporate responsibility activities is relatively small.
However, we regard it as essential that Community we minimise any negative impact that we have on the environment Investment in the communities we serve is an essential part of and to contribute positively to sustainable development.
our approach to corporate responsibility.
Our Can Do in the Community programme was set up with the aim of using our We have set targets for each area of potential impact, which will resources notably our technology to benefit local communities in be described in detail in our 2004 Corporate Responsibility report.
the UK, Ireland, Germany, and the Isle of Man.
In 2003 04, we made Since 2002 03, our main achievements have been to establish an cash donations of 427,000 including 192,000 from UK-based environmental procurement policy and to increase the uptake of Group companies directly to our chosen charities and community renewable energy in line with our target of 10 per cent by 2008. organisations.
Additionally, we have made in-kind contributions, We exceeded our current target for recovering mobile phones for which included participation by our employees.
re-use and recycling by 300 per cent and the scheme has now been extended to include some of our corporate customers.
By the end of A matched giving scheme was launched across the business and 2004 we aim to have all our operations registered to the Give As You Earn, supplemented by contributions from the international environmental standard ISO14001.
Company, was promoted in the UK, increasing take-up by some 30 per cent.
Employees have continued to volunteer for charities We continue to identify, reduce and eliminate environmental risk through the Cares schemes in the UK.
In Ireland, more than 60 through the operation of a Group-wide environmental management employees volunteered for the Special Olympics.
We assign accountability to our environmental forum, Isle of Man business supported a major local fundraising effort chaired by the Group Environment, Health and Safety champion, to build a new hospice.
On the island we continue to sponsor the David McGlade, who is also a member of the Board.
Manx Telecomputer Bus, a valuable addition to local schools IT provision.
Our German operation has been engaged in a number of Our environmental initiatives include green travel schemes and new initiatives, including the Schola 21 youth education project run sponsorship of a number of bio-diversity projects.
These include by the German Children and Youth Foundation.
Frontier, a conservation agency, and our newly launched partnerships with the charity Rainforest Concern and the Tree Council of Ireland.
During the year, new projects were launched in the UK, Ireland and Germany as part of our ongoing commitment to the International Workplace Youth Foundation.
Successful completion of trials using the O Xda 2 We recognise that business success is inextricably linked with the mobile device to monitor asthma sufferers in the UKs Thames Valley skills, abilities, leadership and operational standards of our resulted in the decision to invest further in the mobile monitoring of employees.
Our culture of can do is supported by our core brand cystic fibrosis.
Other projects include research into mobile technology values to be bold, open, trusted and clear in everything we do.
and sponsorship of Cornwall We aim to achieve a high-performance culture across the Group County Councils road safety education campaign for primary school in which individuals can thrive.
We do this by offering competitive children, LookAlive.
rewards and opportunities for personal development, in a supportive, flexible and modern working environment.
Through membership of Business in the Community and the London Benchmarking Group, we hope to continue to improve our The health and well-being of all our employees is of paramount community investment initiatives and to learn from benchmarking concern.
We have an established Group-wide health and safety with our peers.
strategy, agreed at Board level, which is constantly reviewed.
O UK 2 and O Ireland have achieved certification to the internationally Looking ahead 2 recognised health and safety system OHSAS 18001.
We believe we have made good progress in strengthening our approach to corporate responsibility during the year.
An increasing The United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and number of customers and major investors have requested proof of International Labour Organisation Declarations guide our our corporate responsibility activities and this has further cemented employment policy.
In the UK we achieved Bronze standard in the the value of our efforts across the business.
But we recognise there Race for Opportunity benchmarking exercise and Gold standard is still much to do.
To achieve and continually develop best practice, through the Opportunity Now benchmark.
We also restated our we intend to keep our approach and performance under constant commitment to the Two Ticks scheme for the employment of review and scrutiny.
These initiatives helped us to provide a focus for ensuring that we offer real equality of opportunity for our people A Group-wide corporate responsibility strategy will be launched and potential employees.
during the coming year to shape our activities and align them with the aspirations of our stakeholders.
We have continued to assess employee satisfaction and offer a channel for feedback through our Reflect employee surveys.
In 2003 we saw Details about mmO s approach to corporate responsibility can be 2 employee engagement increase across the Group.
We will maintain our found in our independently verified Corporate Responsibility report, relationship with employees through trade unions, works councils or available from July 2004 online at: www.
com cr, or, on representative bodies.
request, from the Company Secretary and General Counsel.
