Corporate Social Responsibility Introduction As a major copper producer, provider of transport and water in Chile, the Group recognises the impact it has on social and environmental issues.
It respects the environment, local communities and its workforce and understands its responsibility to these and other wider stakeholders.
The Group has three mining operations, whose products are sold internationally.
The largest, Los Pelambres is located in central Chiles Fourth Region and produces copper and molybdenum concentrates for sale to smelters and roasting plants.
El Tesoro and Michilla are located in the important Atacama copper district in northern Chiles Second Region and produce copper cathodes through heap-leach SX EW operations.
The transport and water distribution businesses are also located in the Second Region.
The Antofagasta Railway Company FCAB provides rail and road transport services mainly to the mining industry and Aguas fide Antofagasta supplies water for domestic consumption and industrial users including mines.
The Groups operations have differing environmental, health and safety and community issues.
Each of the operations is also subject to a variety of legal and regulatory requirements.
Every operation has a responsibility to conduct its affairs to the highest standards and comply fully with or exceed applicable Chilean regulations, in a manner that is innovative and sustainable.
Policies to reduce gas emissions, improve water use and waste management and to limit the footprint of the operations activities on the wider community have been implemented.
During 2004, the Board believes that it has demonstrated its commitment to improve performance in all these areas and expects that it will continue to do so in 2005.
Systems, Certification and Awards in 2004 Systems To underline its commitment to achieve and sustain high standards, the Group has made important advances in its management systems and in obtaining certification for international standards.
For example there is now a corporate system for incident reporting and follow up action plans in all operations, which is centrally monitored as part of the Groups on-going risk management process.
This was the most important development in this area for 2004.
Certification Progress in 2004 with regard to the adoption of international systems and subsequent certification is as follows: ISO 14.001 environmental control under implementation by all companies, with Los Pelambres receiving certification for its port facility at Punta Chungo.
In early 2005, El Tesoro also obtained certification for its operation.
ISO 9.001 quality control under implementation by all companies, with Los Pelambres receiving certification for its molybdenum plant, supply area and health contracts in 2004.
El Tesoro and Michilla are seeking certification in 2006, while FCAB had already received certification prior to 2004.
OHSAS 18.001 safety and occupational health control Los Pelambres, El Tesoro and Michilla are adopting this system with a view to certification by 2006.
35 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Corporate Social Responsibility Awards in 2004 The Group received a number of awards either during or in respect of 2004.
As mentioned in the Chairmans Review on page 13, Los Pelambres was recently awarded the Premio Nacional a la Calidad National Quality Award for its performance in 2004.
This award is based on a range of considerations including leadership and strategic planning, client satisfaction, commitment to workforce development, process management and environmental management.
It was the only organisation in Chile to receive this prestigious honour, with no award having been made the previous year.
The FCAB also received a number of awards for risk prevention management from a number of its customers, including El Abra and Zaldivar.
Its trucking subsidiary, Train Ltda received similar recognition from Lomas Bayas and El Tesoro.
The FCAB also received an award for safety recognising three years without accidents.
Corporate Governance The Groups approach to corporate governance and details of the standards it adheres to can be found on pages 51 to 60.
Information is also available on the Groups website.
Environment The Group recognises that the protection of the environment and prevention of contamination is a key aspect in the management of its operations.
Each operation has implemented management systems to monitor and control the environmental impact of its activities, to achieve compliance with any commitments undertaken and to create awareness of environmental issues by its workforce and neighbouring communities.
The Group seeks to ensure that each operation has the resources necessary to ensure all legal requirements are met and that management systems are continually improved.
Los Pelambres is the operation with the greatest environmental impact, given its size and location.
Each of its operational units has either received certification for ISO 14.001 or is at the implementation stage.
For example, in 2004 the port operation at Punta Chungo, through its Port Management Unit completed implementation of an environmental management programme which is now certified under ISO 14.001.
Los Pelambres is seeking certification for its other divisional operations.
In 2005, Los Pelambres intends to establish a solid waste management system and a geographical information system GIS for monitoring environmental variables.
Use of Resources Efficient use of natural resources tends to keep costs down and encourage good environmental performance leading to good business practice and good relations with the local communities.
This is particularly true when a resource such as water is in demand and scarce.
Each operation has taken this into account in a manner suited to its location and circumstances.
Among the mining operations, consumption of fresh water per tonne of copper produced was amongst the lowest in the Chilean mining industry.
36 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Michilla has a system whereby it pumps seawater up to its mine site, where it is treated in a desalination plant and used in the SX EW cathode production process.
Waste water is cleaned and used to irrigate vegetation within the site.
El Tesoro is too far distant from the Pacific Ocean to be able to use a similar process but during 2004, the operation reduced its water consumption from 0.35 litres per tonne to 0.33 litres per tonne a saving of 5.6 per cent.
Its production process now pumps water at 100 litres per second, a rate which is easily within the available capacity from local wells of 209 litres per second.
At Los Pelambres the new tailings dam currently under construction will re-circulate water located more than 60 kilometres from the plant in a manner similar to the existing dam, with the aim of minimising the consumption of fresh water from the basin of the Choapa River.
Water is shared with local farmers and is used for irrigation.
Aguas fide Antofagasta, which has begun to operate water rights and distribution and treatment facilities in Chiles Second Region, has implemented programmes in 2004 to reduce water losses, reduce costs and improve the quality of service to domestic customers.
Site Rehabilitation and the Protection of Biodiversity The Group manages and limits the environmental impact of land usage through the principle of rehabilitation.
Damage to native flora is mitigated through reforestation using the same native species in other areas where the flora in question is scarce.
The Group has pledged to protect the biodiversity of more than 6,000 hectares of land over all its operations.
This is particularly important at Los Pelambres where its activities have an impact on unique bofedals these are small shrubs only found in Chile.
The company has voluntarily undertaken to replant these shrubs in nearby areas using techniques which have been employed by communities from the north of the country for centuries.
Los Pelambres has also pledged to replant the land affected by its tailings dams with native flora.
This includes a commitment to reforest more than 450 hectares with native trees.
Los Pelambres will also regenerate the basin of the tailing dams with other species more likely to grow in this type of habitat.
Experiments are being carried out using seeds from the original species currently growing in the basin of the El Chinche dam.
The El Chinche tailings dam was part of a former underground mine at Los Pelambres.
The wetland area adjacent to the Punta Chungo port has been declared by Los Pelambres as a RAMSAR site due to its richness in biodiversity.
As part of the Environmental Impact Assessment EIA approved by the regional authority in 2004, Los Pelambres will maintain as a natural reserve an area which covers approximately 100 hectares containing examples of the Chilean Palm jubea chilensis, a species in danger of extinction.
37 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Corporate Social Responsibility Waste and Air Emissions Waste is a natural consequence of different processes at each of the three mining operations.
Each operation has systems in place to manage and monitor waste dump areas, tailings dams and leach-residue piles.
These are also monitored by independent third parties and the relevant public authorities.
Air emissions at the mining operations are also monitored to minimise impact on employees and contractors and to reduce environmental impact, using standards set by local regulators.
Air quality is measured at each operation and, in the case of Los Pelambres, in the nearest towns.
One of the monitoring stations is at Chillepn, a town 10 kilometres from the concentrator plant.
The results from testing air emissions are made public and reported to local authorities and the local community.
Health and Safety Health and safety considerations are always at the forefront of Group operations, with risk management systems in place at each operation.
The Groups mining operations have achieved amongst the highest safety levels in the Chilean industry.
The mining operations have developed safety programmes which have been reviewed and approved by the Regional Agency for Mining Safety, a public body which establishes the minimum standards for the mining industry.
As explained in the summary of certifications above, Group operations have also adopted or are in the process of adopting at least one of a number of international management systems.
At each operation, a safety manager is responsible for overseeing risk management systems which are designed to cover employees, contractors and sub-contractors.
Typically, contractors and sub-contractors are required to follow specified health and safety standards under the terms of their contract, which can be terminated in the event of non-compliance.
Training and regular review of procedures with supervisors and managers also forms an important element of health and safety management, and health and safety matters are considered monthly at the divisional board meeting of each operation.
Health and safety issues are also monitored across the Group through its risk management procedures, with the corporate risk team reporting directly to the Chairman of the Group and the Board of Directors.
Regrettably the Group suffered six fatalities during the course of operations during the year of which three related to employees and three to sub-contractors.
Of the employee fatalities, two were employees of Train Ltda.
the road division of the FCAB, as a result of a road traffic accident and the third was an employee of Los Pelambres.
In each case, the incident was reported to the relevant authorities and the cause of the fatality fully investigated.
The Group remains committed to a target of zero fatalities, a level which was achieved in 2003.
Los Pelambres Los Pelambres has developed a health system to help combat occupational health issues and improve the general health and life style of employees.
Various occupational health risks exist within the mining operations.
These can include exposure to geographical altitude, silocogenic dust and noise in the case of the mine and noise and chemical reactive gases in the plant.
A slurry pipeline takes liquid concentrate from the mine site at Los Pelambres to the port facility Punta Chungo where employees may be exposed to noise 38 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 and copper concentrate dust prior to the shipment of the copper concentrate.
The management programme seeks to educate and encourage workers to acquire a better lifestyle through health awareness.
The Los Pelambres health centre is certified under ISO 9.001 for its management for health and safety.
It covers the following areas: development of welfare infrastructure: health promotion and prevention through annual examinations, vaccines and diet intervention: occupational health and industrial hygiene.
This aspect of the programme is aimed at protecting workers against occupational risks through educational activities, pre-occupational examinations, work accident and professional illness care.
The programme is aimed at industrial hygiene and targets the identification, assessment, control and monitoring of dust, noise, ionising radiation, vibrations and brightness: and safety aspects in the operation of the health centre including identification of dangers and risk assessment, operational controls, monitoring of planned observations and crossed inspections and management assessment and audits.
There is an integral programme based on OHSAS covering the whole operation with the aim of achieving quality, environment safety and health management.
Los Pelambres is preparing for OHSAS 18.001 certification for 2005.
Michilla and El Tesoro Michilla has a management programme which has been assessed by the Chilean Safety Association and approved by the Regional Health Service.
El Tesoro has applied management control systems from the Regional Agency for Mining Safety.
Michilla expects to convert its existing safety management systems to OHSAS 18.001 by 2005, while El Tesoro is preparing for certification in 2006.
FCAB and Aguas fide Antofagasta The FCAB has implemented a health and safety programme in collaboration with one of Chiles main safety associations.
FCAB has also adopted the ISO 9000 2000 management system for procedures, training and rail safety.
It also covers internal safety issues, prevention of derailment, programmes for training personnel and internal audit processes.
A new safety programme in OHSAS format should be implemented in 2005.
Aguas fide Antofagasta also has health and safety programmes directed to its operations and ensuring the quality of its drinking water.
The quality of its drinking water supplied, particularly in relation to arsenic levels, is significantly better than that required by Chilean legal requirements and complies with World Health Organisation standards.
39 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Corporate Social Responsibility Community Relations The Group recognises that its operations have a social and environmental impact on its neighbouring communities and regions.
It aims to protect the areas around its operational sites and to contribute to the local economy.
Programmes have been set up with a view to establishing relationships within the community, through mutual collaboration, transparency in its activities including the communitys right to know and involvement in local issues.
This is achieved through newsletters and magazines, questionnaires and local meetings.
Enquiries and complaints from local communities and local authorities are examined.
The Group also aims to contribute in the areas such as education, enterprise and job creation, arts, health and the general community.
Los Pelambres Los Pelambres is located in Choapa Province in the Fourth Region, 260 kilometres to the north of Santiago, at an altitude of 3,600 metres on the border with Argentina and at the source of the Pelambres River, a CASE STUDY - THE MAURO DAM Seeking and obtaining approval for the expansion The construction of the Mauro dam has significant of Los Pelambres through the Mauro dam was a environmental and social implications.
These have good example of working with the local community been considered in advance by Los Pelambres and to achieve environmental approval for a large appropriate measures for compensation and industrial project.
mitigation will be taken, which include: the collection and relocation of more than In March 2004, the Regional Commission of the 120 archaeological sites to a cave art park Environment for Chiles Fourth Region approved the especially designed by Los Pelambres: Environmental Impact Assessment EIA submitted by Los Pelambres the previous year, enabling it to the reforestation of more than 6,000 hectares increase its ore reserves to 2.1 billion tonnes.
Los of land: Pelambres will construct a new dam at El Mauro training programmes for local workers in order valley, some 60 kilometres from the concentrator to provide them with them better employment plant, to deposit tailings generated by its operations opportunities: when the existing Quillayes dam reaches capacity.
a risk prevention and environment course in Construction of the Mauro dam began at the end conjunction with the Educational Corporation of 2004.
The EIA involved a wide-ranging process of the Chilean Chamber of Construction: and of citizen participation and every effort was made to ensure that the project and its impact was more than 600 residents of the Choapa Valley properly understood by all communities affected.
have a certification which allows them to choose The process was one of the most extensive of any construction project in the country with good its kind in Chile, including a level of community prospects.
In addition to this 600 people carried participation in excess of that required by the law.
out similar training courses during 2002 and 2003.
40 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 tributary of the Choapa River.
It has a significant interaction with local communities and particularly local farmers near the plant and with fishermen near the port.
Los Pelambres has developed a community relations management system which deals with identification, analysis and resolution of community related issues.
There are programmes for communicating with each key stakeholder, assessing public performance through opinion polls and developing action plans.
These include procedures to deal with enquiries from the communities, media and local authorities.
In 2003, the Minera Los Pelambres Foundation was created with an initial contribution of US$3 million from Los Pelambres.
This charitable foundation has been created to develop projects within the community with an emphasis on education, agriculture and fishing.
The port operation has developed community initiatives and has avoided interference with the established fishing industry.
The Foundation plans to support communities in towns close to the mine operations, as set out in the Case Study below.
350 people were chosen from this group to support and assessment offered for the be trained in specialist trades needed for the future administration of water regulation construction of the Mauro project.
dams: The Mauro Project has made a commitment plans have been drawn up with the local to running similar training courses in the areas authorities to improve farmers production of administration, concreting, carpentry and capacity for existing produce: and steel reinforcement.
It has in conjunction with implementation of a technical education the local government, church and other local project in conjunction with a specialist bodies run social risk prevention programmes institute is under review.
and workshops and road safety courses.
These Consultation with the local communities social programmes cover 600 people in eight began 18 months before the project was areas of the Choapa Valley.
due to start and continues to be an ongoing Local social programmes include: process which is appreciated and understood the production and sale of honey: by the local communities.
educational grants for students from Construction of the Mauro dam began at the province: the end of 2004 and will be completed at the end of 2007.
The project is expected to cost improvement of the irrigation and US$457 million and will employ more than piping system for Choapa association 2,000 workers, including contractors, over of smallholders and irrigation this three year period.
workers: 41 41 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Corporate Social Responsibility The access road to Los Pelambres operation goes through a number of towns and villages.
In collaboration with the Choapa provincial authorities, the police force and the health and fire services, Los Pelambres participates in local road safety committees to protect local communities.
In the area of education, Los Pelambres has developed the Together We Can Do More programme.
This programme funds local community projects and awards agricultural educational grants.
A four-year grant has ensured funding for secondary education, including residential and travel costs.
Since 2000, 75 young people have benefited from this scheme.
Los Pelambres also runs environmental workshops aimed at social leaders in rural towns such as Salamanca, as well as for training residents in the El Choapa Province and staff from the University of Serena in environmental matters.
Michilla and El Tesoro Michilla is located in the Second Region of the country, on the coast 120 kilometres to the north of the city of Antofagasta.
It deals mainly with the Caleta fide Michilla, a community totally dependant on the local artisanal fishing industry.
This community receives educational support in the form of the contributions to equipment and facilities in local schools.
Michilla has also provided a school with an internet service for its students, computers and IT assistance.
It maintains a strong relationship with local authorities, who have acknowledged the contributions it makes to the local economy, especially in hiring contractors.
El Tesoro is located further inland in the Second Region, in a sparsely populated area of Chile.
It provided the electricity supply connection to the nearby town of Sierra Gorda when the mine was under development.
FCAB and Aguas fide Antofagasta FCAB runs an educational programme which provides work experience for students, grants for secondary and university education and sponsorship for sporting events.
In collaboration with Fundacion Minera Escondida, the FCAB gives a contribution to a mobile library project.
In 2004, 46 grants were awarded for higher education and for secondary education, total value US$26,000.
The FCAB has a museum which acts as a historical centre for the community.
The museum organises school visits and workshops as well as tourist expeditions.
Aguas fide Antofagasta is a major service provider in the Antofagasta region supplying 120,000 domestic customers.
In its first year of operation, it has concentrated on improving service and reducing costs without affecting the quality and reliability of supply.
42 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Human Resources The Group aims to develop and maintain a labour force committed and motivated to achieving a high standard of performance.
In all the Group operations, human resource systems and procedures which promote and encourage harmonious management of employment relations is constantly under review.
The Group operates within the employment legislation existing in Chile.
Management systems include personal development programmes which focus on training and teaching with individual assessment.
The Group aims to improve the skills of employees, harness potential and create educational opportunities.
Training systems cover health, safety, quality and productivity in the workplace as well as professional vocational training in relevant areas.
New training programmes are continually being developed with input from employees and third parties.
In all operations, regular communication with employees is maintained through an established system of two way meetings and workshops with individuals from all levels of the organisation.
The Group employed an average of 2,842 employees during the year.
It recognises freedom of association in the context of its workforce and there are ten labour unions across its operations four at the Railway, one at Michilla, one at El Tesoro, two at Los Pelambres and two at Aguas fide Antofagasta.
Collective employment agreements are in place at all Group operations, which set out terms and conditions of employment including pay.
Remuneration levels reflect market conditions and exceed the Chilean legal minimum in all cases.
Labour agreements were most recently renewed at Los Pelambres when new four year agreements were reached with both its unions, with salary increases linked to productivity.
43 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004
