Carbon Continuing turnover for the Products and Performance 2004 Trading review year was 196.1 million applications Organic sales growth was Industrial and Traction 2003: 192.1 million with over 8% on a constant Growth initiatives involving Our Industrial and Traction an operating profit before currency basis.
There was systems solutions, predictive business designs, goodwill amortisation a continued focus on cost maintenance products manufactures and supplies and operating cutting within the division and services and creative components and systems exceptionals of 19.6 million with the merger of the materials technology are worldwide.
three previously separate capitalising on Morgans offers a comprehensive businesses leading to a strong market position.
range of products carbon Introduction reduction in overheads.
These initiatives, together brushes, brush holders Using materials and The exit of a further three with an improvement in the and commutators used application knowledge manufacturing sites was US manufacturing sector, in DC motors, traction to provide solutions to completed and there yielded good revenue current collectors used customers in a wide range has been increased growth in 2004.
Cost control, on trains, trams and of markets, Carbon is a focus on the utilisation site rationalisation and underground train systems, true advanced material of low-cost operations.
utilisation of low cost linear and rotary current technology business with These improvements meant manufacturing in Mexico transfer systems and products based on carbon, that an adverse currency resulted in significant profit assemblies used in graphite and other materials, translation impact of improvement against 2003. many applications.
including silicon and 2.2 million was more than The major markets in boron carbide.
Mechanical Carbon has offset and operating profit Continental Europe showed a leading position in both was increased.
The Carbon division was little growth in 2004.
As a the fluid handling and formed following the merger The North American business result the focus was on aerospace sectors in North of the Industrial and Traction performed strongly, with high growing market share and America.
With a wide and business Electrical Carbon, demand for personal body reorganisation to reduce the continually expanding range with the Mechanical Carbon armour for military purposes, cost base to allow a more of materials, the Mechanical and Specialty Graphite and mechanical and effective use of our people Carbon business provides business Engineered electrical products.
seal faces, bearings, rotors, Carbon.
This consolidated Carbon saw both underlying vanes and other components Eastern Europe saw business operates with a market growth and an providing the technical increased activity, with single global management increase in market share.
solutions required for a strong demand for our team and the merger has There were some market large variety of applications.
products in power served to reduce overhead share gains in Continental Morgan is established as generation, plastics, paper costs and to simplify the Europe, but major markets, one of the leading suppliers and mining industries.
With operations particularly France and of armour materials in in over 25 countries across Germany, remained difficult.
We embarked on a very the world.
five continents, Carbon successful strategy of employs some 3,350 people.
Specialty Graphite produces securing long-term and supplies precision high agreements with the majority purity specialty graphite of our major customers, products for use in a variety particularly in the railway of high temperature and industry where confidence corrosive environments.
in sourcing is critical in a changing environment.
More customers are looking to us for a range of associated products complementing our 06 The Morgan Crucible Company plc core carbon business.
rebounded significantly In Asia, sales growth was the organic growth within the These include brush holders after three depressed years.
generated as material synthetic diamond industry is and commutators, where As a result, revenue from technology and expected to lead to further we are seeing increasing these sectors grew strongly.
manufacturing expertise increases in sales in 2005. success in testing and was transferred from During 2004, a detailed plant In Europe, particular focus approvals across Europe.
Europe and Americas, rationalisation programme has been on the non-ferrous particularly in to China.
Our rotary transfer systems was developed and metal casting industry where This provides a low cost business, which supplies to announced for North we have considerable source for the European the industrial and military America.
This strategy will and American markets and markets, has enjoyed is to be implemented over be further extended to allows us to support our another year of strong 2005 and 2006 and will capitalise on markets in global customers in all of growth, with major significantly reduce fixed Central and Northern Europe.
the geographies in which increases in Asia and the manufacturing costs by they operate.
Further growth will be more effectively utilising supported by current the Carbon Divisions Specialty Graphite Significant business investments in engineering, manufacturing sites in The business benefited from reorganisation and product development and Mexico and China.
the strong semiconductor rationalisation has taken a dedicated global sales market during 2004.
This will We supply body armour for and marketing team.
manufacturing plants and continue in 2005, with the personal and vehicle state-of-the-art purification primary focus being on In Asia, the focus continues protection to the US army.
facilities in both America investment in and increased to be on the core carbon Significant investment was and South Korea, Morgan is use of low-cost high quality brush business.
We have made in manufacturing well placed to offer a global manufacturing sites, benefited in 2004 from capacity and product service to this market.
particularly in India, China organic growth in these development to meet the and Mexico.
These actions markets and from an large increase in demand The successful should contribute to increase in market share.
and to deal with the higher commissioning of further improvements in Double digit sales growth specifications required.
high-speed precision profitability in the future.
was achieved across the machining and purification In Europe, the industrial region the highest growth capability in South Korea Whilst maintaining a focus fluid handling market being in China.
Whilst the has facilitated a doubling on our current core markets, has been generally flat Australian market was flat, of sales to the ion we will continue to look for during 2004. profit improvement was implantation, optical fibre areas for profitable growth in achieved following the There has been good growth and LCD display markets.
new geographical markets integration of separate in the sales of bearings to These markets are expected and with complimentary manufacturing sites into a the domestic pump market.
to continue to grow in the product ranges.
All of this will new world class facility.
Long-term agreements are region, with Morgan well be supported by focused in place with a number of placed to take advantage investment in material and Mechanical Carbon major customers, positioning of this.
technological development Fluid handling sales the business to benefit from to ensure that our leading recovered in 2004 in line Morgans superabrasive further growth in this area.
position in our main markets with GDP growth following business has enjoyed is maintained.
another year of significant Demand from the growth due to technological commercial and military leadership.
This position and aerospace markets also 07 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Carbon
