Corporate responsibility: Morgan has a long-standing commitment to its social, environmental Compliance and ethical responsibilities, and the Board takes overall responsibility The Board and Executive Committee will monitor compliance with this for corporate responsibility policies and processes.
Mr W Knowlton statement of core values.
takes executive responsibility, supported by Mr G Rowlands, Director Human resources of Operations and Technology, who is the executive committee member responsible for the Groups Environmental and Health Morgans employment policies insist on full compliance with UN and Safety matters.
guidance on human rights and minimum working age, and ensure equal opportunity and diversity amongst employees, regardless of sex, Core values statement race, religion, culture, creed, age or disability.
In 2004 the Board approved the Morgan core values statement, as set The continuing restructuring during 2004 meant that, as in 2003, out below.
It was published on the website, www.
com the main priority was to ensure that the closure, disposal and and communicated to employees via Morgans in-house magazine reorganisation procedures were properly implemented so that Morgan 360.
It is also being reproduced in poster form and translated employees affected were treated fairly and with dignity.
into the appropriate languages for display in Morgan facilities worldwide.
Global business leaders will introduce monitoring HR management and procedures were further strengthened to help arrangements to assess progress on local practices.
ensure that best practice is adopted across the Group.
In addition to an annual global HR conference, regional HR councils have been set One company common culture up in Europe and the US, and it is planned to extend these to other We are committed to acting with integrity when dealing with our regions in 2005.
New HR appointments have been made, for instance customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers and the wider in China, and during 2005 the HR processes in the Chinese operations community, so that we continue to maintain the trust and confidence will be reviewed.
of those with whom we deal.
We aim to be vigilant and proactive in respect of environmental and health and safety matters.
Our common The European Employee Forum, established in 1996, continues to be a culture is critical to the continued growth and development of Morgan.
powerful forum for communication and for 2005 will include the new members of the EU.
Customers who are satisfied and appreciate great service We aim to provide products and services of the highest technical Training and development has also continued at operational level, standards, appropriate to our customers own requirements.
It involves organised by the General Business Units, and by the central staying close to customers and building effective relationships that HR function.
will allow needs to be identified early and to be quickly satisfied.
Environmental and Health and Safety matters It is about taking pride in our work, products and company and being accountable for our actions.
The key features of the Groups EHS policy, which applies to the whole Group are to: Employees who work with pride and enthusiasm because they are valued comply with EHS legislation, regulations and other applicable Our employment policies are designed to ensure equal opportunity requirements: and diversity irrespective of sex, race, religion, culture, creed, age minimise the environmental impact of historic, current and or disability.
future operations: We encourage employees to develop their skills through training conduct operations in such a manner as to avoid unacceptable risk programmes and we keep them informed through local and to human health and safety: Company wide communication initiatives.
We aim to develop people through trusting them with freedom to act and responsibility.
supply products that will not present unacceptable risk to human health and safety when used in compliance with product safety We require all employees to act in an ethical manner both within the communications and common safety practices: Company and in dealings with other organisations and to comply with all applicable laws.
establish measurement tools for and continuously monitor EHS performance: and Investors who expect us to deliver superior returns We seek to deliver long-term sustainable shareholder value through set objectives for the continuous improvement of EHS performance.
the responsible management of Morgans assets, both tangible A key part of Morgans management processes is the programme of and intangible.
We will provide timely and accurate information to EHS compliance audits.
Twenty-four sites were audited during the year, shareholders on our activities and performance.
All our business using external auditors in Europe and Asia and in-house resources in transactions will be fairly and accurately reflected in our accounts and North America.
These audits, and the associated corrective action our accounting records will reflect and describe the nature of the plans, have been supplemented by specific environmental underlying transactions in accordance with established procedures.
assessments associated with the Group restructuring projects.
Suppliers and business partners who work with us through The Group is publishing its first EHS report, covering 2004, and including mutual understanding further details of the Groups EHS policies, management processes, We commit to work with our suppliers and partners in mutually targets, key environmental impacts and health and safety beneficial ways, and to require that, so far as is practicable, our performance.
This will be available on the Groups website in suppliers through the supply chain and our joint venture partners and April 2005. contractors, act in accordance with our values.
Group EHS targets include: Environmental, health and safety matters which are a major priority We are committed to environmental sustainability in our product a.
To extend compliance with ISO14001, or equivalent environmental development programmes and strive to minimise the impact of our management systems, to 50% of the Groups manufacturing operations on the environment.
We are also committed to ensuring capacity by the end of 2005. that the working environment is safe and that all individuals take b.
To maintain reporting by the Groups manufacturing facilities of CO 2 responsibility for achieving this.
To this end we will measure, appraise emissions, water usage and waste, to enable collective and and report our performance.
individual site improvement targets to be set.
The wider community in which we are active c. To achieve a 20% reduction of the specific CO emissions, water 2 We strive to work with the communities where we have operations, to use and waste i. e. per unit value of sales by the end of 2005, be sensitive to local issues and to be aware of wider community and compared to 2003. governmental issues.
d. To further develop the reporting by the Groups manufacturing facilities of health and safety data and key performance indicators.
23 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Corporate responsibility
