CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Making a real contribution to peoples lives WE PROVIDE TRANSPORT SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS.
BY THE VERY NATURE OF WHAT WE DO, WE ARE ADDING TO THE QUALITY OF LIFE OF THE COMMUNITIES WE SERVE BY PROVIDING MOBILITY AND DELIVERING SOCIAL, ECONOMIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS.
During 2004 we continued to offer division we focused on reducing the facilities.
This year we were selected to transport services which are integral to the number of signals passed at danger participate in the Governments Carbon communities which we serve.
We were pleased that a 10% Trust carbon management programme to improvement in SPADs was achieved review how a change in government policy Our 2004 Corporate Responsibility Report, during the period.
in carbon trading could impact on our which is published alongside our Annual operations.
Details of this review are Report and Accounts, explains our progress Within our operations we are focused on available within our CR Report.
on the social, ethical, environmental, improving the quality of our services.
employee and community challenges that Through extensive customer research we Our people are the face of our operations.
We are pleased that our are aware of the key customer satisfaction Over 85% of our employees are drivers or CR 2004 has been reviewed and appraised drivers and are developing propositions customer facing employees.
They are close to by one of the transport industrys leading which meet those requirements.
We know our customers and aware of the non-government agencies, Transport 2000, that punctuality and reliability of services, opportunities and challenges within our details of which can be found on the regardless of mode, are paramount.
We recognise that we need to Groups website a significant focus on this area across our invest in our people.
We believe through employees is undertaken primarily at a local investment in our services we can develop level however the Group continues to During the year we extended our reporting our operations for the future and improve monitor employee morale on a regular basis.
across our UK businesses and for the first the attractiveness of public transport.
time have included our North American As part of our involvement with operations in the report.
On the back of the Disability Discrimination communities, all our operations engage with Act we continue to incorporate many DDA local stakeholders and provide support We believe that corporate responsibility compliant features into our facilities and where practical.
This can include financial reporting is about what we do and how we work closely with suppliers to achieve this.
donations, support in kind, transport do it.
Through our operations and constant services or simply additional resources.
dialogue with our stakeholders we are able At the end of 2003, we set ourselves some to develop our business.
challenging environmental targets and were pleased we achieved most of them.
During 2004 we continued to improve the Specifically we saw a 6% reduction in quality of our safety data.
In our trains energy consumption at depots and large 25 25
