Corporate Social Responsibility Statement NEXT recognises the importance of social, environmental and ethical matters.
NEXT is committed to corporate social responsibility CSR at Board level and throughout the NEXT Group.
The Group has taken actions to contribute to ethical trade and, within commercial constraints, sustainable development.
The Board has identified and assessed the key business risks, issues and opportunities arising from these matters.
An executive director is responsible for CSR and considers all aspects of the Groups conduct in this respect.
The Groups policy addresses the safety and ethical responsibilities of suppliers and the diversity of its own workforce.
The Group's efforts to improve sustainable development will continue to focus on waste stream management.
NEXT Retail has taken further steps to reduce waste at its stores and in particular has installed balers in most new stores.
Recycling procedures are being rolled out and are now operating in more than half of its stores.
During the year to January 2003 the Groups warehouses sent over 2,500 tonnes of waste for recycling that would otherwise have gone into landfill sites.
The Group will continue to pursue these objectives where commercially practicable.
NEXT Brand introduced a supplier Code of Practice in 1998 in respect of working conditions, including minimum compliance standards for labour, wages, environmental protection and other issues.
A team of auditors, based in the UK and overseas, work exclusively to monitor, inform and improve supplier compliance to the Code of Practice.
In 2002 the Group became a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative in addition to its commitment to its own Code of Practice.
People are a key asset to the business.
The Group is an equal opportunities employer and will continue to ensure it offers career opportunities without discrimination.
The Group has developed policies for recruitment, training and development of personnel which are contained in comprehensive staff handbooks.
The business is committed to achieving excellence in the areas of health, safety, welfare, fire prevention and protection of the working environment.
It has adopted policies aimed at minimising risk in the Groups activities to ensure that they do not harm employees, customers or the general public, all of whose interests are regarded as critical to business success.
The Group continues to invest in improving the health, safety and well-being of its employees and customers.
The health and safety policy has been reviewed by the Board and was reissued in November 2003 with increased emphasis on training and formal communication between staff and management.
Additional resources have been devoted to the promotion of health and safety matters during the year.
The directors consider that the Board has complied with the five action points set out in the Health and Safety Commissions guidance document Directors Responsibilities for Health and Safety published in July 2001.
The Group has a well established corporate charity and sponsorship programme donating funds, time and resources to numerous local and national charities.
A committee made up of employee representatives meets regularly to ensure that a diverse range of charitable causes are supported.
During the year NEXT commissioned its first CSR report from an independent third party, covering the year to January 2003.
It is intended to repeat this process for the year to January 2004 and make the resulting report publicly available through the Companys website.
