259 7408 MF Paladin AR TP 7 4 05 5:45 pm Page 29 Social Responsibility Statement The Company supports the growing awareness of social, environmental and ethical matters when considering business practices.
This statement provides an outline of the policies in place that guide the Company and its employees when dealing with social, environmental and ethical matters in the workplace.
Code of Conduct The Company maintains and requires the highest ethical standards in carrying out its business activities and has specific guidelines for dealing with gifts, hospitality, corruption, fraud, the use of inside information and whistle-blowing.
Equal Opportunity and Diversity The Company promotes and supports the rights and opportunities of all people to seek, obtain and hold employment without discrimination.
It is our policy to make every effort to provide a working environment free from bullying, harassment, intimidation and discrimination on the basis of disability, nationality, race, sex, sexual orientation, religion or belief.
Employee Welfare The Company aims to assist employees at all levels to improve their professional abilities and to develop their skills.
This may take the form of on-the-job coaching, counselling and attendance at external courses or seminars.
The Company also offers sponsorship to staff for the attainment of a professional or other recognised qualification, such as an MBA.
Manpower and succession planning exists at corporate level to forecast the quantity and type of employee resources that will be required in the future.
Individual career progression activities are developed with this in mind.
Annual appraisals give employees the opportunity to consider past performance and to discuss their goals and aspirations for the short and medium-term.
All employees are eligible to participate in the Companys medical insurance scheme, and there is an optional annual healthscreening paid for by the Company.
The Company also provides subsidised corporate membership of a gym for interested employees.
Our share option schemes encourage employees to take an active stake in the success of the Company.
All employees receive an annual share option award, while the participation level under the SAYE Scheme is around 95%.
Staff security is an area of major importance.
Since the increase in terrorist activity worldwide, we carry out regular security reviews of those areas in which our staff work and travel and make special security provisions for staff in areas perceived to have a high security risk.
Charitable Donations Annually, the Company makes donations to charities nominated by its employees.
The Company does not make donations to political parties or organisations.
Joint Venture Partners, Contractors and Suppliers The Company is committed to being honest and fair in all its dealings with its partners, contractors and suppliers.
The terms of business used by the Company aim to provide clarity and protection, and to ensure the delivery and receipt of products and services at agreed standards.
The Company also closely guards information entrusted to it by its joint venture partners, contractors and suppliers, and seeks to ensure that it is never used improperly.
Operating Responsibly and Continuous Improvement The Company is committed to a proactive Quality Policy for which the Chief Executive holds ultimate responsibility.
The key objectives are to ensure that stakeholders are satisfied with the Companys results and the way in which the business operates and to promote continuous improvement in the overall operation of the Company.
In pursuit of these objectives, the Company will use recognised standards and models as benchmarks for its management system.
Environmental Policy The Company has an environmental policy, details of which can be found under the HSE Policy and Statement on pages 11 and 12.
Implementation of this policy is through the Companys HSE Management System, which is reviewed regularly and operates on a principle of continuous improvement.
Environmental risks are reviewed and addressed within the Companys risk register.
Our environmental management procedures also include the recycling of paper waste and IT equipment and the use of energy-saving office equipment, such as the Companys information management system.
All of the above policies are reviewed regularly to take account of changes in circumstances or the law.
Sally C Powell Company Secretary Paladin Resources plc Annual report and accounts 2004 29
