Corporate social responsibility The company is a member of the FTSE4GOOD Index, for the second year.
This index is designed to measure the performance of companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards and to facilitate investment in those companies.
Our people In October 2003 we employed 6,887 people.
By 30 September 2004, the total number of employees had reduced to 6,050, based at over 100 locations nationwide, as a result of business rationalisation and the achievement of synergy benefits.
During the 2004 05 financial year the closures of our Ruislip and Newcastle upon Tyne dairies will lead to a further reduction of approximately 440 employees.
We are providing on-site job shop facilities, staffed by independent professional counsellors, to help those people affected find suitable employment, both within and outside the business.
We are committed to the development of people throughout the business and believe that all employees should have the opportunity to share in the companys success.
In April 2004, we introduced a Share We act responsibly in all our Incentive Plan in which the company matches every share bought by an employee with a partnership share.
The plan is open to all employees corporate and commercial activities and more than 1,300 from all parts of the business are participating.
and are mindful of their impact We are also encouraging employees to Take the Lead through the on the surrounding community.
These are designed to deliver business growth and help to realise Arlas vision and strategy.
The values were launched Our corporate social responsibility in early November together with the strategy and vision for the merged business.
A comprehensive programme of training has been established policy has the full support of the to support the management team in integrating the values in all parts of the company.
board, which is regularly updated on progress.
In addition, training programmes are under way throughout the company to provide employees with the technical and professional skills they require to contribute fully in their roles.
A number of senior managers from across the business have completed an intensive leadership development programme.
Our employment policies are designed to attract, retain and motivate everyone in all parts of the business.
Following the merger, a new employee policy review team was established with the aim of developing integrated policies to meet the requirements of the business.
Progress to date has been very good, with policies already successfully implemented.
We believe that the development of flexible employment practices, in advance of statutory requirements, will improve staff motivation, promote a better work-life balance and improve individual performance and productivity.
The integration plan has included new policies to promote flexible working, offer job share opportunities, encourage the recognition of the balance between family and work responsibilities and provide a framework for the achievement of further academic qualifications.
We are committed to flexibility and a system of annualised hours operates successfully in a number of dairies allowing the company to work in line with processing requirements.
We are currently determining whether this can be extended to other areas of the business.
18 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Investing in our people Supporting our local communities We are encouraging employees to Take Leicestershire County Cricket Club, the Lead through the companys new sponsored by Cravendale, was awarded values.
These are designed to deliver a 50,000 grant from Sportsmatch business growth and help to realise to develop a three-year community Arlas vision and strategy.
We currently programme in local schools.
The grass employ 6,050 people nationwide.
roots programme builds links with the local community and promotes awareness of the benefits of exercise and healthy living.
We believe that all employees should enjoy a good work-life balance three-year community programme in local schools.
This grass roots and see the working time regulations as a positive step to support this.
programme builds links with the local community and promotes We are working closely with the trade unions to agree guidelines to awareness of the benefits of exercise and healthy living, whilst meeting ensure compliance within the framework of our needs, and provide National Curriculum requirements.
In addition, Cravendales support to the local community continues with We enjoy positive employee relations with the trade unions for the a two-year sponsorship of the Leeds Rhinos Rugby Club mascot, Ronnie mutual benefit of both our employees and the company, and have the Rhino.
The sponsorship involves the mascot visiting schools in the recognition agreements with four TGWU, AMICUS, USDAW and GMB.
local community on a weekly basis, talking to children about health and nutrition.
Competitive terms and conditions of employment are maintained and we strive to be an employer of choice with a committed and Our work environment loyal workforce.
The work environment plays an important role in our corporate social responsibility programme and is a reflection of the interaction between Our community our business practices, our people, the community and the environment.
We strongly believe in supporting the communities in which we operate We have adopted a holistic approach to this.
and actively support local charities and community groups in the areas surrounding our sites.
Our aim is to achieve transparent integration of occupational health, safety and environmental best practice to promote well-being and The Right to Read scheme is an example of the company encouraging improve business performance.
employees to work in the local community.
Employees are participating in the Leicestershire Education Business Company facilitated scheme, which Our third environmental statement will be published in January 2005. recruits local volunteers to support children in primary schools with their reading development.
Product waste reduction is an essential element of our work environment strategy and the companys waste levels are better than government best We have pledged funding to help send underprivileged youngsters in the practice guidelines.
In four years we have reduced energy consumption by Leeds area on outdoor training schemes to develop their team-working 28 per cent and carbon dioxide emissions by 30 per cent.
and social skills in conjunction with the Patrons Company.
Next year, the company will become involved in the Charity Challenge in order to By further reducing our waste we will increase the effectiveness of our engage other areas of the business with their local communities.
operations, improve occupational health and safety performance, and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases.
We donated more than 9,000 litres of longlife milk to the worlds largest charity hospital ship, which sailed from Scotland to provide surgery, dental We continue to improve the utilisation of water and have reduced our care, agricultural assistance and much more to help victims of the civil consumption by a further four per cent since 2002 2003. war in Liberia, West Africa.
Standards for occupational health and safety have been harmonised Following Cravendales sponsorship of Leicestershire County Cricket Club, across the company and the number of accidents at our processing the club was awarded a 50,000 grant from Sportsmatch to develop a sites has fallen by 14 per cent over the past year.
19 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
