OPERATING REVIEW MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION DIVISION CONTINUED In the UK, Farnell InOne launched its 2003 Our infrastructure will be further strengthened Case study 4 catalogue in May with 40,000 new products.
as BuckHickman InOne completes its migration The seven-book catalogue and CD includes onto the same transactional system as Farnell the full range of 150,000 stocked products InOne, facilitating the offer of our full range of BuckHickman InOne has delivered an from Farnell InOne and BuckHickman InOne, products and services to our customer base, advanced eProcurement solution to Johnson the broadest offer in our market in the UK.
increasing process efficiencies and improving Matthey, the global manufacturer of catalysts, productivity.
See case study 6 speciality chemicals and precious metal We will continue to add new products to our products, which has reduced the cost of ranges to strengthen our competitive Strengthening our supplier relationships administering the purchase of often low value proposition and will be seeking opportunities Almost everything we do to enhance our items from an estimated 25 per order to to make more of our existing product range customer proposition from improving our 5 per order.
available to increased numbers of our range, to achieving more focussed customer customer base.
relationships makes us a more attractive Johnson Matthey has been provided with partner for our suppliers.
two online BuckHickman InOne catalogues We have expanded our presence in China in a one with the 2,500 most popular products controlled and effective way with the opening of Our Newark InOne Direct Ship service opens and a second with the wider product list a distribution centre and sales office in one of up the European market for the first time for that include technical information and the Free Trade Zones in Shanghai.
Enhanced web site capabilities product photographs.
enable suppliers to launch their products The decision to operate within a Free Trade rapidly and globally via our businesses.
On-line computer order points on the factory Zone has been driven by the significant benefit floor are used for purchasing.
The value of our proposition to suppliers and of reduced import procedures which will enable faster and more efficient delivery of product to the benefits of developing long-term Not only have we reduced the resources relationships with them have been evident our customers.
This is a crucial milestone in our involved in buying items which often have expansion into China, strengthening our market this year.
a low cost, we also have access to far position and increasing our global reach.
This EPCOS UK named Farnell InOne its Distributor information helps stock control and, by Our business in China is branded of the Year 2003 after twelve months in which eliminating the paper trail, enables buyers Farnell-Newark InOne to capitalise on the our sales of EPCOS products recorded growth for each business unit to focus more time reputation of both Newark InOne and of 27%.
Tyco Electronics made Farnell InOne on core business activities where they Farnell InOne with multi-national customers its Distributor of the Year UK and Ireland for add maximum value.
See case study 5 the second time as a result of the successful working relationship the two companies have Howard Jarman Driving increased efficiency shared for over 15 years.
See case study 7 Senior Buyer During the year, new publishing systems were Johnson Matthey.
implemented at Farnell InOne, Newark InOne Investing in our people and CPC.
Together with the creation of We are a service business and as such we Case study 5 comprehensive product databases designed to deliver the customer experience through many support the Groups eCommerce activities, thousands of daily contacts between customers these new systems are reducing production and our employees.
Agilent gets very strong support from times and eliminating design duplication during Farnell-Newark InOne Shanghai and with An important milestone in growing the talent of the production of catalogues and direct mail the establishment of a warehouse in the flyers.
Each business now has increased our organisation has been the development of Free Trade Zone, which is just a few a set of core values which are the guidelines flexibility to respond to more dynamic markets steps from us, delivery is even easier and and produce targeted promotions.
and points of reference for the behaviour which faster, opening up the possibility of will deliver the customer experience and drive implementing a VMI solution.
At Newark InOnes Gaffney Distribution Centre, business performance.
an additional 32,000 square feet of usable Lynn Xu, We have embarked on a process of embedding mezzanine space was added to accommodate Supply Manager new products.
This completes a four-year our core values developed from research Agilent Technologies carried out with customers, suppliers and programme of rationalisation and investment in Shanghai our distribution centre facilities in the Americas.
employees into the fabric of our organisation.
We have started to engage our employees at all The benefits of investment in Radio Data Terminals are being realised at CPCs Preston levels of the organisation in exploring and understanding these values, communicating our distribution centre.
The new system creates order picking lists in the most efficient sequence strategy and direction, and how these values can apply to enhance our customers experience.
to reduce walking time in the large warehouse.
At the Lige distribution centre, the Conveyor and Radio Frequency picking system went live in October 2003 after an extended period of testing.
This location now services all the larger mainland European markets.
16 PREMIER FARNELL PLC OPERATING REVIEW MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION DIVISION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED Looking ahead Case study 6 Over the next year, we will continue to strengthen our core business and build our capabilities.
We will drive hard to improve our productivity, CPC has helped its order pickers become particularly by exploiting the opportunities more efficient by equipping them with Radio provided by our customer relationship Data Terminals RDTs.
management systems and eCommerce to satisfy our customers requirements and deliver a As orders are received at CPCs Preston customer experience demonstrably better than Distribution Centre, new software now creates they can get elsewhere.
picking lists in the most efficient sequence.
Each product selected is scanned by the order We will continue to seek appropriate picker using the RDT which confirms accuracy acquisitions that have the potential to add to before it is put into the despatch container.
our capability in selected geographies, product areas or specific market segments and meet Without this investment and the addition of a our stringent criteria.
new conveyor belt, CPC would have found it difficult to handle the large number of additions Our primary objective remains the continued it has made to its range.
Order throughput transformation of our business into a world capacity has increased to provide a better leading marketing and distribution business.
We have made good progress and will achieve our goal through the sharing and adoption of It makes the job of order picking better best practice, the quality of our people and the organised.
Before, we found we were use of the best information technology to focus retracing our steps and going back to the on the needs of individual customers and same location several times when suppliers.
By exploiting our skills and strengths hand-picking multiple orders.
to outperform the competition and build loyalty Now the RDT system sends us round the and commitment from our suppliers, customers and employees, we aim to deliver superior warehouse to pick items in the most efficient order so we dont waste growth and profitability.
Beth Fidler Warehouse Picker CPC Case study 7 We have worked with Farnell InOne for over a decade and always received enthusiastic support when launching new product lines into the market.
Farnell InOnes active marketing campaigns ensure that products are readily accepted by customers while its product and supply chain team work constantly to enhance our relationship and sales.
The results have been clearly demonstrated through fantastic sales growth this year.
Keith Rogers Distribution Manager EPCOS UK MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION DIVISION OPERATING REVIEW PREMIER FARNELL PLC 17 CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 OPERATING REVIEW INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS DIVISION AKRON BRASS A WORLD-LEADER IN THE DESIGN AND MANUFACTURE OF FIRE-FIGHTING SYSTEMS, BASED IN OHIO, USA.
CUSTOMERS INCLUDE FIRE DEPARTMENTS, FIRE-TRUCK MANUFACTURERS AND INDUSTRY WORLDWIDE.
TPC WIRE & CABLE A DISTRIBUTOR OF HIGH-PERFORMANCE ELECTRICAL CABLE AND CONNECTOR ASSEMBLIES FOR USE IN HOSTILE OR HEAVY-DUTY INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENTS.
CUSTOMERS INCLUDE THE METAL, AUTOMOTIVE AND CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRIES IN NORTH AMERICA.
KENT A PAN-EUROPEAN DISTRIBUTOR OF HIGH-PERFORMANCE OWN-BRAND CONSUMABLES INCLUDING TOOLS, ADHESIVES AND CHEMICALS FOR THE AUTOMOTIVE SERVICING AND CRASH-REPAIR MARKETS.
SALES 96.4M GROWTH 5.6% OPERATING PROFIT 13.7M 18 PREMIER FARNELL PLC OPERATING REVIEW INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS DIVISION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED OPERATING REVIEW INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS DIVISION Akron Brass With continued reduction in spending in the maximise the opportunity it faces in niche The US market leader in the manufacture and US automotive and steel industries, market market segments and the building of its sale of high performance fire-fighting equipment conditions have been difficult throughout technical proposition.
for fire-truck manufacturers, public fire services the year.
and industrial facilities, Akron Brass sells via its This year has seen the implementation of new TPC has focussed on developing new performance management and assessment own field sales force and distributors to customers all over the world.
customers in the offshore drilling and mining, processes which have assisted in the food and tyre manufacturing industries and, recruitment of new salespeople, improved staff Despite the downturn in North American through sharing expertise and experience with retention rates and increased sales productivity.
fire-truck production, Akron grew its business by Newark InOne, in Government sales.
The introduction of a new range of windscreen 8 per cent compared to last year with particularly Operations have been expanded with the strong industrial and international sales.
addition of a warehouse and sales presence in tools and a strategic partnership with market leader, Equalizer, has enabled KENT to enjoy Mexico.
New product sales accounted for Akrons strategic focus is to increase market 20 per cent of total revenue in the year.
significant growth in the windscreen segment.
penetration and develop new products.
New distribution deals have been completed in With over 200 pages, a catalogue launched in Progress has been made during the year with August 2003 contains the entire TPC product the automotive sector and progress has been the introduction of new products.
For example, made into new target market segments with line and a new Technical Data Section.
Wellthe in-house designed Mercury Quick Attack organised, with comprehensive information the first sales from a major marine customer monitor is light and stable and delivers a higher in Croatia.
resources, it highlights TPCs many product flow of water than competitive products.
It is choices and value added services.
quick to set up and can be left unmanned at The focus for this year will continue to be on the fire scene to free up valuable personnel.
The focus for the coming year continues to be on improving the training and development of the Exceeding initial targets, the product has sold new markets.
TPC has been awarded a General KENT sales force, sustaining KENTs well both in North America and internationally.
Services Administration GSA Contract under automotive sector positioning through new the Federal Supply Schedule to provide all product introductions and key accounts and Akron has increased its exports into Asia and, Federal, State and Local Government facilities the trialling of the product and service offering in particular, Malaysia where it has secured with access to the entire TPC product range.
for the marine market in a number of other business with three new fire-truck Systems are currently being put in place which European countries.
Progress in the industrial market will enable the business to market effectively to all has been marked by the sale of a vapour government facilities and contractors.
mitigation system to Exxon Mobil Corporation for their Joliet, Illinois facility.
This is one of If I need to install electrical cable in a Akrons range of remote control systems dangerous maintenance area, that I dont designed to deliver a quicker, hard-hitting want to go back into again, then I always response to industrial fires and vapour releases.
I know that it will permanently solve the problem Shortly after the year-end, Akron expanded its product range through the acquisition of Ike Graham the business of GFE Manufacturing, an Letourneau Co. Inc. Illinois-based supplier of lighting systems and LeTourneau, Inc. is a leading provider of large water flow test equipment for the fire-fighting industry, with annual sales of approximately mobile equipment for Forestry, Marine and Mining markets worldwide and also supplies $4.0 million.
drilling products for the oil and gas industry.
Akron will continue to focus on penetrating KENT existing markets with new products and expanding the newly acquired product offerings.
Operating through an extensive network of field sales personnel, KENT is a pan-European TPC Wire & Cable distributor of high-performance own-brand Based in the USA, a broad line supplier of highrepair and maintenance products for the performance electrical and electronic cord, transport industry.
KENTs position in the cable and accessories for the industrial market, supply of high-performance, own-brand TPC Wire & Cable has an established consumables, tools, adhesives and chemicals reputation for product innovation, quality and to the automotive servicing and crash-repair superior customer service.
This has been built markets is well established.
Newer target on a strong foundation of application and markets within the transport industry include technical expertise, proven product marine and specialist industrial markets.
performance and unique value-added services.
Market conditions have continued to be The benefits TPC delivers to its customers are depressed in KENTs principal markets but new measured in the reduction of production customer opportunities are being identified and downtime and lower overall maintenance costs.
tightening Health and Safety legislation creates A field based sales force and technical support an opportunity for KENTs range of more team work together with customers in environmentally friendly products.
purchasing, maintenance, engineering, material KENTs strategic focus is on developing the control and management to help reduce costs through long term improved performance.
strength of its organisation through the recruitment and training of its people in order to INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS DIVISION OPERATING REVIEW PREMIER FARNELL PLC 19 CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OVERVIEW HEALTH AND SAFETY PREMIER FARNELLS ACCIDENT RATE MORE THAN 50 PER CENT LOWER THAN THE INDUSTRY AVERAGE.
ENVIRONMENT ISO 14001 ACCREDITATION ACHIEVED FOR A MAJOR DISTRIBUTION CENTRE FOR THE SECOND YEAR RUNNING.
COMMUNITY EMPLOYEES ENCOURAGED TO GIVE TIME TO GOOD CAUSES.
20 PREMIER FARNELL PLC SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Fig.
1 Occupational injury and illness rate per 100,000 hours worked This is the third year for which we have prepared a social responsibility report and every year we continue to find that its preparation and issue helps raise awareness of relevant issues within the Group.
In preparing 0.00 0.50 1.00 1.50 2.00 2.50 this report we have, wherever practical, followed the guidelines suggested by the UK Government through the Department for 2.08 1998 Transport, Local Government and the Regions DTLR.
1.14 Health and Safety 1.80 1999 Our health and safety commitment remains the simple one of minimising 0.72 accidents and injuries in the workplace.
Our occupational injury rate in 1.74 2003 was 0.70 injuries 100,000 hours worked.
Although slightly above 2000 0.65 our target of 0.60 for the year, this rate is more than 50 per cent lower than the average for our industry see figure 1.
Our occupational injury 1.59 rate also remains very low when compared to rates for other industries 2001 0.63 see figure 2.
1.67 2002 Our injury rate has risen slightly from a low of 0.63 100,000 hours 0.70 worked in 2001.
This increase is largely attributable to increased awareness, and therefore reporting, of safety issues at BuckHickman 1.76 2003 InOne, following its acquisition in 2001.
0.70 Industry Average While we will continue to strive for improvement in the absolute rate, Premier Farnell our immediate aim will be to continue to keep our injury rate at less than 50 per cent of our industry average.
Shown are the rates at which accidents which involve more than basic first aid Business segment safety risks and actions routinely taken to treatment and occupational illnesses occurred per 100,000 hours worked.
The industry average figures were computed by taking the averages for the industry prevent and minimise injuries segments in which Premier Farnell operates.
Source of industry segment averages: The Groups principal business activity is the distribution of electronic US Occupational Health and Safety Administration, Bureau of Labor Statistics.
components and other maintenance, repair and operations products.
The 2002 reported Premier Farnell injury rate was 0.68.
We subsequently determined Distribution activities with potential for injury include manual handling, two additional injuries warranted reporting and have amended our 2002 rate.
For the past two years we have reported our occupational injury rate 100,000 hours movement of goods, lifting of products and opening of boxes.
This year we have extended the report to cover occupational injuries and illnesses 100,000 hours.
The acquisition of Buck & Hickman Limited in 2001 brought with it a number of vehicles used for the transport of the Groups products and this transport fleet has the usual associated risks, principally from road traffic accidents.
We provide targeted safety training to affected employees in an effort to prevent and reduce injuries in areas such as safe lifting, first aid CPR infection control, emergency evacuation, spill cleanup, fire extinguisher, forklift operation, confined space entry, electrical isolation, and the use of personal protective equipment.
Our major distribution and manufacturing facilities are required to conduct regular health and safety audits and to address quickly any safety concerns that are identified.
Our goal is to address safety concerns before accidents occur.
Each facility now has an active Health and Safety Committee.
These committees meet regularly and review accident near misses in order to assess what lessons can be learned.
In order to ensure compliance with the large number of safety regulations in the US, we require facilities located there to prepare and follow annual safety compliance calendars listing the safety compliance and employee training actions that the facility must take during the year.
A large proportion of the Groups employees are office-based and training is provided in the correct use of display screens and workstations.
PREMIER FARNELL HAS BEEN A MEMBER OF THE FTSE4 GOOD INDEX SINCE JULY 2001 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PREMIER FARNELL PLC 21 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
