32 Premier Foods plc Corporate social responsibility As one of the largest ambient food producers in the UK, All sites operate waste reduction programmes which the Company is committed to managing its business in meet fully their obligations under the Packaging Waste a socially responsible manner.
It believes strongly that to Regulations.
The Companys integrated approach is grow and be profitable it must work actively to develop to reduce the volume of packaging not only in its operations sustainable relationships with its various stakeholders but also through the cooperation of its regular suppliers.
comprising employees, shareholders, suppliers, customers Procedures are in place to formalise the environmental and the wider communities in which it operates.
During the impact evaluation of any new packaging designs and year progress has been made in many areas of corporate materials under Environmental Management System responsibility although it is recognised that there are still and the Packaging Essential Requirements Regulations.
significant business drivers such Recent focus on waste stream segregation at the point as cost savings, particularly in energy which is a significant of disposal has achieved signicantly greater recovery of operational cost, encourage good environmental performance.
Substantial effort is currently being directed at reducing reliance on landll with one site having Safety, Health and the Environment SHE already reduced its landll requirement by over 80%.
The Board has overall responsibility for the safe, healthy The Company has recorded and collated centrally all and environmentally sound management of the Companys waste streams over several years.
It recognises the importance of achieving the being brought into line with IPPC regulations.
highest standards of health and safety in the interests of In recent years the Company has placed significant employees, contractors and others who may be affected emphasis on reducing the sulphur content of its boiler by the operations under its control.
We operate a mix of boiler plants, those with by the appointment of Ian Croxford, Operations Director duel ring of gas and oil now burn gas as the first choice as Health & Safety champion and the promotion of SHE fuel and low sulphur oil as back-up.
Regular combustion as one of the Companys core business values.
checks optimise burner efficiency and minimise the emission The Company has developed a SHE management system of harmful gases.
On the larger coal red sites, investment that sets out policies, standards and procedures through has been made to improve energy efficiency with variable which it will systematically manage the health and safety speed drives on both cooling fans and fuel feed screws of its employees and others whilst also protecting the along with Reverse Osmosis boiler feed treatment.
According to published data, the Company A 20% reduction in sulphur dioxide output has been now achieves a signicantly lower level of lost time achieved by switching to ultra low sulphur coal for the last accidents exceeding three days.
Reporting of Injuries, three years.
Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations than The larger sites within the Group are certied to the its industrial peers.
international environmental management systems standard Regular safety reviews are undertaken both internally and by ISO14001 or have planned certication within the next year.
external advisors, as a result of which action programmes ISO14001 includes the requirement that environmental are developed and followed up.
impacts are identied and that there are ongoing programmes for improvement across key impact areas.
The Company ensures that contractors also comply with H&S regulations and obliges them to ensure that their Product stewardship employees are provided with safe working environmental In September 2004 the Food and Drink Federation FDF and safety equipment.
published its Food and Drink Manifesto outlining the UK The Company aims to reduce the impact of its activities on Food and Drink manufacturing industrys commitment to the environment wherever feasible.
It has signed up to the work constructively with consumers, government and others Climate Change Levy Agreement and invested over 5m in to help nd solutions to the issues surrounding obesity and a range of energy efficiency projects across all of its sites.
the food and health debate generally.
The Manifesto covers Other initiatives, including wind generation and CHP plants, more informative labelling, sodium, fat and sugar reduction are currently under review.
in products, portion sizes, vending, advertising to children, healthy lifestyle and public education.
Premier Foods not only endorsed this Manifesto but also provided numerous examples of good practice that were published alongside it.
Independent nutritionists work alongside the Companys own management to identify and implement nutritional and health improvements that can be made across our product portfolio.
33 Premier Foods plc Corporate social responsibility The Company has a long history of working with the Labour rights growers and merchants who supply the quality raw materials The Company has been active in ethical supply chain work used by its businesses.
It recognises its responsibility since 1992. to produce safe, legal and wholesome food products.
The control of pesticide, herbicide and fungicide usage The Companys aim is to ensure the application of universal is achieved through governance of an integrated crop labour standards in its supply chain and to seek to management policy.
The Premier Foods Policy on accomplish these aims by working with suppliers in order to Agrochemicals outlines the practices and procedures taken achieve progressive and sustainable compliance to universal in exercising our duty of care to protect the consumer.
This policy is subject to annual review and can be viewed All ethical work is managed through the Ethical Assurance on the Companys website, www.
Programme EAP involving a cross-departmental team Employees from buying, technical and personnel.
Standards within the supply chain are assessed and monitored through the EAP The Company is an equal opportunity employer where with the objective of assisting suppliers to resolve issues.
recruitment and career progression are not inuenced by race or ethnic origin, religion, sex or marital status.
The Companys strategy is for each area of the business to approach ethical monitoring in a way which best suits In order to promote career development the Company the strengths and weaknesses for those supply chains.
provides its employees with access to relevant training Where possible we engage and work with multi-stakeholder schemes through in-house training and educational organisations and key stakeholders in pursuit of these aims.
assistance and encourages professional memberships.
The experience and track record of the tea division in As the Company grows we seek to develop our employees ethical work is maximised through the halo effect for through increasingly varied and innovative training and the rest of the Company, with lessons learned and various development schemes which are designed to ensure that approaches being absorbed into operations in other areas we have highly trained and motivated staff capable of of the business.
meeting the highest standards required by customers and investors.
Ethical Trading Initiative Premier Foods tea was one of the founding members As part of the Companys approach to equal opportunities, of Ethical Trading Initiative ETI in 1998.
The ETI is a applications from disabled persons are always fully tripartite organisation of companies, trade unions and considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant non-governmental organisations seeking to identify and concerned.
The training, career development and promotion promote good practice in the implementation of codes of of disabled persons is expected, as far as possible, to be labour practice.
identical with that of other employees.
In the event of an employee becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure As a result of the consolidation of the Premier businesses that employment within the Group continues and that in 2002, the Company as a whole became a full member appropriate training is arranged.
As a member of the ETI we report our progress towards our membership obligations and A number of employee consultation and communication submit ourselves to peer review through our annual report mechanisms are in place including: and other work undertaken to company, trade union and regular communication meetings with employees at all non-governmental organisation members.
levels of the organisation: Community intranet site: Working with communities specic consultation and involvement regarding major Company operations bring employment opportunities, both changes to business operations.
through direct employment and indirectly through supporting activities in the local and regional economies.
The Company By offering employees the chance to join a Savings Related has a policy of recruiting local people where possible.
Share Option Scheme we hope to encourage employees to invest in the Company and benefit from its future prosperity Future plans and growth.
significant improvements in SHE performance have been made in recent years.
However, the Company acknowledges that performance improvement is a continuing challenge.
In particular the Board is keen to ensure that its performance in the area of corporate responsibility is of a standard consistent with international benchmarks set by other leading food producing companies.
