Health, safety, environment and security summary It is Premiers policy to identify and manage all risks that its frequency worsen.
We therefore set our 2004 KPI as a combined operations may present to the health and safety of its employees single reporting parameter of significant injuries to capture better and of all personnel affected by, and involved in, its activities.
In 2004, there were five lost time Its policy is also to ensure the security of its personnel and assets and two restricted workday case injuries in just under five million and to strive for excellence in environmental performance.
man-hours worked throughout our global operations, resulting in a combined LTI RWDC frequency of 1.43 significant injuries The company fully complies with statutory requirements and per million man-hours worked.
This represents a 39 per cent ensures that its operations are carried out with minimal impact improvement from the 2003 LTI RWDC frequency and continues to stakeholders and the biodiversity of local areas.
the significant improvements achieved in safety performance over the last three years.
In 2003, Premier collated environmental Our management systems comprise a hierarchical structure of performance data for public reporting in the Premier Sustainability policies, procedures and guidelines to ensure that the corporate Report.
The report was compiled in accordance with the Global health, safety, environment and security policy is cascaded Reporting Initiative GRI.
In 2004, we continued this strategy and throughout the companys worldwide activities, that sufficient prepared full GRI environmental performance reports for each well resources are made available within the organisation to achieve and production asset.
This outstanding performance is noteworthy effective implementation, and that performance is monitored considering the challenging operations and difficult environments and regularly reviewed.
In 2004, Premiers global drilling function achieved certification to Security threats to our activities are continually assessed.
Security both ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001.
ISO 14001 is the international plans were reviewed for our offices and facilities.
Additionally, the standard for environmental management and OHSAS 18001 International Ship & Port facility Security code ISPS was fully is the international standard for health and safety management.
implemented and certified on the Anoa FPSO.
Following the Certification demonstrates that an accredited certifying body has preparation and introduction of a Safety Case for the Anoa field independently verified that Premiers drilling and HSE management facilities a verification scheme, to confirm performance of safety systems fully comply with the standard, following audits of the critical systems and equipment is now being implemented.
Project Criollo UK, Sinapa-2 Guinea Bissau and Chung Pakistan safety reviews and audits were also carried out on the West Lobe wells.
This is a major achievement by the drilling function and production platform project currently in the detailed design demonstrates that Premier meets the highest standards wherever phase.
Environmental Impact Assessments were carried out in we drill.
preparation for drilling and exploration activities in Guinea Bissau, the UK North Sea, Pakistan and India.
We are committed to continuous improvement in the management of operational risks and to open reporting of our performance.
We benchmark our performance against the industry and 2004 was another year of exceptional HSES performance.
Our key performance indicators KPI, includes lost time injury frequency LTIF and restricted workday case frequency RWDCF.
In 2003, we saw our LTIF performance improve but the combined LTI RWDC Pr Premier Oil emier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 13 13
