co. uk CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW For full details of Arrivas Corporate Responsibility policies and practices, please visit our website www.
Our top priority Arriva continues to be recognised for its commitment to health and is the safety safety.
In the UK in 2004, the Group won two safety awards the of our customers Prince Michael International Road Safety Award and the road safety and employees charity Brake Award for the Best Risk Managed Company of the Year.
In the Netherlands, Arrivas taxi business in the northern provinces was awarded a national quality mark for comfort and safety.
Arriva has publicly indicated its commitment to improving safety by signing the European Road Safety Charter, the first public transport operator to do so.
The Charter aims to achieve a 50 per cent reduction in road accidents by 2010.
ENVIRONMENT Arrivas environmental policy is in place across all of the Groups operations and in determining this policy, we sought advice from external consultants.
The policy complies with all legal requirements and incorporates industry best practice.
As a provider of transport services, Arriva plays a vital role in the The Board recognise that the three key environmental areas for the social and economic lives of the communities it serves and takes its Group are the promotion and use of public transport, the reduction responsibilities as a large business seriously.
Arriva strives to build of waste emissions and the efficient use of water and energy.
positive relationships with all of its stakeholders, whether customers, employees, investors, suppliers or communities.
The Board of Directors The Group is looking at ways in which it can further reduce the recognise that the Groups long-term success depends on these level of harmful emissions released into the environment through relationships and our values being embedded into the culture of the investigation of alternative fuel sources and propulsion systems.
Arriva has a number of published policies, which set 87 million was invested in new buses during 2004, all of which out its approach to the wider community.
were in line with the latest environmental requirements, and some buses with non Euro-compliant engines have been refitted with Arrivas approach to corporate responsibility developed further during new Euro-compliant environmentally friendly engines.
In Denmark, 2004, when it established the Corporate Responsibility Working Arriva invested in 2004 in 29 new Coradia Lint trains which also have Group, with representatives from each of the Arriva businesses.
Working Group meets regularly to review best practice, report on new initiatives and work on corporate responsibility benchmarking.
The Group reduces the environmental impact of its operations by Arriva is working closely with Business in the Community to embed using a range of fuels, including ultra low sulphur diesel and compressed best practice throughout the business and to report this to stakeholders natural gas.
Our rail operations in Germany have been successfully in a meaningful way.
trialling the use of vegetable oil derived fuels as an alternative fuel.
Arrivas bus operations in Italy have been trialling the use of a fuel SAFETY mix of diesel and water: results have shown a reduction in harmful Arrivas top priority is the safety of its customers and employees.
Arriva Vehicle Rentals branch in Warrington has been Our practices are reviewed regularly by the Health & Safety awarded the environmental management standard ISO 14001, the Committee.
Chaired by the Groups non-executive Chairman, this only rental company in the UK to have achieved such recognition.
Committee meets on a quarterly basis to review the key performance EMPLOYEES indicators across the Group.
With over 30,000 people across eight European countries, Arriva Arriva has its own in-house health and safety management system, recognises that its employees are key to its success and is committed which reflects industry best practice with legal compliance as a minimum acceptable standard.
Each of the Groups businesses are accountable for their own safety performance.
To enable the businesses to manage this, they follow the self-certification and self-auditing processes, which We manage the reflect Health and Safety Executive guidelines.
environmental impact of our operations and encourage As part of the self-certification process, safety accountable managers the sustainable conduct annual reviews of their business to ensure that they meet development all safety standards set by the Group.
These standards are subject of public transport to external verification.
The process is underpinned by the audit procedure and ensures that safety is reviewed on a regular basis by senior management.
Arriva has an extensive portfolio of in-house training initiatives, ranging from the Institution of Occupational Safety and Health IOSH approved programmes to courses that look at risk assessment, fire safety and manual handling.
16 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 www.
co. uk Employees are key to Arrivas Community Relations Committee carried out a review of the our success and we are Groups activities in 2004.
As a result, a series of Country and UK committed to creating Regional Community Relations Committees have been established an environment where to help support our activities on a local basis.
everyonehasthe opportunitytolearn Arriva has worked hard to establish a series of long-term partnerships anddevelop giving not only financial, but also practical support.
One such partnership is with Age Concern.
Arriva started working with Age Concern in 2002, supporting exercise classes for older people in Shropshire, and then in 2003 supporting Age Concern Scotlands Information Service for Older People.
As part of the developing partnership, in 2004 Arriva supported an information technology project in Hertfordshire, a key operating area for the Group, to help older people to take part in computer training.
Employees in the Community Arriva values and welcomes the involvement that employees from to creating an environment where everyone has the opportunity across the Group have in its Community Relations programme.
Arrivas Charity of the Year initiative in the UK has been in place Over the past few years, the Group has grown its transport business for five years and provides employees with the opportunity to select significantly and developed through acquisition.
The Group has a charity that they would like the Group to support for 12 months.
established a series of policies and procedures for the integration Employees voted the 2005 Charity of the Year as Cancer Research of new employees and to ensure that all training needs are addressed.
UK, for the second year in a row.
Leadership, Management and Supervisor Development Arriva recognises the valuable contribution that many of its employees Arriva established the Arriva Development Academy, which develops make in the local community both in the UK and in mainland Europe.
individuals of graduate calibre to be future leaders.
The individual The Community Action Awards initiative was introduced to recognise undertakes a development programme with a view to being these achievements.
Awards ranging from 50 to 500 are granted appointed to a management role within 12-18 months.
A leadership to employees to give to the organisation that they support.
competencies framework has been developed enabling senior managers to identify strengths and areas of development to be Business in the Community included in Personal Development Plans.
Arriva's operations in Business in the Community BITC is a charitable organisation that Denmark have introduced a programme which trains bus drivers to helps businesses contribute to the social and economic regeneration be managers within the organisation, following a 12 month training of local communities.
As a national member, Arriva actively programme.
supports a number of BITC initiatives such as Rural Action and its UK education programme.
The Groups mentoring programme, Vocational Training which ran for four years, achieved a Big Tick in BITCs Awards for A significant area of investment in the UK is the Groups vocational Excellence.
The programme, which was run at Arrivas head office training programme.
With a dedicated Learning Manager and in Sunderland and extended to the North West and South East, Vocational Skills Support Manager in the Groups UK Bus operations, offered support to secondary school pupils to help them achieve the focus is on basic skills and vocational training.
the transition from school to the world of work.
Valuing Difference Arriva understands and values differences in people, such as age, education, gender, race and culture.
The Group introduced the Arriva Approach to Diversity to create an environment that maximises the potential of all current and future employees.
As part of this approach, the Diversity Committee was introduced with senior managers from Our community relations all businesses as members, reporting to the Board of Directors.
activities are at the core of our commitment to Valuing Employees corporate responsibility Arriva values the work of all its employees and the contribution they make towards the successful development of the Group.
We have established the Arriva Learning and Development Gateway, a website that gives all employees online access to an extensive range of learning and development resources.
COMMUNITY By the nature of the services the Group provides, Arriva is a very important part of local communities across the UK and mainland Europe.
Arrivas community relations activities are at the core of our commitment to corporate responsibility.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 17
