CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY In Orissa, India, Reckitt Benckiser has helped to support a Save the Children project which works with adolescent girls and children in 11 tribal villages.
The project initially addressed issues of reproductive health, personal hygiene, Succeeding today while early pregnancy and related health care, and environmental health.
Photography by Annie Heslop developing a sustainable future Our performance is recognised through our We completed a review of our own facilities, Reckitt Benckiser is committed membership of the World and European with no material breaches identied, and to becoming an increasingly Dow Jones Sustainability Index and the have commenced a programme to certify our sustainable business: environFTSE4Good indices.
On occupational health & safety, mentally, ethically and socially.
the accident rate at our factories measured as However it is what we do that really matters.
lost working day accidents has been cut by We believe a more sustainable So what specically did we achieve?
There were again business a business that no major people-related accidents in 2004.
IMPROVING OUR operates effectively today with Community.
We built on our programme ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT as little cost to the future as with Save the Children, supporting projects Environmental performance.
Progress possible is better for the in Bangladesh, Kenya and India.
At the end against our internal targets continues.
of the year we worked in many countries on Energy use was cut by 11%, greenhouse Company, its employees, its Tsunami relief, providing products and cash.
gas emissions by 10% and waste by 20% investors and society as a whole.
We also initiated a global project to support between 2000 and 2003, measured per unit Our strategy is to improve our performance Medecins sans Frontires in its HIV Aids of production.
We conducted a review of by working most intensively where we can programmes.
Our total donation to the environmental impact of our total make most difference.
The Board conducts community projects increased in 2004 to business in 2004.
New programmes will an annual review of Corporate around 1 million worldwide.
Responsibility and the Chief Executive Consumer safety and the environmental In this report we can only give a flavour Officer is the Director with specific impact of our products.
Please take time to responsibility.
The Company reports accelerated the removal of a number of visit our website where we give much annually on its performance through its ingredients with identied consumer or more information about our ongoing environmental and social reports which environmental safety issues PVC programmes and the policy framework are available at www.
The Company had no consumer product recalls in 2004.
We have made substantial progress since the creation of Reckitt Benckiser, putting IMPROVING OUR ETHICAL AND the framework and programmes in place SOCIAL IMPACT to allow our passion for our business to Our supply chain.
2005 will see further Standard was introduced and rolled out in progress across all dimensions of our 2004, better dening minimum acceptable sustainability agenda.
ethical standards on human rights, employment, health & safety and environmental impact for our supply chain.
Bart Becht Chief Executive officer Reckitt Benckiser Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004 Annual Report 2004 19 19
