strategy and full and timely access to the information required to discharge their responsibilities fully and effectively.
Society and Rio Tintos Compliance guidance requires that the identification of risk be systematic and ongoing.
It recommends that each Group environment company undertakes a structured risk profiling exercise to identify, categorise and weigh the risks it faces in the conduct of its business.
Group employees Principal employee Each Group company puts systems in place to ensure that risks are average for year locations 2004 reviewed at an appropriate frequency.
Total remuneration is related to performance through the use of annual bonuses, long term incentives and stretching targets for personal, financial and safety performance.
The boards Committee on social and environmental accountability reviews the effectiveness of policies and procedures.
The committee comprises four non executive directors and is chaired by the chairman of the main board.
It meets three times annually with the chief executive and heads of Technology, Health, Safety and Environment and Australia New Zealand 11,000 Communication and Sustainable Development.
Reports for the committee summarise significant matters identified North America 9,000 through Rio Tintos assurance activities.
These include reviews every Africa 5,000 Joint ventures four years of each business to identify and manage strategic risks in and associates relation to health, safety, and the environment: audits against Rio Tinto Other 8,000 standards: annual risk management audits: risk reviews for specific Subsidiaries concerns, such as cyanide management and smelter operations: and joint procedures and systems for reporting critical and significant issues and arrangements 00 01 02 03 04 incidents: completion of annual internal control questionnaires by all Group business leaders covering the full spectrum of business and The way we work operational risk: and findings and recommendations of the independent Rio Tinto is in business to create value by finding and developing world external assurance and data verification programme.
class mineral deposits and operating and eventually closing operations safely, responsibly and efficiently.
To do so, the Group takes a disciplined Policies, programmes and results and integrated approach to the economic, social and environmental Implementation of the policies in The way we work is discussed in the aspects of all its activities.
following sections named according to each policy area.
Known risks The approach to achieving this is through implementation of the arising from social and environmental matters and their management in policies described in The way we work, Rio Tintos statement of Group businesses are described in the relevant Group operations section.
business practice, at all levels of the business.
The statement, redistributed in 2003 in 19 languages, is the result Safety of many months of wide internal consultation and discussion and Safety is a core value and a major priority.
Rio Tinto believes that all represents shared values from around the Group.
The document was injuries are preventable and its goal is zero injuries.
To achieve this, full published initially in January 1998.
It was revised in 2002 in the light of and consistent implementation of and accountability for Rio Tintos experience, following further Group wide review and consultation, comprehensive standards, guidelines, systems and procedures is external benchmarking of policies against the best practice of other required across the world.
The Group is also building a supportive safety organisations and approval by the Rio Tinto board.
culture that requires visible leadership, ongoing education and training The way we work commits the Group to transparency consistent and a high level of participation by everyone in the workplace.
with normal commercial confidentiality, corporate accountability and the However, there is still some way to go in achieving the goal of zero.
application of appropriate standards and internal controls.
It sets the In 2004, very regrettably one contractor lost his life at a managed basis for how Group companies' employees work and also provides operation.
The Group has demonstrated strong improvements in the guidance for joint venture partners and others.
Every employee is lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR and all injury frequency rate AIFR responsible for implementing the policies in the document.
from 2003, with reductions of 21 per cent and 15 per cent respectively.
Rio Tinto has adopted the Association of British Insurers 2003 The LTIFR for 2004 was 0.65 per 200,000 hours worked by employees disclosure guidelines on social responsibility in preparing this report.
Details of the Groups overall and individual businesses social and Fines for infringement of safety regulations totalled US$19,200 environmental performance continue to be published on the Rio Tinto 2003: US$162,000.
com se and in the Sustainable development review.
Occupational health Rio Tinto strives to protect physical health and well being in the Board responsibilities workplace.
This requires clear standards, consistent implementation, The directors of Rio Tinto, and of Group companies, are responsible for transfer of best practice and improvement through Group wide reporting monitoring adherence to the Group policies outlined in The way we and tracking of remedial actions.
Assurance for performance in these areas involves checking, During 2004, Group businesses worked to implement the reviewing and reporting each businesss implementation of the policies, occupational health standards and 81 per cent of employees now work their compliance with regulations and voluntary commitments, and the at an operation where the occupational health standards have been effectiveness of management and control systems, while also providing implemented.
In 2004, there were 72 new cases of occupational mechanisms for improvement.
As discussed in the section on Corporate governance on page 71, Operations were temporarily suspended at Energy Resources of the boards established a process for identifying, evaluating and Australias ERA Ranger uranium mine in Australia during March 2004 managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Directors meet following an incident of drinking water contamination.
The government regularly, have regular scheduled discussions on aspects of the Groups Office of the Supervising Scientist appointed independent health experts Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements 55 28,292 6,107 34,399 30,023 6,493 36,516 29,170 8,003 37,173 29,040 6,976 36,016 27,698 5,342 33,040 OPERATIONAL REVIEW Operational review continued to investigate and advise on the potential for long term harm to workers world.
Bribery in any form is prohibited.
Gifts and entertainment are only as a result of the water contamination.
They concluded that longer term offered or accepted for conventional social and business purposes and health effects were most unlikely.
then only at a level appropriate to the circumstances.
Operations were again temporarily suspended at the end of August 2004 to review safety and health systems following the issue of two Communities reports from the Office of the Supervising Scientist.
One report Rio Tinto sets out to build enduring relationships with its neighbours that concerned the incident of drinking water contamination and the other are characterised by mutual respect, active partnership, and long term concerned radiation clearance procedures for equipment leaving site.
Three Australian Government audits arising from the incidents have Every business unit is required to have rolling five year community been satisfactorily completed.
plans which are updated annually.
In 2004, a series of pilot studies were Rio Tintos southern African operations are nearing full completed aimed at achieving a deeper level of understanding of the implementation of the Group HIV AIDS strategy.
This provides access to linkages between mining activities and the economies in which they antiretroviral therapy that is affordable for employees and a partner.
Operations in Asia and west Africa are in the process of refining their All Group businesses produce their own reports for their local local strategies to meet Group requirements.
Community assurance of the quality In 2004, Rio Tinto set targets to focus attention on reducing noise and content of these reports is increasing.
This provides an opportunity induced hearing loss across the Group.
The target of zero exposure of for engagement with the community on their views of programmes employees to a noise dose of more than 82 decibels averaged over sponsored by the operations.
eight hours, after allowing for the use of hearing protection was not Businesses managed by Rio Tinto contributed US$87.8 million to met, with 0.5 per cent of employees still exposed to noise greater than community programmes in 2004 2003: US$70 million.
contributions, US$34.2 million was community investment and Fines for infringement of occupational health regulations in 2004 US$24.1 million in direct payments made under legislation or an involved four operations, totalling US$257,000 2003: US$900.
Environment Human rights Wherever possible Rio Tinto prevents, or otherwise minimises, mitigates Rio Tinto supports human rights consistent with the Universal and remediates, harmful effects of the Groups operations on the Declaration of Human Rights and Rio Tinto respects those rights in environment.
conducting the Groups operations throughout the world.
To do this, the Group seeks to understand the environmental Rio Tinto also supports the UN Secretary Generals Global aspects and impacts of what it does, build what is learned into systems Compact, the US UK Voluntary Principles on Security and Human to manage and minimise those impacts, and set targets for Rights and the Global Sullivan Principles.
Rio Tintos Human rights guidance is designed to assist managers After significant Groupwide consultation, Rio Tintos environment in implementing the Groups human rights policy in complex local standards were finalised and approved in 2003 for implementation by situations.
It was revised and republished in 2003.
During 2004, significant work continued on ways to improve based training module was developed to instruct managers on what the efficiency of greenhouse gas emissions, energy use and water policy means in practice and how to respond to difficult situations.
By the end of 2004, 84 per cent of operations had implemented Employment ISO 14001 or an equivalent environmental management system EMS.
Rio Tinto recognises that business performance is closely linked to All Rio Tinto operations are required to have a certified EMS by the end effective people development.
It has a long term plan to strengthen of June 2005: by the end of 2004, 72 per cent of operations had approaches to the training and development of leaders in the Group.
There was no change in the number of significant In 2004, a suite of formal leadership programmes was developed environmental incidents 16 compared to 2003.
There was a decrease and implemented for both strategic and Group business leaders.
In in the number of significant spills from eight to four.
Fines for total, ten customised leadership development programmes, involving infringements of environmental regulations involved three operations and 225 participants, were successfully run in 2004 in partnership with totalled US$53,800 2003: US$126,000.
leading business schools in Europe, North America and Australia.
All product groups and businesses were represented.
It is planned to run a Land access further ten strategic and business leadership development programmes Rio Tinto seeks to ensure the widest possible support for its proposals in 2005 involving about 250 participants.
throughout the life cycle of the Groups activities by coordinating As well as using the open programmes run by the London economic, technical, environmental and social factors in an integrated Business School and International Institute for Management process.
Development for future leaders, Rio Tinto commissioned the design of a This involves negotiation of mining access agreements with customised, operational leadership programme to be launched in 2005 indigenous landowners: responsible land management and with eight programmes involving about 240 further participants from rehabilitation: planning for closure: developing and implementing a across the Group at manager and superintendent level.
biodiversity strategy: and forming strategic partnerships with external These programmes are all focused on ensuring that leaders, at all organisations.
levels, are well prepared for the wide range of current and future challenges they will face in taking forward a complex and commercially Political involvement successful organisation.
All of these programmes are closely Rio Tinto does not directly or indirectly participate in party politics nor integrated with the core leadership competencies Rio Tinto has make payments to political parties or individual politicians.
identified as necessary for effective leaders wherever they work in the A Business integrity guidance, addressing bribery, corruption and organisation.
political involvement, was issued in 2003 to assist managers in Pilot programmes were undertaken in 2004 on the use of career implementing this policy.
The guidance covers questions relating to development tools and their application to new and better approaches compliance and implementation: gifts and entertainment: the use of to coaching and mentoring employees.
In 2005, Groupwide workshops agents and intermediaries: and facilitation payments.
to improve the capability of all involved in managing careers will be Rio Tinto avoids making facilitation payments anywhere in the organised.
56 Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements OPERATIONAL REVIEW People development in Rio Tinto is focused on ensuring technical Assurance and verification and professional competence.
In 2004, five projects were undertaken to To be accountable and transparent, assurance is provided to the Group define these competencies in Marketing, Finance, Human Resources, and others that Rio Tinto policies are being implemented fully and Community Relations and Health, Safety and Environment teams.
This consistently across the Groups businesses and operations.
led to a pilot development programme being successfully designed and The overall objective of the external assurance and data verification delivered for early career Human Resources professionals.
programme is to provide assurance that the material in the Sustainable In 2005, all five streams will focus on implementing across the development review is relevant, complete, accurate and responsive, Group common professional development tools, programmes and and, in particular, that Rio Tintos policies and programmes are reflected systems.
Competency in these functions will be extended to cover all in implementation activities at operations.
In 2004, Environmental other disciplines to ensure that the Group builds and strengthens its Resources Management ERM undertook the external assurance and skills capability at all levels and to facilitate more effective collaboration data verification programme and the results are available in Rio Tintos on areas of common interest in different businesses.
Sustainable development review previously the Social and environment In the past few years, Rio Tinto has focused on strengthening and review.
developing leaders: in 2005 the focus will be on developing talent and potential at all levels and building a stronger alignment between Competition individual and business performance.
Rio Tinto has adopted a specific antitrust policy requiring all employees Rio Tinto requires safe and effective working relationships in all its to compete fairly and to comply with relevant laws and regulations.
Whilst respecting different cultures, traditions and Under the policy, guidance is provided on contacts with competitors employment practices, common goals are shared, in particular the and benchmarking as well as implementation of the policy in individual elimination of workplace injuries, and commitment to good corporate businesses.
As integral parts of the policy, all relevant employees will values and ethical behaviour.
receive regular training and will be required to certify annually that they In 2004, Group companies employed 28,000 people 2003: are not aware of any antitrust violations.
29,000 and, together with Rio Tintos proportionate share of those employed by joint ventures and associates, the total was 33,000 2003: 36,000 mainly concentrated in Australia and North America.
Wages and salaries paid in 2004 excluding Rio Tintos proportionate share of joint ventures and associates totalled US$1.7 billion 2003: US$1.5 billion.
Retirement payments and benefits to dependants are provided in accordance with local conditions and good practice.
Rio Tinto encourages the involvement of its employees in the Groups performance through their participation in an employee share scheme.
As stated in The way we work, the Group recognises the right of employees to choose whether or not they wish to be represented collectively.
Sustainable development Rio Tinto believes that its businesses, projects, operations and products should contribute constructively to the global transition to sustainable development.
All businesses are required to assess the sustainable development case for their activities.
Rio Tinto has committed itself to integrating the results of the Mining, Minerals and Sustainable Development MMSD analysis of 2002 into the Groups policy and objectives, and developing measures to assess their implementation.
As a founding member of the International Council on Mining and Metals, Rio Tinto is participating in dialogue and programmes to advance industry wide progress on key sustainable development priorities.
A Sustainable Development Leadership Panel SDLP was formed in 2004 to provide Group leadership and encourage businesses to make sustainable development considerations an integral part of business plans and decision making processes.
Openness and accountability Rio Tinto conducts the Groups affairs in an accountable and transparent manner, reflecting the interests of Rio Tinto shareholders, employees, host communities and customers as well as others affected by the Groups activities.
Policies on transparency, business integrity, corporate governance and internal controls and reporting procedures are outlined in The way we work.
In 2003, a Compliance guidance was issued to provide a framework to enable each Group business to implement and maintain a best practice compliance programme which should identify and manage risks associated with non compliance with laws, regulations, codes, standards and Rio Tinto policies.
Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements 57 OPERATIONAL REVIEW
