22 Rotork Corporate Social Responsibility Annual Report 2004 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Company has considered the guidelines and resource.
With the launch in late 2003 of consumption and use of hydrocarbons and on Social Responsibility published by the the new Intelligent Quarter Turn IQT range volatile organic compounds.
For the first time Association of British Insurers and takes full of actuators, which consume a tenth of the the data is included from the other account of the significance of environmental energy of their predecessors, Rotork is manufacturing sites as well as Bath.
and ethical matters in the conduct of its continuing to develop and produce energy business and in its risk assessment processes.
efficient products with improved performance.
The Aspects and Impacts Assessment is currently Rotork remains fully committed to the principles being reviewed in the light of new processes laid down for its inclusion in the FTSE4Good Environmental Management System introduced in 2004.
This will provide the Index and the 10 Principles of the UN Global Rotork will, through its Environmental springboard for setting objectives for the Compact of which it is a signatory.
An audit to verify compliance with ISO 14001 by an external agency is Environment Allocate formal environmental responsibilities scheduled for March 2005.
The Group Environmental policy, which is to ensure compliance with legislation: reviewed annually, includes commitments Support a culture of consultation with Ethics and Values to the prevention of pollution, compliance employees, key stakeholders and other Rotork is a signatory to the United Nations with all relevant legal and other regulatory interested parties: Global Compact and its 10 Universal Principles requirements and to the continuous Provide environmental information, around human rights, labour, environment, improvement of environmental performance.
guidance and, where necessary provide bribery and corruption.
These Principles are The Environmental policy applies to all training that meets best practice: derived from the Universal Declaration of manufacturing sites in the Group worldwide.
Monitor, measure, audit and seek Human Rights and the International Labour The complete policy may be found at continuous improvement in its Organisations Declaration of Fundamental www.
environmental performance: Principles and Rights at Work.
In particular, Work with external agencies and bodies to Rotork supports all United Nations efforts to In its 2004 Environmental Report the Group ensure continued adoption of best practice ensure the effective abolition of child forced reported that it had maintained its commitment solutions in environmental management: compulsory labour and will never use any such to managing and improving its environmental Communicate best practice and publish labour in any of its operations worldwide.
At performance and to communicating this internal and external information detailing Rotork the rights of every employee are performance to its stakeholders through its aims and achievements: respected.
The Company acts in ways that the publication of its Environmental Report Foster open communication with employees, ensure all employees are treated with openness, for 2004 which can be accessed in full at customers, suppliers and other stakeholders mutual trust, dignity and respect.
The via both electronic publishing and face-toworking at Rotork will be treated fairly and 2005 Environmental Report will be available face discussion.
without discrimination on the basis of race, on the Companys website in late Spring 2005. gender, language or religion.
The project to fully implement an Environmental The Group has identified its key environmental Management System at the Bath manufacturing Rotorks Ethics and Values Statement can be impacts to include the use of energy, water, site has continued to progress.
Waste to accessed at Rotorks website www.
com and disposal of waste.
The Group is continually landfill has been identified as the biggest under the Investors section, sub-section developing policies and procedures on these environmental site impact and challenge.
Additionally at issues to minimise its impact on the To turn this impact into an environmental that part of the website can be accessed the environment.
win required the redevelopment of the Rotork Doing the Right Thing document site facilities to accommodate the recycling which describes some of the benefits Rotork Rotork considers it contributes to sustainable systems necessary to reduce the impact.
provides for employees and the wider development and environmental improvement Recycling processes were established for community.
through the products and services it sells.
wood, cardboard and IT equipment.
Other The Companys products are used around the waste streams are now being separated to world in all environments, including those facilitate further recycling opportunities.
which are hazardous and in many types of Within the 2004 Environmental Report at industries, including water purification, sewage, www.
com information and data can food processing, marine, irrigation, power be accessed about how Rotork managed its generation and oil and gas.
Rotork products key environmental impacts.
The data includes help reduce human error and thus potential waste to landfill, incineration and authorised 2 environmental disasters, whilst saving energy disposal plants, CO emissions, water Corporate Social Responsibility Rotork 23 continued Annual Report 2004 Suppliers Community involvement Other charitable organisations to benefit Business integrity and fair dealing is key to For many years Rotork has pursued a policy from Rotorks Charity Committee during the the Groups relationships with suppliers and of community involvement through financial year included: contractors.
Many of the Groups suppliers support and fostering partnership with local have long-term relationships with the Group.
charitable and voluntary organisations, trusts Hope and Homes for Children Most key suppliers are registered to ISO and local support groups.
A Charity Committee Bath Institute of Medical Engineering 9000.
Supplier development is ongoing and made up of employees at all levels considers Action Medical Research involves elements developed in the motor local community charitable and similar requests Weston Day Club, Nr.
Bath industry of the QS 9000 system.
Projects are then followed Childrens Heart Foundation through with visits and reports by employees Dorothy House Hospice, Bath Employees and feedback to the Charity Committee.
Bath Employees in the UK and many overseas Sponsorship is also given to local youth and Bath & Wansdyke Soc for Blind offices enjoy participation in long-standing sporting clubs and to cultural and social events.
Age Concern Rotork profit sharing and share schemes.
There is also direct engagement in community Larkrise School Fund, Bath issues.
For example in Bath a representative of Bath Charities Fayre At the Bath plant, an Employee Committee sits the Company sits on a local group supporting The Charter Trustees of the City of Bath regularly to discuss staff issues and suggests local initiatives for cultural, social and Children in Need improvements in working conditions and economic development.
Chernobyl Children Life Line practices.
All issues are reviewed by directors Little Sisters of the Poor and acted on as appropriate.
The Charity Committee normally matches Bath Junior Gateway Club monies raised by employees who undertake Macmillan Cancer Relief An Equal Opportunities policy is applied appropriate charitable events personally.
Heartline throughout the Group and in almost all Spencer Dayman Meningitis Trust cases, it is nationals from those countries in In 2004, the Charity Committee awarded which the Company operates who manage a grant of 30,000 over three years to the those companies locally.
Research Institute for the Care of the Elderly to provide a Rotork room in a new research Financial support for training and learning facility to be built at the Royal United Hospital programmes directly related to employees in Bath.
The room will be one of four working roles are provided.
There are two examination rooms that will be used on full time training officers at the Bath site a daily basis for the Institutes research who co-ordinate product training initiatives projects and memory clinics.
The memory for employees and customers.
Four year clinics provide a much valued service to apprenticeship programmes underline the people in the Bath area.
Like Rotork, the commitment to staff development for the Institute is committed to research as a means long term.
of progress in finding solutions to practical problems.
With the ageing of the population, Health and Safety research to improve the care of older people The Group has Health and Safety policies in is of growing importance and Rotork is place.
The Group is working towards a global pleased to be involved with this initiative.
Health and Safety policy compliant with Occupational Health and Safety Management System OHSAS for the benefit of employees and those they interact with worldwide.
