8 New UK facility Best Working Environment award All our Newcastle-based UK operations Sage UK was awarded Best Working Environment moved to a single, purpose-built facility.
in the 2004 European Call Centre Awards.
Corporate Social Responsibility Sage conducts its business with address these risks.
Once identified, the Employment appropriate regard to the rights and Risk Committee monitors steps taken by Sage employs almost 8,000 people and in interests of shareholders, employees and operating companies to reduce such risks.
order to continue to grow as a business, we other stakeholders.
The Board also Whilst specific targets in these areas have need to continue to recruit and retain only recognises the significance of social, not yet been set, as monitoring develops, the best talent.
Therefore it is our policy to environmental and ethical issues to the the Board will, in conjunction with the pursue practices that are sensitive to the business of the Group and regularly takes operating companies, consider the setting needs of our people.
Our priorities are: these issues into account in its discussions.
At present, the Board Providing a safe workplace with equality It receives reports at each Board meeting does not consider it appropriate to link the of opportunity and diversity through our from Group executives of relevant management of these risks to remuneration employment policies.
developments in these areas and of the incentives, given the difficulties in objectively Encouraging our people to reach their South Africa: Pastel Accounting Training policies adopted by the Group to meet any measuring the changes to those risks.
The full potential through training, career One of our South African businesses, Pastel, promotes issues arising.
The Risk Committee, Board will continue to monitor the Groups development and promotion from within accounting and IT skills through the Pastel Accounting consisting of executive management, practices and policies in this area.
The software course for schools, colleges and universities.
identifies the nature and extent of significant Board recognises the importance of Communicating openly and transparently risks facing the Group and is discussed at identifying an executive with responsibility within the bounds of commercial page 23 below.
It also considers any risks for this area and, therefore, Karen Geary, confidentiality, whilst listening to our people to the business of the Group from such Director of Human Resources and and taking into account their feedback.
social, environmental and ethical issues and Corporate Communications, has Recognising and rewarding our people for reports on such risks to the Audit undertaken particular responsibility for their contribution and encouraging share Committee of the Board.
issues relating to corporate social ownership at all levels.
The induction programme for We are committed to monitoring our new directors explains the procedures for Operating in a number of regions, we corporate social responsibility policies in identification, assessment and management respect the rule of law within these key areas, including environmental impact.
of risk, including those arising from social, jurisdictions and support appropriate Reports are prepared on a quarterly basis environmental and ethical issues.
internationally accepted standards including by our operating companies on key those on human rights.
Our equal indicators, such as, in relation to Whilst the Board considers that material opportunities policies prohibit discrimination employment issues, the mix of the risks arising from social, environmental and on grounds such as race, gender, religion, workforce by gender, ethnic origin, religious ethical issues are limited, given the nature sexual orientation, or disability.
This policy beliefs and disability and, in relation to of the business of the Group, policies includes where practicable, the continued environmental matters, the level of waste have been adopted in the key areas of employment of those who may become product recycled.
Through these reports employment, community and environmental disabled during their employment.
Our and the review undertaken by the Risk matters to ensure that such risks are policies ensure that all decisions about the Committee, the Board has in place a limited.
Examples of policies and practices appointment, treatment and promotion of system to manage risks in this area and in these areas are given below.
employees are based entirely on merit.
identify actions that may be taken to UK: Tyne and Wear Community Foundation Sage has worked with the Foundation to provide funding towards the Sounds Class project in Newcastle.
1 Overview 21 Corporate Governance Statement 36 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 2 Chairmans Statement 25 Remuneration Report 36 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 4 Chief Executives Review 32 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 37 Notes to the Accounts 8 Corporate Social Responsibility 33 Consolidated Balance Sheet 62 Independent Auditors Report 12 Directors and Advisers 34 Company Balance Sheet 63 Notice of Meeting 9 14 Financial Review 35 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 65 Financial Calendar 16 Directors Report This is a unique opportunity for us to 10 The Sage Gateshead enhance awareness of our brand locally, The Sage Gateshead in the North-East of nationally and internationally.
England the international music and Paul Walker, Chief Executive conference centre opened in December 2004.
Corporate Social Responsibility continued Highlights from our activities during the and UNICEF.
Sage representatives select our business needs.
The effect on the year are: suitable projects according to our funding environment of the Groups activities is guidelines with particular regard to projects monitored, where appropriate, with regard We continued to establish health at work that benefit the local community, provide to the low overall environmental impact of schemes around the Group.
long-term benefits, help disadvantaged our primary activities as a software We increased the number of opportunities young people and local employment and publisher and service provider.
We work to for flexible working and family friendly involve issues relevant to our business.
promote environmental care, to increase our policies in all of our companies.
PC equipment that is no longer needed understanding of environmental issues and As part of our commitment to the development by our organisation is donated to charities to spread environmental best practice of young people in the community, 8% of our and schools around the world.
In addition throughout our businesses.
Our waste people in our Germany business are on to direct charitable donations, the Group materials are recycled, where possible and apprenticeship schemes.
facilitates the participation of its employees in waste paper is minimised by promoting In the UK, a highly interactive programme fund-raising efforts for a number of charities.
paperless processes and downloadable to communicate and engage all of our software products.
Our businesses have Our sponsorship of The Sage Gateshead, UK-based people in the companys vision introduced policies and incentives to reduce the international music and conference took place during the summer of 2004.
centre which opened in December 2004, event underpinned the Groups longer-term has helped provide a world-class cultural As part of our commitment to the UK: Sage UK facility programme of culture change to support an New purpose-built offices at Newcastle Great Park facility and raised the profile of the Sage environment, we handled a number of environment of greater empowerment, received a good environmental rating from BREEAM.
In addition to the initial sponsorship environmental issues in the development creativity and personal responsibility.
of the project, we sponsored the opening of the new UK facility which opened in In South Africa, we have participated in the weekend of events at the centre, allowing June 2004.
These purpose-built offices at development of the ICT Charter on Black 15,000 people to attend this exceptional Newcastle Great Park, received a good Economic Empowerment and we are occasion free of charge.
BREEAM Building Research Establishment working on how best to ensure compliance Environmental Assessment Method We actively promote the use of the internet in accordance with the timetable set out in rating which reflects site selection and the Charter.
in business, particularly in the area of management, material selection, labour mandatory government submissions.
Our Community and construction techniques and the awareness of the importance of prompt It is our policy to be an integral part of the facilities of the completed building.
payment to small business is demonstrated communities in which we are based.
We are by our commitment to pay customers and The 2004 Corporate Citizenship report committed to developing relationships with suppliers in accordance with the terms for our UK business is available at those communities, where appropriate, agreed with them.
We also promote small www.
Our other businesses are through voluntary activities and donations.
business through numerous award committed to developing similar reports.
Close relationships with those communities schemes and free education and We have shown our commitment to making have also been fostered through participation awareness seminars.
information available in this area by joining in local initiatives and donations to the London Stock Exchange Corporate community foundations.
Further details of It is our policy to ensure, by encouraging During the year, we have worked with a our policies will be made available on its environmental best practice in the business, number of charities and organisations website at www.
US: Customer service awards that our operations have as little including the Tyne and Wear Community Our US Mid-market Division received Support Centre environmental impact as is consistent with Foundation, The Breast Cancer Society Practices Certification awards for the fourth consecutive year.
1 Overview 21 Corporate Governance Statement 36 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 2 Chairmans Statement 25 Remuneration Report 36 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 4 Chief Executives Review 32 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 37 Notes to the Accounts 8 Corporate Social Responsibility 33 Consolidated Balance Sheet 62 Independent Auditors Report 12 Directors and Advisers 34 Company Balance Sheet 63 Notice of Meeting 11 14 Financial Review 35 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 65 Financial Calendar 16 Directors Report
