26 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 Operating Review Corporate Responsibility Our four key areas We have continued to strengthen the management of Corporate Responsibility CR in S&N.
This has included establishing our methodology for identifying, measuring and monitoring social, ethical and environmental SEE risks in our key impact areas: marketplace, workplace, community and environment.
One of the key issues for S&N is promoting responsible drinking.
Our approach to CR Focused on our impact A fundamental aspect of our approach response to the reports recommendations, to CR is to prioritise the issues that are defining the optimal balance between on society important to our stakeholders, and to focus the responsibilities of producers, retailers, Risk analysis and on the issues that are most material to the government regulators and the consumer.
long term success of our business.
We can management Joint ventures only achieve a sustained return for our Responsible marketing Operating in developing markets such investors if we are a responsible business as India and China sets us new challenges.
Dialogue with our responsibility and corporate success are We work with our local partners and inextricably linked.
stakeholders stakeholders to understand our Commitment to the responsibilities and meet the expectations Responsible drinking of those that we work with, as well as our environment One of the key issues for S&N is responsible employees.
We are reviewing all our policies drinking.
The moderate consumption of beer in these areas, aided by guidelines such has brought social and health benefits to as the UN Global Compact, to which millions of people for thousands of years.
More information about the identification, In addition, S&N contributes around 1bn management and monitoring of corporate Social, ethical and environmental a year in excise duty to the UK Government.
responsibility issues in S&N can be found risk management However, we are also aware that the in our CR Report at http: www.
scottishThe identification, management and irresponsible consumption of alcohol can newcastle.
com sn cr monitoring of SEE risks is undertaken result in negative social impacts.
We work as part of S&Ns Group process for risk in partnership in all of our markets with management.
This process is described government, NGOs, trade associations, on page 30.
A significant development in the medical profession and organisations the management of SEE risk has been the like the World Health Organisation and the foundation of a Corporate Responsibility European Union.
We consult with all parties, Committee to oversee the CR strategy for especially those whose opinions may be S&N.
This Committee of senior directors different to our own.
reports to the Executive Management During 2004, the UK Government has Group chaired by the Chief Executive completed a long inquiry into the promotion and also works closely with the managing of responsible alcohol consumption.
We directors of the national businesses.
The have played a full part in that review and are responsibilities of this Committee include working closely with other members of the assessing the significant risks arising from industry to agree the most appropriate social, ethical and environmental issues.
Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 27 Workplace We can only achieve a sustained Marketplace case study During 2004, a group of senior executives return for our investors if we has been leading a cross-functional team are a responsible business Promoting responsible to review the vision and values of the responsibility and corporate consumption Company.
The objective is to ensure that success are inextricably linked.
they unite and inspire our employees as Showing industry Tony Froggatt, S&N becomes a more integrated business.
leadership Chief Executive We have also been developing an integrated approach to people issues across the Responsible marketing business, ensuring that policies and practice Marketplace policies are consistent across the Group.
For The focus of our work in this area is to Sensible drinking example, we have been developing and promote responsible consumption.
messages on packs implementing a long term Group-wide Central to this aim is the development strategy for improving safety management.
of a company-wide marketing code which, Combating drink driving following a successful pilot in S&N UK, is We have continued to consult with our being rolled out to other companies within employees so that we can understand S&N.
The code, which draws on industry their issues and priorities.
The results of best practice, encompasses issues like employee surveys are used to improve staff packaging and product naming as well motivation and develop optimal performance as marketing campaigns and TV at both team and company level.
Environment Other activities that supported our objective S&N recognises that the protection of of promoting responsible drinking include: the environment is a fundamental part of S&N UK is working to promote responsible drinking Showing leadership by introducing the responsible business and is part of good in conjunction with the Portman Group in the UK.
UK Governments responsibility message, business performance.
Sustaining our as well as unit labelling on all packaged resources is a key focus of our strategy.
S&N UK has taken a lead in promoting products see case study.
This means maximising the efficiency of responsible drinking with the introduction Promoting a range of anti-drink driving our use of resources, whilst ensuring that of sensible drinking messages on its bottles campaigns in partnership with all practicable steps have been taken to and cans.
The message, Responsible governments, the World Health minimise the environmental impact of our drinkers dont exceed four daily units men Organisation and the European Union, operations.
We have undertaken an and three units women will appear alongside such as designated driver campaigns extensive review of all of our wholly-owned the number of alcohol units contained in the in the UK, France and Belgium.
operations on their engagement of pack.
Alcohol unit information will enable Using our newly acquired leadership environmental management practices.
individuals to make better informed decisions position in the cider category to positively We have also put in place a Group-wide about their alcohol consumption.
influence the marketing of cider by ending environmental strategy to ensure that we the sectors permanent promotion of high The initiative began on back labels of share best practice and make continuous alcoholic volume for a low price.
Newcastle Brown Ale and will be introduced progress across the Group in all areas.
across the rest of the S&N UK brand Community As part of the formal corporate governance range, including Fosters, John Smiths, We have comprehensively reviewed the audit process, the Groups Health, Safety Kronenbourg 1664 and Strongbow cider.
Groups community investment activity and Environment HSE Department carries The labels on S&N UK brands are among and this has enabled us to agree a coherent, out an annual audit of the Group HSE the first to carry details of the new integrated strategy.
This audit measures the responsible drinking website, by a robust measurement system that will performance of each business against the www.
co. uk being launched enable the Group to evaluate the benefits standards and develops improvement plans by The Portman Group.
The introduction of its community investment.
The strategy in each business to bridge any gaps.
of sensible drinking messages on bottles brings all of S&Ns community involvement and cans is the latest in a series of steps activities donations, gifts in kind and undertaken by S&N UK in 2004 in a drive employee volunteering within a framework to promote the responsible marketing that supports core business priorities.
S&N UK also introduced unit This strategic approach will ensure that labelling on all products and has announced S&N is using community involvement to plans to end 50% Extra Free promotions on gain maximum benefit for the communities in its cider brands.
In addition, S&N UK which it operates, its staff and the business.
launched a hard-hitting anti-drink drive poster campaign at the Fosters British Grand Prix exclaiming If you drink and drive, youre a bloody idiot!.
