15 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Severn Trents corporate vision is to be at the forefront of the environmental services industry.
Our corporate values of environmental leadership, service and quality are enshrined in our Code of Business Principles and Conduct.
They define our business culture and guide our strategies.
Our policy Workplace We strive to be a responsible corporate citizen and recognise that We are committed to providing a safe working environment for our Severn Trent has an important role to play in achieving sustainable employees and all other people that come into contact with the development for society as a whole.
As part of this commitment, we company and in 2003 2004 the number of reportable health and seek to conserve natural resources and to support the communities safety incidents declined.
We also seek to ensure equality of in which we operate.
opportunity through a diverse workforce as we believe in the best use of available talent will benefit the business as well as the Our role as an environmental services company means that our communities that we serve.
activities are of intrinsic benefit to society, however, our ability to achieve business success also makes a significant contribution to Community building a sustainable future.
As well as delivering shareholder value, Severn Trents community affairs programme focuses on we support the wider community in ways that range from the environmental education, the built environment and the natural employment opportunities we offer to our charitable donations.
Investment takes cash and non-cash forms, and we are a member of the PerCent Club of businesses, which donate at least Vision, values and principles 1% of pre-tax profits to the community.
Employee volunteering is an We aspire to high standards of corporate behaviour as we pursue important part of this, and the benefits of this work are seen in our our vision of leadership in the environmental services industry.
To business, as well as in the community.
set an ethical framework for our activities, we have published our values and a code of business principles, which are available on our Marketplace website at www.
In all areas of Severn Trents business in 2003 2004 our commitment to corporate responsibility also led to success in the Our values articulate the companys commitment to disposing of marketplace.
For example, Severn Trents levels of service were waste safely, providing value for money, conserving natural recognised in its leading position among water and sewerage resources, maintaining infrastructure, and complying with all companies in Ofwats Overall Performance Assessment in 2003. appropriate standards.
The code of business principles guides our The Laboratories businesss work on emerging new environmental people as they face day-to-day challenges, and it covers issues and health risks, such as toxic mould, is being rewarded with ranging from obeying the law to displaying integrity.
Environment Biffas experience in the Isle of Wight, where it diverted over 45% The goal of environmental leadership influenced work at every level of the islands waste from landfill, is a good platform for offering in 2003 2004.
Projects ranged from auditing Biffas landfill sites integrated waste management services to local authorities.
A 300 against its Biodiversity Action Plan, to detailed planning on how our million, 25 year, contract with Leicester City Council is now businesses will adapt to the existing effects of climate change for underway, and there will be other opportunities in this field, as local example designing sewerage systems to cope with shorter, more authorities attempt to reach stringent recycling targets.
Further commentary on Severn Trents commitment to corporate Mitigation of our own environmental impact is also central, and a responsibility in 2003 2004 is available in the companys annual major achievement in this area is our electricity generation from Stewardship Report.
renewable resources where in 2003 2004 we increased our installed generating capacity to more than 100MW.
