28 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DELIVERING SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS The Groups policy is to supply and promote wherever possible, those products, which contribute to energy conservation and do not damage the environment.
29 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 The Group has considered CSR issues as part of its business SIG recognises its corporate for a number of years and is reporting on these topics more fully this year.
SIG is pleased to be able to take this opportunity social responsibilities to its to inform its stakeholders the measures which it is taking to continue to monitor and improve its CSR performance.
shareholders, customers, In accordance with the ABI reporting guidelines SIG is able to confirm that the Board takes regular account of the significance suppliers and employees and is of social, environmental and ethical matters to the business of the Group and that it has in place a comprehensive risk committed to good practice.
management and internal control process which identifies and assesses the significant risks to the Groups short and long term value arising from such matters.
SIG recognises its corporate social responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, suppliers and employees and is committed to good practice.
Environment The Chief Executive, Mr. D Williams, is the Board Director responsible for the environmental performance of the Group.
SIG is committed to minimising the environmental impact of its activities through good environmental management practices.
The Groups Environmental policy was revised in 2004.
The policy is displayed throughout the Group and on the Groups website.
The policy is: SIG is committed to the implementation of this environmental policy and will seek to ensure that all Group companies are fully compliant where appropriate.
We believe that developing our businesses in an environmentally responsible manner, taking full account of evolving environmental issues, compliance with applicable legal requirements and commitment to the prevention of pollution, is in the best interests of the Company, its employees and external stakeholders.
As the UKs leading supplier of insulation and related materials our core business is focused on the reduction of energy consumption and the subsequent reduction in harmful environmental impacts.
Environmental objectives and targets have been established at relevant functions and levels within the organisation.
Consequently we conduct our own activities and operations in line with best environmental practice, seeking continual improvement and innovation within all Group businesses and activities.
All SIG plc companies will seek to: - Minimise the use of all materials, supplies and energy and wherever possible use renewable or recyclable materials.
Minimise the quantity of waste produced in all aspects of our business.
Adopt an environmentally sound transport policy.
Communicate our environmental policy to all staff and encourage them to participate in the achievement of our goals.
Supply and promote, wherever possible, those products, which contribute to energy conservation and do not damage the environment.
Ensure that the Company continues to meet present and future environmental standards and legislation.
To this end the Company has established an environmental management system in accordance with BS EN ISO 14001 : 2004.
30 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Environmental Management This is achieved by: During the year the focus has been on putting in place the Purchasing recycled and recyclable packaging where procedures and systems for the Group to introduce an practicable, including pallets and cartons.
Integrated Management System combining BS EN ISO 14001 Environment, OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety, and BS EN Returning reusable pallets to suppliers and similarly ISO 9001-2000 Quality.
Moody International Certification recovering used pallets from customers.
Limited have been appointed assessors for the UK and it is Reusing packaging opened at branch level for internal expected that an accreditation to the Standards forming BSI will transfers and deliveries.
Actively taking part in recycling and reclamation schemes The Group has identified the significant environmental impact through the Companys membership of Cleanapak and of its operations, which are summarised below together with working closely with suppliers to improve the accuracy of some of the actions taken to minimise them: - data.
SIG meets its responsibilities under the packaging waste regulations in the UK through Cleanapaks Energy and Transport compliance scheme.
As a founder member of the Association for the Conservation of Energy, SIG is active in seeking the raising of mandatory As part of the Groups ongoing development in this area, standards for thermal insulation.
Reducing energy consumption it has entered into a National agreement with Onyx for waste is a priority for its operations.
This is targeted both through removal in the UK.
Onyx operate their own waste recycling reducing the amount of fuel used in delivery and by increasing and reclamation compliance scheme.
the efficiency of lighting and maximising the use of natural light in the Groups properties.
Within its businesses SIG embraces electronic communication which has resulted in a significant reduction The Group has a policy of introducing the most energy in internal paperwork throughout the Group.
efficient vehicles commercially available, currently considered to be Euro IV category engines as soon as it is The Group is also actively looking at ways to reduce the practically possible to do so, as vehicles are due for renewal.
number of printed copies of its Annual Report and Accounts.
By making an electronic copy available to Internet users The Group employs staff to train drivers in driving through the Groups website the print requirement has been techniques aimed at reducing accidents and damage safe reduced by 1,000 copies.
The 2004 Annual Report and driving and to drive vehicles using methods and practices Accounts has been printed on environmentally friendly paper, which will reduce fuel consumption.
All vehicles are regularly which is Elemental Chlorine Free, suitable for recycling and is serviced to ensure that vehicle emissions are kept to a derived from renewable timber produced on a fully sustainable minimum.
The Transport staff in each location throughout the Group are required to make the most efficient use of vehicles, Suppliers consistent with meeting customer requirements.
Techniques The Group is in the process of implementing a formal supplier used include maximising vehicle loading within legal limits audit program which will commence in 2005 and which will so reducing vehicle numbers, and route planning, to include the environmental aspects of their operations.
minimise distances travelled and thereby fuel usage.
Environmental Management will be one of the criteria considered when examining a suppliers qualifications for Vehicles are being fitted with route planning equipment Group orders.
whenever it is practical and cost effective to do so.
This is aimed at using the most fuel efficient route for each journey.
Health and Safety The Group has a policy of seeking to reduce the amount The Group is committed to high standards of health and safety of motor fuel used relative to the number of deliveries and for all of its employees The Groups policy is displayed the amount of goods delivered, by a minimum of 1% per throughout the Groups workplaces and is available on the annum, beginning in 2005.
Whilst Mr. D Williams the Chief Executive is the Board Director responsible for the health and safety Packaging and Waste Reduction performance of the Group the SIG systems ensure that SIG works with its suppliers to minimise primary and secondary responsibility exists throughout all of the SIG businesses.
packaging, while maintaining necessary levels of packaging to ensure that the product arrives with the customer in perfect A plan has been put in place to ensure that all UK subsidiary condition.
As a break bulk supplier, SIG has recognised that the Company Directors will have received appropriate training in major impact of the organisation on environmental waste is health and safety in order to meet their responsibilities.
They through packaging and has taken a pro-active approach to are supported by specialist safety advisors who are either minimise the amount of new packaging entering the market Company or regionally based.
In particular forklift and and the amount of waste generated at branch level.
commercial driver training form an important part of SIGs 31 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Health and Safety continued Employees workplace safety policy, which impacts on reduced insurance The Groups policy is to provide equal opportunities to all existing employees and anyone seeking to join.
SIG recognises costs, enhanced pedestrian and site safety and improved that its reputation is dependent on the quality, effectiveness and working environment.
Daily inspections complement periodic skill base of its employees and is committed to the fair and training to keep the vehicle and driver at peak performance.
equitable treatment of all its employees and specifically to As part of the Boards ongoing commitment to its health and prohibit discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, sex, safety improvement policy a program to achieve OHSAS nationality or ethnic origin.
accreditation in the UK commenced in 2004.
Moody Employment opportunities are available to disabled persons in International Certification Limited have been appointed accordance with their abilities and aptitudes on equal terms assessors and an initial training program has already been with other employees.
If an employee becomes disabled during planned.
employment the Group makes every effort to enable them to continue employment, with re-training for alternative work where Community necessary.
The Group endeavours to contribute to the communities in The Group has a commitment to ensure that all employees and which it operates.
SIG is a member of Business in the management are properly inducted into the Group and given Community in the UK and has worked with that organisation to the necessary training to fulfil their roles and to develop their full help to develop its approach and practices.
achieved through charitable donations and other initiatives that help the community.
Wherever possible employees are There is an active and extensive programme of training in encouraged to get involved with their community.
Full-time dedicated professional trainers are employed, and their work is supplemented as required by external courses also provides financial support for employees undertaking and external agencies.
In order to meet ever increasing charity work overseas.
customer demand particular emphasis is placed on customer service and interpersonal skills in the training programme.
The Donations Group has a policy of increasing the number of man-hours of During the year the Group made charitable donations of 53k staff and management training conducted by a minimum of 2003 : 47k.
It is the Groups policy not to make political 5% per annum beginning in 2005. donations and no political donations were made in the year 2003 : Nil.
SIG recognises the importance of good communications with employees and acknowledges that there should be clear For 2005 the Group has introduced a new Charitable channels of communication and opportunities for consultation Donations Policy.
The Policy in addition to supporting local and dialogue on issues which affect both business causes where SIG employees are involved is to provide support performance and employees work lives.
This is achieved for three main charities for a period of three years.
The three through a variety of media including the Groups intranet, charities selected are: noticeboards, newsletters and meetings.
Henshaws College, which is a unique and pioneering Employees are encouraged to become shareholders in the education facility offering high quality independent living Company.
The Group currently operates a Save As You Earn skills training to around 65 young people aged between 16 Scheme and is considering launching a Share Investment Plan, and 23, all of whom are visually impaired with additional for which shareholder approval has already been obtained, later disabilities.
SIG supports five students from different parts of in the year.
At 31 December 2004 there were 1315 employees the UK: saving under the savings related schemes.
The Group operates a number of employee pension schemes Yorkshire Wildlife Trust where SIG will sponsor a number of across its business.
In the UK it operates a Defined Wildlife projects: and Contribution Scheme which is open to all employees.
The Hope and Homes for Children which is an international Groups UK Defined Benefit Schemes have been closed to charity engaged in providing homes and support for new members since 1997. children on a long term basis in third world and war torn The Personnel Director has responsibility for human resource countries.
issues within the Group and reports to the Chief Executive who The Group is also in the process of introducing a Payroll Giving is responsible for human resource issues at Board level.
