% recycled Total waste tonnes 2004 SkyePharma Annual Report 15 Corporate Social Responsibility As a pharmaceutical company, our mission is to Although we are only a small-scale manufacturer, Key Environmental Metrics 2004 develop better medicines to improve the treatment we aim to set a high standard through continuous 85% Production Volume of human disease.
We believe that this in itself improvement in our environmental performance.
Production Value unchanged is a worthwhile enterprise.
Furthermore, the We now undertake routine monitoring of various 28% Energy Used pharmaceutical industry as a whole is intensively measures of our environmental performance -29% Water Used regulated to ensure that all medicinal products at our main R&D and manufacturing sites in -19% Waste to Landfill are both safe and effective and manufactured to Switzerland, France and the USA, the results -43% Waste Incinerated the highest standards.
We also recognise that our of which are submitted to external review bodies.
Waste Recycled 14% business will prosper for the long term only if we -50 0 50 100 act in a responsible manner and we are conscious The upper chart shows that we achieved further % change 2004 vs 2003 of growing interest among investors and other environmental improvements in 2004.
Despite stakeholders in the compliance of companies a near-doubling of production volume, process with ethical, social and environmental issues.
changes allowed our use of energy to increase Waste output and % recycled by only 28% and we slashed our consumption 250 35 Ethical issues of water by 30%.
Furthermore we cut the amount 30 We aim to demonstrate and promote the highest of waste incinerated by over 40% and waste 200 25 standards of honest and ethical conduct throughout disposed by landfill by 20%.
We have now established formal in the amount of waste recycled reflects the 20 policies and procedures, including a Code of Ethics success of our efforts to recycle our waste 15 100 for Senior Financial Officers and a Complaints and wherever possible.
The lower chart clarifies this, 10 Whistleblower Procedure.
A new Code of Business showing that despite more than doubling our 50 5 Conduct and Ethics has been introduced throughout production volume since 2002, we have not only the company that complies with or exceeds the been able to cut the amount of waste generated 0 0 requirements of the published US SEC Nasdaq by more than 20% but also doubled the proportion 2002 2003 2004 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
of waste recycled, now up to one-third of the total.
Total waste % Recycled We aim for further incremental improvements Employment issues in the current year.
SkyePharma is committed to a policy of equal opportunities in its employment practices.
The Community We believe that the contribution an employee We aim to be a good neighbour wherever we have can make should not be affected by factors business units and to be active participants in the such as gender, age, marital status, disability, community.
While we do not believe that we have sexuality, race, colour, religion, ethnic or national a mandate from shareholders for the company to origin or any other conditions not relevant to make charitable donations, we do encourage our the performance of the job.
Our formal Equal employees to support various charitable causes.
Opportunities Policy is posted on the companys website.
We also recognise that a safe, secure and healthy working environment contributes to productivity and improved performance.
All employees are encouraged to participate in the companys share purchase scheme, and we promote internal communication of the Companys progress by means of an intranet and our periodic company magazine, Skye News.
The Environment As a Company we are committed to protecting the environment in which we conduct our activities.
Our formal Environmental Policy aims to foster a positive attitude towards the environment and to raise the awareness of employees to responsible environmental practices at all sites operated by the company.
We ensure compliance with all relevant legislation and regulatory requirements and where practical and economically viable we develop standards in excess of such requirements.
