CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW THE NEW CODE IS DESIGNED TO UNDERPIN THE PRINCIPLES OF HONESTY, INTEGRITY AND TRANSPARENCY IN OUR APPROACH TO BUSINESS DEVELOPING DIVERSE TALENTS www.
com, provides details dealings with suppliers and customers, WE CONTINUE TO INVEST IN THE of the challenging and rewarding career incorporating payments to suppliers DEVELOPMENT OF SMITHS EMPLOYEES.
opportunities that await graduates who and meeting customer requirements: WE SEEK TO ATTRACT, RETAIN AND join us.
employees, including commitment SECURE THE ENGAGEMENT OF OUR to non-discrimination, no bullying or PEOPLE BY OFFERING, AMONGST OTHER With over 100 manufacturing facilities, harassment, and the right to belong THINGS, MEANINGFUL WORK, THE Smiths has 27,200 employees worldwide or not to belong to a trade union: OPPORTUNITY TO DEVELOP AND TO TAKE at the year-end, of whom 80% are located health and safety: ON RESPONSIBILITIES THAT REFLECT in the United Kingdom and North America, environment: THEIR CAPABILITIES AND POTENTIAL.
and the others predominantly in continental communities: Europe, Japan and China.
Smiths continues public activities: We base our selection processes on to be a diverse group.
This diversity is a human rights, Smiths commitment to an individuals competencies and track strength that our employment policies the principles as defined in the United record.
Our appraisal process, leadership and practices are designed to support.
Nations Charter on Human Rights, development, and succession management including the issue of Child Labour: processes all support our drive to develop BUSINESS ETHICS reporting and internal controls: and our current and future leadership talent.
The Board has approved a Code of Corporate application and compliance.
The Smiths continues to invest in the acquisition, Code applies to all businesses and employees The Code is supplemented by guidance on by employees, of new and relevant skills.
To of Smiths Group worldwide.
The Code is its application to each divisions activities this end, training opportunities are provided designed to underpin the principles of and is being rolled out to employees with and employees are encouraged to participate honesty, integrity and transparency in our the aid of face-to-face briefings, other in their own development.
They are assisted approach to business and to sustain the communications materials and relevant in this by feedback on their performance to good reputation of Smiths.
There is a feedback loop for help them maximise their potential.
to each business within the Group reaching employees and arrangements are being its full potential through the recruitment made to monitor compliance with the We advertise most job vacancies internally and retention of talented and honest people.
on our website, thereby giving our people The Code has the following sections: the opportunity to help manage their own compliance with laws and regulations: The full text of the Code is published on the career development.
competition, addressing fair competition Smiths website www.
com practices: We continue to recruit graduates and proper business behaviour, including provide them with a structured training integrity, and dealing with conflicts of programme.
Our recruitment website, interest: 26 SMITHS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 OUR JOHN CRANE TYPE 2800 MECHANICAL SEALS ARE DESIGNED TO OPERATE IN EXTREME TEMPERATURES AND PRESSURES WITHOUT LEAKING POLLUTING SUBSTANCES.
500 TYPE 2800S WERE DELIVERED TO THE OIL AND GAS INDUSTRY IN 2003 ALONE COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT issues, including business efficiency Pension Scheme, have been designed Smiths continues to support good community initiatives, training and development, to ensure effective communication and relations practices, both corporately and environment, and health and safety.
consultation on current issues and proposed through our businesses worldwide.
changes to the pension schemes which may With long-established roots in their local In the UK, we are developing our affect members and or pensioners, and communities, where they are often the arrangements for workplace information to enable representatives to express their major employer, Smiths businesses take and consultation so that all sites will be views to the Company on the operation of an active role in the community in schools, covered by such arrangements.
This will the pension schemes.
The new Smiths UK universities and through charitable projects.
also facilitate the effective functioning National Pensions Forum will hold its first As well as actively raising funds for local of our Smiths European Forum SEF.
meeting in October 2004. charities and institutions, Smiths initiatives aim to encourage more students to follow The SEF meets annually to discuss issues of ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY science, maths and engineering careers.
a transnational nature with representatives Our priorities In the USA, businesses engage in senior of employees from EU countries.
Topics We have been working hard to give projects, where students are given a real covered at this years SEF meeting, held Environment, Health and Safety EHS issues life engineering task challenge within a in Cheltenham in May, ranged from: the a high priority in the way we do business in Smiths Aerospace programme, then work financial performance of the Group: Smiths Smiths.
Improved EHS performance reduces with Smiths engineers to resolve it.
In the external profile: trends towards flexibility costs, creates business opportunities and UK, Smiths continues to support the UK in workplace arrangements: the Groups minimises risk.
Our EHS strategy is to Year in Industry programme and the environment, health and safety performance focus on the following priorities: Young Engineers competition.
and progress: the challenges of operating implementing ISO 14001 across our in global markets and their impact on manufacturing operations: EMPLOYEE INFORMATION AND employment issues: and the need to review rolling out a comprehensive health and CONSULTATION the SEF constitution in the light of the safety audit system: The provision of information to, and expansion of the EU and the upcoming improving the quality and interpretation communication with, our employees implementation of the EU Directive on of our data: is an important part of how we conduct information and consultation.
listening to the views of our stakeholders our business.
At business unit level, and reporting on progress externally: communication takes place through Also in the UK, the Company has agreed improving our eco-efficiency by reducing a variety of channels including team new arrangements for consultation with energy, water, waste and emissions: briefings, presentations and newsletters.
employee representatives covering members reducing the number of work-related Many businesses have established forums and pensioners of all its UK pension schemes.
accidents: and for the exchange of information and best These arrangements, which build on existing integrating environmental thinking into practice, as well as discussion of current procedures for the Smiths Industries the design of new products.
SMITHS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 27 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW continued CHIEF EXECUTIVE SMITHS GROUP BOARD DIRECTOR, HUMAN RESOURCES GROUP EHS COMMITTEE DIRECTOR, ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY REGIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL EHS COORDINATORS business level EHS ADVISERS site level We continue to make progress in all these EHS in our operations.
In addition to the provided to the Board.
Quarterly reports areas and further details are included below.
printed summary report, we launched our are also provided to the executive directors first EHS website in 2004 to provide a more through the Group EHS Committee.
With Stakeholder dialogue and reporting detailed on-line version of the 2003 report senior representation from each of our We have taken forward the stakeholder and more frequent updates on items of divisions and corporate EHS expertise, this dialogue programme initiated last year, interest in the area of EHS.
This on-line Committee also develops Group policies with help from The Environment Council, report can be accessed via the reports and standards, reviews performance, an independent organisation with expertise section on the Smiths homepage including progress against Group targets, in facilitating stakeholder dialogue.
and prepares the Group EHS report.
innovative electronic consultation process sought stakeholder views on our 2003 Policy and organisation Policy statements are in place for both EHS report during its preparation stage.
Our arrangements for Corporate Governance environment and health and safety.
They We used this feedback to redraft some cover the assessment of all business risks apply to our operations worldwide and sections of the report.
and opportunities, including EHS issues.
can be viewed on-line via the report We have clear lines of responsibility for section 2003 EHS on our homepage Our stakeholders identified supply chain EHS management to ensure Group policies see www.
These management and the environmental and and standards are adopted by our facilities policies are underpinned by: social impacts of our products including worldwide.
Day-to-day responsibility and the implementation of internationally life cycle assessment, hazardous materials accountability for EHS management rests recognised standards for environmental management and producer responsibility with our operating companies.
Our director management, ISO 14001: legislation as worthy of attention.
The EHS, reports to the director Human company standards on health and safety scope of our EHS reporting was judged to Resources on EHS strategy, performance management best practice safety be appropriate.
We also received stakeholder and progress against plan.
The director manual and a comprehensive health feedback on broader questions of corporate HR chairs the Group EHS Committee and safety audit system : and responsibility outside the scope of the EHS and reports to the chief executive who measurement systems and targets for report.
This feedback assisted our ongoing is accountable to the Board for EHS improved performance.
review of our existing policies and practices performance.
At a local level, each in this area.
major facility has a safety adviser and ISO 14001, safety manual and audit system environmental coordinator, with further We have systems in place for the management A printed summary of our second EHS support provided by a network of regional of EHS risks and opportunities in our report was published in early 2004 covering EHS coordinators at business level.
In November 2000, the financial year ending 31 July 2003.
This we set ourselves a demanding three-year report was independently assured for the Annual reports and reviews of EHS risks, goal to achieve ISO 14001 certification for all first time and describes how we manage opportunities and progress against plan are our major manufacturing sites by the end of 28 SMITHS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 OUR NEEDLE-PRO SAFETY DEVICES PROTECT THE HEALTH AND SAFETY OF CLINICIANS AND NURSING STAFF, REDUCING NEEDLESTICK INJURIES AND THE RISK OF CROSS-INFECTION December 2003.
We achieved excellent results Measurement and targets Establishing meaningful trends in by the end of this period, with 99% of the EHS data is collected on-line from our performance is a challenge for the Group, targeted businesses, 79 out of 80 facilities in operations worldwide, aggregated and given the diverse profile of our operations, 17 countries, being certified.
New acquisitions then checked by the Group EHS function.
which changes through acquisitions and are required to achieve certification within Data and other EHS information reported disposals.
We will continue to improve two years of joining the Group.
externally are also reviewed as part of our the quality of our data, building on the external assurance process.
As promised, progress we have made during the year.
Comprehensive standards for health and an Independent Assurance Statement In 2004, we introduced a single system safety management are defined in a best was provided for the first time in our 2003 with common definitions applicable globally practice safety manual that focuses on EHS Report.
for the measurement and reporting of lost the management and control of common time incident data through work-related hazards in our operations.
60 hazards The following EHS aspects are reported: injury and work-related illness.
We expect and topics are covered ranging from risk energy and water use: to report this data in our next EHS report, assessments, hazardous substances, lone generation and disposal of waste: together with details of any health and working, safety committees, and travelling climate change through emissions of safety prosecutions, building on the on company business.
We assess greenhouse gases : reporting of environmental enforcement compliance with these guidelines and other emissions to air ozone depleting action over the last couple of years.
identify areas for improvement at site level substances and volatile organic using an internal self-assessment audit compounds solvents : Five-year reduction targets set against a tool called AuditMaster.
The audit tool product design for reduced environmental baseline year of 2001 have been set for the consists of over 300 questions divided into impact: Group as a whole in the areas of greenhouse four sections covering: lost time incidents and health and safety gas emissions, water use and waste disposal the management of health and safety: performance: to landfill, expressed per million sales.
We risk assessments and documentation: fines and prosecutions: exceeded our 20% waste reduction target control and protection arrangements: and environmental investment: normalised in tonnes per million sales health and welfare.
contaminated land and remediation: and in 2003, with a total reduction of 45%.
Group EHS Committee is reviewing future 95% of our major operations achieved waste targets in the light of changes in the the target we set, to complete at least We have chosen these areas as indicators Groups composition following last years one audit using AuditMaster by the end as they are relevant to all our operations disposal of the Polymer business, and of December 2003.
We will continue to roll as a manufacturing and technology group.
In addition, out this system across our operations.
Performance data for these areas is provided the Committee is looking at the scope for separately from the Annual Report and further reduction targets in other areas of Accounts via our website.
We expect SMITHS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 29 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW continued WE HAVE DESIGNED WEIGHT SAVING FEATURES IN OUR ELMS POWER MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS THAT REDUCE AVIATION FUEL CONSUMPTION ON HUNDREDS OF BOEING 777s to publish these revised targets in our next encouraged to practice product stewardship EHS report.
through their ISO 14001 systems, manuals, procedures and design teams.
During 2004 Our improved rating in the Business in the we developed in-house eco-design guidelines Environment BiE survey of the UKs top 350 and case studies for dissemination across listed companies provides a further measure the Group.
We also participated in the UK of our progress in recent years.
This survey Environment Agencys eLCA project to help has established itself as an authoritative develop and road test on-line tools for measure of the state of environmental simplified Life Cycle Assessment of products.
management within a major company and has become an accepted benchmarking Whilst we have come a long way in recent exercise within the business community.
years in how we manage EHS, we are not Our score has improved from 56% in 2001 complacent and recognise that there is still to 76% in 2004. much to do.
We value continued stakeholder feedback on our EHS reporting and welcome Eco-design comments via our on-line feedback form on The Smiths product range is diverse.
Some our EHS website see www.
of these products contribute positively to the environment mechanical seals reduce pollution while others benefit society at large by improving quality of life or by providing safer medical products.
Our detection products provide, for example, greater security for air travellers.
We are working to limit the environmental impacts of our products, especially in managing hazardous materials and in response to customer requirements e. g. on the Boeing 7E7 Dreamliner, Airbus A380 Super Jumbo and Lockheed Martins F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, and new EU legislation on electrical and electronic equipment.
Our manufacturing sites are 30 SMITHS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2004
