28156 annual 01 15 pe 7 12 04 12:04 PM Page 10 Corporate Social Responsibility www.
htm Our business success depends on being seen as a good neighbour in some 1,250 communities around the country.
We therefore attach great importance to all aspects of corporate social responsibility.
Our business success depends on being Our people seen as a good neighbour in some 1,250 The quality of our business depends Some 300 senior managers have completed it to date, and over the next 18 communities around the country.
We fundamentally on the quality of our therefore attach great importance to all 53,000 people.
We continue to improve months it will cover our entire business leadership to store manager level.
aspects of corporate social responsibility the way we recruit, develop, manage and CSR.
We maintain family-friendly policies and Our CSR policies and activities are To understand and engage them, we need last year we joined Age Positive, the reported in detail on our corporate effective two-way communication.
In April organisation that fights age discrimination.
uk, which 2003 we conducted a major staff attitude Some 9,000 of our 53,000 staff are over is regularly updated.
They are overseen by survey to guide the development of our 50 and we encourage age diversity our Corporate Social Responsibility Group, HR policies.
Everyone had an opportunity throughout the business.
Our employee which has a broad remit embracing the to contribute, and we were encouraged by survey found that older staff have requirements of the combined code on the 43% response rate and generally significantly greater pride in the company corporate governance published by the positive findings.
Overall, staff were and engagement with its objectives.
Financial Reporting Council on 23 July committed to the organisation, felt they Recent initiatives aimed at older staff 2003 as well as the more conventional, understood what was expected of them include removing the retirement age limit, non financial aspects of CSR.
and saw opportunities to progress.
raising our pension contribution age limit to 70 and extending service awards to 50 We continue our efforts to keep But they also identified issues we need to years service.
shareholders informed, particularly those address.
They wanted to know more who are unable to attend the annual about the future direction of the company.
Following each annual They wanted more customer focus, and Our health and safety performance general meeting we post full details of more customer service training.
And some matters not only to staff but also to votes and proxy votes cast, and a staff, particularly in Kwik Save, were customers and contractors.
We now summary of the Q&A session, on the concerned about personal security and publish an annual health and safety report, corporate website.
This year we will add a aggressive or abusive customers with details of the relevant policies, on web cast transmission of the Executive especially where stores are open late at our website.
To drive continuous improvement we have As members of Business in the We shared the survey findings openly with established a high level cross-functional Community BiTC we are working with staff and involved them in forming action Health and Safety Forum, meeting bithe organisation to establish a benchmark plans to address the points raised.
In monthly under the chairmanship of the for our current CSR performance and particular we stepped-up communication director responsible for health and safety.
targets for the year ahead.
We will about strategy from the Board down, and To promote effective two-way participate in this years BiTC Corporate introduced a variety of additional security communication we are currently trialling Responsibility Index for publication in measures including personal alarms, CCTV the idea of Safety Champions in stores.
We will run a followThese volunteers are trained to help store up survey during the course of the year.
managers meet their safety Effective training and development are responsibilities, and carry out regular crucial to our future success and we inspections to identify and remove continue to increase our investment.
As part of our During the year we completed the rollout involvement in European Safety and of our performance management process, Health Week in October, we issued new which now covers staff at all levels.
This health and safety videos to all stores.
sets performance objectives and defines Last year we invested 5.6 million in required behaviours so that we can property-related health and safety works identify training needs and reward good including disabled access and facilities, performance.
To help managers lead physical security, upgrading alarms, change throughout the organisation and asbestos compliance, lift safety, water inspire people to live our values, we hygiene and alterations to store delivery areas.
10 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 2004 28156 annual 01 15 pe 7 13 04 9:11 AM Page 11 Our people The quality of our business depends fundamentally on the quality of our 53,000 people.
A review of our health and safety management by our new insurance brokers, Willis, was very positive.
We can now move from addressing urgent issues to a more strategic approach with action plans for meeting three-year goals.
There were no fatalities or reportable dangerous occurrences during the year.
Through increased training, awareness and investment, we continue to improve our accident record.
After a 10% reduction in the previous year, we cut the number of reportable accidents by 17% including a 27% reduction in customer accidents.
There were sharp reductions in the incidence of arson damage down 50% and violence at work down 23%.
One category showed an increase: roll cage accidents rose 5%, albeit in a year when we increased roll cage use by a third.
We received four Prohibition Notices, all relating to lifts, and 21 Improvement Notices involving lifts, trip hazards, slicing machinery, racking and cages.
We complied with all notices quickly and effectively.
New regulations on managing asbestos in buildings came into force in May 2004.
We began preparations 18 months earlier, arranging surveys and risk assessments Staff survey for all 1,400 properties affected.
The data are available to staff on request.
We also organised ongoing asbestos awareness Overall, staff were committed training for staff and contractors.
We believe this proactive approach has made to the organisation, felt they Somerfield a leader in responsible asbestos management.
understood what was expected of them and saw opportunities to progress.
Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 2004 11 28156 annual 01 15 pe 7 14 04 8:16 AM Page 12 Muscular Dystrophy Campaign In 2003 04 we raised 168,000 in stores and our largest-ever charity ball raised a further 1.1 million in one night.
Business conduct We continue to play an active part in the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI involving corporate, trade union and nongovernmental organisations which is proving an invaluable source of best practice.
Our ETI report for 2003 is on the corporate website.
We have adopted the ETI code of conduct and use it to review our suppliers.
With some 680 direct own label suppliers, all supplied by numerous producers, monitoring the supply chain is an immense task.
Last year we focused on working much more closely with our fruit and vegetable suppliers.
We assessed their ethical trading performance, confirmed that they had properly trained people auditing their direct suppliers, and verified a sample of these audits.
The initial results were very promising and we The picture above, created for the Muscular Dystrophy Campaign, is Abigail Fallis shopping trolley are adopting this approach for all our sculpture, in the shape of a double helix the same shape as human DNA.
We continue to find cases of noncompliance with many aspects of our policy and are becoming much more successful in resolving them.
Although much of our attention focuses on the developing world, we also find abuses of casual labour through gangmasters in the UK.
Energy consumption During 2003 we made further progress in introducing Fairtrade products, which offer We set ourselves the target of a guaranteed return to producers.
New own label Fairtrade tea and coffee ranges are proving a successful addition to our reducing energy consumption by Fairtrade pineapples, bananas, and branded teas, coffees and chocolate.
13%, on a like for like basis, in the Fairtrade Fortnight in March 2004 gave sales a significant and sustained uplift.
Our progress We continue with our successful policy of to date indicates that we are likely sourcing regional foods from small producers for sale within the same area.
This allows us to support small to beat this figure.
businesses, promote local ties and 12 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 2004 28156 annual 01 15 pe 7 12 04 12:04 PM Page 13 Corporate Social Responsibility continued www.
htm and improved maintenance regimes traceable products, and give our hot air balloons, which helped charities customers the opportunity to support and good causes to raise over 460,000 reduced refrigerant usage by 10% in the year to February 2004 and we are nearby producers.
We now offer regional bringing the total raised since the balloons produce and meat in many of our stores were acquired to over 1 million.
committed to reducing our refrigerant emissions by this amount annually for the and more developments are planned.
Among numerous local initiatives, the next three years.
Last year we launched Partnership Plus, a Bristol Support Centre raised 7,250 from scheme guaranteeing individual farmers casual dress days and stores donated During the year we recycled 53,100 an assured market and agreed financial some 10,000 in gift vouchers to support tonnes of cardboard, 3,195 tonnes of return for their fresh beef before it is even local good causes.
This is a long-term close stores we are also refurbishing Staff from our property team have solved commitment based on concern for high and reusing equipment such as a problem that has bedevilled quality, animal welfare, local branding and refrigeration units, shelving and checkouts supermarkets how to make hearing aid full product traceability.
Beef from the wherever feasible.
induction loops work effectively in an scheme will be sold in the So Good range We are currently obtaining information environment where large amounts of from November 2005. metal interfere with transmission.
Unable from suppliers about their environmental performance, as a basis for reviewing our Customers have already reacted very to find a suitable product, the team positively to our So Good West Country realised that an induction loop could be supplier base.
We already have strict specifications for building material Corn Fed Chicken.
Packs carry a farm of fitted round the signs above the origin reference which enables customers checkouts.
All our stores now have at least suppliers and contractors, which include a ban on tropical hardwoods or derivatives to identify the farm where their chicken two of the new loops, which have was reared.
By entering the farm name on attracted a great deal of interest from from non-sustainable sources, asbestos, plastics capable of releasing toxins and our website at other retailers.
co. uk them under licence from Somerfield will urea formaldehyde foams.
html they can see pictures and make a donation to charity for each one Our logistics operation introduced 50,000 information about the farmer.
The sold to other retailers and service roll cages with quiet wheels during the Devonshire Bronze birds are reared to providers.
year, to reduce noise nuisance around RSPCA Freedom Food standards.
The supply chain Environment Community and charity We set ourselves the target of reducing rationalisation during the year will result in 4.4 million fewer miles being driven by our Raising money for charity and community energy consumption by 13%, on a like for projects is part of our neighbourhood like basis, in the five years to 2006 07.
Our own and suppliers truck fleets.
And collaboration between our vehicle ethos.
Our staff have an excellent record progress to date indicates that we are of fundraising for good causes both likely to beat this figure.
Total energy use, engineer and a trailer manufacturer has resulted in a new double-deck trailer that nationally and around individual stores.
including the impact of refurbishments and store openings and closures, is dramatically reducing our fuel Each year we choose one national cause consumption and costs.
Compared with remained unchanged last year due in as our Corporate Charity of the Year.
In part to a more systematic approach to conventional single-deck trailers, the new 2003 our staff chose the Muscular double-deck trailer increases capacity assessing running costs when buying Dystrophy Campaign, and in the first eight equipment.
Investment of 1.5 million in from 44 cages to 72.
Additionally the months the total raised in stores was over aerodynamic design improves fuel store lighting controls and water usage 168,000.
Our largest-ever charity ball, management should pay back within the consumption by 7% compared to the held on the cruise liner, the Aurora, raised normal double-deck design.
a further 1.1 million in one night.
trailers proved they could cut fleet mileage Somerfield is an active partner with the Over 19,000 employees support our Staff by 450,000 miles a year and save Carbon Trust, benefiting from sharing best Lottery Fund, which made donations 400,000 a year in operating costs.
We practice with other participating totalling over 91,000 to causes now have 16 and plan to increase the organisations.
Some 80% of our power nominated by staff.
These included 3,000 double-deck fleet further, in line with comes from Good Quality CHP, a to sponsor the Christmas Carol Concert at operational opportunities.
generator which is exempt from the Gloucester Cathedral, in aid of the Climate Change Levy because it reuses its Muscular Dystrophy Campaign.
New refrigeration systems also paid almost 60,000 operating costs for the Somerfield and Kwik Save Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 2004 13
