Spectris plc Annual report 2004 35 Corporate social responsibility statement Spectris is committed to creating business growth whilst ensuring Spectris products do not require capital-intensive that impact on the environment is minimised and that all activities manufacturing processes and hence their manufacture generally are conducted safely by well-trained and qualied employees.
has a low overall environmental impact.
Nevertheless, Spectris is committed to adopting environmentally responsible policies in The following review summarises the companys policies and its internal operations wherever its companies operate.
Further information and examples can be found on the companys website at www.
Environmental policy Spectris comprises a number of subsidiary companies which The environmental policy is designed to achieve the operate around the world.
Overall responsibility for developing following objectives: corporate policies on social, ethical and environmental matters to invest in the research and development of new products and for reviewing their effectiveness lies with the Spectris Board.
and applications to enable our customers to meet or exceed It is then the responsibility of the individual operating units to their environmental aspirations: communicate and apply that policy within their particular business taking account of local legislation and potential risks, to ensure to comply with all relevant environmental laws and implement compliance with the policy and to maintain, review and rene best practice in all of our activities: procedures accordingly.
to manage our resources to minimise raw material usage, Spectris policies and procedures, including those relating to dispose correctly of waste, reduce harmful emissions, and social, environmental, health and safety, employment and ethical promote energy conservation and recycling: matters, are communicated to all business units via the Spectris Group Manual.
As an integral part of the groups risk management to require procedures for identifying and minimising any and corporate governance processes, the presidents and finance significant environmental risks inherent in manufacturing, directors of the operating companies are required to certify, on an distribution and installation processes to be documented, and annual basis, compliance with the groups policies and procedures to ensure that such procedures become part of the denition and report on, where appropriate, all non-compliance events.
and validation of new products and processes: All policies and procedures are reviewed regularly and any updates to raise environmental awareness amongst our employees to are communicated to the operating companies.
enable them to carry out their work with due consideration The Board confirms there is an ongoing process for identifying, for the environment: evaluating and managing any significant risks, including those arising from social, ethical and environmental matters.
This process to work with our suppliers and business partners to provide forms part of the groups system of internal controls, described in confidence that their environmental impacts are managed to the Directors report on page 27, which are carried out within each standards acceptable to Spectris: operating business and reviewed regularly by the business group to report on our environmental policy on a regular basis to directors and the audit committee.
Since 2003, the review of our employees, shareholders, and other interested parties.
material environmental risk processes and procedures has been incorporated into the internal control and risk management Environmental management systems Operating companies function.
Additionally, the executive directors report to the Board representing over one-third of Spectris business by turnover are on any changes in the business and external environment which certied to ISO14001, the international environmental standard, present significant risk, whilst regular reports on legal exposure and with other companies working towards accreditation.
insurance matters are received from the company secretary.
Spectris has been a member of the FTSE4Good UK index of Risk assessment Identication of significant risk to the business socially responsible companies since its establishment in July 2001. comprises the determination of potential effects on the The three key areas of corporate social responsibility at Spectris environment resulting both from product manufacture and comprise environment, health and safety, and employment operation of the product at the customers site.
severity of the possible impact is assessed, together with the probability of its occurrence.
Where a significant risk is identied, Environment procedures for storage, normal operating conditions and Spectris is addressing concerns for the environment by emergency situations are documented and regularly monitored for designing products which provide customers with the ability compliance with the relevant regulations.
A nominated individual is to minimise their impact on the environment by reducing raw responsible for safety compliance and all employees are informed material consumption, waste and energy use or minimising and trained in safety procedures, depending upon the extent harmful emissions.
of their involvement with the product presenting the risk.
The productivity benets to a wide range of industrial Documented processes are in place to reduce the likelihood of an processes are both direct and indirect in saving natural resources.
Material environmental risk processes and procedures Some current examples where the use of our products has a direct are reviewed by the group internal control and risk manager.
beneficial contribution are shown on the companys website.
36 Spectris plc Annual report 2004 Examples of significant potential risk in Spectris operations Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations which set targets for the recovery and recycling of packaging waste.
include, within the PANalytical business which supplies instrumentation for X-ray analysis, the limited use of beryllium Health and safety in detector windows and X-ray tubes.
Some NDC Infrared Spectris recognises its health and safety duties and responsibilities Engineering products utilise low-level sealed radioactive sources.
and requires that all companies comply with the relevant health and In both cases, the legal requirements for the correct handling and safety legislation.
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for labelling of products and hazardous areas are documented and health and safety.
Procedures also exist for the All operations and where appropriate, each location are disposal of contaminated waste and, where appropriate, for required to issue and bring to the notice of their employees a recovering used products from customers and disposing of written statement of policy with respect to health and safety at them safely.
Audits of health and safety policies and procedures are Servomex supplies gas analysis instrumentation and its testing undertaken at all major locations by external assessors acting on facility includes the storage of ammable and toxic gases.
Operating behalf of the groups insurers on a periodic basis.
procedures for the movement and use of cylinders containing During the year no significant health and safety incidents such gases are in accordance with the appropriate legal were recorded.
requirements and are inspected annually by an independent authority.
Chemical and hazardous waste is disposed of in Health and safety policy accordance with written procedures.
During the year no significant environmental incidents were To ensure that everything that is reasonably practicable is recorded.
Investigative studies into contaminated land at Almelo done to prevent personal injury and to maintain a safe in the Netherlands, resulting from activities prior to ownership by working environment.
PANalytical, have now been completed.
These demonstrate that To provide and maintain plant and equipment, all service the contamination does not present a risk to groundwater and installations, systems of work, a workplace and a working recommend that the contamination be permitted to degrade over environment which are safe and without risk to health.
The company is awaiting approval from the Dutch authorities for this course of action and the To ensure that the involvement of all employees is promoted ongoing monitoring regime.
by demonstrating clear senior management commitment, staff consultation, provision of awareness and training programmes Compliance with future legislation Spectris products will shortly and ensuring the necessary safety devices are in place.
be required to conform to two new EU Directives: Waste Electrical To ensure that sub-contractors and suppliers utilise sound and Electronic Equipment WEEE and Restriction Of Hazardous health and safety practices.
Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment ROHS.
WEEE aims to reduce the waste arising from electrical and To check the effectiveness of such measures on a regular basis.
electronic equipment and improve the environmental performance of all the components involved in the life cycle of electrical and Human rights, employment and ethics electronic products.
ROHS aims to protect human health and the Spectris operates mainly in Europe and the US, but with a growing environment by restricting the use of certain hazardous substances presence in the Asia Pacic region.
Inevitably, different social and in new equipment.
The principal impact of the Regulations on employment conditions exist in different locations, but Spectris Spectris businesses is to require the replacement of lead-based places high priority on compliance with legislative and ethical solder used in the manufacture of printed circuit boards which is requirements within all jurisdictions in which business is largely carried out by third party suppliers with lead-free solder.
conducted, particularly with respect to employment practices, All affected Spectris businesses are working to ensure that both labour rights and equal opportunities.
The head of commercial they and their suppliers comply with the Regulations in a has overall responsibility for human rights, employment and ethics, timely manner.
but responsibility for implementing the policy is delegated to individual business units, with operational policies tailored to Waste minimisation Environmental awareness is the responsibility suit local needs.
of all employees and internal initiatives are in place at many sites to reduce energy usage and minimise wastage.
These include recycling Human rights Spectris believes in the fundamental rights of of waste paper, cardboard, plastic cups, aluminium cans and mobile people in all parts of the world and is committed to adopting phones, reducing energy consumption through the use of timers internationally recognised human rights standards wherever it and sensors to control hot water, air conditioning and lighting, operates.
The companys human rights policy is consistent with reducing water consumption and re-use of packaging and lling the Principles of Human Rights, as set out in the International materials.
Spectris complies with the UK Producer Responsibility Labour Organizations core conventions.
Corporate social responsibility statement Spectris plc Annual report 2004 37 Human rights policy Ethics policy It is the groups policy that all operating companies: prohibition on the giving or receiving of any bribes, extra contractual gratuities, inducements, facilitation payments or adhere to all legislation relating to employment rights similar, including compliance with the US Foreign Corrupt and equal opportunities, with particular reference to Practices Act, the US Racketeer Inuenced and Corrupt non-discrimination on the basis of ethnic origin, religion, Organizations Act and the UK Anti-Terrorism, Crime and gender, age, marital status, disability or sexual orientation: Security Act: ensure that physical, verbal and psychological abuse, or prohibition on the giving to customers or business contacts, sexual or other forms of harassment towards employees is or the receipt by employees, of any gifts, whether in cash or not tolerated: kind, in excess of 100 2150 in value, unless in the course of ensure that disabled persons are recruited, trained and normally accepted business entertainment and the subject of promoted on the basis of aptitude and ability.
If employees prior written approval by local management: become disabled, every effort is made to retain them and prohibition of donations including sponsorship, when necessary re-train them for appropriate posts: subscriptions or provision of employee time or facilities pay wages and benets which meet or exceed national to any political party or similar organisation: minimum requirements and adhere to working time the purchase of legal title or licence to all software in use: regulations where applicable: compliance with all export control regulations: shall not use forced labour nor employ workers under the school-leaving age of the country of employment.
avoidance of conicts of interest between employees Appropriate procedures are taken where practicable to private financial activities and their part in the conduct of ensure that this policy is applied to suppliers: Spectris businesses.
provide a safe and secure workplace and promote good Training and development Spectris recognises the value that health and safety and environmental practices: its employees create for the business and its commitment to adhere to applicable laws regarding the freedom of training and personal development, together with remuneration employees to associate or bargain collectively without policies which are designed to reward achievement, emphasises fear of discrimination.
the importance of retaining staff throughout the group.
Local policies, based on overall group guidelines, are set by The group monitors compliance with the policy through individual managements according to the needs of their various processes, including conrmation in writing by each business and local conditions.
business unit annually, and consolidated Equal Employment Opportunities Commission returns which are produced in the US.
Employee communications The company has a policy of The policy is regularly reviewed and any changes are communicated encouraging its operating companies to provide information to to the operating companies via updates to the Group Manual.
their employees on a regular basis.
This information includes The group recognises the value of consultation with employees matters relating to their companys performance, its prospects and Works Councils represent employees in applicable jurisdictions.
in the markets it serves and the future outlook of its business.
In addition, the group distributes a quarterly electronic newsletter, Employment and ethics All employees are expected to behave with Perspectives, which keeps employees abreast of group progress integrity and honesty and adhere to the code of ethics.
and is also available to shareholders at www.
Spectris operates a condential whistleblowing policy via Financial participation in the group is encouraged through the which employees may report to the businesss management team Savings Related Share Option Scheme in the UK and the groups or any Board member any concerns they may have over unethical executive share option schemes.
business practices or conduct, dangers to health and safety, or breach of company policies.
Any such disclosures are appropriately Community involvement Spectris operating companies worldwide investigated.
In addition, Spectris is committed to protecting the support local charities and participate in a range of community career and reputation of employees who report wrongdoing in activities.
Charitable donations in 2004 totalled 35,000, of which accordance with established procedures, as long as their disclosures 8,000 were in the UK 2003: 137,000, of which 8,000 in UK.
are delivered in good faith and seek to safeguard the best interests of Examples of community activities are described on our website.
