Corporate and Social Responsibility for the year ended 31 December 2004 Abbot Group has always recognised that a well run business balances the expectations of all key stakeholders: our customers, shareholders, employees and the communities in which we live and work.
In 2004 we have made significant progress to further improving the way our business balances these expectations throughout the world.
As a successful business, we have developed Health and Safety Improvement We have seen dramatic and improved, over many years, our policies The Group has always focused on its clear improvements in safety and procedures for the management of safety responsibility to every one of its staff to provide performance in our and the environment and the protection of the a safe and healthy working environment.
operations in the welfare of our employees.
In 2004 many operations delivered exemplary Caspian region.
safety performance and our overall performance In addition, we have always recognised our role was significantly better than our key benchmark in the community and contributed to the growth with the International Association of Drilling of communities through supporting activities, Contractors IADC.
promoting improvements in facilities and services and supporting charitable foundations.
However, we are very aware that safety performance is extremely fragile and we Over the past years, we have been developing have seen operations with previously excellent our standards and policies to help us meet our performance suffer a number of incidents in objectives in these areas.
In 2004 our key activity 2004 resulting in a poorer overall performance has been the commissioning of an independent for the Group.
In particular, it is with great regret benchmarking study to allow us to review what that we report a fatality to a subcontractor at we have done, identify if there may be more we one of our sites in Russia.
Many operations have should do and refocus our efforts for the future.
continued their excellent safety performance and Our 2004 CSR Report defines our progress in the UK we have received recognition for this against each of our core values namely: from oil industry organisations as well as Scottish Health and Safety: Enterprise.
Outside the UK, operations in Kazakhstan, Oman, Iran, Pakistan and Brunei Environmental Stewardship: have worked continuously for a year or more Valuing all People: and without injury.
12 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 KCA DEUTAGS DART DS6000 virtual real time drilling simulator is revolutionising training, and engineering design.
A second centre with similar equipment has been opened in conjunction with BP in Baku at the Caspian Technical Training Centre to train Azerbaijani personnel.
Total IADC KCA DEUTAG Comparison 4 3.66 3.5 3 2.34 2.23 2.5 2.21 2 1.56 1.5 1.24 1.16 Rig T-47 3000hp heavy 0.99 0.8 1 rig drilling on an artificial island in the Kashagan field, 0.65 IADC Total Recorded Incident Frequency 0.63 0.5 Kazakhstan has a successful 0.61 KCA DEUTAG Total Recorded Incident Frequency zero discharge policy, 0.35 0.26 IADC Lost Time Incident Frequency 0 including a water treatment 0.21 0.26 plant that produces effluent KCA DEUTAG Lost Time Incident Frequency 2001 2002 water that is fit for 2003 2004 human consumption.
ABBOT GROUP plc 13 Corporate and Social Responsibility for the year ended 31 December 2004 continued Environment Particularly apparent to us is the issue Environmental protection has been a key part of human rights and security in regions of of our business for a number of years and conflict.
Consequently, we have made some we continue to look for ways to improve our difficult decisions this year.
Our main emphasis is to eliminate decisions not to currently carry out operations the potential for any environmental impact which in Iraq and Sudan.
we aim to achieve at an early stage through risk assessments and site assessments prior to Business Ethics operations at all new locations.
We have defined a code of business ethics, through our statement of business principles In 2004, specific efforts to reduce our impact and conflict of interest policy, to provide our on the environment have included significant employees with expectations and guidance investment on more fuel efficient and reduced with regards to human rights, bribery emission engines, improvements in sewage and corruption.
treatment, searching for more environmentally friendly chemicals, improved waste management In 2005 we are seeking to support our staff and improvements in rig design.
around the world in continuing to conduct our business in a transparent and honest manner Valuing all People by developing guidance, training and a support In all areas we implement a framework mechanism for our employees to ensure that of policies and procedures to ensure fair and business ethics issues are positively addressed just labour standards throughout our operations.
and the principles of the United Nations Global The key principles of these policies are that: Compact on business behaviour are clearly Investing in people understood throughout the Group.
recruitment and advancement within the Health and Safety is not just about systems and business is based on ability Michael J. L. Salter procedures but about Chief Operating Officer we recognise our workers right to freedom communicating our 11 March 2005 of association and collective bargaining values to staff, contractors, clients and others involved we prohibit the use of forced, compulsory in activities.
introduced leadership training at various levels We have over a number of years developed from directors to site a business model which recognises the strength managers across of local relationships and the employment of the organisation.
To support our local workforce we undertake a variety of activities aimed at personal development and training at all levels of the business.
We continue to support a number of community based projects that are improving opportunities for social and economic development.
The focus of this support remains in the areas of education, training and skills development.
The Group has always focused on its clear responsibility to every one of its workers to promote human rights in its daily activities.
We are taking tangible action to promote human rights, and the commitment of individuals at the management level within the Group is strong.
14 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 We have over a number of years developed a business model which recognises the strength of local relationships and the employment of local staff, and commensurate with best person for the job we endeavour to employ local people regardless of creed or gender.
The Middle East is a key strategic region for the Group.
In 2004 KCA DEUTAG celebrated 40 years continuous operations in Oman.
The Group is committed to a policy of Omanisation and employs around 450 nationals in-country.
