A R 2004 9 3 05 03:51 pm Page 12 investing in people At Spirax Sarco we pride ourselves on having a highly trained workforce.
Our employees are our most important asset and we seek to ensure that we support that statement with our actions.
In the UK we operate an apprenticeship scheme which is an excellent way to recruit and train young people.
The company retains two thirds of its apprentices, which is double the national average retention rate.
Spirax Sarco has obtained the UK Investors in People award.
This is a national standard awarded to organisations that place the development of people at the heart of their business strategy.
It is based on the view that organisations that train and develop their staff are best equipped for success.
Many of our companies offer funded further education for employees to develop their knowledge and skill base.
In the USA many employees are taking the opportunity of preparing themselves for future opportunities by pursuing a higher level of education through an Educational Assistance Program.
The plan covers technical school training, four-year degrees at university and advanced degrees, such as MBAs.
in-house training apprenticeships funded further education postgraduate professional development Local and international training programmes have also been set up to train both technical and sales people.
These internal courses provide not only the tools for the employees to do their jobs more effectively but provide a great forum for exchanging experiences and knowledge.
We also invest in the education of our customers by providing training for them at their own premises, at one of our 35 training centres worldwide, or on our website.
Our sales company in Korea has also recently opened a new training centre to provide a wider range of courses to meet with customer requirements.
10 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2004 9 3 05 03:51 pm Page 13 an employee's view I joined Spirax Sarco eight years ago on an Engineering Advanced Modern Apprenticeship Scheme.
Through a sponsored training programme I am now a qualified engineer, working in the business development department based at the Steam Trap Product Unit in the UK.
I chose the modern apprenticeship route because the combination of training offered me good long-term benefits, in a practical training environment, which could lead straight to a permanent job.
Throughout my apprenticeship I was given a lot of support.
This gave me confidence in learning about the many aspects of the business and how these interrelated, something which has since proved invaluable.
Spirax Sarco has given me the opportunities to develop my key competencies and focus on what I am good at.
After successfully completing my apprenticeship, the Company supported me through University.
I studied Engineering Product Design and Management, and gained a BSc Hons degree.
Following my degree I was offered the job as assistant marketing engineer, at the Steam Trap Product Unit.
I am now responsible for creating product specifications, new product releases and technical support, reviewing statistics, supporting product quality and providing training.
Spirax Sarco has given me the opportunities to develop my key competencies and focus on what I Michelle Leggett am good at.
Whats more I am still learning and hope assistant marketing engineer, to continue developing my career with the Company.
Steam Trap Product Unit, UK.
