12 Spirent plc Annual Report 2004 Corporate social responsibility statement We recognise that our social, environmental and ethical conduct has The development of our performance management systems, including an impact on our reputation.
We therefore take our corporate social an online system in parts of the Group, will enable the Group to deliver responsibilities CSR seriously and are committed to advancing our appropriate training programmes which, when coupled with links to the policies and systems across the Group to ensure we address and monitor education sector at undergraduate and postgraduate levels, reinforce all aspects of CSR that are relevant to our business.
These include good our commitment to learning and development.
ethical behaviour, concern for employee health and safety, care for the Management development and succession planning are processes which environment and community involvement.
are recognised as being critical to the future success of the business and We strive to maintain a productive and open dialogue with all parties are managed accordingly.
They are constantly re-evaluated particularly who may have an interest in our activities including shareholders, as the labour markets in which Spirent operates recover.
We have an established investor As the importance of human resources HR metrics to the strategic relations programme, conduct regular customer satisfaction surveys, planning process is recognised, we are implementing a global HR system monitor supplier performance and actively encourage feedback from within our Communications group to help facilitate organisational our employees.
We maintain our website as one of the main routes development, supported by the adoption of a shared services model for providing information to interested parties and for contacting us.
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for CSR and is committed to Intellectual property and innovation are critical to Spirents future developing and implementing appropriate policies while adhering to success and appropriate career paths have been developed for technical a fundamental commitment to create and sustain long term value staff which operate in parallel with more traditional management career for shareholders.
As a Group driven largely by technological innovation paths.
Initiatives such as our Engineering Fellowship Programme help to our main assets are the talents and skills of the people we employ.
We also believe that it is important to reward innovation Board does not believe that, to date, the activities of the Group present and the continuous development of the organisation and a number of any significant environmental risks.
We have established a committee recognition programmes have been implemented across the Group.
to coordinate Group-wide CSR efforts that meets on a regular basis.
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all existing Ethics and prospective employees without unlawful or unfair discrimination.
Full Spirent expects that all of its business is conducted in compliance with support is given to the employment and advancement of disabled persons high ethical standards of business practice.
We apply these standards to and this is reinforced through the Groups Ethics Policy.
all dealings with employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
Local business unit management is responsible for developing and The Groups Ethics Policy, which has been approved by the Board, is implementing arrangements for employee information, consultation, available on our website at www.
Our Ethics Policy communication and involvement which best meet their own particular has been developed to ensure that the Groups business is conducted needs within the context of a Group cascade process.
in adherence with high ethical and legal principles and sets standards of Similarly, the importance of two-way communication is recognised professionalism and integrity for all employees and operations worldwide.
particularly as it relates to the business and its performance.
A variety of The Ethics Policy also contains provisions for whistleblowing whereby tools are utilised to achieve this including senior management briengs, employees may report, in confidence, suspected wrongdoings.
all-hands meetings, the regular distribution of an in-house magazine, Appropriate ethical behaviour is reviewed as part of the Groups internal viewpoints, and increasing use of online communication.
Health and safety Employees The Chief Executive is the director appointed by the Board to have The Group aims to attract, retain and motivate the highest calibre of responsibility for the health and safety and environmental performance employees within the context of an operating structure that encourages of the Group.
The Group Health and Safety Policy places responsibility for the Employees are provided with a continuing learning and development management of health and safety on the local business unit management, opportunity to full their potential and this process is managed to who are supported by the Group internal control team and local external align development with the Groups strategic and business units goals advisers, where necessary.
Formal performance management processes are now Each business unit has a senior individual designated as being responsible operating in the majority of the Group, linked to the vision and values for ensuring the business unit conforms to local statutory health and safety of the organisation.
These processes are reinforced with appropriate regulations as well as Group policy.
All business units provide employees remuneration and incentive systems.
with a written health and safety policy.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2004 13 Spirents Operational Excellence Programme which is further described A large proportion of our products are designed and manufactured in the Directors statement on corporate governance on pages 16 to 18, to take account of the recycling and disposal of the product at the continues to further the corporate objective of continuous improvement end of its life cycle.
Our businesses are committed to meeting the first in the area of health and safety.
An annual internal report on our health phase of The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations and safety performance is collated from a questionnaire completed by the WEEE Regulations and are working towards full compliance with all our business units.
The highlights of this report in respect of 2004 are: The Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations 2004 the RoHS Regulations.
we had 405 incidents that required on-site First Aid, an 11 per cent reduction compared with 2003 and 17 per cent down on 2002: The environmental performance of the Group continues to improve with business units meeting goals for reducing energy consumption, reducing we saw a small increase in ill health long term sickness levels with waste and greater recycling.
There are also programmes in place aimed five cases reported compared with three in 2003 and four in 2002: at reducing the amount of waste sent to landll by increasing the volume we saw a reduction in accident frequency and severity: and of recycling and also training and education initiatives to promote and improve environmental performance.
we had two accidents that required short term hospitalisation compared with one in 2003 and none in 2002.
The vacant site where historic activity had led to minor land contamination is continuing to be remedied with full cooperation of the local statutory body.
The business units undertake annual independent external reviews of health and safety performance and also have regular designated health Group performance and risk exposure reviews are undertaken in parallel and safety awareness training, particularly at our manufacturing sites.
with those for health and safety as described above.
The Groups health and safety performance and significant risk exposures Community are reviewed regularly by management, twice a year by the Audit Spirent recognises the importance of local communities to our businesses Committee and annually by the Board.
and through our Charitable Donations Policy we strive to be a responsible partner in the communities in which we operate.
We encourage all our Environmental businesses to support the particular needs of their communities by Good environmental practice and the impact that our operations have contributing to local charities and community initiatives.
Support takes the on the environment are of great importance to Spirent.
The main aim of form of employee time and skills, gifts in kind and cash donations.
In 2004 Spirents Environmental Policy is to comply with local, state and national Spirent made charitable donations of 63,000 2003 63,000.
In response environmental legislation in all jurisdictions in which we operate and to to the tsunami disaster in South Asia the Company made a charitable adopt responsible environmental practices.
The full text of our Environmental contribution of 50,000 in early 2005.
Policy is available on our website at www.
In 2004 we continued to support local education through a range of Business units are required to comply with Group policy and local initiatives including career shadowing days, eld trips for young people statutory regulations and are encouraged to set their own environmental and internships and work experience programmes for school and university targets.
An annual environmental questionnaire is completed by each students.
During the year we supported The Duke of Edinburghs Award business unit which highlights their environmental performance.
programme, sponsored the Best Electronic Engineering Student at the Our Network Products groups manufacturing sites worldwide operate annual Science, Engineering & Technology Student of the Year Awards ISO 14001 accredited environmental management systems.
In addition, and were actively involved in the Young Enterprise programme in the UK.
various sales and distribution locations worldwide have achieved ISO We aim to provide support in all regions in which we operate.
For example, 14001 accreditation and a number are working towards achieving this in South Africa our employees have provided technical training for accreditation.
The Communications groups businesses are also introducing disadvantaged students through an Institute of Electricians programme.
formal environmental management systems, with a number having already Our employees serve our communities by volunteering their time achieved ISO 14001 accreditation.
to various programmes including Habitat for Humanity and Junior The majority of Spirent Group manufacturing sites have ISO 9001 Achievement in the US.
We continue to donate materials and equipment accreditation, and in the case of the Service Assurance division also to local causes throughout the world.
We encourage our employees TL-9000 accreditation.
to become involved in fund raising activities for local concerns and community initiatives.
Through activities such as food drives, collections Business units closely monitor energy consumption and where possible and sponsored events our businesses help organisations which provide have introduced energy efficient measures, such as replacing existing food, clothing and other assistance to disadvantaged children and equipment with more energy efficient machinery, installing light sensors families around the world.
and tting temperature control devices.
Spirent continues to support and encourage all our employees and businesses to pursue new ways of contributing to their communities.
