Corporate Responsibility Statement SSE believes that the successful application of these principles of corporate responsibility Scottish and Southern Energy believes that will improve its operational performance, corporate responsibility is consistent with, safeguard its reputation, contribute to and essential to, the maintenance of financial performance and support financial strength and the achievement shareholder value.
It believes that the surest way of achieving its dividend targets The Board is confident that there are is to manage its core businesses well, and effective systems in place within SSE to to ensure that responsible business practice assess and manage corporate responsibilityis fully integrated into the culture and related issues and risks.
These systems are management of its operations.
regularly monitored and reviewed and the Board is satisfied that corporate During the year, SSE reviewed its core responsibility matters do not represent a values, and refined them so that they material threat to SSE.
The Board has committed focus explicitly on achieving sustainable SSE to eight principles of growth by: Workplace corporate responsibility, SSE as a whole directly employed 9,785 focused on issues ofputting customers first: staff at the end of March 2004, all in the UK, compared with 9,474 the year before.
particular significance to being open and honest: There was a 10.8% turnover of employees.
SSE and the sectors in which it operates.
The being safe, strong and resourceful: and SSE believes that all work can be done principles adopted reflect in such a way that no-one, whether an four impact areas definedcaring for the environment.
employee, contractor, customer or member by Business in the of the community, suffers from its In line with this, the Board has committed operations.
It believes that all accidents Community: workplace: SSE to eight principles of corporate and injuries are preventable and it aims to environment: marketplace: responsibility, focused on issues of provide staff with training, work methods and community.
particular significance to SSE and the and equipment to achieve that goal.
sectors in which it operates.
The principles adopted reflect four impact areas defined Being safe is a core value in the business.
by Business in the Community: workplace: In line with this, SSEs Health, Safety and environment: marketplace: and community.
Environment Manual, which has the status They have also been selected on the basis of a work instruction, emphasises that safety that there are clear and measurable will not be compromised for business performance indicators.
interest or operational pressures and all injuries, plant damage and near misses will SSEs principles of corporate responsibility be reported and investigated.
The Director are: with lead responsibility for Health and Safety is Colin Hood.
achieving the highest standards of health and safety performance: In the year to 31 March 2004, there was a total of 27 lost-time and reportable incidents providing opportunities for employees to across the entire SSE group, which is one be shareholders in the company: fewer than in the previous year and equivalent to 276 per 100,000 employees.
being actively responsible by complying Of the 27 injuries, 14 were the result of with and exceeding, where appropriate, slips, trips and falls.
There were no all statutory and regulatory environmental fatalities, and 48 business units out of a requirements: total of 56 were accident-free.
During the year, a particular emphasis was placed on prioritising, and continually improving, safe driving, both in and out of work.
The environmental performance across all number of serious, or potentially serious, activities: road traffic accidents involving employees driving company vehicles fell by more than working to ensure that the quality half, to 23. of service delivered to customers is sector-leading: SSE recognises that effective injury prevention requires not only a responding effectively to any customer documented management system but also concerns about products and services: the development of a safe and healthy work culture.
The Health and Safety ensuring that the communities which SSE Executive has endorsed a Health and serves have a safe and reliable supply of Safety Climate Survey Tool to help assess electricity: and the health and safety culture within an organisation.
This was piloted within encouraging employees to be good Southern Electric Contracting during citizens in the communities in which 2003 04 and will be extended to other they live and work.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Responsibility Statement continued It is SSEs policy, where possible, to provide employment opportunities for disabled A comprehensive review of processes and people.
Staff who become disabled are procedures within SSEs contracting supported in continuing employment through business was undertaken and implemented identification of suitable jobs and the following an incident during gas provision of any necessary re-training.
installation work in Clackmannanshire in 2002, which resulted in Southern Electric Where an employee or agency worker were Contracting SEC being prosecuted and to become aware of information indicating fined 5,000 under the Health and Safety that SSE or an employee of SSE is failing at Work Act.
to recognise the obligation to act responsibly, they would be encouraged to disclose it.
SSEs training policy is to ensure that The individual would be protected from employees have the necessary skills, suffering any form of disadvantage or action knowledge and attitudes to perform their as a result of raising a concern in role effectively.
In line with this, a diverse accordance with SSEs policy on public and comprehensive training programme is interest disclosure.
During 2003 04, for example, a confidential grievance procedure for total of 95 employees achieved Scottish or employees, which was formally invoked National Vocational Qualifications in Call by three employees during 2003 04.
Handling, Customer Service and Business Administration.
A further six employees SSEs Employee Assistance Programme achieved SVQs in Operation and includes the provision of professional Maintenance of Hydro Generation.
In counselling services for employees who have addition, there are 220 craft apprentices personal problems, including relationship and 50 adult trainees within SSEs or financial matters.
There is a well-established Joint Negotiating SSE also seeks to provide training and Consultative Committee, which has a programmes which enable employees to take consultative and negotiating role and which opportunities to undertake different roles in includes lay and full-time representatives other parts of the group.
A total of 25 staff from the five recognised trade unions.
in IT have been recruited internally to In addition, a Health, Safety and reduce SSEs use of external IT contractors, Environmental Advisory Committee is in line with general policy.
SSE also gives convened in each quarter of the year to Providing opportunities financial support to employees who study consult employees on these three subjects.
for employees to become in their own time for further education The outputs from the Committee are shareholders in SSE is qualifications related to their work, and a implemented through site-specific health, one of the principles of total of 57 staff were supported in this way.
corporate responsibility SSEs policy is to deal with genuine and Participation in SSEs affairs is encouraged which the Board has acceptable sickness absence confidentially through team meetings, briefings, an adopted.
Ownership of and sympathetically and it aims to help internal magazine and an employee intranet.
shares is encouraged by employees make a speedy return to health During the year, employees were given the a Share Incentive Plan, and to work by seeking and taking into opportunity to attend and participate in in which 30% of account medical advice.
During 2003 04, roadshow sessions with directors and employees participated in the average number of days of absence from senior managers.
work per employee was 5.47, compared with 2003 04 and by a separate 5.90 the year before.
Providing opportunities for employees to Save-As-You-Earn scheme, become shareholders in SSE is one of the in which 23% of The maintenance of a healthy workforce is principles of corporate responsibility which employees participated.
a key element of SSEs health and safety the Board has adopted.
Ownership of shares policy and in line with this the decision has is encouraged by a Share Incentive Plan, been taken to issue a confidential general in which 30% of employees participated in health audit questionnaire to employees 2003 04, and by a separate Save-As-Youduring 2004 05.
The questionnaire covers Earn scheme, in which 23% of employees areas such as diet, smoking, stress and participated.
A number of important mental health and allows health changes to both schemes have been improvement guidance to be directed to introduced for 2004 05 in order to increase individual employees, as well as to further the number of employees employees as a whole.
SSEs equal opportunities policy aims to A summary of SSEs policies for ensure that all members of staff and job employees is published on its website applicants are no less fairly treated due to www.
sex, marital status, race, disability or other conditions not justified in law or relevant Environment to performing the job.
There were no Caring for the environment is one of SSEs occasions during 2003 04 on which SSE core values and its environment policy is was found to have failed to comply with designed to ensure that it complies with and equal opportunities legislation.
exceeds, where appropriate, all statutory Scottish and Southern Energy plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 and regulatory environmental requirements Environment Annual Report 2004 and sets good standards.
to prioritise and continually improve environmental performance across all Marketplace activities.
The policy is set out in full in Putting customers first is one of SSEs core SSEs Environment Annual Report 2004, values.
It supplies electricity and gas to along with SSEs performance in respect of around 5.5 million customers, in a market the environmental targets set for 2003 04. which has been fully competitive since The Director with lead responsibility for the Ofgem removed all remaining supply price environment is David Sigsworth.
The Director with lead responsibility for energy marketing is During 2003 04 there was one Alistair Phillips-Davies.
environmental incident, compared with two in the previous year, which resulted in To be successful in this market, SSE SSE participated in the SSE being served with a formal procedural believes it is essential to provide a sectoreighth Business in the notice by the environmental regulator.
leading quality of service to customers Environment Index, SSEs target for any given year is zero and, where necessary, to respond effectively the UKs leading environmental incidents.
to any customer concerns about products environmental and services.
SSEs ISO 14001 certified Environmental benchmarking tool, the Management Systems cover its major power It recognises that customers will continue results of which were stations, which have the highest to acquire products and services from announced in March 2004. environmental impact.
SSEs portfolio of companies they respect, and that SSEs score improved gas-fired power stations is the most inappropriate marketing and sales from 97.92% last year to thermally-efficient in the UK and it is the techniques and inadequate customer service 98.13% this year, making largest generator of electricity from will directly damage the business.
renewable sources in the country.
it the top-performing The quality management system of energy electricity company.
In 2003 04, carbon dioxide emissions from sales has been approved by Lloyds Register It meant SSE featured in SSEs own generation portfolio were 8.5 Quality Assurance to BS EN ISO BiEs Premier League of million tonnes, which was comparable to 9001:2000.
The system is applicable to companies for the second the previous year.
During 2003 04, SSE marketing, sales and customer service was selected to participate in The Carbon relating to the supply of electricity and gas.
Trusts Carbon Management Pilot Programme which will create possible Towards the end of 2003, the industryoptions for reducing emissions of carbon leading study by JD Power confirmed that dioxide from power stations.
SSE has the highest customer satisfaction among electricity suppliers in the UK, the To benchmark its activities, SSE second successive year in which this has participated in the eighth Business in the been achieved.
The study examined Environment Index, the UKs leading customer satisfaction across six factors in environmental benchmarking tool, the order of importance : power quality and results of which were announced in March reliability: supplier image: price and value: 2004.
SSEs score improved from 97.92% billing and payment: meter reading: and last year to 98.13% this year, making it the customer satisfaction.
It meant SSE featured in BiEs Premier Throughout 2003 04, SSE has focused on League of companies for the second improving its operations further to keep consecutive year.
complaints about its products and services to a minimum.
Despite its significantly SSE is a constituent of the FT-SE4Good enlarged customer base, it secured a 23% Index series, which is governed by selection reduction, to just over 2,600, in the number criteria covering environmental and of complaints referred to energywatch for corporate responsibility issues.
Throughout 2003 04, SSE consistently had the lowest rate of Encouraging energy efficiency is also part of complaints to energywatch about customer SSEs environmental responsibility and the transfers and billing.
Environment Annual Report 2004 includes the Energy Efficiency Annual Report.
SSEs SSE is a buyer, as well as a seller, of target under the Energy Efficiency products and services.
In order to be a Commitment EEC 2002 to 2005 is to responsible purchaser, it has subscribed secure 6,033GWh of fuel-standardised to the Verify system, operated by an energy savings equivalent to the carbon independent company, Achilles, which dioxide emissions of a typical 130MW gasassesses the environmental, safety and fired power station.
Good progress has been quality commitment of all potential made towards achieving the EEC, with suppliers and contractors.
savings from measures installed expected to exceed the target.
Community Being open and honest is a core value Full information on energy efficiency and in SSE and central to this is an active environmental matters is available in SSEs programme of engagement with Scottish and Southern Energy plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Responsibility Statement continued matched by SSE up to a limit of 500 per employee.
In 2003 04, almost 300 stakeholders, including community employees took part in the scheme, which representatives, such as MPs and MSPs, helped them to raise a total of 210,000 and organisations with an interest in SSEs for good causes.
The Director with lead from Lands End to John OGroats for Sight responsibility for community matters is Savers International and a skydive in aid of Ian Marchant.
In line with SSEs commitment to engage In 2000, SSE pledged to help raise st with stakeholders, the community benefit 1 million for NSPCC and Children 1 by package for the SSEs wind farm 2005.
This was achieved a year early, in development at Hadyard Hill was agreed in March 2004.
Overall, in 2003 04, SSE conjunction with the local MSP and directly supported charitable and community Councillor.
In addition, a major programme activities with donations totalling over of community consultation has been 300,000. undertaken since January 2004 to elicit views on possible routes for the new During 2003 04, SSE decided to establish 400,000 Volt electricity transmission line partnerships with five childrens hospices connecting Beauly and Denny.
This Rachel House and Robin House in Scotland, programme of consultation is in addition Naomi House and Helen House in central to that which occurs under the statutory southern England and Ty Hafan in Wales consents procedure.
in order to raise funds to support their activities.
In addition, it decided to sponsor SSE continues to believe that a key and support a major fund-raising bike and corporate responsibility is to ensure that the hike event of up to 70 miles for the communities which it serves have a safe and Maggies Cancer Caring Centres at Loch reliable supply of electricity.
For this reason, Ness in May 2004.
Around 500 employees the operational performance of Power from all parts of SSE took part, including Systems, set out on pages 9 and 10, is a key all five Executive Directors.
Details of the performance indicator.
In addition to the Directors performance in the event are reduction in the number of minutes available in return for a donation to customers were without supply during the Maggies Centre year, the number of actual interruptions per email info@scottish-southern.
customer in 2003 04 was 0.90 in the SSE believes that Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution SSEs policy on community matters employees should be area excluding the Hogmanay storm and is available on its website encouraged and enabled 0.88 in the Southern Electric Power www.
to be active citizens in the Distribution area.
Research and Development communities in which Similarly, performance against Ofgems A balanced approach to research and they live and work.
For Guaranteed Standards of Performance, development is one of SSEs corporate this reason, it introduced which deal with issues such as notice of responsibilities.
SSE pursues a range of a scheme by which funds planned supply interruption, is vital.
During research and development initiatives, which raised by employees for 2003 04, SSE failed to meet the standards are generally .
on just three occasions, compared with two charitable and community The partnerships with The Weir Group and occasions in the previous year.
causes are matched by Talisman Energy see page 11 in the SSE, up to a limit of As at 31 March 2004, a total of 151,000 Operating Statement are examples of this, 500 per employee.
customers considered vulnerable were given their focus on the development of new registered with SSEs priority services technologies for electricity generation from register, Careline, compared with 124,000 renewable sources.
During 2003 04, SSE Orkney has become a centre of excellence did not disconnect the electricity supply for renewable generation, both onshore from any households known to be occupied wind and marine, but the capability of the by pensioners, the disabled or chronically network to connect this generation is sick people.
constrained by voltage control limitations.
To promote the importance of electrical SSE has developed an innovative network safety to schoolchildren, SSE produced a solution using leading edge technology to new educational website and comic, of free up this constraint, enabling the which more than 185,000 copies were connection of additional renewable requested by local education authorities and generation in Orkney.
emergency services in the north of Scotland, Southern Electric Contracting is part of central southern England and south Wales.
the consortium which has developed an SSE believes that employees should be intelligent lighting management system encouraged and enabled to be active citizens which allows street lighting to be remotely in the communities in which they live and controlled to take account of environmental work.
For this reason, it introduced a conditions.
Over all, SSEs total expenditure scheme by which funds raised by employees on research and development was 1.0m for charitable and community causes are in 2003 04.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2004
