Corporate Social Responsibility Social marketing SSL is strongly aware of its role in the areas of helping prevent unplanned pregnancies and as protection against sexually transmitted infections STI worldwide.
An example of one of our programmes Corporate social is Programme H in Brazil: responsibility plays an We have successfully implemented a social intervention, which focuses on promoting safer sex important role in every among the young people in the favelas of Brazil.
Here the incidence of teenage pregnancies and transmission aspect of our business, of sexually transmitted infections, including HIV Aids is high.
A condom brand, manufactured by SSL, creating benefits and value Hora H, translated as in the heat of the moment has been introduced which is sold within the low for all stakeholders.
income communities in outlets where young people can access condoms when they need them.
However, simply providing high quality, but inexpensive condoms is not enough.
Educating young people on the risks associated with unprotected sex was critical to the success of this project.
The potential pitfall could have been the machismo attitude of young men.
This was avoided by involving them in the creation of the brand name and packaging design of the Hora H condoms, and by enlisting the support of Brazilian rap artists, with whom the young people relate.
These rappers have been active in explaining the importance of safer sex to their audiences and by speaking at seminars and workshops.
The result of all the activity has seen a significant increase in condom usage and areduction in reported STI symptoms.
Relating to young audiences Gaining acceptance of young people is vital to the education process.
In Brazil we did this by using rap artists at seminars and workshops.
Developing skills We work with Manchester Business School on a series of programmes for managers across Europe.
ISO 14001 Many of our sites have ISO 14001 accreditation like this condom manufacturing one in Virudhunagar.
SSL International plc Annual Report 2004 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Employees The implementation of formal environmental Training and development management systems during the year has enabled We are fully committed to the ongoing training us to set measurable objectives for the next three and development of all of our employees.
A range years, which focus on further reductions in water of approaches is being used such as on-job skills consumption in addition to reductions in solid waste based training, internally held training courses led and energy consumption.
by appropriate external consultants and industry specialists, attendance at external seminars and tailorFurther information on our environmental performance made business school programmes for middle and can be found in the Environmental Report 2003 04 on senior managers.
We have recently entered our third year of working CSR indices with Manchester Business School on a series of SSL has been a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability programmes for middle and senior managers based Indices DJSI for the last two years.
The programmes are designed the financial performance of companies that lead their specifically for SSL and focus on developing the skills sector in terms of corporate sustainability, looking at of our international management to meet our business a number of factors including corporate governance, needs going forward.
labour practices, and environmental performance.
Equal opportunities In addition, SSL is a member of FTSE4Good Index which Diversity in the workplace is valued and SSL strongly has been designed to measure the performance of believes in equality of opportunity for all employees companies that meet globally recognised corporate regardless of gender, race or age.
In addition, we responsibility standards.
ensure that people with disability or who become disabled whilst in our employment are offered the same opportunities for employment, training and career progression as other employees.
Policies and procedures are in place to encourage a high level of employee involvement.
Environment The avoidance of pollution and other forms of environmental care in our operations is an integral part of SSLs commitment to health in the community.
It is our policy to comply with all environmental legislation that covers our activities and products and to measure and record data relating to significant environmental impacts.
Our key achievements this year include reductions in water consumption and waste per production unit.
In addition, a further three of our sites gained ISO 14001 accreditation.
SSL International plc Annual Report 2004 15 Corporate Social Responsibility
