Operating review Our People we have established strong working relationships with trade CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY unions and work in partnership with them on a range of issues, including Overview training and development, occupational health matters, pensions and other Our business is central to the lives of the communities we serve.
We also communicate with our people face to face and rail services deliver a range of critical economic and environmental and through a number of internal publications.
benefits, while boosting social inclusion and bringing people together.
Suppliers we rely on a range of suppliers to provide services linked to Encouraging more people to use public transport is central to the future our bus and rail operations.
These include vehicle and rolling stock success of our Group, and also to the future of every one of us.
That is manufacturers, fuel suppliers, IT companies and clothing manufacturers.
why we believe that, together with our numerous stakeholders, we have a common interest.
How we make that happen is equally important.
That is why Stagecoach has always taken its wider corporate responsibilities People moving people seriously and the responsible way we do business is firmly embedded in The people who really make Stagecoach tick are our employees, from our companys culture.
drivers and engineers to customer service and support staff.
They are We are certainly not perfect, but we are continually striving to improve crucial to improving the public perception of public transport.
Significant our impact on society and the environment, from greater efficiency in our investment in time and resources ensures that we have the right people operations to building trust with our stakeholders in the wider community.
on board to deliver what our customers need.
As you would expect from a responsible company, we respect and value Our stakeholders our staff.
We have a strong commitment to equal opportunities and Stagecoach Group works in partnership with a range of bodies in each partnership working with trade unions.
of the markets where we provide public transport services.
Our We also recognise the need for on-going training and development, not stakeholders include: just so our people can do their job, but so they can develop individually.
In Investors and the financial community our shareholders, our UK Bus division, we have developed a new driver training programme, bondholders and lenders are critical to our business success.
We have a backed up by a comprehensive DVD with practical help and advice on regular programme of meetings with investors and provide frequent handling common issues faced on a daily basis.
We also have one of the updates to the markets and financial community on our performance.
biggest commitments to vocational qualifications of any bus operator, and We are a constituent of the FTSE4Good index, which sets standards and more than 30% of our current drivers have either completed or are working tracks performance of the leading socially-responsible companies around towards a S NVQ.
At South West Trains our centralised Recruitment Centre and the state of Customers millions of people use our services every day, including the art Operations Training Centre are at the heart of our Recruit for Attitude, Train for Skill strategy.
It is complemented by vocational commuters, schoolchildren, concessionary fares passengers and leisure travellers.
We conduct extensive customer research to monitor our training, support for managers and employee recognition programmes.
Our people-centred approach was recognised by experts in the field when performance and determine how we can improve the delivery and accessibility of our services.
Beverley Shears, South West Trains Human Resources Director, was awarded HR Director of the Year in the Personnel Today Awards.
Customer Interest Groups our businesses have a regular and on-going Stagecoach works hard to improve skills and raise standards of customer dialogue with bus and rail user groups.
This includes presentations from service across our companies through open learning.
In Auckland, New senior managers on detailed aspects of our service as well as consultation Zealand, for example, we have introduced a specially-equipped bus that and information sharing on particular issues.
has a rolling programme of visits to depots in the metropolitan area to Government senior executives have an ongoing dialogue with national make open learning available to all our local staff.
and local government in all our countries of operation to ensure the We are also looking to develop the managers of the future through our effective delivery of government transport policy and to assist in meeting graduate development programme.
Our engineering apprenticeship wider objectives.
In the UK, we work closely with the Department for programme in the UK promotes careers through local schools.
We have Transport, the Strategic Rail Authority, the Scottish Executive and the also worked closely with government-funded enterprise agencies to get Welsh Assembly, and Transport for London.
the long-term unemployed back into work, because many have vital skills Transport Authorities we also work closely with local authorities, that are being overlooked.
including Passenger Transport Executives, Regional Transport Committees We want to be there to help our people when they need it most.
For and Transit Authorities, in the delivery and planning of bus and rail services.
example, at South West Trains we have a partnership with Care First, Government Advisory Bodies and Lobbying Groups we also have which offers an employee assistance programme that includes a 24-hour constructive dialogue with organisations such as the Commission for confidential counselling service and legal helpline.
We also have a support Integrated Transport, which provides advice to the UK Government, and programme for employees at our UK Bus division.
Our business is simple: lobbying groups such as Transport 2000. people moving people.
And we want to build a workforce of people that feel proud to work for us.
Transport and Industry Representation Groups we are active members of industry groups, such as the Confederation of Passenger Transport UK which covers buses and light rail and the Association of Train Operating Companies.
page 10 Stagecoach Group plc We continue to invest in CCTV technology and other measures to deter Access for All anti-social behaviour and have many programmes up and down the No two customers are the same and we recognise that we all have our country to educate the next generation of public transport users.
Accessibility is important and, as far as possible within the resources we have available, we are making it easier to use public transport.
All South West Trains rolling stock is fitted with the Train Protection Warning System and the new, modern Desiro units provide a safer We are continuing our programme that will ultimately result in all our travelling environment.
We are also working with Network Rail and British buses in the UK being fully low-floor.
Each year, hundreds of new Transport Police to identify hot-spots and ensure effective measures are accessible vehicles are added to our fleet and already all buses operated in taken on both trains and at stations to reduce incidents of assault, London are entirely low floor with wheelchair access.
Our award-winning TravelSafe Officers partnership investment is also taking place in our North American business in with British Transport Police which helps ensure passenger safety has partnership with federal agencies.
been extended in the past year to cover more routes and stations on the As well as introducing new accessible Desiro trains, South West Trains South West Trains network.
provides station-based ramps to enable wheelchair users to board and Public transport by bus, coach and train is the safest way to travel.
To support the access of wheelchair Stagecoach Group itself has a good safety record, but there is no room users to our network, we are now committed to providing wheelchair for complacency.
We constantly keep our safety arrangements under users with accessible taxis, at no extra charge, to transport them to their review and are committed to putting in place any improvements required nearest accessible station.
to our safety governance arrangements.
Access for all is also about staff training and we continue to maintain links with disability groups to ensure both the needs of our passengers and Caring for our community employees are considered.
Our new bus interiors, for example, were Stagecoach has always done far more than provide lifeline services and designed in consultation with groups representing people with various significant job opportunities in local communities around the world.
We levels of ability, both in terms of visual impairment and mobility.
feel part of the very communities we serve and regularly share our success with local people.
Stagecoach is also working with key stakeholders to improve accessibility across the transport industry.
In New Zealand, for example, we assisted the Every year, we help fund the vital work of local, national and international Human Rights Commission to draw up the terms of reference for an charities through in-kind support and financial assistance.
During 2003-04 enquiry into the provision of accessible transport.
268,000 was donated by the Group to help these worthwhile causes.
Financial support has assisted the work of childrens and cancer charities as well as organisations helping people with sight impairment and genetic Safety first disorders.
Safety and security for both our customers and our people are at the Our community support goes well beyond just money with hundreds of heart of our business.
We have a proactive culture across the Group that our people devoting many hours of their own time every day to local puts safety at the top of our agenda.
Our businesses also provide a huge amount of in-kind support, Across Stagecoach Group, health and safety is monitored and reported on while our people also give charities the benefit of their expertise during in every company.
Immediate action is taken to address issues in our secondments.
Safety is part of a well-defined risk management Much of the backing we provide is focused on education and young process across our business.
A main board executive director, Graham people.
We work closely with schools and police on local crime prevention Eccles, has specific responsibility for safety issues across the Group and the initiatives and education of youngsters about the dangers and board is updated on safety matters at each of its meetings.
Safety matters consequences of anti-social behaviour.
Our support also assists many local are also considered at the board and management meetings of each of initiatives that help provide opportunities for young people.
Our work is also helping promote social inclusion within our communities.
Our Group Health, Safety and Environmental Committee, chaired by our For example, in west Scotland we have sponsored the Quads initiative in non-executive director Janet Morgan and also comprising Graham Eccles conjunction with North Ayr Social Inclusion Partnership, Starthclyde Police, and Iain Duffin, reports regularly to the Board on these matters.
They Learn Direct Scotland and South Ayrshire Council to help adults with have access to internal safety executives and external consultants.
learning difficulties and young people with social problems.
In the current climate, Stagecoach and other major operators are in Stagecoach has continued to support the UK educational charity contact with national bodies putting in place processes and measures to businessdynamics, which provides courses designed to build the skills and prevent or mitigate the impact of potential terrorist attacks on public confidence of young people as they prepare to enter the worlds of work transportation.
In the United States, for example, we are working with the and further education.
Federal Government to take part in multi-session anti-terrorism workshops that all employees are required to complete.
Senior management in our Our businesses in North America and New Zealand are also active North East division have contributed to a task force, organised by New members of the community, helping support the work of chambers of Jersey Transit, to put in place contingency plans to deal with terrorist commerce, arts foundations, tourism associations, educational groups and attacks, power outages, and other major disruptions.
In the United States in New Jersey, for example, we provide small grants and emergency transportation to municipal fire and Stagecoach and other transport operators are working in partnership with rescue squads, many of whom operate on a volunteer basis.
national governments and other agencies to improve bus and rail safety and security.
While crime and vandalism are relatively low, we are aware Stagecoach New Zealand is a long-standing supporter of the Starship they can discourage people from travelling on buses and trains.
Foundation, which helps the countrys leading specialist paediatric hospital.
Stagecoach Group plc page 11 Operating review All fares collected on a specially-liveried Stagecoach bus in Auckland go to South West Trains has undertaken a review of its environmental the Starship Foundation and the money is used to provide a range of management system to ensure it continues to comply with legislation.
additional equipment and staff training for the medical facility.
In Comprehensive asbestos surveys are currently being carried out at all Wellington, one of our buses visits local shopping centres and businesses stations and depots.
South West Trains has also introduced a complete in the weeks before Christmas, collecting donated gifts that Wellington smoking ban on its train services, which has improved the travelling City Mission can give to the needy.
environment for passengers and has been welcomed by customers.
These are only a few examples of our work, but in everything we do, Stagecoach is working directly with government to address environmental we hope people see us as we see them good neighbours that care for issues.
In New Zealand, we have instituted a sustainable transport our community.
management plan in association with Auckland Regional Council and the Sustainable Businesses Network.
The objective is to reduce water and energy consumption and cut emissions and wastes.
It is intended to be a A sustainable environment pilot for measures that may eventually become compulsory for all bus Travelling by bus or train is one way we can all help to reduce pollution, operators in the Auckland region.
cut road congestion and improve the quality of life for us all in our towns and cities.
Major employers are working with us to develop travel plans Despite the huge progress and investment we have made in the area that reduce dependence on the car to get to work.
of environmental sustainability, we realise we are not perfect.
This is only a start and we have a long way to go, but we are moving in the However, even public transport has an inevitable impact on our right direction.
That is why Stagecoach is committed to playing its part in building a sustainable environment and improving the environmental management of our operations.
We were delighted to publish our updated Environmental Policy statement towards the end of 2003.
This document outlines our commitment to good environmental stewardship and we have set ourselves some stretching targets to reduce emissions, cut water and energy consumption, minimise waste and identify opportunities for recycling.
We have pledged to measure and report on a range of key performance indicators each year.
A copy of the full environmental policy document is available on our website at www.
Every day we work hard to make sure our transport operations are as environmentally sustainable as possible.
Across our global operations, we provide support and training for our employees to ensure compliance with legislation, as well as effective waste management, and improved energy consumption and environmental performance.
New buses and trains meet the latest stringent standards and we continue to investigate new fuels and cleaner technologies.
Stagecoach has signed an agreement with Cerulean International Ltd, the Oxford-based subsidiary of the nanomaterials company Oxonica Ltd, to trial a next generation fuel additive product in up to 1,000 buses across the UK.
Initial trials are progressing well, delivering reduced fuel consumption, cuts in vehicle emissions and cost savings that could be of significant benefit to the bus industry.
Stagecoach is using environmentally friendly hybrid electric buses in New Zealand on an inner city circuit in Auckland.
We have plans to showcase a specially-adapted vehicle to local authorities across the UK this summer.
In Manchester, we are continuing with our programme to fit particulate traps to buses and so far 100 vehicles have been adapted as part of a joint initiative with Greater Manchester Passenger Transport Executive and the Energy Savings Trust.
Similar initiatives are underway in our bus operations in North America.
