Safety, Health and Our aim is to continue to act the Environment responsibly and transparently on behalf of all our stakeholders.
Managing the effects that our activities have on safety, health and the environment remains a fundamental part of how we conduct our business.
2004... our acceptance We are committed to improving our performance in this crucial area.
To further emphasise its importance, we have decided to adopt into FTSE4Good the UK Chemical Industries Associations principles of sustainable development throughout the whole of Yule Catto.
These will be progressively implemented over the coming years.
Our aim is to continue to act responsibly and transparently on behalf of all our stakeholders.
We firmly believe that sustainable development is crucial to our long term development and our continuing ability to invest in our people and businesses within the communities in which we operate.
Recognition of this in 2004 was our acceptance into FTSE4Good, the London Stock Exchanges listing for companies committed to corporate social responsibility.
The good performance over the past five years provided much satisfaction, but we are far from complacent and seek to improve continuously in all areas, supported by well established management processes.
This report sets out the strategic direction that is being followed, our past performance and future plans.
A well defined sustainable development implementation plan has been established, led by senior executives with the full support of the Board and Group Executive Committee.
We hope you find this report interesting and informative, and we welcome comments and questions on any aspect of our sustainable development programme.
Alex Walker, Group Chief Executive, 3 March 2005 18 Yule Catto & Co plc The good performance over the past five years provided much satisfaction, but we are far from complacent and seek to improve continuously in all areas, supported by well established management processes.
Our Strategy Management Systems and Leadership and Policies Responsible Care The Board of Directors is responsible for Yule Catto is a signatory to Responsible establishing the safety, health & Care and this forms the basis of our Five environmental SHE and sustainable worldwide SHE management system.
We development SD policy for Yule Catto.
require all our businesses to demonstrate years of improving The Group Chief Executive has board level continuous SHE improvement, which is performance responsibility for SHE SD issues and, measured against agreed targets.
assisted by the Group Safety, Health and Environmental Manager and Group Performance is monitored through a Personnel Manager, has overall comprehensive audit process, which responsibility for policy implementation examines management practice and throughout the group.
However, primary operational performance across a range responsibility lies with Divisional Chief of SHE, product stewardship and loss Executives and the executives within each control activities at our worldwide sites on business.
Senior executives from within a two yearly cycle.
the Yule Catto group are actively involved with the Chemical Industries Association in The outcome of these audits, together with the key areas of sustainable development.
issues identified by individual businesses, result in clear annual improvement plans for each site.
Regular reports are prepared for the Board and Executive Committee, setting out SHE performance and other relevant information.
SHE and sustainable development are integrated into business strategies via the annual budget process and within the longer term strategic planning processes.
The significance of any SHE SD related risks to the delivery of business goals is examined during the biannual business risk management review conducted by the senior management team of each business.
The review process is described in the Corporate Governance report.
The SHE SD strategy is supported by extensive, state-of-the-art, web-enabled monitoring and reporting information systems.
19 Annual Report 2004 Safety, Health and A well defined sustainable the Environment development implementation continued plan has been established, led by senior executives with the full support of the Board and Group Executive Committee.
2004 saw a further decrease in reportable safety incidents Social Responsibility The objective is for all group companies Managing Human Resources to work towards creating a working As an international chemical environment free from discrimination, manufacturing company that relies on which encourages employees to participate the skills of its employees, the group in the development of the business and in and its subsidiaries are fully committed to the acquisition of skills and knowledge for operating in a socially responsible manner the benefit of employees, the company throughout all its operations.
We have established clear standards of Operating companies are responsible business conduct and ethical behaviour as for developing their own strategic plans an integral part of our business processes to comply with group policy on social on issues such as corruption and antiresponsibility with due regard to local competitive activities, which all our legislation and the cultural environment.
companies are required to comply with in To assist in the consistent and effective conjunction with local legislative requirements.
introduction of the group policy in all companies, a steering group chaired The group is also conscious of its by the Group Personnel Manager has responsibilities to its employees and been established.
the wider community in which the group operates.
Consequently, our companies In addition the group is in the process are currently establishing clear standards, of developing an auditing process and codes of conduct and processes to information system to help monitor and discharge these obligations with due assist our progress towards achieving regard to local legislation and employment these standards, which will be piloted practices and with consideration towards in 2006 and deployed fully in 2007. local cultures.
20 Yule Catto & Co plc 2005 expects to deliver further improvements Managing Health & Safety Loss Control and Process Safety Lost time accident frequency rate A critical element of social responsibility is Yule Catto is actively involved at a UK our commitment to preventing harm or ill and European level in process safety 1.6 Actual Target health to our employees and others management, particularly through its 1.4 affected by our business.
involvement in the European Process 1.2 0.99 Safety Centre.
We have been sponsoring 1.0 0.95 Our aspirational goal continues to be zero the UK Health & Safety Executive 0.73 0.8 accidents and incidents, and we strive DOSE AWARD project over the last 0.6 to achieve this goal through close two years on the control of potentially 0.57 0.57 0.4 0.45 management attention to health & safety environmentally harmful releases during 0.2 and through the use of behavioural safety uncontrolled venting from batch processes, 0 management techniques.
and the final report is due during 2005.
00 01 02 03 04 05 As a Responsible Care company, we will The key metric used to assess our ensure this report is made widely available performance is the 3 day lost time within the chemical industry.
Reportable safety incidents accident frequency rate, and the graph shows how we have improved for the We are pleased to have maintained period 2000-2004.
The plateau in our a low level of safety reportable incidents, overall improving performance in 2004 as illustrated.
Neither of these is disappointing but we have recently incidents resulted in serious injury 2000 66 vigorously reinforced the health and safety or business interruption.
2001 26 44 message throughout the group and expect to deliver further improvements in 2005.
2002 26 Key elements of our approach include: 2003 4 2004 2 Systematic processes to report, investigate 0 and share the lessons arising from all accidents, incidents and near misses: Recognising the achievement of health & safety performance targets through personal rewards where appropriate: Sustained focus on our comprehensive management and operational audit process: and Close management and monitoring of agreed improvement actions.
21 Annual Report 2004 3 day lost time accident frequency rate per 100,000 hours Safety, Health and Our global warming burden per the Environment production tonne in 2004 fell continued by 24% and our energy consumption fell by 15%.
2004 saw a greater understanding of the impacts of REACH Product Safety Management Environment Responsibility Reportable envir Reportable environmental incidents onmental incidents Our Approach Within Yule Catto, our aim is to seek to During the course of 2004, we undertook continually reduce the environmental a review of our product stewardship burden arising from our operations, and to practices across the entire group, using have no reportable environmental external consultancy support.
During 2005, we are committed 2000 49 identified many examples of good practice to the establishment of demanding, but 2001 44 within group companies, but not achievable, reduction targets through to 2002 22 unexpectedly it also identified a number of 2010 for a range of key environmental and deficiencies.
During 2005, we are resource based criteria.
2003 4 committed to addressing these 4 2004 7 weaknesses and ensuring that we share Reportable Environmental Incidents 0 information on good practice effectively Incidents where a formal report has been and efficiently between our businesses.
submitted to the environmental authorities rose slightly from 2003, as illustrated.
Energy consumption REACH Of the seven reported incidents, three GigaJoules used per production tonne In common with the whole European occurred at a single site, which, although chemical industry, Yule Catto welcomes using the best available techniques, is the forthcoming Registration, Evaluation collaborating with the environmental and Authorisation of Chemicals authorities to further reduce emissions.
2000 4.8 Regulations REACH, which are intended Whilst accepting that our performance 2001 5.6 to streamline the process by which new must improve, the underlying performance and existing products can be registered, as measured by reportable environmental 2002 5.1 assessed and marketed.
However, it is incidents remains stable, and continues 2003 4.5 essential that a practical and workable the sustained reduction we have achieved 2004 4.1 system is established.
During 2004, a greater understanding of the business impacts of REACH has been achieved.
The regulations are scheduled to be implemented during 2006, and we are currently awaiting the outcome of a number of projects, run jointly by industry and regulators, which will set out the precise operational requirements of REACH.
Yule Catto actively continues to contribute to these activities both directly and via European chemical industry trade bodies.
22 Yule Catto & Co plc Global warming burden tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent release per production tonne 2000 0.29 2001 0.41 2002 0.23 2003 0.19 2004 0.22 Global Warming Atmospheric acidification burden kgs sulphur dioxide equivalent released The main contribution to global warming per production tonne within Yule Catto is from the release of CO 2 due to the combustion of fossil fuels and indirectly from using electricity.
Whilst there has been a small increase during 2004 2000 4.8 due to changes in product mix, our 2001 3.9 commitment to energy efficiency has 2002 4.3 resulted in our global warming burden per production tonne in 2004 falling by 24% 2003 4.5 and our energy consumption falling by 2004 2.2 15%, both expressed per tonne of product manufactured against our baseline year of 2000.
Hazardous waste disposed to land Atmospheric Acidification Burden kgs waste per production tonne The Group has invested in state-of-the-art environmental technology to reduce acid gas emissions at our factories in France and the UK, both of which have either won 2000 9 or have been short listed for national prizes 2001 12 for environmental excellence.
Whilst there was an increase in 2002 3 due to a fire at 2002 12 the factory in France, there has been a 2003 9 significant reduction in 2004 and an overall 2004 6 reduction in atmospheric acidification of 54% per tonne of product manufactured since 2000.
Water consumption Hazardous Waste 3 m waste per production tonne It is very pleasing to report that the waste minimisation and process redesign efforts of our technical and operations staff has continued the reduction in the amount of 2000 9.5 hazardous waste produced, which, since 2000, has reduced by 33%.
We will 2001 7.8 continue to concentrate on this crucial 2002 7.1 area during 2005.
2003 5.8 Water consumption 2004 6.2 In many parts of the world, water is becoming a scarce resource.
We have focused significant attention on reducing the amount used through water minimisation projects, product redesign and recycling.
Since 2000 our baseline year we have reduced water consumption by 35% per tonne of product manufactured.
