Marconi people Marconi and its people will always have to cope with continuous and far-reaching change in the telecommunications market and prepare for the future.
This exceptional challenge requires nothing For rapid access to information through our comprehensive outplacement support and less than an exceptional team.
That is why in intranet we have developed a people portal redeployment retraining opportunities in all our a tough economic environment and against called MyHR, for employees to access HR major territories.
For those staying with us it the background of delivering key business and policy information, and a travel portal means clear communication and direction targets we are dedicated to helping our called MyTravel, for employees to arrange going forward.
This simple ethic ensures that people achieve the best through a process business travel and remain up to date on the through all of the change process both our of communication, learning support, travel, safety and health requirements customers and our employees remain our timely availability of information, personal associated with their travel plans.
In January highest focus of attention.
development and regular reviews of objectives.
2004 we also launched a learning portal, MyLearning, which has over 1,000 on-line Developing our people Communicating the vision courses and e-books to assist with employees We are dedicated to supporting the long-term During the year a major emphasis was placed development needs and to provide employees stability and growth of the business by driving on developing our internal communications with the tools to ensure they continuously organisation effectiveness and delivering strategy to ensure timely and accurate improve their competencies.
As a result, we focused learning, education and support to information was provided to employees as continue to provide the best and most each of our employees.
In the UK for example, we moved through the financial restructuring innovative contribution to our customers.
Marconi is recognised as an Investor in People process and beyond.
This was aimed at and received re-accreditation in April 2004, for addressing the personal uncertainties that our Evolving our organisation a further three-year period.
financial restructuring brought to employees Evolving the organisation to fit the needs of In providing comprehensive on-line learning and our ongoing rationalisation to shape the the business and the market in which we and information to help employees deliver organisation for the future.
operate has been achieved through a number improved performance, we continue to of key initiatives: To ensure our employees are well informed we maintain a commitment to employee continue to: Business rationalisations: development whilst at the same time reducing the cost of learning and building the basis for Ensure all employees know what is expected Business disposals: improving the effectiveness of our learning of them and how they can contribute to Outsource & partnering solutions: and provision.
Our learning resources combine the achievement of our strategic and technical education with leadership and operational goals: Driving organisation effectiveness through professional development by adopting a regionalisation.
Provide an open and accessible organisation blended learning approach that includes easy with easy access to management to ask The rationalisation of our businesses, through access to sophisticated on-line learning questions, receive answers quickly and use the closure of sites and business disposals, solutions.
The recently launched MyLearning our intranet to provide open access to is now reaching a level of stability.
portal offers access to a number of acclaimed management information.
All parts of our Our organisations shape and size will continue external learning providers, including Business business have a direct communication link to develop to fit our evolving business model Pro and IT Pro.
This global, state-of-the-art between employees and senior management: and during 2004-05 we will strengthen the e-learning capability has been enthusiastically regional nature of our organisations structure received throughout the business.
Over 3,000 Ensure that team briefing information has and provide resources on a regional basis to courses and 6,000 text books, in a number of been cascaded on a monthly basis: deliver customer and supplier solutions.
languages, are available to employees to help business performance information has been them perform their jobs better with no need to provided quarterly and on an annual basis all Though we have been through a difficult and, book or join long waiting lists.
In the first employees will have the opportunity to at times, uncertain year we have maintained quarter of 2004, 2,253 employees accessed attend a local Town Hall meeting to ask a commitment to sensitivity and attention 2,569 technical or business courses with questions of members of the Executive to detail for every individual employee.
1,294 employees accessing 2,127 technical Team: and We achieve these challenges united behind a and business textbooks.
The system is a commitment to our customers and our people: Provide employees with a twice monthly, valuable and cost-effective learning support to treat those who are leaving us with fairness Mikes View, through our intranet, which tool for all our people.
We continue to support and dignity and those who remain with provides information of importance for all young people development programmes in respect and support, while at the same time employees from the CEO.
our major locations and will relaunch our staying focused on the things that matter.
Modern Apprenticeship Scheme in the UK For those leaving us this includes providing in 2004.
22 Listening to our employees Employment policies During 2003-04 many policies were The Pulse and Your Opinion surveys The Marconi group operates in many countries communicated to employees, but of particular Throughout the year, we regularly survey under various legal systems: nevertheless note was the global implementation of policies around one sixth of our employees to help we are committed to ensuring, through the covering Ethical Conduct, a Financial Code of us understand their views.
The opinions implementation of a Marconi Human Rights Ethics and a Whistle Blowing process.
All of of our employees matter to us and the Code, that we operate to the highest levels of these were issued to employees in local reports produced from these surveys integrity and ethical conduct, across all of our languages.
The Whistle Blowing process are communicated through our intranet site, businesses.
This Code was communicated to includes reference to Public Concern Momentum, and are discussed by the all employees in May 2004 and is available on at Work, should employees wish to seek Executive Team and the Board.
our intranet and can be accessed on our 24-hour, confidential advice from an Actions generated from the results are key website www.
The Code and external organisation.
to improving productivity and support to associated policies ensure that: our customers, as it is our firm view that a Marconi people providing We act within the law, and the spirit of the motivated and committed workforce is a major support to their communities law in all territories in which we operate: asset in meeting the needs of our customers Marconi and its employees have a long and therefore our shareholders.
The Pulse We act with honesty and integrity at established and well-respected record of survey, for example, specifically highlighted all times: supporting charities and educational the strong causal link between having an programmes in their local communities.
We protect the confidentiality of information effective annual performance review and During 2003-04 this support included: associated with our employees: development discussion between employees Charity support for the NSPCC Full Stop and their managers and employee morale, All employees receive fair and equal Campaign and Youth At Risk in the UK: motivation and commitment.
This data treatment irrespective of gender, ethnic reinforced our commitment to this process as origin, age, nationality, marital status, Support to North Allegheny Senior High a means of achieving customer satisfaction religion, sexuality or disability: School Communications Technology through well motivated, informed and Curriculum in the USA: The working environment of our employees committed employees.
is conducive to achievement and free from The British Malaysia School Link The Pulse survey also provides demographic harassment and intimidation: Programme: and data by business, location and function to Disabled persons have equal opportunity, are Business in the Community in the UK.
permit focused action planning to address fairly treated, and that their training and career areas where groups of employees are In addition to the support noted above, the development needs are carefully managed: responding with a low rating.
We will Group also provided assistance, time and continue to run these surveys on a regular All employees can expect to hold an annual resources to the many employees engaged basis in 2004-05.
In addition, in May 2004, review meeting to discuss their objectives in charitable and community activities.
we completed an all employee survey, and career plans with their manager: Marconi continues to be supportive of its Your Opinion, across all of the Marconi All employees can expect to be consulted employees in their drive to give something businesses, in multiple languages, on-line, or on matters of importance to them.
back to our and their communities.
on paper for those employees who did not This will include formal meetings with have access to a PC.
As well as providing employee representatives, Trades Unions business and functional information, Your where applicable, and other employee Opinion will also provide local information to forums: and individual managers where eight or more members of a team have responded.
Where employees have any concerns about Managers will use this data for action planning their treatment at work, or the conduct of and the development of local improvement their management, there are channels for plans.
At the corporate level, the data will be raising the matter at the highest levels in benchmarked against similar business in the the Company.
telecommunications industry to provide further The Marconi Human Rights Code is also data to support improvement action plans.
promoted to our major suppliers as an expectation when they are contracting with our businesses.
During 2003-04 the Group continued to develop its communication portal, MyHR, to improve the awareness of employees to employment policies with access available through our intranet to all employees on a global basis.
