Corporate social responsibility During the year work has continued on developing policies and A number of working groups have been formed to ensure that specific procedures in the areas of social, ethical, and environmental conduct environmental issues are managed effectively.
For example, within that can affect the Groups businesses.
The Board of Marconi Europe, a project team has been established to monitor compliance Corporation plc remains committed to achieving high standards of with the requirements of the European Waste Electrical and Electronic corporate social responsibility, commensurate with the Groups other Equipment WEEE and the Restrictions on Hazardous Substances objectives.
We regard social, ethical and environmental issues as RoHS directives.
important to our business and it is essential that we manage the risks An important aspect of our Environmental Management System is our and opportunities associated with these issues effectively.
commitment to work with external stakeholders on environmental issues and to become actively involved in community initiatives.
Business integrity Marconi actively participates in many external committees Marconi is committed to operate in an ethical manner and comply with government, business and non-governmental.
Internal programmes all laws, regulations and guidelines of best practice.
The Company are also an important part of our culture.
The Green Team at one of recently published a Human Rights Code, which applies to the our North American business units has a mandate to create employee Company and its suppliers: has communicated its Corporate Ethics incentive programmes, which promote environmental awareness.
Policy, regarding improper or questionable payments: has issued a The Group is responsible for managing the recycling programme but Financial Code of Ethics, associated with financial reporting, to all is also involved with other initiatives.
This year, some of their activities employees and introduced a Whistle Blowing policy to assist employees included Earth Day celebrations focusing on organic awareness and who may be concerned about malpractice.
The Company has received the Going Green campaign, which rewarded individuals for innovative assistance from the Whistle Blowing charity, Public Concern at Work, ideas in bringing about positive environmental actions.
In May 2003, in establishing its Whistle Blowing policy and has made available a the supply chain operations in the UK began working on a project with 24-hour confidential telephone service for employees to raise issues suppliers to reduce the amount of packaging and eliminate non value of concern.
added handling and potential damage to products by designing packaging suitable to onward ship to our customers.
Policies New policies have been introduced which set best in class practices Our certification of major sites to the International Standard for that will be benchmarked against key performance indicators.
Environmental Management Systems ISO 14001 has been maintained.
Policies are in place covering the following: Certification and surveillance audits in Mexico and Canada have been successful with zero non-conformances identified for three successive Human Rights: years.
The Genoa site in Italy received re-accreditation of its Environment: Environmental Management System in 2003, with specific reference being made by the assessor to the way that the engineering design Health and Safety: process had been changed, so that the business systematically Product Safety: reduces the impact it has on the surrounding environment.
The UK Cable Services and Transportation business is seeking accreditation Business Ethics: under ISO 14001 during the first quarter of 2004-05.
Improper Payments: The Group continues to strive to improve occupational health and safety Financial Ethics: and performance.
Accident incidence rates remain below the sector average.
In North America, days lost as a result of injuries have been Whistle Blowing.
reduced by 25% and restricted days have been reduced by 42%, in These policies have been published in local languages, where two of our core businesses.
Occupation health is very important to Marconi and to assess the views of internal customers, the occupational health team conducted a survey Environment, health and safety EHS to understand employees perception of, and the effectiveness of The main focus of the year has been the implementation of the EHS occupational health service provision, worldwide.
The introduction of framework model across the Marconi regions.
During the year, regional health and fitness programmes at the Warrendale facility in Pittsburgh EHS review bodies have been set up in the UK, Italy, Germany, the has led to over $300,000 in health costs savings over the last year as Americas, the Middle East and Asia Pacific.
Each review body meets well as increasing employee productivity and retention.
quarterly to review regional EHS performance and escalate issues to the Central EHS review body, as appropriate.
In addition, a formal EHS The 2003-04 EHS programme also focused on the introduction of report has been introduced and submitted quarterly to the Company systems aimed at improving EHS communication and data capture.
Secretary and Chief Human Resources Officer.
Each Marconi region is Computer-based training modules and on-line course bookings have responsible for providing the corporate EHS function with a quarterly been integrated into the MyLearning intranet portal and the EHS EHS report.
Significant issues are escalated to the Central EHS Review training catalogue enhanced.
The global EHS intranet site has Body and or the Executive Committee, as appropriate.
undergone a major upgrade to improve navigation and the quality of EHS information available to employees.
The Central EHS review body continues to meet quarterly to review performance and escalate issues to the Executive Committee, as appropriate.
This approach enables senior management to monitor the effectiveness of the Groups EHS programmes.
In addition, specialist working groups have been formed to deal with security and travel risks.
44 EHS objectives The Company achieved its EHS objectives for 2003-04.
Successes included: Publishing a Group-wide occupational health and safety policy: Launching a corporate travel policy and associated guidance: Setting and publishing EHS objectives at a regional level: Assigning a business project team to steer compliance with the WEEE and RoHS directives: Reducing UK fleet carbon dioxide emissions by 5%: and Developing and launching an on-line accident incident reporting database to improve data capture.
Marconi recognises that further work is required in 2004-05 to deliver accurate work related ill-health statistics.
This will include the introduction of a Group sickness absence policy.
Objectives and targets for 2004-05 include: Establishing a business project team and formulating an action plan to ensure compliance with the European Eco-design for Energy Using Products EuP Directive: Reviewing Group-wide practices and procedures for working at heights: Improving the quality and consistency of internal and external communications on EHS matters: Improving the quality, quantity and accessibility of EHS training: and Expanding the corporate EHS auditing process to cover the Middle East and Asia Pacific.
This objective-driven approach will ensure that the Group continues to improve EHS performance across its regions.
Our integrated EHS audit programme will continue to ensure EHS practices are well managed and our policies are cohesively adhered to.
Other people related policies and programmes, including charitable and community initiatives, supported by Marconi are described in the Marconi people report on pages 22 and 23.
Summary Through the development of its policies, the implementation of programmes supporting these policies and the monitoring of results, Marconi aims to achieve improvements in its contribution to social, ethical and environmental matters.
It believes that this approach, in turn, will have a positive impact on the Groups business.
