TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Corporate responsibility statement For the year ended 31 December 2004 Introduction The board has adopted the Guidelines on Social Responsibility published by the Association of British Insurers in October 2002, although it recognises that not all information relating to areas described in this report is presently subject to formal verification procedures.
The board takes account of the significance of social, environmental and ethical SEE matters in its conduct of the companys business and during 2004 the directors received briefings, in particular on risks associated with environmental and health and safety matters.
The group has in place a comprehensive system of internal control as described more fully on page 34.
This results in the submission to the board of regular detailed reports on specific areas of risk.
Using information thus provided, the board has identified and assessed significant risks and opportunities arising from social, environmental and ethical matters.
These are: Environment: Health & safety: Supply chain: Employees: Community relations.
Individual reports are given below on these key areas.
These reports include information on how risks and opportunities are managed.
Environment The group recognises its corporate responsibility to carry out its operations whilst minimising environmental impacts.
We have been successful in maintaining accreditation of our Environmental Management System to the ISO 14001 standard during the year, having passed our re-certification audit in November 2004.
A revised environmental policy was published in August 2004, which includes commitments to continuously raise the proportion of our timber and forest products that originate from known, legal, progressing to certified and certified forests, and to eliminate from our business timber and forest products that originate from illegally harvested timber.
Our policy is to: Comply with applicable environmental legislation: Prevent pollution and minimise the extent of environmental damage: Continuously improve our environmental performance.
The complete policy and details of the companys progress against its commitments may be found in a full report on our website at www.
18 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Environmental improvement plan We have continued with the implementation of our Environmental Improvement Plan during 2004 and report below progress on the main issues.
Where our targets and performance data are based on a measure of output per of relevant sales, the sales figure is adjusted for price inflation in order to present data adjusted only for the overall volume of business transacted.
It should be noted that the data is prepared from a combination of specific measurements and some estimates we are continually refining the accuracy of the data, but believe the information presented below constitutes a fair representation of our environmental performance improvement.
Our original targets were set for the period from 2001 to the end of 2004.
New targets for the period from the start of 2005 to the end of 2007 will be set during early 2005 and reported in the next annual report.
Carbon dioxide CO emissions 2 Our CO emission data includes emissions arising from fuel used by commercial vehicles and forklift trucks, 2 consumption of fuel oil for heating, and gas and electricity consumption.
The data in 2004 alone now includes that generated from car drivers business miles this aspect added circa 2,700 tonnes to give a total emission of an estimated 63,400 tonnes in 2004.
In the past three years we have transferred the electricity supply for our largest consumption sites including our head office buildings and a T m CO2 emissions Tonnes per million of Sales - inflation adjusted majority of our branches to carbon neutral sources.
On this 60 49 T m basis we now estimate that over 80 per cent of our total 6 % 50 10 % 20 % 22 % electricity demand is satisfied from these carbon free sources 40 this has been the main reason for our reduction in CO 2 30 emissions shown in the adjacent chart.
Our three-year target, 20 to achieve a reduction of 10 per cent in CO emissions by the 2 10 end of 2004, has been met.
0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2004 Target Volatile organic compound VOC emissions Over the past three years we have achieved a major reduction in emissions of VOCs through a programme of replacement of organic solvent-based treatment fluids with aqueous based solutions.
We have reduced this in absolute terms to approximately 16 tonnes in 2004, a reduction of 94 per cent when compared with the figure in 2001.
Only three plants now remain with organic solvent-based treatment.
We have therefore met our 2004 target for a 67 per cent reduction.
All plants that have historically used copper chromated arsenate chemicals have been converted well in advance of the legislative requirements with T VOC emissions Tonnes 300 277 T all now using the less aggressive boron based compounds.
250 200 150 57 % 67 % 100 81 % 50 94 % 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2004 Target 19 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Timber and timber product certification Timber certification % Content of certified material as a % of total purchases 80% 75% As shown in the chart, approximately 66% 41 per cent of the raw material content of 56% 60% our purchases of timber and timber based 45% 41% 40% products were from certified sources at the end of 2001.
We have made particularly 20% good progress in the past three years and this figure had increased to 66 per cent Aggregates 0% 2001 2002 2003 2004 2006 Target by the end of 2004.
Of the 66 per cent, Bricks approximately 29 per cent is from FSC sources and 32 per cent from PEFC sources.
The balance Building blocks of 5 per cent represents small volumes of materials certified to a variety of other national standards Cement in use in America, Canada and Malaysia.
We continue to challenge all suppliers who are not DPC currently providing certified material to work towards certification and as a minimum we ask all Drainage suppliers to certify that timber supplied has been handled in accordance with all relevant External doors legislation.
During 2003, we devised an audit process in order to further strengthen our Garage doors commitment to ensure that all non-certified timber is from legal sources.
All of our preferred Gravel sources in areas known to be of higher risk and not already verified legal have now been audited, Ground and we continue to monitor their commitments to achieve certification within given timetables.
Two membranes suppliers deserve special mention for their achievements during 2004.
Firstly our largest supplier Joists of plywood achieved FSC certification for all of their softwood and hardwood plywood production Kerbstones during the year.
Secondly our largest supplier of softwood carcassing has achieved a position Lead flashing during 2004 that enables them to supply 100 per cent of our requirement certified to the PEFC Reinforcement steel Swedish standard.
These two major steps have been the primary reason behind the growth in Roof felt certified raw materials.
Our target is for 75 per cent of the raw material content of our purchases Roof fittings of timber and timber-based products to be from certified sources by the end of 2006.
Roof tiles Waste sent to landfill Roof trusses T m Waste sent to landfill Tonnes per million of yard sales - inflation adjusted 40 Our main emphasis is on the avoidance of Sand 33T m 9 % waste, as well as the segregation of waste Treated timber 15 % 30 26 % 28 % streams in order to enhance recycling 20 opportunities and so reduce the cost of waste disposal.
We have focused our efforts 10 in 2004 on improving the segregation of cardboard waste that can then be sent for 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2004 Target recycling rather than being sent to landfill, with over 130 branches now using cardboard recycling waste containers.
In total we estimate our waste sent to landfill in 2001 was 33,400 tonnes.
We have reduced this in absolute terms to approximately 32,700 tonnes in 2004 despite the growth of the group.
We have achieved our target to meet our 2004 objective set in 2001, of a 15 per cent reduction per of yard sales.
20 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC The timber-built garage Deliveries are made using a modern vehicle fleet 21 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Fuel consumption and vehicle emissions Particulate emissions filters % Percentage of commercial fleet fitted 30% More than 330 2003: 250 commercial vehicles are now fitted 25% with particulate emissions filters representing 17 per cent of 20% 17% the commercial fleet.
We have not met our target of 25 per cent 16% 15% by the end of 2004 given that we have had to remove a number 10% 8% of the filters fitted in 2001 as they have caused operational problems.
We will be reviewing our policy with respect to 0% further filters in 2005 bearing in mind the improvements in 2001 2002 2003 2004 2004 Target engine performance expected from vehicle manufacturers.
Complaints and notifiable events We investigate any complaint received and endeavour to rectify the causes promptly.
Whilst our target is to have no complaints, 10 complaints were received relating to environmental matters during 2004 2003: 18.
Of the complaints received in 2004, four related to vehicle or other noise issues and two to traffic issues.
The four remaining complaints were about isolated incidents of differing causes.
Generally resolution required only local action, such as replacement of forklift bleepers with less obtrusive white noise warning devices.
Our emergency procedures are designed to ensure that even relatively minor events are reported to the Environment Agency.
Our investment in new double bunded oil tanks and improved maintenance of timber treatment facilities has had a positive impact in that there was only one event which required us to contact the Agency during 2004.
This related to a small amount of hydraulic fluid spilt from a supplier vehicle which was dealt with immediately on site.
No further action is expected by the relevant authorities.
Our target remains to have zero notifiable events.
Prosecutions We are pleased to report that we had no prosecutions for environmental matters during 2004.
Further information We welcome comments on the above report and our policy statement.
Please contact our group planning director on environment@travisperkins.
co. uk Health and safety The group continues its commitment to the achievement and maintenance of high standards in health and safety throughout our branch network and offices.
As new businesses are acquired it is considered a priority to ensure that they become fully compliant with the Travis Perkins health and safety systems and processes as quickly as possible.
Ultimate responsibility for health and safety lies with the chief executive.
Health and safety is an agenda item at board and executive meetings and accident frequency data is reviewed and action taken to minimise risk.
Health and safety reporting, monitoring and improvement is the responsibility of all managers and staff as we strive to make our places of work and systems of work safe for employees, customers, suppliers and sub-contractors.
Our fundamental goals are embodied in the group policy, which is issued to every employee in the group.
22 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Measurement and reporting Following the significant year-on-year improvements we reported last year, the challenge for 2004 has been to maintain these high standards and ensure that our newly acquired businesses meet and then exceed them as soon as possible.
Since 2001, our accident frequency rates have significantly reduced and during the first three quarters of 2004, our year-on-year frequency rates were down.
At the close of 2004 our accident frequency rate was marginally up on 2003 11 compared with just below 10 the previous year.
However, our accident severity rate continues to be managed below 0.10, in line with 2003.
There were no prosecutions and no fatalities in 2004.
Accident frequency rates 2002 - 2004 16.00 15.00 14.00 13.00 12.00 11.00 10.00 2001 2002 2002 2003 2003 2004 Continuous improvement We continue to invest heavily in health and safety training delivering many programmes designed to improve health and safety awareness, skills and knowledge.
The following programmes are now commonplace throughout the group: Health and safety induction: Risk awareness and manual handling training: Health and safety awareness for managers: Mobile plant training: LGV driver training: First aider training: Fire warden training.
23 Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Cumulative Frequency Rate TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Communication and consultation continues to be a high priority, with branch based health and safety committee meetings taking place three times a year and the company health, safety and environment committee meeting six times a year.
These meetings ensure that we fully consult with and involve our workforce in health and safety initiatives.
During 2004, we conducted two extensive audits of health and safety practice.
One was our internal health and safety audit, which enables every branch in our network to produce a health Bath panels and safety action plan for the year.
In addition our Lead Authority Northampton Borough Council, Bathroom carried out a detailed review of our health and safety practices producing a safety management cabinets review together with recommendations for improvement.
The outputs of these audits together with Baths a detailed analysis of accident causations will form the basis of our health and safety action plan Boilers for 2005 and beyond.
Copper cylinders Copper tube Occupational health initiatives are reported in the Employees section on page 27.
Electric showers Flooring Suppliers Heated towel rails Quality Plumbing We recognise our responsibilities for the quality of those materials which we distribute.
Suppliers fittings are required to provide products of a specified standard, by reference, where applicable, to Radiator valves nationally or internationally recognised criteria, and accompanied, where appropriate, by guidance Shower for their use.
Information on timber sourcing is provided within the environmental report.
enclosures Shower pumps Welfare issues in the supply chain Shower trays During 2003 the group instituted a system for checking suppliers compliance with our Taps employment practice and our health and safety expectations and in 2004, this was further Toilets developed.
In August 2004, we wrote to 268 suppliers, representing around 88 per cent of Vertical radiators supplied product.
Wall tiles Washbasins Waste fittings 24 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC The refurbished en suite bathroom A typical branch bathroom display 25 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Based on responses received we have categorised our suppliers as follows: Risk rating Response type Number Comment Low Employment including key 180 Two suppliers advised that they currently have sub-suppliers is wholly workers whose contractual hours exceed normal within the EU OECD.
With this exception, all could confirm full compliance with our employment and our health and safety expectations.
Medium There is employment outside 49 All suppliers in this category confirmed full the EU OECD and monitoring compliance with our employment and our health systems are in place.
High There is employment outside 7 the EU OECD and monitoring systems are not in place.
There is employment outside 8 the EU OECD and compliance cannot be confirmed.
Non-respondents and 24 Efforts are being made to obtain responses.
It is the groups intention to follow up on high-risk suppliers during 2005 and repeat the survey during 2006.
Proposed new suppliers will be assessed against our employment practice and health and safety expectations.
The supplier survey is supplemented by regular visits to manufacturing premises.
26 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Employees Our employment policies have been designed to meet the needs of our business, and follow best practice, whilst complying with both current and anticipated legislation.
Applied consistently throughout the group they provide a fair framework within which our employees work: The group is firmly committed to ensuring that the manner in which it employs staff is fair and equitable.
Our equal opportunities policy is designed to ensure that no person or group of individuals will be treated less favourably because of their race, colour, ethnic origin, gender or sexual orientation, age or disability: Our commitment to training and development at all levels of the organisation gives our employees the opportunity to realise their full potential: We have in place an annual performance review process which enables: A better understanding of what is expected of staff: Recognition of achievement: The opportunity for development and career progression: Effective succession planning: A sound basis for ongoing performance management.
We regularly consult with our workforce.
Throughout our branch network, staff meet with management on a formal basis to consult over matters such as health and safety and customer service.
We also distribute a number of company newsletters and encourage wide use of our intranet, both providing valuable information and inviting feedback.
Employees are regularly informed of the groups financial results and the market conditions in which it operates and are consulted regarding any changes in employment conditions.
To encourage the involvement of employees in the companys performance, the company operates a Save As You Earn option scheme.
In addition, the directors, managers and many other employees are members of discretionary bonus schemes: Labour turnover and absenteeism are key performance indicators for our business.
With a labour turnover of 28 per cent, we continue to perform strongly compared with employers in comparable sectors.
Retention remains strong in all management positions, where labour turnover is less than 10 per cent.
We continue to solicit feedback from all leavers and review the data on a regular basis, and return to work interviews are conducted for employees who have been absent from work through ill health: An increased focus on occupational health in 2004 has seen the introduction of a drugs and alcohol policy, an employee assistance programme for stress and other employee problems and enhanced health screening for managers.
We have also introduced medical assessments for all employees who have more than five days absence following a work related accident.
27 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC There is a commitment at board level to ensure that employees and management are effectively inducted into the company and given the necessary training to fulfil their roles and to develop their full capabilities.
Particular emphasis is placed on customer service, health and safety and youth training.
Our investment in management development at all levels has increased during the year and programmes are in place with the principal aims of ensuring consistent standards of management practice across the group and strong succession into senior appointments.
Management retention is a critical factor in our ongoing success and it was pleasing to see that retention of our managers continued to be strong in 2004.
Community involvement With 751 branches before the acquisition of Wickes in a wide variety of locations throughout Great Britain, we recognise our role in, and responsibilities towards, the community.
Our branches are encouraged to support their local community through involvement in local affairs, such as sponsoring organisations or donating materials to projects.
The group raised a total of more than 440,000 for charities during the year.
At a national level, we support two particular charities, the NSPCC and MacMillan Cancer Relief.
The Charity Committee is chaired by the company chairman.
During the course of the year, our staff take part in a variety of activities to support our chosen charities.
These activities encourage donations from customers and suppliers as well as our own workforce.
Included above are direct donations made by the company to these and other charities which, in the year amounted to 124,534 2003: 105,310.
In addition, we operate a payroll giving scheme through which staff donated 18,147 2003: 19,833 to charity during the year.
28 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Sport sponsorship and charity support Travis Perkins has been the main sponsor of Northampton Saints rugby club for the last four years.
Travis Perkins also sponsor the European Senior Masters golf tournament at Wentworth, and the UK Snooker Championship at York.
The company, staff, suppliers and customers continue to support NSPCC and Macmillan Nurses.
