Pg 34 Corporate responsibility review Chief Executives statement Environmental performance Trinity Mirror is committed to dealing with the environmental Environmental impacts and risks and social issues associated with its business and reporting Trinity Mirrors environmental programme is based on a clear performance in a factual and meaningful way.
During 2004 understanding of the potential impacts of the Companys activities I believe that we have made real progress in the management on the environment.
This enables the Group to focus its of our environmental affairs.
After two years of preparatory work management activities on the areas of greatest risk and to we are now able to see some significant progress and in particular target improvement programmes where real gains can be made.
have set a number of challenging environmental targets in key The Environmental Steering Group, reporting to the Executive areas, including paper procurement, energy conservation and Committee, is charged with continually reviewing the Companys waste recycling.
Actual achievements include: environmental impacts, making recommendations for addressing Signicantly reducing emissions to atmosphere of solvent fumes those impacts and measuring the Companys performance.
VOCs from our print sites Maintaining very high rates of recycling and material recovery During 2004 the Steering Group met every two months and in excess of 90% for all Special Wastes, and manufacturing debated a range of issues and new developments.
Concern paper waste about the impact of paper-making on forest sustainability has Undertaking a comprehensive compliance audit of 98 of the been a recurrent theme during the year and Trinity Mirror has Companys sites approximately 50% of the total responded by reviewing the standards expected of its paper suppliers.
Internal changes within the Company, notably the We recognise that, in order for stakeholders to form a clear modernisation and restructuring of printing activities, have also opinion about our environmental performance, we need to spell needed to be examined, both to ensure that new regulatory out more clearly the issues that we need to address and what requirements are met and to take advantage of the environmental we are doing about them.
In this years review we have therefore improvement opportunities which can ow from major provided more numerical information about our key impact areas new investments.
and specified the targets we expect to meet during 2005.
Trinity Mirror also supports the aims of the CSR Media Forum.
I am very pleased that yet again this year we are reporting a significant reduction in the number of accidents across the Taking account of developments during 2004, but consistent Group.
While, of course, any accident is one too many, I believe with the priorities developed over the last three years, Trinity that these gures represent a true change in culture and Mirror continues to focus its environmental management awareness of Health and Safety issues.
programme on the areas of: We have again participated in the Business in The Community Paper sourcing, sustainable forestry and recycling BiTC Corporate Responsibility Index.
Energy consumption and greenhouse gases Volatile organic compound VOC emissions In October I was privileged to lead one of HRH The Prince of Waste management and recycling Waless Seeing is Believing visits.
Along with 12 other heads of UK businesses, I visited Brixton Prison and the remarkable Performance in these areas is reported below, as well as Kids Company a charity set up to deliver emotional and the actions taken to strengthen the Companys environmental practical support to troubled children who would otherwise be management systems and regulatory compliance auditing.
The experience did exactly what it was designed to: make me think about the role of our Company and also Paper sourcing and sustainable forestry question what we do for charity and how we engage with our local communities.
I reviewed what we did and was delighted Trinity Mirror is a significant purchaser of newsprint and magazine to nd out quite how much was going on, but for the most part paper and so is potentially exposed to concerns about the in an unsung and unrecognised way.
My aim for 2005 is to impacts of timber extraction on forest conservation.
The Group encourage and support the work of my colleagues throughout is committed to providing assurance to its customers, investors the Group and to provide a structure in which their work can and other interested parties that the wood bre used to produce be acknowledged and rewarded.
the paper it uses comes from reputable sources.
During 2004 we undertook a systematic review of paper procurement, including Social, ethical and environmental issues continue to be included the options open to the Company to provide better assurance on the agenda for every Board meeting.
about the probity of its paper supply.
Sly Bailey Chief Executive Pg 35 The proportion of recycled bre used in Trinity Mirror products Trinity Mirror energy consumption 2004 is clearly relevant the more recycled bre, the less requirement and associated CO2 emissions for timber extraction to produce virgin pulp.
For the virgin bre CO2 CO2 component of paper supply, forestry certication schemes have conversion emissions been established offering independent third-party inspection of Consumption factor tonnes forest management practices.
We support the concept of forest certication, as the most practical method of independently 1 Internal activities assuring that forestry practices are sustainable.
As a result of the Electricity consumption review of paper sourcing we have adopted the following target: -3 print works and all ofces 132,000,000 kWh 0.403 x10 53,196 Gas consumption Target: Trinity Mirror will source 75% of its newsprint from -3 print works and all ofces 34,955,000 kWh 0.19 x10 6,641 either recycled materials or virgin bre that has been Fuel oil emergency independently certied as coming from well-managed -3 and sustainable forests, by the end of 2005 generators, all sites 226,965 litres 2.68x10 608 -3 Commercial vehicles 10,994,200 kms 0.267x10 2,935 -3 We are actively engaging with our paper suppliers to meet this Business travel car 18,126,701 kms 0.22x10 3,988 target.
A detailed questionnaire covering paper sourcing and -3 Business travel air 6,116,648 kms 0.18x10 1,101 environmental performance was sent to all 14 of the Companys Total internal 68,469 suppliers during October.
An excellent response has been 2 Contracted activities received from all suppliers and the information received Electricity for printing is currently being analysed to identify areas for improvement -3 mostly magazine inserts 17,950,077 kWh 0.403x10 7,234 and next actions.
Gas for printing -3 Energy consumption and greenhouse gases mostly magazine inserts 33,740,030 kWh 0.19x10 6,411 Electricity for distribution In previous years we have reported on the electricity and gas -3 warehousing 7,852,994 kWh 0.403x10 3,165 consumption of our core sites only.
In line with the commitments Gas for distribution made in last years report, we have worked during 2004 to -3 ensure that our energy reporting comprehensively covers all warehousing 6,680,078 kWh 0.19x10 1,269 operational activities where we have direct management control.
Fuel for road transport -3 Consequently we believe we have now achieved much better distribution 10,617,918 litres 2.68x10 28,456 coverage, encompassing most buildings energy consumption, Total contracted estimate 46,535 as well as the use of commercial vehicles and business travel.
Total Group 115,004 We have also taken steps to identify the energy consumption Total Group per million pages of printed output 0.7 associated with operations which we contract out notably the printing of magazine supplements and the distribution by road Notes: of printed products.
While the preliminary information obtained 1.
Internal activities are those undertaken on company premises and or by company staff, over which Trinity Mirror has direct management control.
from these suppliers is not completely robust, it does give a 2.
Contracted activities refer to aspects of the Companys operations which are undertaken by useful indication of the magnitude of this element of consumption.
external contractors and over which Trinity Mirror does not have direct control.
The activities It is clear that contracted operations especially road distribution concerned are the printing of magazine supplements and the distribution of printed products.
The numbers given above are preliminary estimates only, based on information provided do account for a significant proportion of the energy consumed by suppliers.
All numbers in italics are preliminary estimates.
as a result of the Groups activities.
Further effort will be devoted during 2005 to rening estimates of energy consumed by print A major review of internal energy consumption across the and distribution contractors on Trinity Mirrors behalf.
Company has been undertaken by independent advisors Energy Matters and Peak Energy.
As a result, a new programme of CO2 tonnes energy reduction initiatives has been commenced at our print 80,000 sites and a new energy reduction target has been set: 70,000 59,837 Target: Trinity Mirror will reduce its internal electricity 60,000 consumption by 3% by the end of 2005 vs 2003 baseline 50,000 40,000 The water consumption of the Groups core sites during 2004 32,890 was 215,000 cubic metres.
30,000 20,000 13,645 10,000 5,089 2,935 608 0 Gas and Fuel oil Commercial Business Contract Contract electricity vehicles travel print distribution Pg 36 Volatile Organic Compound VOC emissions Waste management and recycling The restructuring of our printing operations, together with Trinity Mirror continues systematically to address the three initiatives to introduce water-based raw materials, has allowed main waste streams associated with its print works and ofce us to achieve significant reductions in emissions to the locations, namely: atmosphere of solvent fumes VOCs from our print sites.
General waste All of the print sites that were operational at the end of 2004 Special Waste ie waste materials regulated separately nine sites in total have taken steps to reduce the consumption because of their potentially hazardous properties of raw materials that contain VOCs.
In particular, most sites have Paper waste from printing operations now moved to low-VOC inks and blanket washes.
This means that we expect all sites to fall below the threshold limits for VOC During 2004 we continued to operate the successful companyemissions that would require authorisation under the Integrated wide scheme for the management of Special Wastes, which Pollution Prevention and Control IPPC or the Local Air Pollution seeks to maximise the beneficial recovery of materials that would Control LAPC regulations.
Estimated annual throughput of otherwise require special disposal facilities or be discharged into VOCs from our current print sites is now very low in relation to the public sewerage system.
This scheme has now been in the volume of production less than 100 tonnes of VOCs per operation for three years and we continue to achieve very high annum used in producing approximately 165 billion pages of rates of recycling and material recovery around 90% for all printed output.
Remaining hot spots of VOC consumption, for Special Wastes.
example some coloured inks and blanket washes, will be targeted for substitution with water-based materials during 2005.
Trinity Mirror management of Special Wastes 2004 Material collected Material recovered % Estimated annual consumption of Volatile Organic Compounds VOCs by Trinity Mirror print sites Liquid wastes litres 1,196,805 1,098,911 92% operational at the end of 2004 Solid wastes kgs 99,074 85,701 87% 1 Annual Exceeds IPPC 2 consumption or LAPC of VOCs kg regulatory Print site estimated threshold We have also started a new initiative to improve the recycling of our general wastes.
A new waste management contract has been established with two key suppliers that covers all of Watford 14,620 No the Companys locations.
Arrangements for managing general Oldham 2,147 No wastes have been systematically reviewed as an integral part Cardonald 19,890 No of this process and as a result we have committed to the Cardiff Tidal Sidings 12,150 No following target: Teesside 3,000 No Fort Dunlop 230 No Target: Trinity Mirror will recycle 12% by weight of all general Newcastle 19,000 No waste arising by the end of 2005 Liverpool 6,000 No Blantyre 2,820 No We continue to achieve over 90% recycling of manufacturing Group total 79,627 paper waste.
Group total per square metre Environmental management systems of printed output 0.48 and legal compliance Notes: The restructuring of printing activities has created an opportunity 1.
The IPPC regulations establish the primary pollution control regime for industrial installations in the UK which have the potential to cause significant pollution, by virtue of their scale and or to establish more consistent environmental control procedures the hazardous nature of the materials handled.
Printing works qualify for authorisation under across Trinity Mirrors new Manufacturing division, particularly for these regulations if they handle more than the prescribed quantities of solvents or other VOC materials.
high-risk activities such as the storage and handling of hazardous 2.
The LAPC regulations establish a regime for controlling air emissions from smaller industrial liquids.
We are actively considering the merits of establishing sites.
As for the IPPC regulations, printing works become subject to the control regime ISO 14001 environmental management systems at our print if they handle more than the prescribed quantities of solvents or other VOC materials.
works and our major print site at Oldham is currently undertaking a pilot implementation of an ISO 14001 environmental management system, with the assistance of Groundwork Trust Oldham.
Pg 37 Target: Trinity Mirror will achieve certication to the ISO14001 Health and safety environmental management system at the Trinity Mirror Trinity Mirror is continuing to improve its Health and Safety Printing Oldham site by the end of 2005, with a view performance.
The Groups annual accident statistics show that to subsequently achieving certication at all of the there has been a further reduction of 19% in reportable accidents, Companys print sites compared to the gures for last year see page 38.
To achieve such a reduction under normal circumstances would be satisfying, In a related exercise, with the aim of establishing base-line but to achieve this against the backdrop of commissioning two environmental conditions and assessing current compliance with new printing plants and transferring existing staff and production environmental legislation, we have undertaken a comprehensive operations to these new facilities is a great credit to the compliance audit of 98 of the Companys sites approximately staff involved.
These sites range in size from large print works to small rural ofces and the audit was based on The Groups improvement in health and safety performance is the a detailed questionnaire covering: tangible result of ongoing work within individual businesses to: Emissions to atmosphere Implement health and safety policies and procedures Contamination of sewers and surface waters Investigate and analyse the causes of workplace accidents Waste management and recycling Assess and review health and safety risks and precautions Resource consumption, local community issues and planning.
Provide staff with health and safety information and training Carry out effective health and safety inspections and audits The results of the audit confirmed that, while there has been Involve staff in health and safety initiatives no significant or widespread non-compliance with environmental Implement health and safety improvement plans regulations, knowledge of the requirements of legislation needs Continually monitor and review work activities to be strengthened across the Company.
There are a number of areas where practical improvements need to be made, Our challenge in 2005 will be to maintain and if possible to build for example in relation to the storage of fuels, spill procedures, on these achievements.
the segregation and recycling of wastes, and the detailed understanding of local site features such as drain layouts 2004 Health and safety initiatives and the proximity of features such as local water courses.
We anticipate that some of these issues will be addressed by Through the Secretary and Group Legal Director the Board the initiatives referred to above, but the Environmental Steering continues to be kept informed of important developments Group will review all the areas of weakness identied during the in health and safety.
The following activities took place during audit and propose corrective actions to be taken during 2005. the year: Trinity Mirror summary of environmental Individual businesses implemented annual health and safety targets for 2005 plans as part of their drive to reduce accidents and meet challenging internal targets 1.
Source 75% of newsprint from either recycled New printing plants located in Birmingham and Teesside were materials, or virgin bre that has been independently commissioned and handed over to Trinity Mirror.
Following certied as coming from well-managed and sustainable the provision of training for staff, newspaper production was forests, by the end of 2005 transferred to these new facilities without any serious incidents 2.
Reduce internal electricity consumption by 3% by the end of 2005 vs 2003 baseline 3.
Recycle 12% by weight of all general waste arising by the end of 2005 4.
Achieve certication to the ISO14001 environmental management system at the Trinity Mirror Printing Oldham site by the end of 2005, with a view to subsequently achieving certication at all of the Companys print sites Pg 38 Health and safety audits were carried out at all print sites and Group health and safety statistics main ofces as part of the ongoing arrangements for monitoring The table below briey illustrates accident statistics for the and review of health and safety Group in 2004.
There has been a substantial drop in the overall Following an internal review a specialist contractor was number of RIDDOR reportable accidents, compared to the appointed to undertake building surveys covering asbestos, previous year.
disabled access and water safety.
This work will lead to the creation of asbestos registers so that accidental damage Health and safety performance indicator 2004 2003 and deterioration can be avoided in future.
It may also involve some physical alterations to facilitate disabled access Fatalities to buildings and lead to improvements in water system RIDDOR major injuries 9 10 maintenance regimes RIDDOR over three-day injuries 41 52 Health and safety information services were set up on the RIDDOR occupational ill health Company Intranet delivering improved access to information diseases conditions 3 1 and cost savings for the Group RIDDOR dangerous occurrences 0 1 A software-based accident recording system was purchased with the objective of improving record keeping and accident Total number of accidents 754 870 data analysis RIDDOR events frequency rate 0.27 0.28 New health and safety policies and procedures were introduced All accidents frequency rate 3.80 3.85 covering asbestos, noise and hearing conservation throughout Total days lost accidents and the Group occupational ill health 1,498 1,378 0.05% 0.04% It is through these and other health and safety initiatives that the Group has been able to achieve improvements in performance RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995.
Frequency Rate number of accidents per 100,000 hours worked.
Figure in brackets represents the percentage of total days worked by all employees in the Group.
Breakdown of accidents by type of event All percentages rounded to the nearest half decimal point RIDDOR All RIDDOR All accidents accidents accidents accidents 2004 % 2004 % 2003 % 2003 % Slips and falls same level 27 19.5 33 20 Lifting and handling of materials 21 16.5 23 16 Contact with machinery 11 4 10 4 Falls from a height 9.5 1.5 51 Stepping on or striking xed object 7.5 19 718 Struck by moving vehicle 41 41 Contact with sharp abrasive material 211 1.5 14 Struck by ying or falling object 26 85 Contact with hazardous substance 25 5 Contact with hot material substance 23 2 Object collapsing or overturning 20.5 1.5 0.5 Use of hand tools 4 24 Contact with electricity 1 0.5 Others 10 8 59 Total 100 100 100 100 Pg 39 The three most common types of reportable accidents within Ethics Trinity Mirror were again: For many years the Company has had a policy on Standards Slips, trips and falls same level of Business Conduct which we regularly review.
The introduction Lifting and handling of materials to the current policy states: Contact with machinery Trinity Mirror plc is the largest newspaper publisher in the UK These areas, along with working at heights, will be given particular and a major UK plc.
The continuing development and well-being attention in 2005 in an effort to further reduce accidents and the of our business depends on all of us maintaining the highest lost time associated with them.
standards of integrity and personal conduct in all matters which involve the Company.
Health and safety enforcement activity Health and safety enforcing authorities visited our businesses The Company recognises its obligations to those with whom on 11 separate occasions during the course of 2004 to carry it has dealings, namely its employees, shareholders, readers and out routine inspections and to follow up on reported accidents.
advertisers, suppliers and the communities in which its businesses While some remedial work was necessary this did not require operate.
Its reputation is one of the most vital resources of the any form of enforcement action.
Company, and depends for its protection upon the honesty and integrity of each and every one of us.
This document Future initiatives gives guidance on how the essential standards of integrity and conduct are to be maintained.
It is not intended as a statement The Company remains committed to achieving further of new beliefs or the creation of new rules of conduct.
Rather, improvements in health and safety performance and it is a reafrmation of our continuing values and practices.
in 2005 it will: Establish a detailed policy and procedures to deal with the Finally, this document should be read in conjunction with any issue of work-related stress, in line with guidance published specic code issued to individual groups of employees e. g. by the Health and Safety Executive HSE Financial Dealings by Journalists or any provisions of individual Implement new procedures for the investigation and reporting contracts of employment.
of accidents and serious incidents Require its subsidiaries to pay particular attention to the The policy itself is available on the Companys website and top three causes of reportable accidents, taking into gives guidance on conicts of interest, the acceptance of gifts account guidance published by the HSE Printing Industry and entertainment, condential information, insider information, Advisory Committee and political and civic activities.
Review the arrangements for working safely at heights to ensure compliance with new regulations, providing staff Charities with refresher training on this subject where necessary Continue with workplace health and safety inspections The Companys policy with regard to charitable donations and audits to help maintain and improve standards and other such payments is as follows: Require businesses to implement health and safety improvement plans to deal with issues that have been Trinity Mirror believes that it can best support charities through identied as significant the pages of its newspapers.
This support will either be through Explore opportunities for making more effective use of the appeals to readers for donations or through editorial content, Company Intranet as a means of communicating important describing the aims and activities of various charities.
In every aspects of health and safety case the decision as to whether or not to support a charity Continue with the introduction of Group health and safety appeal or whether to run editorial comment will be one for procedures to encourage best practice and greater uniformity the editor of each newspaper.
Monitor developments in new health and safety regulations taking action to ensure compliance as necessary Trinity Mirror plc will make direct cash donations to charities in certain limited circumstances.
The Company will, at a Group level, support various charities connected with or associated with the newspaper, printing or advertising industries.
A second category of direct cash support will be to charities operating in the communities immediately surrounding Trinity Mirrors ofces and print sites.
The charities that are likely to receive support are smaller community-based charities where a modest donation will make a big impact.
It is unlikely that a major national charity that just happens to be based very close to one of our ofces would receive a donation.
