Corporate Social Responsibility Our policy is to conduct all our business operations to the best industry standards and to behave in a socially responsible manner.
Our goal is to be ethical and act with integrity in the communities ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY where we work, and to respect cultural, national and religious In 2004 a Board review of EHS management addressed key diversity.
This commitment is enshrined in Tullows Corporate issues including minimisation of waste, support of biodiversity Social Responsibility CSR Policy.
principles and the promotion of a positive EHS culture based on individual as well collective responsibility.
As a result, an Overall we are dedicated to continuous improvement in all our enhanced EHS Policy has been implemented across the Group.
standards and practices and demonstrable progress was made in 2004.
Through this policy our goal is to protect people, minimise harm to the environment and reduce disruption to our neighbouring HIghlights Include: communities.
Our policy also requires that we comply fully with An enhanced Environmental, Health and Safety EHS Policy all applicable EHS laws and regulations, and apply responsible which has been implemented across the Group and is standards where the legislation is less developed or non-existent.
supported by an annual EHS audit programme Staff and contractors are given appropriate EHS training to perform their tasks competently and safely and with due regard for the Our entire UK operations are ISO 14001 certified following environment.
We also have an annual audit programme which certification of the Bacton Gas Terminal in 2004.
We aim to verifies compliance with this policy and monitors our EHS performance.
steadily increase the number of certified operations within the Group over the coming years The EHS audit programme focuses primarily on those activities Continued investment in energy efficiency improvements that where the Group has the greatest exposure or risk and the resulted in a 20% reduction in CO emissions within our UK process involves an independent review against Tullows Integrated 2 operations Management System.
In 2004, audits were carried out at three locations with no significant issues arising.
The overall objective A total of four Lost Time Incidents LTI in 2004, the same of the EHS policy and audit programme is to ensure that all as 2003, despite the enlarged Group and key, higher risk, locations have good systems in place to minimise and drilling projects during the year proactively manage associated plant or project risk.
Upgraded Crisis Management procedures to enable a prompt and effective response in the event of a serious incident in ENVIRONMENTAL RECORD any Tullow activity Overall environmental performance throughout the Group in 2004 was excellent and no environmental incidents were $1.7 million 0.9 million spent on sponsoring or assisting a recorded.
Tullow applies an Integrated Management System, to wide range of projects that benefit local communities in the ensure that all environmental hazards and impacts are identified countries where we have licence interests and minimised throughout all stages of a project lifecycle.
By The setting up of a CSR Committee, including three Board following this approach it is possible to operate profitably and Directors, with dedicated funding and responsibility for allocating symbiotically in ways that ensure we are good neighbours and resources across the Group in line with Tullows CSR Policy.
bring benefits to the local communities in which we operate.
28 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 Wherever possible we seek to support projects which improve We also worked with our other SNS partners to ensure that sanitation, healthcare or education within the local area.
the requirements of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme are being actively managed and that our exposure in this regard ISO 14001 CERTIFICATION is limited.
There is no requirement for any non-operated assets Our UK operations maintained ISO 14001 Certification, the to purchase CO credits and we do not anticipate any cost to 2 achievement of which is based on an independent audit by Lloyds the Group in 2005.
Register of the environmental aspects of the business.
The team at the Bacton Gas Terminal also achieved ISO 14001 certification SAFETY RECORD within nine months of the transition of the operatorship to Tullow.
During 2004 both the number of countries of operation and the number of employees grew substantially, primarily as a The suitability of ISO 14001 for other business units within Tullow result of the Energy Africa acquisition.
In addition, the oil and was evaluated during 2004 and the Kudu project in Namibia and gas industry is, by its very nature, one of high risk operation operations in Pakistan are working towards certification in 2005. and, in many instances, carries out its activities in challenging The number of Group operations achieving certification is and harsh environments.
expected to increase steadily in the years ahead.
During 2004, our safety performance continued to improve EUROPEAN UNION EU EMISSIONS TRADING SCHEME with enhanced management of safety issues including the EHS During 2004, Tullow made significant effort and investment audit programme, high profile EHS site visits at the beginning in plant to respond positively to the new EU Emissions Trading of all major new projects and a proactive programme of safety Scheme which came into operation at the beginning of 2005. education to ensure that all personnel are fully cognisant of safe We also ensured independent external verification of our 2004 working practices.
This is allied to Tullows recognition of the emissions at our UK operations in readiness for trading.
need to provide safe, clean, hygienic and healthy conditions for our staff and contractors working in the field.
The annual allocation, by the UK Government, for the Bacton and Hewett facilities required a 7% reduction in the average annual We worked hard through the year to improve reporting of LTI, baseline emissions of relevant CO from those operations.
In with tighter and clearer definitions.
There were four LTI in 2004, 2 addition to ongoing plant optimisation, the Bacton facility was which was the same as 2003 although they were of a less severe upgraded to maximise the benefits of available compression to nature.
However the Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate LTIFR, ensure the minimisation of CO emissions.
This contributed to our which is the LTI related to the number of man hours worked, 2 UK operations overall, not only meeting the target of a 7% reduction increased to 2.01, compared with 1.12 in 2003.
This is primarily but actually achieving a total reduction of 20%, leading to a net because there was a 42% reduction in the man hours worked in surplus of 63,515 tonnes of CO, which can be traded in 2005.
During 2003 there was a large 2 Further opportunities have also been identified to improve this increase in contracted personnel and consequently man hours performance in the future with the option of decommissioning because of highly labour intensive activities such as seismic older plant.
29 Corporate Social Responsibility There is an ongoing programme of initiatives and education to An important consideration when planning activities, particularly reduce the potential for incidents.
All incidents receive senior in remote areas, is not only how environmental impacts can be management attention and are reported to the Board.
Our target minimised but also how the project can benefit the local area.
is to return to top quartile performance for the industry and to In 2004, a total of $1.7 million 0.9 million was spent on a compare favourably with the Oil and Gas Producers benchmark wide variety of small and large projects.
In July and August 2004, Bangladesh suffered significant CRISIS MANAGEMENT flooding following record rainfall.
The local Tullow team responded With the inherent EHS risks associated with the industry and promptly and committed over $70,000 38,400 in aid to the significantly enlarged Group, the importance of effective Crisis provide support to those affected: food parcels, blankets and Management Systems is critical.
The Board and Management water purification tablets for the local community around the of Tullow have fully supported the ongoing development of the drilling location: and financial contributions to recognised London based Crisis Management Team to enable a proactive, charities working in the area.
prompt and effective reaction in the event of a serious incident in any Tullow activity.
This included bringing all the Energy Africa In Gabon, as well as ongoing smaller sponsorships, Tullow operations into the London based system after acquisition.
has continued the Energy Africa support of ECOFAC Programme for Conservation and Rational Utilisation of Forest Ecosystems Over the course of 2004, the Crisis Management Teams in Central Africa, an EU funded regional conservation and capability has been significantly enhanced with greater training development programme.
Tullows involvement is focused on a and regular exercises to test the system and resources.
During research project being conducted in the Lossi Gorilla Sanctuary the year, every member took part in a detailed exercise.
which aims to acclimatise gorilla families to the presence of humans so that eco-tourism can be established, to evaluate the COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT impact of Ebola epidemics, and to educate the local community We have a progressive policy of working closely with the in order to prevent the transition of Ebola between the great communities in which we operate and this is incorporated in apes and humans.
our CSR Policy, which was rolled out across the Group in 2004 and is published on our website.
This policy, which is reviewed In Pakistan, Tullow has made a significant investment to install annually, reflects Tullows commitment to conduct our business water systems which supply clean and safe water to 12 local to high standards of integrity.
It places a strong emphasis on villages as well as a further $167,000 91,500 donation to internal support and resources for Tullow personnel, and external a local water pipeline development.
Tullow also established a sponsorship and assistance in projects that benefit the local medical centre at its Suri field to protect the well-being of communities in the countries in which we have licence interests.
employees and local contractors but which also addresses 30 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 health issues in the local community through examination, treatment where appropriate, and assistance with transport to hospital if additional treatment is required.
Also in Pakistan, Tullow entered into a three year commitment with a local non-Governmental Organisation to support an improved regional education system in which 11 primary schools received assistance in areas such as school buildings, furniture and learning materials, teacher training support and educational monitoring.
ONGOING COMMITMENT In late 2004 the Tullow Board approved the setting up of a CSR Committee with dedicated CSR funding.
This six person committee, including three Board Directors, is responsible for managing all community support activities and ensuring that appropriate funding is dedicated to selected sponsorship and charitable projects, seeking to maximise the benefits to local communities.
The Committee, which will report to the Board on a regular basis, considers applications for funding in the context of Tullows CSR Policy on local community responsibilities.
As part of our continuing development of CSR throughout the Group we will produce a separate annual CSR Report.
The 2005 report will be published for the first time early in 2006.
31 Financial Review 2004 was an outstanding year for Tullow.
The Group reported record levels of production, turnover, operating profitability, cash flow and net profit.
This has been principally due to the acquisition of Energy Africa in May 2004, combined with sustained high oil and gas prices during the year.
KEY STATISTICS 2004 2003 %CHANGE PRODUCTION boepd 40,600 24,800 64 NET ENTITLEMENT SALES boepd 36,450 24,800 47 REALISED OIL PRICE PER BBL $ 34.13 27.50 24 PRE-HEDGE TURNOVER m 236.0 129.6 82 TURNOVER POST HEDGING m 225.3 129.6 74 AVERAGE PRODUCTION COSTS PER BOE 4.40 4.70 6 DEPLETION AND AMORTISATION PER BOE 4.68 4.37 7 OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES m 83.2 44.3 88 PROFIT AFTER TAX m 32.9 10.9 202 EARNINGS PER SHARE p 6.18 2.92 112 DIVIDEND PER SHARE p 1.75 1.00 75 OPERATING CASHFLOW m 154.3 85.0 82 Working interest basis PRODUCTION AND TURNOVER The results of Energy Africa have been consolidated with effect from 28 May 2004.
2004 weighted average daily working interest production was 40,600 boepd, 64% ahead of 2003 levels.
The Energy Africa acquisition has given Tullow a balanced production portfolio, both geographically and between oil and gas.
The UK represented 51% 2003: 79%, Africa 47% 2003: 16% and Pakistan 2% 32 2003: 5% of 2004 production, whilst gas represented 44% production to the lower operating cost CMS area and the lower 2003: 86% and oil 56% 2003: 14% of 2004 production.
operating cost of the Energy Africa portfolio.
The average realised oil price for the year was $36.99 bbl The Groups depletion and amortisation charge of 4.68 boe 2003: $27.50 bbl, excluding the cost of hedging.
2003: 4.37 boe, on a working interest basis, has been affected by four key factors: As a result of including hedges acquired as part of the acquisition The fair value assigned to the Energy Africa fixed assets of Energy Africa at fair value, based on their mark to market on acquisition, which is set out below in more detail valuations at the acquisition date, hedging activity impacts both turnover and creditors.
At acquisition the fair value of the Energy An incremental writedown of 2.2 million associated with the Africa hedges included in creditors amounted to 28.3 million.
Group's Pakistan assets following a downgrade in reserves During the period ended 31 December 2004 the impact of the of the Sara and Suri gas fields realisation of such hedges has been to decrease turnover by Significant reserve upgrades in relation to Gabon and Congo 7.4 million, as payments under the hedge contracts in the Brazzaville interests, and seven month period exceeded the related part of the creditors recognised at acquisition.
Further hedge payments of 3.3 million The recognition of reserves associated with new developments, have been made in respect of hedges entered into post the together with related capital expenditure, and third party Energy Africa acquisition.
Consequently, the average realised tariff-paying volumes in the SNS.
price for the Group in 2004 was $34.13 bbl 2003: $27.50 bbl, net of hedging.
Tullow applies the successful efforts accounting policy which requires that all costs associated with unsuccessful exploration During 2004 UK gas prices were favourable and average are written off to the Profit and Loss Account.
During 2004 Tullow realisation of gas was 22.89p therm 2003: 20.66p therm.
participated in successful exploration wells in the UK North Sea, Gabon, Congo Brazzaville, Equatorial Guinea and Bangladesh.
Tariff revenue was lower at 9.5 million 2003: 10.8 million However a number of other wells in the UK, Egypt, Mauritania, due to lower throughput production during 2004.
Uganda, Cte d'Ivoire and Bangladesh were not successful.
All the costs of these wells, along with certain additional costs OPERATING PROFIT associated with relinquished acreage and new ventures, have Operating Profit before Exploration Activities amounted to been written off, resulting in a total charge of 18.0 million 83.2 million 2003: 44.3 million showing the benefits of to the Profit and Loss Account 2003: 12.8 million.
increased Group production and reduced unit operating costs in both the UK and Africa following the Energy Africa acquisition.
INTEREST CHARGE The net interest charge for the year was 9.5 million, comprising Group operating costs of 4.40 boe 2003: 4.70 boe, 8.3 million of interest and charges associated with Group debt on a working interest basis, reflect the continuing shift of UK after capitalisation of 1.8 million associated with development 33 Financial Review projects, in particular Okume and Horne & Wren, 3.5 million of Under the revised treatment, turnover and taxation for 2003 interest income and 4.3 million of non-cash costs arising from have each been reduced by 2.7 million.
There has been no the amortisation of debt arrangement fees and the unwinding net effect on net assets or net profit as a result of the change.
of discount on abandonment provisions.
CASH FLOW AND FINANCING ACTIVITIES PROFIT ON DISPOSAL OF OIL AND GAS ASSETS Tullow generated an Operating Cash Flow of 154.3 million During 2004 Tullow undertook a number of transactions to during the year 2003: 85.0 million driven principally by introduce new partners into the Horne & Wren project.
As part the Energy Africa acquisition and stronger oil and gas prices.
of these transactions, Tullow disposed of part of the project for This record cash flow allowed the Group to spend a total of a profit of 2.3 million.
96.6 million on exploration and development activities.
TAXATION Development expenditure in 2004 was principally associated The tax charge of 25.0 million is principally associated with with the Horne & Wren fields, Okume and MBoundi.
the Group's North Sea activities and consists of 9.9 million of current Corporation Tax, 5.9 million of Petroleum Revenue Tax Tullow participated in 16 exploration wells during 2004.
The most PRT, a provision of 12.1 million in respect of Deferred Taxation significant exploration expenditure arose in the UK North Sea, and a deferred tax credit of 2.9 million from future tax benefits Gabon, Congo Brazzaville, Equatorial Guinea and Bangladesh.
associated with an asset swap in Gabon.
Repayments totalling 33.4 million 2003: 14.8 million The strong reserve and production performance of the Murdoch K were also made under Group banking facilities, exclusive of fields in the CMS area, coupled with the increase in the UK gas the new funding associated with the acquisition of Energy Africa.
price forward curve and the acquisition of Energy Africas interest in the Alba field has led to an increase in the Groups PRT charge During the year the Group concluded a $300 million Acquisition to 11.0 million 2003: 9.0 million.
Bridge Financing Facility, arranged by ABN AMRO, BNP Paribas and Bank of Scotland.
This facility was principally used to finance The Groups overall effective tax rate was 33.0% 2003: 35.3% the cash component of the consideration paid to acquire Energy of Profit on Ordinary Activities Before Taxation less Exploration Africa.
Subsequent to this, the Group also negotiated a further Costs Written Off.
The decreased effective tax rate is due to the facility of 120 million associated with the acquisition of the majority of Energy Africas assets being PSCs, where a proportion Schooner and Ketch assets, although this was not utilised of the production is shared with the host Government instead until after the year end.
The value of such production shared in lieu of tax is no longer reflected in the Profit and Loss Account under Tullows Following the aquisitions and growth of recent years, Tullow revised Accounting Policy for Taxation and Turnover for such currently has a variety of financing facilities in place.
2005 it is the Groups intention to undertake a refinancing and Tullow is currently in the advanced stages of agreeing 34 the terms of a new facility to be led by the same bank group.
This HEDGING AND RISK MANAGEMENT will substantially replace all of the Groups existing debt facilities.
Tullows policy is to mitigate its exposure to oil and gas price risks for a portion of its production, using a range of financial At 31 December 2004 the Group held total cash balances of instruments such as fixed price swaps, participating swaps, zero 85.1 million, of which 36.2 million was held as security for cost collars and option structures.
Tullow also hedges price risk future decommissioning obligations.
through forward sale agreements for physical product at fixed prices, most notably in respect of UK Gas.
ENERGY AFRICA COMPLETION OF ACQUISITION AND FAIR VALUE ALLOCATION EXERCISE In recognition of the continued strength in oil and gas pricing The Energy Africa transaction, announced in March 2004, was during 2004, the Group also sought to increase utilisation completed with the consolidation of those assets from 28 May.
of collar and other participating structures to retain exposure Under FInancial Reporting Standard FRS 7 Tullow is required to to higher oil prices should they occur.
undertake a fair value exercise to determine the values attributed to the acquired assets within the Groups Balance Sheet.
A provisional At 31 March 2005, the Groups hedge position to end 2006 estimate of fair value allocation was provided at the 2004 interims.
may be summarised as follows: Under the FRS Tullow is permitted to review this allocation within 12 months, and accordingly the final fair value allocated to the OIL HEDGES 1H 05 2H O5 2006 acquisition of Energy Africa may be summarised as follows: VOLUME - bopd 12,938 9,946 7,731 FAIR VALUE ALLOCATION $million million AVERAGE PRICE - $ bbl 36.7 36.0 32.8 DOWNSIDE PRICE - $ bbl 34.6 31.4 28.5 BOOK VALUE OF OIL AND GAS FIXED ASSETS 343.9 187.6 MARKET VALUE OF HEDGE CONTRACTS 51.8 28.3 GAS HEDGES 1H 05 2H O5 2006 FAIR VALUE OF OTHER NET LIABILITIES 82.4 45.0 FAIR VALUE ADJUSTMENT TO BOOK VALUES VOLUME - mmscfd 46 43 20 OF OIL AND GAS FIXED ASSETS 391.4 213.6 AVERAGE PRICE - p therm 28.4 29.2 36.4 TOTAL ACQUISITION COST 601.1 327.9 DOWNSIDE PRICE - p therm 26.9 27.0 33.1 Based on the fair value exercise and current production and reserves mix, the average Depreciation, Depletion and Average hedge prices are based on market prices as at 31 March 2005 and represent the current value of hedged volumes Amortisation DD&A rate for the Energy Africa assets is Downside hedge prices reflect floor price protection.
approximately $8.70 bbl, on a working interest basis.
35 Financial Review Due to the natural hedge between its UK based activities, The Groups current understanding is that the major effects which are Sterling earning and Sterling debt funded, and its of changing from Tullows existing accounting practices to international business which is principally denominated and IFRS are likely to be in the following areas: funded in US dollars, the Group does not undertake active IFRS 2 share based payments currency hedging.
IFRS 3 deferred taxation related to business PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT combinations, and Tullow actively manages its asset portfolio.
There have IAS 39 oil and gas hedges.
been various farmouts which have reduced Tullows financial exposure to high risk exploration, most notably in Gabon, As Tullow adopts the successful efforts method of accounting Romania and Morocco.
for exploration and appraisal costs, the Group anticipates that changes arising from implementation of IFRS 6 will Portfolio management will continue in 2005 with the sale of be comparatively minor.
the Alba and Caledonia assets for $112 million 59 million and the sale of Tullows offshore Congo Brazzaville assets for Tullow is monitoring the approach adopted by the industry and $72 million 38 million.
Tullow had identified that these assets, the Group expects to be fully prepared for adoption of IFRS.
while attractive to purchasers in the current climate, were not central to the Groups long term strategy.
The sale proceeds will be used to reduce the Groups gearing and create financial flexibility to undertake further transactions should suitable opportunities arise.
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS IFRS The Group will adopt IFRS with effect from 1 January 2005 and the 2005 interim figures will be prepared on the new basis.
Comparative figures for 2004 will also be restated in accordance with IFRS.
Tullow has established a project team to manage the transition to IFRS.
A restatement of the 2004 balance sheet, including a reconciliation between UK GAAP and IFRS, will be issued to shareholders in advance of the interim results which will be published in September 2005.
This team is also considering the presentation of the Groups results, systems impacts and the wider business issues that arise from such a fundamental change.
36 37 Board of Directors PAT PLUNKETT AIDAN HEAVEY TOM HICKEY GRAHAM MARTIN ADRIAN NEL Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer General Counsel Exploration Director Age 54 Age 52 Age 36 Age 51 Age 62 Pat Plunkett was A founding Director and A Chartered Accountant, A solicitor, Graham Martin Adrian Nel was appointed appointed non-executive shareholder of the Group, Tom Hickey was appointed joined the Group and to the Board as Exploration Chairman in 2000 having Aidan Heavey has played a Chief Financial Officer and the Board, as Legal and Director in September served as a non-executive key role in the development to the Board in 2000.
He was Technical Director since 1998. of Tullow since its formation to joining Tullow he was an in 1997, from Vinson Director of Energy Africa He is Chairman of the in 1985.
He is a member Associate Director of ABN & Elkins, a leading from its formation in 1996 Nominations and of the Nominations AMRO Corporate Finance international law practice, and Chief Operating Officer Remuneration Committees.
A Chartered Ireland Limited, which where he was a partner.
from 2001 until the He has over 30 years Accountant, he previously he joined in 1995.
In this Prior to that, he was a company was acquired experience in the financial held roles in the airline role, he advised public partner in Dickson by Tullow in May 2004. services sector and was a and engineering sectors and private companies in Minto WS, a UK corporate From 1987 to 1991 he director of the Irish Stock in Ireland.
a wide range of industry law firm.
He has over 25 was General Manager of Exchange from 1995 to sectors in the areas of years experience of UK the oil and gas division of 1998.
He managed the fund raising, stock and international corporate Gencor Limited and from stockbroking and corporate exchange requirements, and energy transactions.
1991 to 1996 he was finance businesses of the mergers and acquisitions, He has been the principal General Manager of Engen ABN AMRO Bank in Ireland, flotations and related legal adviser to Tullow Limiteds oil and gas as Managing Director transactions.
He is a since its formation in business in Africa.
Adrian from 1990 to 1993 and non-executive director 1985 and was appointed Nel has been active in Executive Chairman from of Ikon Science Limited, to his current position as exploration in both 1993 to 1998.
He is a specialist geological General Counsel in 2004. technical and managerial currently a corporate software company in roles for over 30 years and advisor and non-executive which Tullow has a holds degrees in geology director of a number minority equity stake.
38 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 MATTHEW ODONOGHUE DAVID BAMFORD ROHAN COURTNEY STEVEN McTIERNAN CLARE SPOTTISWOODE CBE General Manager Projects Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Age 60 Age 58 Age 57 Age 54 Age 52 Matthew ODonoghue David Bamford was Rohan Courtney has been Steven McTiernan was Clare Spottiswoode was appointed to the appointed as a nona non-executive Director appointed as a nonwas appointed as a nonBoard as Operations executive Director in July since 1993 and Senior executive Director in 2002. executive Director in 2002.
He is a member of Independent Director since He is a member of the She is a member of the Audit, joined Tullow in 1987 the Audit, Nominations and 2000.
He is Chairman of Audit, Nominations and Nominations and Remunerations as General Manager in Remuneration Committees.
the Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committees.
An engineer, With a PhD in Geological member of the Nominations He began his career as training, she began her career he has over 35 years Sciences from the and Remuneration a petroleum engineer, in the Treasury before starting experience in the oil and University of Birmingham, Committees.
He was a working with BP, Amoco her own software company.
gas exploration sector and he has had over 23 years career banker for 27 years and Mesa in the Middle Between 1993 and 1998 held a number of senior exploration experience with and held senior positions East and the UK.
In she was Director General of roles with Schlumberger BP where he was Chief in London and Hong Kong, 1979, he joined Chase Ofgas, the UK gas regulator.
Wireline, working in Geophysicist from 1990 including that of Chief Manhattan Bank, where She is currently Deputy Europe, Africa and the to 1995, General Manager Executive Europe of the he became Senior Vice Chairman of British Energy Middle East.
A core for West Africa from 1995 State Bank of New South President and head of the Group plc and Chairman of member of the original to 1998, and acted as Wales from 1982 to 1990. bank's energy group based Economatters Limited.
team that has developed Vice President Exploration, Between 1991 and 1996, in New York.
From 1996 to She is also a non-executive the Group's business and directing BP's global he advised and represented 1998 he was Head of Oil director of Anker plc, Biofuels international operating exploration programme, major shareholders on the and Gas Investment Corporation plc and Petroleum capability, he was from 2001 to 2003.
He is boards of several companies Banking for NatWest Geo-Services ASA.
appointed to his current a non-executive director of in business difficulty.
From Markets and Head of position in 2004.
Paras Limited, a specialist 1996 to 2001, he was Energy in the London oil and gas industry Executive Chairman of West office of CIBC World consulting firm and Visiting 175 Media Group Inc.
He is Markets from 1998 to Professor of Geophysics at currently Executive Chairman 2001.
He is currently the University of Leicester.
designate of UCG Global, Principal of Sandown a company established to Energy Consultants commercialise and develop Limited, a natural power through the process resources advisory of underground coal firm based in London.
39 5 CONTENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 41 DIRECTORS REPORT 47 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 49 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES 57 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 58 GROUP PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT 60 GROUP STATEMENT OF TOTAL RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES 61 RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN GROUP EQUITY SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS 61 GROUP BALANCE SHEET 62 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET 63 GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT 64 ACCOUNTING POLICIES 65 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69 RESERVES SUMMARY 87 LICENCE INTERESTS 88 FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY 92 40 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 Corporate Governance Year ended 31 December 2004 The Board of Tullow is committed to business integrity and high ethical values across the Groups activities.
As an essential part of this commitment, the Board supports high standards of corporate governance.
COMPLIANCE WITH FRC COMBINED CODE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE JULY 2003 As required by the Listing Rules issued by the UK Listing Authority, this report describes how the Company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
It also discloses the extent to which the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with all of the provisions of the Code throughout the year under review and subsequently up to the date of this report with the following exceptions: Independent non-executive Directors currently comprise less than half the Board.
Whilst the Board is aware that the Code requires at least half the Board to comprise independent non-executive Directors, it considers that there is currently a very effective working balance between executive and non-executive Directors on the Board.
It is also of the view that, at ten members, the Board is of an appropriate size for a fast growing business such as Tullow.
The composition of the Board and its principal Committees is kept under review in light of the provisions of the Code: it is the current intention of the Nominations Committee to make recommendations to the Board with a view to appointing a further independent non-executive Director during 2005.
Pat Plunkett is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and, as such, that Committee is not made up solely of independent non-executive Directors.
The Board has considered the position of Pat Plunkett as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and is of the view that he should continue to fulfil this role since he brings considerable knowledge of the management roles and responsibilities within the Group which enables him to discharge his duties in an informed and properly independent manner.
In addition, Pat Plunkett brings continuity to the Committee: he and Rohan Courtney being the only non-executive Directors to have been members throughout the period of major growth since the Company became a constituent of the FTSE All-Share Index, following its re-registration in the UK in December 2000.
Details of how Tullow has applied the principles of the Code in relation to Directors remuneration are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS Composition The Board comprises a non-executive Chairman, five Executive Directors and four non-executive Directors.
Each of the Executive Directors has extensive knowledge of the oil and gas industry.
The majority of the non-executive Directors either have held or currently hold senior appointments in oil and gas companies or companies with energy interests and, together, the non-executive Directors bring a broad range of business and commercial experience to the Board.
No individual or group of individuals dominates the Boards decision making.
Biographies of the Board members are set out on pages 38 and 39.
Role of the Board The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
To achieve this, the Board directs and monitors the Groups affairs within a framework of controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed effectively.
It sets the Groups strategic aims, ensuring that the necessary resources are in place to achieve these aims, and reviews management and financial performance.
The Board also has responsibility for setting the Groups core values and standards of business conduct and for ensuring that these, together with the Groups obligations to its stakeholders, are widely understood throughout the Group.
Chairman and Chief Executive There is a clear delineation of the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive, which have been agreed and set out in writing by the Board.
41 Corporate Governance continued The Chairmans key responsibilities are the effective running of the Board, ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part in the development and determination of the Groups strategy and acting as guardian of the Boards decision-making process.
The key responsibilities of the Chief Executive are managing the Groups business, proposing and developing the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives in consultation with the Board and, as leader of the executive team, implementing the decisions of the Board and its Committees.
In addition, the Chief Executive is responsible for maintaining regular dialogue with major shareholders as part of the Companys overall investor relations programme.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Appointment Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
Thereafter, they may serve one or more three year terms subject to satisfactory performance.
The letters of appointment of each non-executive Director are available for inspection.
Meetings of non-executive Directors In addition to their attendance at Board and, as appropriate, Committee meetings, the non-executive Directors have also met formally on three occasions during 2004 without executive management present.
The non-executive Directors examine and review the performance of the executive management: this review process is in part dealt with by the Board Committees referred to below.
Separately, the Chairman and Chief Executive hold informal meetings with the non-executive Directors to discuss issues affecting the Group.
Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Director is Rohan Courtney.
In this role he is available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chief Executive or Chairman.
Independence The Board considers each of the current non-executive Directors to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board recognises that Rohan Courtneys independence may be called into question, given that he has served on the Board for more than nine years.
Nevertheless, the Board considers that his independence is not prejudiced or compromised by this and when taken with his experience and knowledge of the Groups business that he remains an independent, challenging and valuable contributor to the Board.
In recognition that the Combined Code requires a non-executive Director who has served for more than nine years to be subject to annual re-election, Rohan Courtney will be proposed for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting AGM.
Election and re-election All Directors are required by the Companys articles of association to be elected by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment.
Subsequently, Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
HOW THE BOARD OPERATES Board meetings The Board meets regularly during the year and on an ad hoc basis as required.
The attendance record of each Director is shown in the table on page 43.
During 2004, the Board met on nine occasions.
In addition to the formal meetings of the Board, the Chairman and Chief Executive maintain frequent contact with the other Directors to discuss issues affecting the Group.
In addition, all Board members attended a strategy away day held in November at which they and senior Tullow personnel focused on the Groups strategy.
Information flow Directors have access to a regular supply of financial, operational and strategic information to assist them in the discharge of their duties.
Such information is provided as part of the normal management reporting cycle.
Board papers relevant to a specific Board meeting are circulated in advance of the meeting to allow consideration of key decisions required and matters arising.
In addition, each Board meeting includes a specific detailed review of the history, performance and future potential of an individual asset or business unit designed to ensure that all material assets are considered on a cyclical basis.
42 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 Independent professional advice All Directors and Committees have access to independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, as and when required.
Insurance cover The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
Matters reserved and delegations A formal schedule of matters is reserved for consideration by the Board and is reviewed annually.
The matters reserved include the Groups overall strategy, approval of annual and interim results, acquisitions and disposals, material contracts, major capital expenditure projects and budgets.
Subject to those reserved matters, the Board delegates authority for the management of the business primarily to the Chief Executive and certain other matters are delegated to the principal Board Committees, namely the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, each of which is described in more detail below.
Attendance at meetings The attendance of Directors at Board and Committee meetings during 2004 was as follows: Board Audit Remuneration Nominations 9 6 3 4 No.
of Meetings 9 1 3 4 Pat Plunkett 9 - - 3 Aidan Heavey 9 - - - Tom Hickey 9 - - - Matthew ODonoghue 9 - - - Graham Martin 2 4 - - - Adrian Nel 3 2 - - - John Lander 8 6 3 4 Rohan Courtney 9 6 3 3 Steven McTiernan 9 4 3 3 Clare Spottiswoode 4 5 2 - 1 David Bamford 5 2 1 1 - Eskandar Maleki 1 Pat Plunkett resigned as a member of the Audit Committee in April 2004 in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
2 Adrian Nel was appointed a Director on 13 September 2004.
3 John Lander retired on 16 April 2004.
4 David Bamford was appointed a Director on 8 July 2004.
5 Eskandar Maleki retired on 21 April 2004.
Performance evaluation Under the Combined Code, the Board is required each year to carry out a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
To meet this recommendation, the Board engaged an independent external facilitator in December 2004 to assist in an assessment.
This exercise was carried out by way of a detailed questionnaire completed by each Board member supplemented by an individual discussion.
The findings of this exercise were analysed and discussed, initially with the Chairman, and then considered by the Board for itself and each of the Committees.
The review focused on such matters as composition and strategic capability, ongoing development, external and internal relationships, risk management, and conduct of Board and Committee meetings.
Overall, Board members concluded that the Board and its Committees were operating in an effective and constructive manner.
The Board has committed to retain an independent facilitator to carry out Board performance measurement in 2005 and beyond.
43 Corporate Governance continued Induction During 2004, two new Directors, David Bamford and Adrian Nel, were appointed to the Board.
As part of their induction, each visited the key offices of the Group and met with line management from each functional discipline and business unit.
The Company Secretary also provides new Directors with an overview of their duties as Directors, Corporate Governance policies and established Board procedures as part of the induction process.
Continuing Professional Development All members of the Board have access to appropriate training in respect of their obligations and duties as Directors.
Briefings on particular subject matters have been given, such as corporate governance and the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards.
COMMITTEES The Board has established the following principal Committees, each of which has written terms of reference approved by the Board setting out its authority and duties.
New terms of reference of the Committees have recently been adopted to reflect amongst other things, the requirements of the Code.
Copies of the terms of reference can be viewed on the investor relations section of the Companys website www.
com or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE This Committee currently comprises Rohan Courtney Chairman, Steven McTiernan, Clare Spottiswoode and David Bamford appointed to the Committee July 2004.
In April 2004, Pat Plunkett resigned as a member of the Committee.
Eskandar Maleki ceased to be a member of the Committee upon his retirement from the Board in April 2004.
Rohan Courtney and Steven McTiernan both have extensive banking and financial experience whilst Clare Spottiswoode currently sits on the audit committees of three other public companies.
Based upon this, the Board is satisfied that the Audit Committee members have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee met six times during 2004, including meetings held immediately prior to the submission to the Board of the interim and annual results respectively.
The main responsibilities of the Committee include: Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and any formal announcement relating to the Groups financial performance: Reviewing significant financial reporting issues, reviewing accounting policies and disclosures in financial reports: Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control procedures and risk management systems: Reviewing the Companys whistleblowing procedures: Making recommendations to the Board as to the appointment or re-appointment of the Groups external auditors: and Overseeing the selection of new auditors and overseeing the relationship with the external auditor.
The Committee monitors the level of audit and non-audit services provided by the Companys auditors.
Non-audit services are normally limited to assignments that are either closely related to the audit or where the work is of such a nature that a detailed understanding of the Group is necessary.
A breakdown of the fees paid to our auditors in respect of audit and non-audit work is included in note 3 of the accounts on page 69 and 70.
The Chief Financial Officer and a representative of the external auditors normally attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
The external auditors have unrestricted access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
During 2004, the Committee conducted an open tender process which resulted in the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as Group auditors.
The Committee is also monitoring the Companys preparation for the transition to and first reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which became obligatory from 1 January 2005.
44 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 57 contains details of the Remuneration Committee NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE The current members of the Nominations Committee, are Pat Plunkett Chairman, Aidan Heavey, Rohan Courtney, Steven McTiernan appointed to the Committee in March 2004, Clare Spottiswoode also appointed March 2004 and David Bamford appointed to the Committee in July 2004.
The Committee met four times in 2004.
The main responsibilities of the Committee include: Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and making recommendations to the Board with any changes required: Planning succession for Directors and other senior executives: Identifying and nominating, for Board approval, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: Reviewing annually the time commitment required from non-executive Directors: Making recommendations to the Board with regard to membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees in consultation with the Chairman of each Committee: and Assessing the continuation in service of any Director who is to be re-elected or has reached the age of 70.
The principal activities of the Committee in 2004 related to the appointments of David Bamford in July 2004 as a new independent non-executive Director, and Adrian Nel who was appointed Exploration Director in September 2004.
The process for the appointment of David Bamford was supported by external search consultants.
Adrian Nel, who was previously Technical Director of Energy Africa, was appointed in September 2004 following the acquisition by Tullow of Energy Africa.
SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS Communication with shareholders is given high priority and there is regular dialogue with institutional investors, as well as general presentations at the time of the release of the annual and interim results.
The Board receives regular investor relations reports covering key investor meetings and activities as well as shareholder and investor feedback.
The Group issues its results promptly to individual shareholders and also publishes them on the Investor Relations section of the Companys website.
The Companys website address is www.
Regular updates to record news in relation to the Company and the status of exploration and development programmes are also included on the Companys website.
Shareholders and other interested parties can subscribe to receive these news updates by e-mail by registering on-line on the website.
The Chairman is available to meet with institutional shareholders to discuss any issues and gain an understanding of any concerns in relation to the Companys governance and strategy.
Non-executive Directors have the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and will attend if requested to do so.
At the AGM, a business presentation is provided for shareholders benefit and individual shareholders are given the opportunity to put questions to the Chairman, the chairmen of the key Board Committees and to other members of the Board.
In addition, the Board is committed to maintaining strong links with its Irish shareholder base and holds a business presentation in Ireland, on the day following the AGM, to allow these shareholders similar access to the Board.
Notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and details of proxy votes for and against each resolution, together with abstentions, are made available after the result of the hand votes.
45 Corporate Governance continued INTERNAL CONTROLS In September 1999, the Turnbull Guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code was published.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups and the Companys systems of internal control, which are designed to safeguard the assets of the Group and to ensure the reliability of financial information for both internal use and external publication.
The Groups internal control procedures include Board, technical and financial approval for all projects.
All major expenditures require senior management approval at the appropriate stages of each transaction.
Overall control is ensured by a regular detailed reporting system covering both technical progress of projects and the state of the Groups financial affairs.
The Board has put in place procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks that face the Group.
Any system of internal control can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material financial irregularities will be detected or that the risk of failure to achieve business objectives is eliminated.
The Directors, having reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, consider that the system of internal control operated effectively throughout the financial year and up to the date the financial statements were signed.
In addition, the Audit Committee has reviewed the necessity for the establishment of an internal audit function but considers that, given the size of the Group, the close involvement of joint venture partners in the exploration and drilling process, the strengths of its systems and the close involvement of senior management, no requirement currently exists for the establishment of such a function.
GOING CONCERN After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group as a whole have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
46 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 Directors Report Year ended 31 December 2004 The Directors submit their Report together with the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004. BUSINESS REVIEW AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings the Group are oil and gas exploration and production and the provision of technical services to its joint venture partners.
Information on the Companys principal subsidiary undertakings is contained in Note 11 to the financial statements.
A full review of the Groups activities during the year, recent events and future developments is contained in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 7, the Chief Executives Review on pages 8 and 9, the Operational Review on pages 10 to 27 and the Financial Review on pages 32 to 37.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The results of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2004 are set out in the profit and loss account on page 60.
The profit on ordinary activities after taxation amounted to 32,949,297 2003: 10,920,541.
An interim dividend of 0.5p 2003: 1.0p per share was paid on 8 October 2004.
The Directors recommend a dividend of 1.25p 2003: 1.0p per share which if approved at the AGM will be paid to shareholders in July 2005.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Since the balance sheet date Tullow has continued to progress its exploration, development and business growth strategies.
On 31 March 2005, the Company completed the acquisition, from Shell U. K. Limited and Esso Exploration and Production UK Limited, of their entire producing interests in the Schooner and Ketch gas fields in the Southern North Sea and associated acreage.
This transaction was first announced on 20 December 2004.
The total consideration for the transaction is 200 million, inclusive of capital allowances, which has been financed through a combination of bank debt and internal resources.
On 8 April 2005, the Company signed a Sale and Purchase Agreement to dispose of its minority interest in the Alba Caledonia fields in the Central North Sea to ITOCHU Corporation for a headline consideration of $112 million 59 million.
On the same date the Company signed an agreement to dispose of its interests in Offshore Congo to Total for a headline consideration of $72 million 38 million.
DIRECTORS The Directors of the Company at the date of this report are listed on pages 38 and 39.
John Lander and Eskandar Maleki retired as Directors on 16 April 2004 and 21 April 2004 respectively.
David Bamford was appointed a non-executive Director on 8 July 2004 and Adrian Nel was appointed a Director on 13 September 2004.
Directors appointed by the Board are required to retire at the first AGM following their appointment and, accordingly, resolutions for their re-election will be proposed at the 2005 AGM.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Graham Martin, Steven McTiernan and Clare Spottiswoode retire at this years AGM.
Being eligible, they offer themselves for re-election.
In addition, as Rohan Courtney has been a Director for more than nine years he retires annually and a resolution for his re-election will be proposed at this years AGM.
Details of Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are set out on page 54.
Details of the Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company and in share options are set out on pages 55 and 56 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
47 Directors Report continued SHARE CAPITAL As at the date of this report 646,429,868 ordinary shares are issued and fully paid.
Details of changes in the share capital during 2004 are set out in Note 18 to the financial statements.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS At the date of this report the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in its issued share capital: Number of % of issued shares capital Merill Lynch Investment Group Managers 78,002,419 12.07 IFG International Trust Company Limited 44,785,366 6.93 Drew Finance Limited 21,331,401 3.30 Legal & General Group plc 19,917,612 3.08 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The Group is fully committed to high standards of environmental, health and safety management.
A review is set out in the Corporate Responsibility Statement on pages 28 to 31.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS An outline of the Groups involvement in the community appears in the Corporate Responsibility Statement on pages 28 to 31.
In line with Group policy, no donations were made for political purposes.
SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY It is Company and Group policy to settle all debts with creditors on a timely basis and in accordance with the terms of credit agreed with each supplier.
The Company had no trade creditors outstanding at 31 December 2004.
AUDITORS Following the completion of the Energy Africa acquisition, Robert J. Kidney & Co considered that the global dimension of the Group required a single auditor with a worldwide reach.
Accordingly, that firm resigned as joint auditor in November 2004.
Following a re-tender for audit services Deloitte & Touche LLP were appointed as Tullows sole external auditors.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Your attention is drawn to the Notice of Meeting enclosed with this Annual Report which sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
By order of the Board TOM HICKEY Company Secretary 22 April 2005 48 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 Directors Remuneration Report Year ended 31 December 2004 INTRODUCTION This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, which set out requirements for the disclosure of Directors remuneration.
The report is also prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The Regulations require the auditors to report to the Companys Members on the auditable part of the Remuneration Report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report that has been subject to audit has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The report is therefore divided into separate sections to disclose the audited and unaudited information.
A resolution to approve the entire report will be proposed at the AGM of the Company.
Unaudited Information REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The members of the Remuneration Committee are Pat Plunkett Chairman, Rohan Courtney, Steven McTiernan, Clare Spottiswoode and David Bamford.
Eskandar Maleki ceased membership upon his retirement from the Board on 21 April 2004.
David Bamford joined the Committee following his appointment as a non-executive Director in July 2004.
The Committee met three times during the year.
The main responsibilities of the Committee include: Determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for the Chief Executive, Chairman, Executive Directors and senior executives: Approving the design of, and determining targets for, performance-related pay schemes: Reviewing the design of share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders: Determining the policy for pension arrangements for Executive Directors and senior executives: and Within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the total individual remuneration packages for each Executive Director and senior executive.
The full terms of reference for the Committee are available on the Companys website.
The Chief Executive and other relevant executives are invited to attend meetings of the Committee but do not take part in any decision affecting their own remuneration.
The Committee also receives advice from the Company Secretary and the Head of Human Resources.
The Committee has appointed New Bridge Street Consultants LLP as its independent remuneration advisers who also provide technical advice to the Company in connection with the operation of its share incentive arrangements.
The Committee also consults with the Companys major investors and investor representative groups as appropriate.
REMUNERATION POLICY The Groups policy is to maintain levels of remuneration so as to attract, motivate and retain directors of the highest calibre who can contribute their experience and independent views to the Groups operations.
Executive Directors must be properly rewarded and motivated to perform in the best interests of shareholders.
The elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors are basic salary, annual bonus, benefits, pension payments and participation in the Companys share based incentive arrangements.
Consequently, a significant element of Executive Directors remuneration is performance-linked.
When determining the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the Committee takes into account the remuneration practices adopted both by companies operating in the FTSE Oil and Gas Sector and in the market generally while also having regard to pay practices elsewhere in the Group.
49 Directors Remuneration Report continued EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Base salary The base salaries of the Executive Directors are reviewed annually with regard given to personal performance, Company performance, changes in responsibilities and competitive market practices.
Following the most recent review, the base annual salary of each Executive Director with effect from January 2005 is: Base Salary Aidan Heavey 426,000 Tom Hickey 262,000 Graham Martin 262,000 Matthew ODonoghue 231,000 Adrian Nel 231,000 When making the most recent base salary increases, the Committee took account of remuneration practices in a group of comparator companies drawn from all sectors, with a median market capitalisation significantly less than the Companys market capitalisation at the relevant time.
The Committees aim when setting base salaries is to ensure that the aggregate value of the fixed remuneration of each Executive Director i. e. the aggregate of base salary, benefits and pension payments is based around the median aggregate fixed remuneration in this group of companies.
Annual bonus Each Executive Director is entitled to participate in the Executive Annual Bonus Scheme in respect of each financial year of the Company.
Bonuses payable in relation to 2004 were conditional on personal performance and the achievement of certain corporate targets set by the Company related to reserve replacement and performance, benchmarked against the FTSE 250 and certain peer group companies with the Committees policy at the beginning of the year being that a maximum annual bonus opportunity of 100% of salary would apply which would be payable in exceptional circumstances.
During 2004, Tullow was the sixth best performing share in the FTSE 250 Index, undertook a number of significant acquisitions and achieved a material expansion of the Groups activities and shareholder base.
Based upon the outstanding performance and commitment demonstrated by the Executive Directors during 2004, which have resulted in significant additions to shareholder value, the Committee believed that it was appropriate to pay bonuses to certain of the Executive Directors in excess of the 100% of salary normal limit, as set out in the table on page 55.
The Committee has recently reviewed the structure of the Companys short and long-term incentive arrangements.
One consequence of this review is that the Executive Annual Bonus Scheme has been restructured with effect from 2005.
Under the revised scheme, target performance will trigger a bonus of up to 40% of salary for all Executive Directors.
For exceptional performance, Executive Directors will be able to earn a bonus of up to 100% of salary.
The 2005 annual bonus arrangements for Aidan Heavey, Tom Hickey and Graham Martin will be structured as follows: Up to 33.33% of salary can be earned subject to the achievement of challenging relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance targets against a comparator group, with upper quartile performance required for this part of the bonus to be earned in full.
A further 33.33% of salary can be earned for the achievement of challenging absolute TSR targets, with a 15% improvement in TSR required for this part of the bonus to be earned in full.
The final 33.34% of salary can be earned based on how the Committee considers that the Company has performed over the year as against certain Company specific performance indicators such as production performance, reserve replacement, exploration success, health & safety and overall financial stability.
50 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 The annual bonus arrangements of Matthew ODonoghue and Adrian Nel will be structured as follows: 25% of salary can be earned based on how the Committee considers that the Company has performed over the year as against certain key performance indicators.
75% of salary can be earned based upon the achievement of individual financial and non-financial targets relating to their specific discipline or field of responsibility, with this element of the bonus only payable in full for exceptional performance against these targets.
In addition, to further align the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders, any bonus earned over 60% of salary will be deferred into shares which will not normally be receivable by the Executive Directors for a further three years but will not be subject to further performance conditions.
Pension and other benefits The Executive Directors do not participate in the Company pension plan.
Each Executive Director is entitled to receive a payment of 10% of his basic salary into his private pension scheme which increases from 1 January 2005 to 15% at age 50, as well as 30 days annual leave, permanent health insurance, private medical insurance and life assurance benefits.
Aidan Heavey is provided with a car.
The Group also reimburses the Executive Directors in respect of all expenses reasonably incurred by them in the proper performance of their duties.
SHARE INCENTIVE PLANS The only share option scheme operated by the Company during the year was the 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme under which options can be granted over shares worth up to four times remuneration in the ten year period following 27 August 1998.
Options have previously been granted under the 1988 Executive Share Option Scheme and the 1998 Executive Share Option Scheme both of which are no longer operated.
Details of the options outstanding for each Executive Director are set out on page 56.
Options granted under the 2000 Scheme normally only become exercisable following the third anniversary of the date of grant and then only if the Companys Total Shareholder Return is greater than that of the FTSE 250 index over any three year period following grant.
Options granted under the old 1988 and 1998 Schemes which are no longer operated are not subject to performance conditions.
As set out above, the Committee has recently reviewed the structure of the Companys incentive arrangements.
Following the review, the Committee believes that the 2000 Scheme is no longer the appropriate vehicle through which long-term incentives should be offered to the Companys key executives.
Therefore, formal shareholder approval is being sought at the forthcoming AGM for the adoption of a new Performance Share Plan.
Under the proposed new Plan, senior executives will receive conditional awards of rights over whole shares worth up to 150% of salary p. a.
Awards will vest under the new Plan subject to a Total Shareholder Return-based performance condition under which the Companys TSR performance will be measured over a fixed three year period i. e. with no opportunity to re-test against both the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index and the following comparator group of international Oil & Gas companies: Burren Energy Noble Energy Inc Cairn Energy Paladin Resources Dana Petroleum Pioneer Oil & Gas Lundin Petroleum AB Pogo Production Company Newfield Exploration Company Premier Oil Nexen Inc Vintage Petroleum Inc 51 Directors Remuneration Report continued For each portion of the award, vesting will be as follows: Companys ranking Vesting Percentage against comparator group Below Median 0% Median 30% Upper Quartile 100% Intermediate Performance Pro Rata Between 30% and 100% However, no award will vest unless the Committee considers that both the Companys underlying financial performance and its performance against other key factors e. g. health and safety over the relevant period is satisfactory.
The Committee believes that this performance condition is appropriate as it encourages the Executive Directors to generate returns to shareholders in excess of both the market generally and a group of sector peers.
The Committee does not intend to grant further options to Executive Directors, save in exceptional circumstances.
However, the 2000 Scheme will be retained for flexibility.
If, in the future, the Committee wishes to adopt a different policy which involves the grant of options to Executive Directors on a regular basis, it will notify the Companys major shareholders before doing so.
"In addition, if further options are granted in the future, the performance conditions applying to these options will not contain any ""retesting"" facility, and employees will not in normal circumstances be able to receive awards under the new Plan and options in the same financial year."
In addition, to further align the interests of senior executives and shareholders, the Executive Directors will be required to retain at least 50% of the shares that vest under the new Plan after selling sufficient shares to pay tax liabilities until they have built up a shareholding worth at least 100% of base salary with existing holdings taken into account.
Further details of the new Plan can be found in the Notice of AGM.
Executive Directors may also participate in the Tullow Oil UK and Irish Share Incentive Plans, which were launched at the beginning of 2004.
These are all-employee plans that have been set up in both the UK and Ireland which enable employees to make contributions out of salary up to prescribed limits each month, which are used by the Plan trustees to acquire Tullow Oil shares.
The Company makes a matching contribution to the trustees to acquire a matching number of shares on a one-for-one basis.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEES A Committee of the Board comprising the Chairman and Executive Directors sets the remuneration of non-executive Directors.
The fees paid are set at a level to attract the persons with the necessary experience and ability to make a significant contribution to the Companys activities, while also reflecting the time commitment and responsibility of the role.
Each non-executive Director receives an annual fee and, other than the Chairman of the Company, an allowance for acting as Chairman of any committee.
Each non-executive Director is also entitled to reimbursement of necessary travel and other expenses.
Non-executive Directors do not participate in any operational share scheme or annual bonus scheme and are not eligible to join the Companys Pension Scheme.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 require the presentation of a graph of TSR compared to an appropriate comparator index over a five-year or shorter period.
For Tullow, TSR is primarily represented by share price performance as, up to November 2003, no dividends had been declared or paid.
Tullow has been a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index since September 2001 and, as this index is also used as a comparator for share plans, the Directors believe it represents the most appropriate benchmark.
52 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 The graphs below show Tullows TSR over the ten-year period from 1 January 1995 to 31 December 2004 and the five-year period from 1 January 2000 to 31 December 2004.
In each case the relevant indices are set to 100 at the beginning of the period.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN Source: Datastream 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 Tullow Oil plc 50 FTSE 250 Index 0 31 Dec 94 31 Dec 95 31 Dec 96 31 Dec 97 31 Dec 98 31 Dec 99 31 Dec 00 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 This graph shows the value, by the end of 2004, of 100 invested in Tullow on 31 December 1994 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN Source: Datastream 250 200 150 100 50 Tullow Oil plc FTSE 250 Index 0 31 Dec 99 31 Dec 00 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 This graph shows the value, by the end of 2004, of 100 invested in Tullow on 31 December 1999 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
53 VALUE VALUE Directors Remuneration Report continued SERVICE CONTRACTS AND LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT Each of the Executive Directors, other than Adrian Nel but including John Lander, who retired from the Board on 16 April 2004 entered into a service agreement with the Company on 2 September 2002.
Each service agreement is on similar terms.
Aidan Heavey and Matthew ODonoghue also entered into a service agreement with Tullow Oil International Limited on 16 September 2002 on similar terms to their service agreements with the Company.
Adrian Nel entered into a service agreement with the Company on 21 April 2005 effective from 13 September 2004 on similar terms to the other Executive Directors.
The terms of each of these service contracts is not fixed, although each Executive Director is required under his service agreement to retire from service upon attaining the age of 65.
Each agreement is terminable by the Director on six months notice and by the Company on twelve months notice.
There are no specific provisions under which any Executive Director is entitled to receive compensation upon the early termination of his service agreement other than in accordance with these notice periods.
Each service agreement sets out restrictions on the ability of the Director to participate in businesses competing with those of the Group or to entice or solicit away from the Group any senior employees of the Group in the six month period after the termination of his employment.
Each of the non-executive Directors is engaged by the Company under the terms of a letter of appointment dated 17 January 2003 in the case of Pat Plunkett and Rohan Courtney: dated 17 June 2004 in the case of David Bamford and dated 28 February 2005 in the case of Clare Spottiswoode and Steven McTiernan.
Eskandar Maleki who retired from the Board on 21 April 2004 was engaged under a letter of appointment dated 13 January 2003.
Subject to retirement, for example by rotation under the Articles of Association, the appointments are for the period to 31 December 2005 in respect of Pat Plunkett and Rohan Courtney, to 7 July 2007 in the case of David Bamford and to 29 February 2008 in the case of Clare Spottiswoode and Steven McTiernan.
In each case, the appointment is renewable thereafter if agreed by the Director and the Board.
The appointments for Clare Spottiswoode and Steven McTiernan may be terminated by either party on three months notice.
There are no notice provisions for Pat Plunkett, Rohan Courtney or David Bamford.
There are no arrangements under which any nonexecutive Director is entitled to receive compensation upon the early termination of their appointment.
The above reflects the Committees policy that service contracts should be structured to reflect the interests of the Company and the individuals concerned, while also reflecting market and best practice.
Furthermore, it is also the Committees policy that, in the event of early termination of a Directors service contract, the Committee will take account of the departing Directors duty to mitigate his loss when determining the amount of compensation that is paid.
MATERIAL CONTRACTS There have been no other contracts or arrangements during the financial year in which a Director of the Company was materially interested and or which were significant in relation to the Groups business.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS The Board has not introduced a formal policy in relation to the number of external directorships that an Executive Director may hold.
Currently, the only Executive Director who holds an external directorship is Tom Hickey.
Tom has been nominated by Tullow as its representative on the board of Ikon Science Limited, a company in which Tullow has a small equity stake.
Any fees payable for his services have been waived by Tullow.
2 Adrian Nel was appointed on 13 September 2004.
3 John Lander retired on 16 April 2004: Eskandar Maleki retired on 21 April 2004.
4 David Bamford was appointed on 8 July 2004.
I DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN THE SHARE CAPITAL OF THE COMPANY The interests all of which were beneficial of the Directors who held office at 31 December 2004 were: Shares Shares 31 December 2004 1 January 2004 or date of appointment, if later ORDINARY 10p SHARES Aidan Heavey 6,000,000 6,000,000 Tom Hickey 100,000 60,000 Graham Martin 436,005 436,005 Adrian Nel - - Matthew ODonoghue 1,590,857 1,590,857 Pat Plunkett 1,229,326 1,529,326 Rohan Courtney - - David Bamford 4,004 2,907 Steven McTiernan - - Clare Spottiswoode - - Note: On 13 April 2005, David Bamford purchased 5,584 shares at 182p per share.
55 Directors Remuneration Report continued II DETAILS OF INTERESTS HELD UNDER THE TULLOW OIL UK SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN AND TULLOW OIL IRISH SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN The two Plans, which were launched on 1 January 2004 are briefly described on page 52.
Director Plan Partnership shares Matching shares Shares held on Partnership acquired in year awarded in year 31 December 2004 and Matching Shares acquired 1 January 2005 to 22 April 2005 Tom Hickey Irish 1,560 1,560 3,120 578 Graham Martin UK 1,174 1,174 2,348 1,014 Other than as set out above there have been no changes in the interest of any Director between 1 January 2005 and the date of this report.
a Options shown with an exercise price denominated in Euro were granted on or before 30 April 1999 with an exercise price in IR.
On conversion of IR to Euro effective 1 January 2002, the exercise price for each such option was converted from IR into Euro by dividing the original IR exercise price per share by the fixed Irish Pound Euro conversion rate.
All options granted after 30 April 1999 were granted with an exercise price denominated in sterling.
Options are granted for nil consideration.
Options must be exercised in the currency in which the grants were made.
b On 17 September 2004, Tom Hickey acquired 40,000 shares through the exercise of share options at an exercise price of 61p per share.
The market value of the shares on the date of exercise was 130.75p per share representing a notional gain of 27,900. c John Lander and Eskandar Maleki retired from the Board on 16 April 2004 and 21 April 2004 respectively.
The figures quoted above are as at cessation.
Subsequently John Lander has exercised his 2000 Scheme options granted in March 2001 and October 2001 and Eskandar Maleki has subsequently exercised both of his tranches of options.
d During 2004, the highest mid market price of the Companys shares was 152.5p and the lowest was 84p.
PAT PLUNKETT Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 22 April 2005 Statement of Directors Responsibilities United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare consolidated financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at the end of the year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and Comply with applicable accounting standards, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and of the Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Approved by the Board on 22 April 2005.
AIDAN HEAVEY TOM HICKEY Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 57 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tullow Oil plc We have audited the financial statements of Tullow Oil plc for the year ended 31 December 2004 which comprise the Group Profit and Loss Account, the Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, the Reconciliation of Movements in Group Shareholders Funds, the Statement of Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 30.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS As described in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Companys Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the other information contained in the annual report including the Directors Remuneration Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
58 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
OPINION In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial statements and that part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 22 April 2005 59 Group Profit and Loss Account Year ended 31 December 2004 2004 2004 2003 2004 1 Existing Total Restated Acquisitions Operations Notes 000 000 000 000 1 126,341 225,256 129,625 TURNOVER 98,915 COST OF SALES 39,719 63,500 42,621 Operating Costs 23,781 36,561 67,571 39,628 Depletion and Amortisation 31,010 76,280 131,071 82,249 54,791 50,061 94,185 47,376 GROSS PROFIT 44,124 7,102 10,370 2,727 Administrative Expenses 3,268 375 647 332 Depreciation 272 7,477 11,017 3,059 3,540 42,584 83,168 44,317 OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES 40,584 2 9,339 17,961 12,772 EXPLORATION COSTS WRITTEN OFF 8,622 3 33,245 65,207 31,545 OPERATING PROFIT 31,962 2,292 952 Profit Loss on Disposal of Oil & Gas Assets 67,499 30,593 PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES BEFORE INTEREST 3,458 2,016 Interest Receivable and Similar Income 5 12,960 8,730 Interest Payable and Similar Charges 57,997 23,879 PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES BEFORE TAXATION 6 TAXATION ON PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES 10,956 9,025 Current and Deferred Petroleum Revenue Taxation 9,863 6,675 Current UK and Overseas Corporate Taxation 4,229 2,742 Deferred UK and Overseas Corporate Taxation 25,048 12,958 32,949 10,921 PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 7 6,995 3,782 Dividends 21 25,954 7,139 RETAINED PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 8 EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE 6.18p 2.92p Basic 6.11p 2.90p Diluted 1 The restatement of 2003 comparative amounts is explained in the Accounting Policies on page 65.
The notes on pages 69 to 87 form part of these financial statements.
60 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses Year ended 31 December 2004 2004 2003 000 000 32,949 10,921 Profit for the Financial Year 19,338 5,034 Currency Translation Adjustments 13,611 5,887 TOTAL RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR Reconciliation of Movements in Group Equity Shareholders Funds Year ended 31 December 2004 2004 2003 000 000 25,954 7,139 Retained Profit for the Financial Year 19,338 5,034 Currency Translation Adjustments 256,547 13,516 Equity Shares Issued 263,163 15,621 NET INCREASE IN EQUITY SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS 115,921 100,300 Equity Shareholders Funds - At 1 January 379,084 115,921 EQUITY SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS - AT 31 DECEMBER 61 Group Balance Sheet As at 31 December 2004 2004 2003 Notes 000 000 FIXED ASSETS 9 103,312 48,434 Intangible Assets 10 495,920 144,333 Tangible Assets 11 496 496 Investments 599,728 193,263 CURRENT ASSETS 3,392 437 Stock 12 54,207 26,115 Debtors 13 85,070 66,686 Cash at Bank and in Hand 142,669 93,238 CREDITORS - Amounts falling due within one year 14 5,302 27,544 Bank Loans and Overdrafts 15 114,014 33,173 Trade and Other Creditors 119,316 60,717 23,353 32,521 NET CURRENT ASSETS 623,081 225,784 TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES CREDITORS - Amounts falling due after more than one year 14 143,398 59,458 Bank Loans 17 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES 70,679 47,524 Decommissioning Costs 29,920 2,881 Deferred Taxation 379,084 115,921 NET ASSETS CAPITAL AND RESERVES 18 64,537 37,784 Called Up Equity Share Capital 18 121,656 14,198 Share Premium Account 19 178,953 56,617 Merger Reserve 20 30,362 11,024 Foreign Currency Translation Reserve 21 44,300 18,346 Profit and Loss Account 379,084 115,921 EQUITY SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS Approved by the board on 22 April 2005.
AIDAN HEAVEY TOM HICKEY Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer The notes on page 69 to 87 form part of these financial statements.
62 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 Company Balance Sheet As at 31 December 2004 2004 2003 Total Total Notes 000 000 FIXED ASSETS 11 363,549 38,136 Investments CURRENT ASSETS 12 57,876 17,164 Debtors CREDITORS - Amounts falling due within one year 14 - 2,000 Bank Loans and Overdrafts 15 2,600 1,147 Trade and Other Creditors 2,600 3,147 55,276 14,017 NET CURRENT ASSETS 418,825 52,153 TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES CREDITORS - Amounts falling due after more than one year 14 96,295 - Bank Loans 322,530 52,153 NET ASSETS CAPITAL AND RESERVES 18 64,537 37,784 Called Up Equity Share Capital 18 121,656 14,198 Share Premium Account 19 122,336 - Merger Reserve 21 14,001 171 Profit and Loss Account 322,530 52,153 EQUITY SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS Approved by the board on 22 April 2005.
63 Group Cash Flow Statement Year ended 31 December 2004 2004 2003 Notes 000 000 26 154,307 84,960 NET CASH INFLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 27 13,053 7,533 RETURNS ON INVESTMENTS AND SERVICING OF FINANCE 14,497 12,261 TAXATION 166,055 - ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES 4,730 - DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARY 28 95,105 42,044 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND FINANCIAL INVESTMENT NET CASH OUTFLOW INFLOW BEFORE MANAGEMENT OF 129,673 23,122 LIQUID RESOURCES AND FINANCING 10,299 4,143 MANAGEMENT OF LIQUID RESOURCES - TERM DEPOSITS 29 143,045 6,399 FINANCING 3,073 20,866 INCREASE IN CASH FOR THE YEAR RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOW TO MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT 3,073 20,866 Increase in Cash for the Year 65,182 14,802 Cash Inflow Outflow from Movement in Debt 10,299 4,143 Cash Outflow Inflow from Management of Liquid Resources 51,810 31,525 Change in Net Debt Funds resulting from Cashflows 710 1,507 Currency Translation Adjustment 62,368 95,400 Net Debt at 1 January 113,468 62,368 NET DEBT AT 31 DECEMBER 01.01.04 Cash Flow Exchange 31.12.04 000 000 000 000 ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN NET DEBT 24,618 2,015 112 26,521 Cash at Bank and in Hand Note 13 1,055 1,058 3 - Overdrafts Note 14 23,563 3,073 115 26,521 26,769 20,619 848 5,302 Bank loans due within one year Note 14 61,090 85,801 29 146,920 Bank loans due after one year Note 14 87,859 65,182 819 152,222 1,928 10,299 6 12,233 Term Deposits Note 13 62,368 51,810 710 113,468 NET DEBT The notes on page 69 to 87 form part of these financial statements.
64 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 Accounting Policies Year ended 31 December 2004 A summary of the principal Group accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year, except as explained in the next paragraph, is set out below.
The Group has revised its previous accounting policy for Taxation and Turnover in relation to notional Cte dIvoire corporation tax levied under the terms of the Espoir field Production Sharing Contract PSC and deemed settled out of the Cte dIvoire states share of Espoir production.
Previously, the amount of Cte dIvoire corporation tax settled out of production was treated as Taxation and also included in Turnover.
Under the revised treatment, this component of state profit oil is not included in Turnover and consequently is not included with other taxes, which are principally cash settled, under the Taxation heading.
Turnover and Taxation for 2003 have been restated to comply with the revised accounting policy and have each been reduced by 2,739,830.
There has been no effect on net assets or net profit in either year as a result of the change.
A BASIS OF ACCOUNTING The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and the Statement of Recommended Practice Accounting for Oil & Gas Exploration, Development, Production and Decommissioning Activities SORP and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
B BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements consist of the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings as set out in Note 11.
Turnover and results of subsidiary undertakings are consolidated in the Group profit and loss account from the dates on which control over the operating and financial decisions is obtained.
Upon the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the identifiable net assets acquired.
The Group is engaged in oil and gas exploration, development and production through unincorporated joint ventures.
The Group accounts directly for its share of the results and net assets of these joint ventures.
In addition, where Tullow acts as operator to the joint venture, the gross liabilities and receivables including amounts due to or from non-operating partners of the joint venture are included in the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
C TURNOVER Turnover represents the sales value, net of VAT and overriding royalties, of the Groups share of liftings in the year together with tariff income.
Turnover includes the effect of hedging.
Revenues received under take-or-pay sales contracts in respect of undelivered volumes are accounted for as deferred income.
D OVER UNDERLIFT Lifting or offtake arrangements for oil and gas produced in certain of the Groups jointly owned operations are such that each participant may not receive and sell its precise share of the overall production in each period.
The resulting imbalance between cumulative entitlement and cumulative production less stock is underlift or overlift.
Underlift and overlift are valued at market value and included within debtors and creditors respectively.
Movements during an accounting period are adjusted through Cost of Sales such that Gross Profit is recognised on an entitlements basis.
The Groups share of any physical stock is accounted for at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
65 Accounting Policies Year ended 31 December 2004 E FOREIGN CURRENCIES The pound sterling is the reporting currency of the Group.
Financial statements of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries are translated into sterling using the average rate method whereby the results of the overseas operations are translated at the average rate of exchange for the year and their balance sheets at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Currency translation adjustments arising on the restatement of opening net assets of foreign subsidiaries, together with differences between the subsidiaries results translated at average rates versus closing rates, are taken directly to reserves.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange ruling at the transaction dates.
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date, with a corresponding charge or credit to the profit and loss account.
However, exchange gains and losses arising on long-term foreign currency borrowings, which are a hedge against the Groups overseas investments, are dealt with in reserves.
At year end the Sterling Euro rate was 1.4115 2003: 1.4160 and the Sterling US Dollar rate was 1.9266 2003: 1.778.
The average Sterling Euro rate was 1.4732 2003: 1.4443 and the Sterling US Dollar rate was $1.8314 2003: 1.6332.
F COSTS OF EXPLORATION AND APPRAISAL The Group adopts the successful efforts method of accounting for exploration and appraisal costs.
All pre-licence, licence acquisition, exploration and appraisal costs are initially capitalised as intangible fixed assets in cost centres by well, field or exploration area, as appropriate, pending determination of commercial reserves.
Directly attributable administration costs are capitalised insofar as they relate to specific exploration activities.
These costs are then written off unless commercial reserves have been established or the determination process has not been completed.
Following the discovery of a commercially viable field, the attributable costs are transferred to tangible fixed assets in single field cost centres.
G COMMERCIAL RESERVES Commercial reserves are proven and probable oil and gas reserves, as defined in the UK SORP.
H DEPLETION AND AMORTISATION - DISCOVERY FIELDS All expenditure carried within each field is amortised from the commencement of production, on a unit of production basis, which is the ratio of oil and gas production in the period to the estimated quantities of commercial reserves on an entitlements basis at the end of the period plus the production in the period, on a field-by-field basis.
A field is an area consisting of a single reservoir or multiple reservoirs all grouped on or related to the same individual geological structural feature and or stratigraphic condition.
Costs included in the unit of production calculation comprise the net book value of capitalised costs plus the estimated future field development costs.
Changes in the estimates of commercial reserves or future field development costs are dealt with prospectively.
Where there has been a change in economic conditions that indicates a possible impairment in a discovery field, the recoverability of the net book value relating to that field is assessed by comparison with the estimated discounted future cash flows based on managements expectations of future oil and gas prices and future costs.
Any impairment identified is charged to the profit and loss account as additional depreciation, depletion and amortisation.
Where conditions giving rise to impairment subsequently reverse, the effect of the impairment charge is also reversed as a credit to the profit and loss account, net of any depreciation that would have been charged since the impairment.
66 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 I DECOMMISSIONING Provision for decommissioning is recognised in full at the commencement of oil and gas production.
A corresponding tangible fixed asset of an amount equivalent to the provision is also created.
The amount recognised is the estimated cost of decommissioning, discounted to its net present value and is reassessed each year in accordance with local conditions and requirements.
This asset is subsequently depreciated as part of the capital costs of the production and related pipeline facilities, on a unit of production basis.
Changes in the estimates of commercial reserves or decommissioning cost estimates are dealt with prospectively by recording an adjustment to the provision, and a corresponding adjustment to the decommissioning asset.
The unwinding of the discount on the decommissioning provision is included within interest payable.
J OTHER TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Other tangible fixed assets comprise leasehold improvements, leased motor vehicles and owned and leased office equipment, which are stated at cost less depreciation to date.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful economic life of between three and five years.
K FINANCE COSTS AND DEBT Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction of tangible fixed assets are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets.
The commencement of capitalisation begins when both finance costs and expenditures in respect of the asset are incurred and activities that are necessary to develop the asset are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when all the development is substantially complete.
Finance costs of debt are allocated to periods over the term of the related debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Arrangement fees and issue costs are deducted from the debt proceeds and are amortised and charged to the profit and loss account as finance costs over the term of the debt.
L SHARE ISSUE EXPENSES AND SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT Costs of share issues are written off against the premium arising on the issues of share capital.
M TAXATION Current and deferred tax, including UK corporation tax and overseas corporate taxes, are provided at amounts expected to be paid using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Current UK Petroleum Revenue Tax PRT is charged as a tax expense on chargeable field profits included in the profit and loss account and is deductible for UK corporation tax.
Deferred corporation tax is recognised on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more, or right to pay less, tax in the future have occurred at balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Deferred PRT is charged as a tax expense so as to allocate the expected PRT cost over the remaining life of the related field on a unit of production basis using commercial reserves.
The resulting asset or liability is included in the balance sheet under debtors or provisions as appropriate.
67 Accounting Policies continued N PENSIONS Contributions to the Groups defined contribution pension schemes are charged to operating profit on an accruals basis.
O DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and movements in oil and gas prices.
Premiums paid to enter into such derivative financial instruments are charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the hedge.
Payments and receipts arising under the financial instruments are recognised in turnover in the same periods as the hedged transactions.
Fair values assigned to out-of-money derivative financial instruments acquired in a business acquisition are included as other creditors and released from the balance sheet as the hedges are settled.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes and it is the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
P LEASES Rentals under operating leases are charged against income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
68 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2004 1 SEGMENTAL REPORTING In the opinion of the Directors the operations of the Group comprise one class of business, oil and gas exploration, development and production and the sale of hydrocarbons and related activities.
The Group also operates within three geographical markets, Europe, Africa and Asia.
Turnover, operating profit loss, profit loss on ordinary activities before taxation and net assets are analysed as follows: Europe Africa Asia Unallocated Total 000 000 000 000 000 2004 Turnover by Origin 116,322 107,508 1,426 - 225,256 Operating Profit Loss 32,472 46,676 6,444 7,497 65,207 Profit Loss on Ordinary Activities before Taxation 27,153 46,501 6,499 9,158 57,997 Net Assets Liabilities 94,619 309,171 22,836 47,542 379,084 The following amounts are turnover in respect of operations acquired during 2004: Energy Africa and Energy Africa Holdings 23,427 75,488 - - 98,915 2003 RESTATED Turnover by Origin 104,936 22,386 2,303 - 129,625 Operating Profit Loss 27,269 6,576 669 1,631 31,545 Profit Loss on Ordinary Activities before Taxation 22,043 5,343 667 2,840 23,879 Net Assets Liabilities 54,611 37,694 25,975 2,359 115,921 Unallocated expenditure and net liabilities include amounts of a corporate nature and not specifically attributable to a geographic area.
2 EXPLORATION COSTS WRITTEN OFF 2004 2003 000 000 INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Europe 3,685 8,477 Africa 11,143 3,628 Asia 3,133 667 17,961 12,772 3 OPERATING PROFIT Operating Profit is stated after charging crediting : 2004 2003 000 000 Staff Costs Note 4 11,644 7,963 Depletion and Amortisation 67,571 39,628 Depreciation of Other Fixed Assets 647 332 Operating Lease Rentals for Land and Buildings 1,065 881 Other Operating Lease Rentals 133 229 Foreign Exchange Gains 432 24 Auditors Remuneration: - Audit Services 295 239 - Non-Audit Services 485 473 69 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3 OPERATING PROFIT continued Auditors remuneration for non-audit services for 2004 included fees as Reporting Accountants for the Energy Africa acquisition circular of 329,000.
The remaining non-audit fees related mostly to tax compliance 46,000 and certain tax advisory services 71,000.
Audit fees borne by the Company were 44,250.
There were no non-audit fees incurred by the Company.
4 STAFF COSTS The average monthly number of employees including Executive Directors employed by the Group worldwide was: 2004 2003 Administration 74 55 Technical 73 73 TOTAL 147 128 Staff Costs in respect of those employees was as follows: 2004 2003 000 000 Salaries 10,395 6,938 Social Security Costs 730 486 Pension Costs 519 539 11,644 7,963 Details of Directors Remuneration, Directors Transactions and Directors Interests are set out in the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited and form part of these financial statements.
5 INTEREST PAYABLE AND SIMILAR CHARGES 2004 2003 000 000 On Bank Loans and Overdrafts repayable within Five Years: - By Instalments 8,700 4,720 - Not by Instalments 318 42 Unwinding of Discount on Decommissioning Provision Note 17 3,653 2,622 Finance and Arrangement Fees 1,982 1,971 Amounts payable in respect of Interest Rate Swaps 62 225 14,715 9,580 Less: Amounts Capitalised Notes 9 and 10 1,755 850 12,960 8,730 70 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 6 TAXATION ON PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES a Analysis of charge in period The tax charge comprises: 2004 2003 Restated 000 000 CURRENT TAX Current Period 5,567 7,208 Adjustments in respect of Prior Years 2,102 702 UK Corporation Tax 3,465 6,506 Overseas Taxation 6,398 169 Total Corporate Tax 9,863 6,675 Petroleum Revenue Tax PRT 5,918 7,096 TOTAL CURRENT TAX 15,781 13,771 DEFERRED TAX UK Corporation Tax 4,053 2,742 Overseas Taxation 176 - Total Corporate Tax 4,229 2,742 Petroleum Revenue Tax 5,038 1,929 TOTAL DEFERRED TAX NOTE 17 9,267 813 TOTAL TAX ON PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES 25,048 12,958 b Factors affecting tax charge for period The difference between the total current tax shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax 30% plus the rate of the supplementary charge in respect of UK upstream trades SCT 10% to the profit before tax is as follows.
The Group earns its profits primarily in the UK.
Therefore the tax rates applied to profit on ordinary activities in preparing the reconciliation below is the standard rate of UK corporation tax plus the rate of SCT.
2004 2003 Restated 000 000 GROUP PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES BEFORE TAX 57,997 23,879 Tax on Group Profit on Ordinary Activities at a Combined Standard UK Corporation Tax and SCT Rate of 40% 2003 - 40% 23,199 9,552 Effects of: - Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 10 3,621 - Utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised 4,832 - - Net Losses not recognised 8,393 - - Tax Depreciation in excess of accounting depreciation 7,473 1,974 - Current PRT 5,918 7,096 - UK Corporation Tax deductions for current PRT 1,665 2,839 - Adjustments relating to prior years 2,340 702 - Income taxed at a different rate 5,429 983 GROUP CURRENT TAX CHARGE FOR THE YEAR 15,781 13,771 71 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 6 TAXATION ON PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES continued c Factors that may affect future tax charges No deferred tax has been provided on unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, as the Group has no plans to remit these to the UK in the foreseeable future.
The Groups profit before taxation will continue to be subject to jurisdictions where the effective rate of taxation differs from that in the UK.
Furthermore unsuccessful exploration expenditure is often incurred in jurisdictions where the Group has no taxable profits, such that no related tax benefit arises.
Accordingly the Groups tax charge will continue to depend on the jurisdictions in which pre-tax profits and exploration costs written off arise.
7 DIVIDENDS 2004 2003 000 000 Final - Paid Stg1p 2003: Nil per Ordinary Share 3,782 - Interim - Paid Stg0.5p 2003: Stg1p per Ordinary Share 3,213 3,782 6,995 3,782 8 EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit for the year after taxation of 32,949,297 2003: 10,920,541 and 532,980,261 2003: 374,427,152 ordinary shares, being the weighted average number of shares in issue for the year.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on the profit for the year after taxation as for basic earnings per share.
The number of shares outstanding however, is adjusted to show the potential dilution if employee and other share options are converted into ordinary shares.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares is increased by 6,042,545 2003: 2,071,203 in respect of the share option schemes, resulting in a diluted weighted average number of shares of 539,022,806 2003: 376,498,355.
72 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 9 INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS continued Cost of exploration - Pending Determination The deferred cost of exploration represents the cost of licence acquisition, seismic and appraisal activity that is capitalised pending determination of commercial success.
If unsuccessful, the cost will be written off.
The costs of exploration include 10,227,449 in respect of Block 28 Pakistan, Block 17 18 Bangladesh and the Blythe, Fizzy and Wissey prospects in the Southern North Sea.
These costs have been carried by the Group for in excess of the three-year determination period recommended in the SORP.
The Directors consider the treatment appropriate because exploration and appraisal activities are ongoing and the determination process is not yet complete.
The Company has no intangible fixed assets.
10 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS 2004 2003 000 000 GROUP Costs of Exploration and Development - Discovery Fields a 494,421 143,568 Other Fixed Assets b 1,499 765 495,920 144,333 The Company has no tangible fixed assets.
Disposals during the year reflect the sale of Tullows interests in Ganga and Moukoti, Gabon.
73 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 10 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS continued b Other Fixed Assets Group 000 COST At 1 January 2004 2,477 Acquisition of Subsidiaries Note 11 1,212 Additions 202 Disposals 26 Currency Translation Adjustments 18 At 31 December 2004 3,847 DEPRECIATION At 1 January 2004 1,712 Charge for the Year 647 Disposals 7 Currency Translation Adjustments 4 At 31 December 2004 2,348 NET BOOK VALUE At 31 December 2004 1,499 At 31 December 2003 765 Other fixed assets consist of leasehold improvements, motor vehicles and office equipment.
11 INVESTMENTS 2004 2003 2004 2003 Group Group Company Company 000 000 000 000 Shares at Cost in Subsidiary Undertakings - - 363,053 37,837 Unlisted Investments 447 447 447 250 Government Gilts 49 49 49 49 496 496 363,549 38,136 The movement in shares at cost in subsidiary undertakings principally relates to the acquisition of Energy Africa and the 50% of EAGHL not owned by Energy Africa, as explained in note 11, and also the disposal of Hawkeye Exploration Limited.
74 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 11 INVESTMENTS continued At 31 December 2004 the Companys principal subsidiary undertakings, all of which are included in the consolidated Group financial statements, were: Name % Country of Operation Country of Incorporation DIRECTLY HELD Tullow Oil Limited 100 Ireland Ireland Tullow Oil SNS Limited 100 United Kingdom England & Wales Tullow Oil SPE Limited 100 United Kingdom England & Wales Energy Africa Limited 100 South Africa South Africa Energy Africa Gabon Holdings Limited 50 Isle of Man Isle of Man INDIRECTLY HELD Energy Africa Bredasdorp Pty Limited 100 South Africa South Africa Energy Africa Holdings Limited 100 Isle of Man British Virgin Islands Tullow Oil UK Limited 100 United Kingdom Scotland Tullow Oil International Limited 100 Channel Islands Jersey Tullow Pakistan Developments Limited 100 Pakistan Jersey Tullow Bangladesh Limited 95 Bangladesh Jersey Tullow Romania Limited 100 Romania Jersey Tullow Cte dIvoire Limited 100 Cte dIvoire Jersey Tullow Cte dIvoire Exploration Limited 100 Cte dIvoire Jersey Tullow India Operations Limited 90 India Jersey Tullow Cameroon Limited 100 Cameroon Jersey Tullow Algeria Limited 100 Algeria Jersey Tullow Gabon Operations Limited 100 Gabon Jersey Baytrust Oil Explorations Limited 100 England England & Wales Energy Africa UK Limited 100 England England & Wales Unilon Oil Explorations Limited 100 England England & Wales Unitrust Holdings Limited 100 England England & Wales Eagle Energy Angola Limited 100 Angola Isle of Man Energy Africa Congo Limited 100 Congo Isle of Man Energy Africa Egypt Limited 100 Egypt Isle of Man Energy Africa Equatorial Guinea Limited 100 Equatorial Guinea Isle of Man Energy Africa Equatorial Guinea Exploration Limited 100 Equatorial Guinea Isle of Man Energy Africa Haute Mer Limited 100 Congo Isle of Man Energy Africa Haute Mer Holdings Limited 100 Isle of Man Isle of Man Energy Africa Kudu Limited 100 Namibia Isle of Man Energy Africa Libya Limited 100 Libya Isle of Man Energy Africa Mauritania Limited 100 Mauritania Isle of Man Energy Africa Morocco Limited 100 Morocco Isle of Man Energy Africa Senegal Limited 100 Senegal Isle of Man Energy Africa Uganda Limited 100 Uganda Isle of Man Energy Africa Gabon Holdings Limited 50 Isle of Man Isle of Man Energy Africa Gabon Limited 100 Isle of Man Isle of Man Energy Africa Gabon SA 100 Gabon Gabon Energy Africa Gabon Holdings Limited EAGHL is wholly owned by the Group, 50% is held directly by the Company and 50% by a subsidiary of Energy Africa Limited Energy Africa.
The principal activity of all companies relates to oil and gas exploration, development and production.
75 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 11 INVESTMENTS continued Acquisition of Subsidiary Undertakings On 28 May 2004, the Company acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Energy Africa and the 50% of EAGHL not owned by Energy Africa.
The fair value of the total consideration of 327,911,243 comprised 132,973,351 ordinary shares of 10p each in the company valued at 135,632,816, using the market price at the date of the acquisition, plus cash consideration and acquisition expenses amounting to 192,278,427.
In accordance with the merger provisions of Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985, the company has transferred the premium on the shares issued of 122,335,483 to the Merger Reserve Note 19.
The following table sets out the book values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair value to the group: Energy Africa Accounting Fair Value Value to Group & EAGHL Policy 28 May 2004 Adjustments Adjustments $000 $000 $000 $000 000 FIXED ASSETS Intangible Assets 1,594 7,302 91,304 100,200 54,664 Tangible Assets 337,233 - 300,085 637,318 347,692 338,827 7,302 391,389 737,518 402,356 CURRENT ASSETS Stocks 1,834 1,430 775 1,179 643 Debtors 30,475 5,737 - 36,212 19,756 Cash at Bank and in Hand 48,067 - - 48,067 26,223 80,376 4,307 775 85,458 46,622 CREDITORS - Amounts falling due within one year Bank Loans & Overdrafts 13,000 - - 13,000 7,092 Trade and Other Creditors 71,187 29,237 51,854 93,804 51,175 84,187 29,237 51,854 106,804 58,267 NET CURRENT ASSETS 3,811 33,544 51,079 21,346 11,645 TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES 335,016 40,846 340,310 716,172 390,711 CREDITORS - Amounts falling due after one year Bank Loans 49,000 - - 49,000 26,732 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES Deferred Taxation 35,420 - - 35,420 19,324 Decommissioning and Other Provisions 50,446 19,755 - 30,691 16,744 NET ASSETS 200,150 60,601 340,310 601,061 327,911 CONSIDERATION SETTLED BY: Issue of Ordinary 10p Shares 135,633 Cash 192,278 327,911 76 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 11 INVESTMENTS continued The Energy Africa financial information at 28 May 2004 was prepared in accordance with IFRS and the successful efforts method of accounting.
Tullow Oil plc also applies the successful efforts method of accounting, but it follows United Kingdom accounting standards UK GAAP.
a Exploration Costs-Capitalisation Policy Energy Africa initially capitalises exploration costs for each prospect pending determination.
On determination such costs are written off unless reserves have been established.
In most cases, Energy Africa writes off the costs of initial wells, and retains capitalised costs only on the successful drilling of the second well.
Tullow initially capitalises exploration costs in cost centres by well or exploration area pending determination of commercial reserves.
Where the results of an initial well indicate potentially commercial reserves, the costs of the initial well remain capitalised until the determination process is complete.
b Hedge Instruments Under IAS 39, Energy Africa is required to mark all hedging instruments to market, with the gain or loss either recognised in the profit and loss account or, if hedge accounting applies, in equity until the hedge transaction is recorded in the profit and loss account.
UK GAAP does not provide detailed guidance on hedge accounting.
In line with common practice under UK GAAP, Tullow recognises all hedge gains and losses in the same period as the hedged transaction.
Unrealised hedge gains or losses are disclosed where material, but are not recognised in the profit and loss account or balance sheet.
The only exception to this treatment relates to the fair value adjustment whereby the market loss at the date of acquisition of Energy Africas hedges was recognised as a liability and released over the life of the hedges as payments occur.
c Stock Overlift and Underlift Energy Africa measures all hydrocarbon underlift and overlift at cost.
Under UK GAAP, Tullow measures all hydrocarbon underlift and overlift at market value.
Energy Africa values hydrocarbon stock at standard cost, if lower than net realisable value.
Under UK GAAP, stock is required to be measured at the lower of estimated actual cost and net realisable value.
Fair value adjustments were recorded to recognise the mark to market values of hedges and to restate stocks to fair values.
Fair values were assigned to tangible fixed assets based on the net present values of estimated future cashflows from production and the remaining acquisition consideration was allocated to exploration licences classified as intangible fixed assets.
Energy Africa and the 50% of EAGHL not owned by Energy Africa prepare their financial statements in US Dollars.
Amounts have been translated from $ to sterling at an exchange rate of $1.833 which was the closing rate on 28 May 2004.
Net cash outflows in respect of the acquisition comprised: 000 Cash consideration 192,278 Cash at bank and in hand acquired 26,223 166,055 Bank loans acquired 33,824 199,879 77 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 11 INVESTMENTS continued Pre Acquisition Results of Acquired Operations Energy Africa made a loss after taxation and minority interests of $7,549,000 in the year ended 31 March 2004 and a loss of $28,070,000 in the period from 1 April 2004 to 31 May 2004.
The 50% of EAGHL not owned by Energy Africa earned a profit after taxation and minority interests of $3,304,000 in the year ended 31 March 2004 and a profit of $2,558,000 in the period from 1 April 2004 to 31 May 2004.
The summarised profit and loss account and statement of total recognised gains and losses for the year ended 31 March 2004 and from 1 April 2004 to 31 May 2004, shown on the basis of the presentation format, accounting policies and reporting currencies of Energy Africa and EAGHL prior to the acquisition, are as follows: Energy Africa EAGHL - 50% Year Ended 2 Months Ended Year Ended 2 Months Ended 31 March 2004 31 May 2004 31 March 2004 31 May 2004 $000 $000 $000 $000 TURNOVER 195,918 32,873 68,796 9,423 Cost of Sales 106,888 16,752 39,781 6,342 GROSS PROFIT 89,030 16,121 29,015 3,081 Other Operating Expenses 13,981 5,122 1,565 301 Hedging Contract Losses 23,418 29,218 - - Exploration Expenditure Written Off 29,487 6,299 7,764 4 OPERATING PROFIT LOSS 22,144 24,518 19,686 2,784 Finance Charges net 2,419 462 73 9 PROFIT LOSS ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES BEFORE TAXATION 19,725 24,980 19,613 2,775 TAX ON PROFIT LOSS ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES 27,274 3,090 16,309 217 LOSS PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES AFTER TAXATION 7,549 28,070 3,304 2,558 Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses: LOSS PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL PERIOD 7,549 28,070 3,304 2,558 Gain on Foreign Currency Translation 5,601 14 - - TOTAL RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES FOR THE PERIOD 1,948 28,056 3,034 2,558 12 DEBTORS 2004 2003 2004 2003 Group Group Company Company 000 000 000 000 Trade Debtors 37,156 14,092 351 - Other Debtors 14,318 10,699 - 76 Prepayments 2,381 1,249 - 93 VAT Recoverable 352 27 - 2 Directors Advances - 48 - - Due from Subsidiary Undertakings - - 57,525 16,993 54,207 26,115 57,876 17,164 78 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 13 CASH AT BANK AND IN HAND 2004 2003 000 000 Immediately available, without restriction 26,521 24,618 On Fixed Term deposit - Decommissioning reserves Restricted 36,236 29,751 - Borrowing Base Facility Restricted 10,080 10,389 - Other Term Deposits 12,233 1,928 85,070 66,686 Decommissioning reserves on fixed term deposit are amounts held in support of a Letter of Credit facility which relates to the Groups share of certain decommissioning costs Note 17.
The Group is also required to hold certain amounts on deposit in connection with expected future repayments under the Borrowing Base facility Note 16.
14 BANK LOANS AND OVERDRAFTS Amounts falling due within one year 2004 2003 2004 2003 Group Group Company Company 000 000 000 000 Overdrafts - 1,055 - - Term Loans 5,302 26,489 - 2,000 5,302 27,544 - 2,000 Amounts falling due after more than one year Term Loans Repayable - After One Year but within Two Years 129,895 35,990 96,295 - - After Two Years but within Five Years 13,503 23,468 - - 143,398 59,458 96,295 - Group bank loans are stated net of unamortised arrangement fees of 3,521,511 2003: 1,911,573.
Company bank loans are stated net of unamortised arrangement fees of 2,324,283 2003: Nil.
Bank loans, overdrafts and guarantees are secured by fixed and floating charges over all the assets of the Group.
Details in respect of repayment terms and interest rates applicable to these accounts are disclosed in Note 16.
79 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 15 TRADE AND OTHER CREDITORS Amounts falling due within one year 2004 2003 2004 2003 Group Group Company Company 000 000 000 000 Trade Creditors 11,533 2,860 - - Other Creditors 48,684 16,298 1,181 949 Deferred Income Take or Pay 74 685 - - Accruals 35,055 5,394 1,419 198 PAYE & Social Security 509 17 - - VAT & Other Similar Taxes 4,800 3,867 - - Corporation Taxes Payable 13,359 4,052 - - 114,014 33,173 2,600 1,147 Other creditors include 18.9 million 2003: nil being the fair value at the acquisition date of Energy Africas hedge liabilities due after year end.
Other unrealised gains on hedges, which are not recognised, are disclosed in Note 16.
16 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Financial Review provides an explanation of the role that financial instruments have had during the year in creating or changing the risks the Group faces in its activities.
The explanation summarises the objectives and policies for holding or issuing financial instruments and similar contracts and the strategies for achieving these objectives that have been followed during the period.
The numerical disclosures in this note deal with financial assets and liabilities as defined by FRS 13 Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
As permitted by FRS 13, short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from certain disclosures.
Wherever possible the Group conducts and manages its business in Sterling UK, Euro Ireland and US Dollars all other countries, the functional currencies of the industry in the areas in which it operates.
Balances are held in other currencies to meet immediate operating or administrative expenses or to comply with local currency regulations.
At 31 December 2004 the only material monetary assets or liabilities of the Group that were not denominated in the functional currency of the respective subsidiaries involved were $190 million 98.6 million to fund the Energy Africa acquisition in the year, a $3 million 1.6 million loan taken out in Ireland and funds in Pakistan of 145 million Rupees 1.3 million in respect of sales income held awaiting the necessary approval for repatriation.
The Group has no material financial assets other than short-term debtors and cash and no financial liabilities other than short-term creditors and bank loans and overdrafts.
There are no material differences between the carrying amounts of the financial assets and short-term liabilities and their fair values.
i Interest Rate Profile The interest rate profile of the Groups financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 2004 was as follows: Stg Euro $ Other Total 000 000 000 000 000 Cash at Bank at Floating Interest Rate 74,207 242 7,148 265 81,862 Cash at Bank on which no Interest is Received 11 2 1,510 1,685 3,208 Fixed Rate Debt 4,375 - - - 4,375 Floating Rate Debt 47,675 - 100,172 - 147,847 NET CASH DEBT 22,168 244 91,514 1,950 67,152 80 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 16 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued The profile at 31 December 2003 for comparison purposes was as follows: Stg Euro $ Other Total 000 000 000 000 000 Cash at Bank at Floating Interest Rate 56,951 - 5,634 - 62,585 Cash at Bank on which no Interest is Received 1,404 - 2,329 368 4,101 Fixed Rate Debt 9,000 - - - 9,000 Floating Rate Debt 59,926 129 19,859 - 79,914 NET DEBT CASH 10,571 129 11,896 368 22,228 Cash at Bank at Floating Interest Rate consisted of deposits which earn interest at rates set in advance from periods ranging from overnight to one month by reference to Sterling or $ LIBOR.
Floating rate debt comprises bank borrowings at interest rates fixed in advance from overnight to three months at rates determined by $ LIBOR, Sterling LIBOR or EURIBOR.
In April 2004 a $300 million credit facility was signed to partially fund the acquisition of Energy Africa and the 50% of EAGHL not owned by Energy Africa.
The final maturity date is 31 March 2006 and the maximum debt availability is determined semi-annually, with reference to the net present value of the assets included in the facility.
The credit facility incurs a commitment fee for the unutilised portion of the borrowing base amount of 100 basis points and interest on outstanding debt at $ LIBOR plus a margin of 225 basis points.
At 31 December 2004 there were committed funds under a credit facility of up to a maximum total commitment of 85 million, originally negotiated to fund the acquisition of the UK Southern Gas basin interests the Borrowing Base Facility.
The maximum debt availability under the credit facility is also determined semi-annually by reference to the net present value of the assets, using various technical and economic assumptions, subject to inclusion under the credit facility as well as certain other financial tests.
At 31 December 2004 the maximum debt availability was 77.1 million.
The Borrowing Base Facility incurs a commitment fee for undrawn balances of 50 basis points and interest on outstanding debt at Sterling LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 110 basis points to 140 basis points depending on utilisation.
The outstanding debt is repayable in variable amounts determined semi-annually over the period to 31 December 2007, or such other time as is determined by reference to the remaining reserves of the assets, whichever is earlier.
There is a requirement under the facility to hedge a portion of the interest rate exposure to Sterling LIBOR.
In the above table for 2004, 4.4 million of the gross debt has been shown as fixed rate debt and is hedged through the application of interest rate swaps, which have the effect of limiting the interest rate exposure to LIBOR to a weighted average of 5.5% at 31 December 2004.
A further 10.4 million, shown as floating rate debt, is hedged through the application of interest rate caps and collars, which have the effect of limiting the interest rate exposure to LIBOR to not more than the weighted average of 7.0% at 31 December 2004.
The swaps, caps and collars extend over the life of the loan at varying notional principal amounts.
The interest rate swaps, caps and collars do not give rise to material differences between book and fair values.
81 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 16 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued ii Maturity of Financial Liabilities The maturity of financial liabilities at 31 December 2004 is as follows: 2004 2003 000 000 Within One Year 5,302 27,824 After One Year but within Two Years 132,217 35,990 After Two Years but Within Five Years 14,703 25,100 152,222 88,914 Debt in the balance sheet is stated net of unamortised arrangement fees.
iii Fair Values of Commodity Hedges The Group uses oil and gas hedging instruments to manage exposure to volatility in commodity prices.
The fair value is the amount that could be exchanged in an arms length transaction.
Market values have been used to determine fair value and have been obtained from an independent third party.
Unrecognised gains and losses on instruments used for hedging purposes are as follows: Gains Losses Net 000 000 000 At 1 January 2004 - 175 175 Amounts recognised in Turnover during the year - 11,174 11,174 Unrecognised amounts arising during the year 1,148 41,414 40,266 AT 31 DECEMBER 2004 1,148 30,415 29,267 Of the above unrecognised net loss, 8,848,000 is expected to be recognised in 2005, 8,884,000 in 2006 and 11,535,000 in 2007 and beyond.
In addition to the unrecognised net loss above, a fair value adjustment of 28.3 million was recognised in relation to hedges acquired with Energy Africa, of which 18.9 million remains in other creditors at year-end.
17 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES i Decommissioning Costs 2004 2003 000 000 GROUP At 1 January 47,524 32,826 Acquisition of Subsidiaries Note 11 16,744 - New Provisions and Changes in Estimates 3,764 12,234 Abandonment Payments 263 - Unwinding of Discount Note 5 3,653 2,622 Currency Translation Adjustment 743 158 AT 31 DECEMBER 70,679 47,524 The new provisions relate to an increase in provision of 2 million for the Orwell field as a result of the increased equity participation.
The changes in estimates total 3.8 million.
The movement in 2003 relates to an increase in provision of 5.3 million for the Thames field as a result of the increased equity participation and changes in estimates totalling 6.9 million.
The provision has been calculated using existing technology at current prices and discounted to the net present value.
The costs are expected to be incurred between 2005 and 2025.
82 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 17 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES continued ii Deferred Taxation Total UK and Overseas PRT Corporate Taxation 000 000 000 GROUP At 1 January 2004 2,881 780 3,661 Acquisition of Subsidiaries 19,324 6,818 12,506 Charged to Profit and Loss Account 9,267 4,229 5,038 Cash Acquisition of Tax Benefits 1,423 1,423 - Currency Translation Adjustment 129 129 - AT 31 DECEMBER 2004 29,920 8,715 21,205 Deferred UK and overseas corporation tax is provided as follows: 2004 2003 000 000 GROUP Accelerated Capital Allowances 35,180 12,460 Decommissioning Charges 18,056 10,960 Other Timing Differences 8,202 2,428 Currency Translation Adjustment 207 148 PROVISION 8,715 780 18 CALLED UP EQUITY AND SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT i Authorised 2004 2003 000 000 1,000,000,000 Ordinary Shares of Stg10p each 100,000 100,000 ii Allotted Equity Share Capital and Share Premium Equity Share Capital Share Allotted and Fully Paid Premium Number 000 000 ORDINARY SHARES OF STG10P EACH At 1 January 2004 377,841,915 37,784 14,198 Issues during the year - Exercise of Share Options 4,553,474 454 2,545 - Acquisition Energy Africa and EAGHL 132,973,351 13,299 - - Placing in connection with Acquisition 130,000,000 13,000 104,913 AT 31 DECEMBER 2004 645,368,740 64,537 121,656 The proceeds of all issues were used to fund the acquisition of Energy Africa and EAGHL and the Groups ongoing activities.
In accordance with the merger provisions of Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company has transferred the premium on the shares issued relating to the acquisition of Energy Africa and EAGHL of 122,335,483 to the Merger Reserve, based on the market value of the shares at the date of the acquisition.
Share issue expenses of 5,586,106 were charged against the share premium from the placing.
83 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 18 CALLED UP EQUITY AND SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT continued iii Share Options Options have been granted under the following Executive Share Option Schemes to subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company as follows: Scheme Number of Shares Weighted Average Expiry Dates under Option Exercise Price pence 1988 Scheme 2,068,432 66.07 20 08 05 to 31 07 07 1998 Scheme 3,874,794 57.12 21 02 09 to 03 09 10 2000 Scheme 14,739,810 90.96 12 02 11 to 17 11 14 Total 20,683,036 In addition to Directors and Employees options, the Board has also granted 205,357 options at 56p and 300,000 options at 80p to Duke Petroleum Consulting.
These options were exercised in January 2005.
19 MERGER RESERVE On 18 December 2000 the Company issued 352,467,012 ordinary shares in exchange for the entire share capital of Tullow Oil plc, the previous Irish registered holding company, subsequently renamed Tullow Oil Limited.
Shareholders received one Stg10p share for each 0.13 share held.
This transaction was reflected in accordance with the merger accounting provisions of FRS 6, and gave rise to a merger reserve of 69,212,694 at 31 December 2000.
In May 2003 Tullow Oil plc registered in Ireland applied and received permission from the Irish High Court to reduce the balance standing to the credit of the Share Premium Account of that company by transferring it to be offset against the deficit on the Profit and Loss Account.
A transfer of 18.6 million 12.6 million was permitted, which caused a related transfer between the Profit and Loss Account and the Merger Reserve in the Group balance sheet.
Note 21 During 2004 the Company issued 132,987,422 ordinary shares relating to the acquisition of Energy Africa and Energy Africa Gabon Holdings.
In accordance with the merger provisions of Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985, the company has transferred the premium on the shares issued of 122,335,483, using the market value at the date of the acquisition, to the Merger Reserve.
20 FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION RESERVE 2004 2003 Group Group 000 000 At 1 January 11,024 - Transfer from Profit and Loss Account Note 21 - 5,990 Currency Translation Adjustments 19,338 5,034 AT 31 DECEMBER 30,362 11,024 The Group created a Foreign Currency Translation Reserve in 2003 to account separately for the Currency Translation Adjustments.
Since the Group has been re-registered in England and Wales, such movements were taken directly to the Profit and Loss Account, but during 2003 these amounts were transferred to this account.
84 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 21 PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT 2004 2003 2004 2003 Group Group Company Company 000 000 000 000 At 1 January 18,346 7,379 171 1,765 Retained Profit for Financial Year 25,954 7,139 13,830 1,936 Transfer from Merger Reserve Note 19 - 12,596 - - Transfer to Foreign Currency Translation Reserve Note 20 - 5,990 - - AT 31 DECEMBER 44,300 18,346 14,001 171 The profit and loss account of the Company has not been presented separately in these financial statements as permitted by the provisions of Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
22 COMMITMENTS The Directors have committed to a budget for capital expenditure for exploration and development of 98 million for 2005 2004: 23 million and 200 million to complete the Schooner and Ketch gas fields acquisition announced on 20 December 2004 and completed on 1 April 2005.
Annual commitments under operating leases in respect of buildings amount to 1,065,418 and these operating leases expire in 2006.
The Group, along with its partners, has entered into an operating lease in respect of a Floating Production and Storage and Offtake Vessel in Cte dIvoire.
The Groups share of annual payments is 4,561,000 per annum.
23 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES At 31 December 2004 there existed contingent liabilities amounting to 14.9 million 2003: 16 million in respect of performance guarantees for committed work programmes.
24 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions with the Directors of Tullow Oil plc are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 57.
There are no other related party transactions within the definitions of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures.
25 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Since the balance sheet date Tullow has continued to progress its exploration, development and business growth strategies.
On 31 March 2005, the Company completed the acquisition, from Shell U. K. Limited and Esso Exploration and Production UK Limited, of their entire producing interests in the Schooner and Ketch gas fields and associated acreage.
On 8 April 2005, the Company signed a Sale and Purchase Agreement to dispose of its minority interest in the Alba Caledonia, Central North Sea to ITOCHU Corporation for a headline consideration of $112 million 59 million.
85 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 26 RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING PROFIT TO OPERATING CASHFLOWS 2004 2003 000 000 Operating Profit for the Year Restated 65,207 31,545 Depletion and Amortisation 67,571 39,628 Depreciation of Other Fixed Assets 647 332 Exploration Costs 17,961 12,772 Increase in Stock 1,721 437 Increase in Operating Debtors 34,215 1,992 Increase in Operating Creditors 42,346 3,589 Currency Translation Adjustment 3,489 477 NET CASH INFLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 154,307 84,960 27 RETURNS ON INVESTMENTS AND SERVICING OF FINANCE 2004 2003 000 000 Interest Received 3,436 2,016 Interest Paid 9,494 5,767 Dividend Paid 6,995 3,782 NET CASH OUTFLOW FROM RETURNS ON INVESTMENTS AND SERVICING OF FINANCE 13,053 7,533 28 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND FINANCIAL INVESTMENT 2004 2003 000 000 Purchase of Tangible & Intangible Exploration Assets 96,592 45,951 Purchase of Tangible Fixed Assets - Other 132 235 Disposal of Tangible Fixed Assets - 4,339 Farmout of Intangible Exploration Assets 1,619 - Purchase of Investments - 197 NET CASH OUTFLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES 95,105 42,044 29 FINANCING 2004 2003 000 000 Issues of Ordinary Shares 126,499 14,404 Costs of Share Issues 5,587 888 Repayment of Existing Bank Loans 33,437 17,334 Drawdown of Bank Loan 98,620 2,531 Repayment of Bank Loans Acquired 33,824 - Transfer to Restricted Funds Deposit Account 6,176 5,027 Debt Arrangement Fees 3,050 85 143,045 6,399 86
