Corporate responsibility United Utilities is committed to delivering business performance that balances the needs of all its stakeholders.
We believe that being responsible in and opportunities.
We use a combination of methods to do this.
An important part of the way we conduct our operations our approach is stakeholder consultation.
Active This enables us to understand the interests management of our key environmental, and priorities of the different groups of social and economic impacts helps people who are affected by our activities.
us work in a way that is ethical By engaging with these groups through and balances the needs of all our various means we are able to gain an stakeholders.
It enables us to reduce appreciation of the areas of our business risk, identify business opportunities, that are material to them.
This helps us stabilise our markets, protect resources, to target where we should place most make savings, improve performance emphasis in our internal programmes and build trust and understanding.
and, in turn, drives our reporting process.
Our approach We operate formal management systems Our Business Principles guide the way we to cover many of our impact areas, manage our activities and our relationships including environment, health and safety with stakeholders.
They set the context for and quality.
Where appropriate, we seek our approach to corporate responsibility.
formal certication of these systems.
This Two complementary strands to our year we have gained ISO 9001:2000 for approach corporate social responsibility Service Deliverys business management CSR and sustainable development SD system and in 2004 05 we intend to seek are now integrated within the businesses ISO 14001 accreditation.
Our corporate We benchmark ourselves to track our responsibility policies are considered as performance, drive continual improvement part of our business planning process and and seek out best practice.
environmental performance is a personal objective for each member of our Key impact areas Executive Leadership Team.
Environment The focus of our programmes is determined We continue to manage our impact by identifying and prioritising our impacts on the environment and, where possible, BiE Index 2003 score Health and safety days lost 95.5% 2, 173 Last year: 93.6% Last year: 3,044 days FTSE 100 average: 83% 12 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Group expenditure on environmental improvements m 280 enhance it through the implementation of placement opportunities for graduates of our sustainable development plans and their motor mechanics course and enabling other objectives.
inmates to nd gainful employment at the 210 end of their sentences.
Our most significant environmental impact in recent years has been the contribution Three inmates have placements at United 140 we have made to cleaning up the north Utilities depots.
In addition, inmates are wests rivers and coastal waters through working on time-expired vehicles that need 70 sustained investment in our wastewater servicing and valeting prior to auction.
36 of the regions 37 bathing Marketplace 0 waters now meet strict EU standards.
The 2002 2003 2004 Customers and suppliers contractors are regions rivers are cleaner than at any time two of our key stakeholder groups.
have 2.9 million customers in north west Key areas of environmental interest England and well over 30,000 suppliers.
for stakeholders are drinking water Key areas of marketplace interest for WaterAid quality, climate change and renewables: stakeholders are standards of service, compliance with legislation and waste Our customers and employees have charging policy, the investment programme minimisation recycling.
helped raise more than 5 million in and business ethics.
the past ten years for WaterAid.
To Our major capital investment programmes Vertexs partnership with Westminster City celebrate this landmark, United Utilities bring big environmental benets but we Council has helped it win the Council of launched a partnership with the aid have to manage projects sensitively to the Year accolade in the national Local agency in March to help deliver the limit any adverse environmental impact Government Chronicle awards in March.
governments Millennium Development during construction.
For example, a new The partnership was also highly Goal of halving the number of people process was developed to maximise commended in the category of without access to safe water and re-use of aggregate when laying pipes.
Public Private Partnership of the Year.
On one project alone, this saved 10,000 Our regulated businesses liaise with local cubic metres of aggregate and 2,000 authorities and residents groups to ensure lorry journeys.
Performance highlights disruption to local communities during During the year, United Utilities has made Community capital improvement works is minimised.
progress in both the BitC Business in the We have identied three focus areas for Community Corporate Responsibility Index Workplace community activity: environment, social and the BiE Business in the Environment United Utilities values its employees, they inclusion and education and training.
Index of Corporate Environmental are one of our key assets.
Areas of interest We have developed strategic partnerships for our employees are work life balance, Engagement.
We were ranked 21st out with organisations active in these areas health and safety, skills and job training of 138 companies in the 2003 Corporate Groundwork, the Princes Trust and Young and pensions.
Key topics of community per cent was a significant increase on interest for stakeholders are environmental Our health and safety strategy continues education, job creation and unemployment, 78.5 per cent in 2002 and compares to to develop.
We have received external consideration for our neighbours, access an average FTSE 100 score of 79.68 per recognition both for our performance and and recreation.
Our score of 95.46 per cent in the the quality of our reporting.
The Royal BiE index is our best yet and moves us We have developed a working partnership Society for the Prevention of Accidents into their Premier League.
with Thorn Cross Young Offenders RoSPA recently awarded us its Gold Institute.
We have provided an employee Award.
Whilst our businesses regularly Our approach is also recognised through on secondment, helping to develop work receive awards for their performance, this our inclusion in the Dow Jones World is the first time we have received recognition and STOXX Sustainability Indices, the for the group as a whole.
In 2003 the FTSE4Good index at global, European Health and Safety Executive commissioned and UK levels and our B2 rating in Morleys In-house renewable a research project to review the public Sustainability Matrix.
energy generation reporting of 279 top companies and 42 We received recognition for our public sector organisations.
United Utilities commitment to sustainability in north west was identied as an exemplar of public England and our work in the community reporting and, specically, the only company in Liverpool.
We were also successful in in the UK that had reported a high 72GWh the BCE Business Commitment to the standard against all its specified parameters.
Environment Awards, for our sustainable More information on our stakeholder Last year: 58 GWh farming demonstration work.
We won approach, identication of key impact three Green Apple awards last year for areas and detailed information, our community and environmental work.
Within our regulated water business.
performance data and discussion can Days lost through accidents at work be found within our stakeholder and corporate responsibility reports, or on fell again during the year from 3,044 our web site www.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 13
