Corporate responsibility Maintaining a sustainable environment Community activities at our Anderton Centre Managing impacts We believe that being responsible in The focus for our work is determined by index and our B2 rating in Morleys the way we conduct our operations identifying and prioritising our impacts and Sustainability Matrix.
An important part of our makes sound business sense.
We received recognition for our commitment approach is stakeholder consultation.
This to sustainability in north west England and Our Business Principles guide the enables us to understand the interests and our work in the community in Liverpool.
way we manage our activities and our priorities of the different groups of people relationships with stakeholders.
They who are affected by our activities.
By Environment set the context for our approach to engaging with these groups we are able We continue to manage our impacts on the corporate responsibility.
to gain an appreciation of the areas of our environment and, where possible, to enhance business that are material to them.
This it through the implementation of our sustainable Two complementary strands to our helps us target where we should place most development plan.
Key areas of interest are approach corporate social responsibility emphasis in our internal programmes and, drinking water quality, climate change and CSR and sustainable development SD in turn, drives our reporting process.
renewables, compliance with legislation and are now integrated within the business waste minimisation recycling.
Performance During the year, United Utilities has made Our most significant environmental impact progress in both the BitC Business in the in recent years has been the contribution we Community Corporate Responsibility Index have made to cleaning up the north wests and the BiE Business in the Environment rivers and coastal waters through sustained Wastewater sludge Index of Corporate Environmental investment in our wastewater network.
We were ranked 21st out of the regions 37 bathing waters now meet of 138 companies in the 2003 BitC Index.
Our score of 91.94 per cent was a significant Community increase on 78.5 per cent in 2002 and We have identied three focus areas for compared to an average FTSE 100 score of community activity: environment, social 93.7% 79.68 per cent.
Our score of 95.46 per cent inclusion and education and training.
Our in the BiE index is our best yet and establishes approach is to develop strategic partnerships 2003: 86% us in their Premier League of companies.
with organisations active in these areas.
Key Proportion of sludge disposed of by Our approach is also recognised through topics are environmental education, job our regulated water business which is our inclusion in the Dow Jones World and creation and unemployment, consideration for not sent to landll STOXX Sustainability Indices, the FTSE4Good our neighbours and access and recreation.
18 United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 The environment officer A work placement from Thorn Cross at Winsford We have developed a working partnership had reported to a high standard against all its How does United with Thorn Cross Young Offenders Institute.
This helps to develop work placement More information on our stakeholder Utilities manage opportunities for graduates of their motor approach can be found within our corporate mechanics course and enables inmates its impacts on the responsibility report.
Three inmates have placements at United Utilities depots and environment?
others work on vehicles that need servicing Robert Runcie and valeting prior to auction.
Notes Regional director, Environment Agency Marketplace Throughout this document, unless Customers and suppliers contractors are otherwise stated, amounts and two of our key stakeholder groups.
We have percentage movements relating to the 2.9 million customers in north west England profit and loss account of the group or and well over 30,000 suppliers.
Key areas of Every business has some impact on any business segment are stated before interest are standards of service, charging the environment.
For a company like goodwill amortisation and exceptional policy, the investment programme and United Utilities, effective environmental items indicated by in the text.
see our 2004 Annual Report and management is vital.
In the past, we Accounts for more detail.
have fallen short of some of the high Vertexs partnership with Westminster City standards set for us by our environmental Council has helped it win the Council of the regulator, but we have concentrated Year accolade in the national Local Government Any questions?
Many of Chronicle awards in March.
The partnership For more information or if you have any our businesses have, or are in the process was also highly commended in the category questions about United Utilities or this of Public Private Partnership of the Year.
of obtaining, accreditation for their document, please write to us at: environmental management systems.
Workplace Group Communications, United Utilities, Our employees make up another stakeholder Dawson House, Warrington WA5 3LW, grouping.
Their key areas of interest are or visit our web site.
work life balance, health and safety, skills and job training and pensions.
Quick links Our health and safety strategy continues to www.
We have received external recognition www.
co. uk both for our performance and the quality of our reporting.
The Royal Society for the www.
co. uk Prevention of Accidents recently awarded Designed and produced by Black Sun plc us its Gold Award.
Printed by Butler and Tanner.
regularly receive awards, this is the first time Stakeholder Report 2004 printed on Revive Silk.
75% of the we have received recognition for the group furnish is made from 100% fide-inked post consumer waste, as a whole.
In 2003, the Health and Safety the remaining 25% being mill broke and virgin bres.
Executive commissioned a research project Totally Chlorine Free NAPM approved recycled product to review the public reporting of 321 organisations.
United Utilities was identied United Utilities PLC For more information about corporate Registered in England and Wales Registered No.
2366616 as an exemplar of public reporting and, responsibility please visit our web site.
com specically, the only company in the UK that United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 19 UU015 covers v12 AW2.
qxd 9 06 2004 17:44 Page b This report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the company.
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about the companys beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements.
Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, Stakeholder Report 2004 estimates, potential, reasonably possible and variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans, assumptions, estimates and projections which may be signicantly varied, and therefore investors should not rely on them.
Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and speak only as of the date they are made, and except as required by the rules of the UK Listing Authority and the London Stock Exchange plc, the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any of them in the light of new information or future events.
Our Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties.
United Utilities PLC cautions investors that a number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or implied in any forward-looking statements.
These factors include: i the effect of, and changes in, regulation and government policy: ii the effects of competition and price pressures: iii the ability of the company to achieve cost savings Company and operational synergies: iv the ability of the company to service its future operations and capital requirements: v the timely development and acceptance of new products and services by the company: vi the effect of technological changes: and vii the companys success at managing the risks of the foregoing.
The company cautions that the foregoing list of important factors does not address all the factors that could cause the results to differ materially.
The financial information set out in this stakeholder report does not 04 constitute the companys statutory accounts for the year ended 31 March 2004 but is derived from those accounts.
The statutory accounts for the year ended 31 March 2004 contained an unqualified audit report.
The statutory accounts were despatched to shareholders on 18 June 2004 and will be delivered to the Registrar of Companies following the companys annual general meeting to be held on 30 July 2004.
In this report: our performance and results the customers view facts and gures Cover image: Dawson House Graduate recruit, Nina Shabanzadeh Warrington WA5 3LW managing our impacts with one of our electricity maintenance Telephone 01925 237000 teams at Little Hayeld, Derbyshire.
com UU 0 Covers 9 06 2004 18:27 Page 2 Financial highlights Five-year summary 2004 2003 2002 Notes 1 Turnover includes the groups share of joint 1 Turnover 2,115.5m 1,920.5m 1,871.6m ventures turnover.
2 2 Total operating profit is before goodwill Total operating profit 597.1m 561.7m 553.3m 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 amortisation and exceptional items as dened profit and loss accounts m m m m m in footnote 2 on page 15. profit before tax before goodwill and 3 3 As dened in footnote 2 on page 15. exceptional items 349.0m 330.3m 322.7m Turnover 2,060 1,879 1,786 1,692 2,356 4 Adjusted basic earnings per share excludes profit before tax 337.5m 327.5m 302.8m Net operating costs 1,490 1,369 1,265 1,194 1,697 exceptional items and goodwill amortisation and has been restated for all periods prior to 4 Adjusted basic earnings per share 54.7p 42.2p 44.0p Group operating profit 570 510 521 498 659 the rights issue using an adjustment factor 5 based on the consideration received from the Basic earnings per share 54.5p 45.8p 43.4p Share of operating profits of joint ventures 14 15 13 9 4 first stage of the rights issue and assumed proceeds from the second stage, which are Exceptional items 2 34 191 Dividend per ordinary share 44.31p 47.6p 47.0p due to be received in June 2005.
Net interest payable and other similar charges 248 231 231 220 206 Dividend per A share 22.155p N A N A 5 Basic earnings per share has been restated for all periods prior to the rights issue using an 6 profit on ordinary activities before taxation 338 328 303 478 457 Re-presented dividend per ordinary share adjustment factor based on the consideration post rights issue 44.31p 43.18p 42.64p received from the first stage of the rights issue.
Tax credit charge on profit on ordinary activities 24 57 39 68 92 6 Prior year dividends per ordinary share have Net debt 3,438.4m 3,373.9m 3,060.8m Exceptional taxation credit charge 1 9 69 been re-presented for comparative purposes to take account of the bonus element of the Equity shareholders funds 3,083.3m 2,533.6m 2,519.2m profit on ordinary activities after taxation 363 280 264 341 365 first stage of the rights issue.
7 Minority interest 2 2 2 Gearing 53% 57% 55% 7 Gearing is measured as net debt divided by total capital employed.
Total capital employed 8 profit for financial year 361 278 262 341 365 Interest cover 2.4 2.4 2.4 is equity shareholders funds plus net debt.
9 8 Interest cover is the number of times the Dividends 315 265 261 255 249 Dividend cover 1.2 1.0 1.1 interest charge is covered by profit before exceptional items, goodwill amortisation, nonRetained profit for the financial year 46 13 1 86 116 operating items, interest and tax.
9 Dividend cover is calculated by dividing profit Balance sheets profit before tax Licensed multi-utility for the year before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation by the dividend charge.
Fixed assets 7,959 7,216 6,833 6,586 6,300 increased by operations operating Net current assets liabilities 186 249 510 634 1,139 profit increased by Amounts falling due after more than one year 4,702 4,071 3,478 3,093 2,434 Provisions for liabilities and charges 340 345 311 262 370 6% Net assets 3,103 2,551 2,534 2,597 2,357 3% to 349 million Equity share capital and share premium 1,735 1,231 1,227 1,209 1,195 to 520 million Reserves and retained profits 1,348 1,303 1,292 1,374 1,162 Minority interest 20 17 15 14 Capital employed 3,103 2,551 2,534 2,597 2,357 Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements Contents Business process Infrastructure This report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the company.
Chairmans statement 1 Chief executives review 2 outsourcing operating management operating Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about the companys beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements.
Words Operating review such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, potential, reasonably possible and variations of these words profit increased by profit increased by United Utilities Service Delivery 4 and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans, assumptions, estimates United Utilities Customer Sales 6 and projections which may be signicantly varied and therefore investors should not rely on them.
Forward-looking statements involve known and United Utilities Contract Solutions 7 unknown risks and speak only as of the date they are made, and except as required by the rules of the UK Listing Authority and the London Stock Vertex 9 Exchange plc, the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any of them in the light of new information or future events.
Your Communications 11 34% 15% Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties.
United Utilities PLC cautions investors that a number of important factors could Corporate responsibility 12 cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or implied in any forward-looking statements.
These factors include: i the effect of, Financial review 14 to 25 million to 68 million and changes in, regulation and government policy: ii the effects of competition and price pressures: iii the ability of the company to achieve cost Board of directors 18 savings and operational synergies: iv the ability of the company to service its future operations and capital requirements: v the timely Directors report 20 development and acceptance of new products and services by the company: vi the effect of technological changes: and vii the companys Report on governance 22 success at managing the risks of the foregoing.
The company cautions that the foregoing list of important factors does not address all the factors Directors remuneration report 26 that could cause the results to differ materially.
Shareholder information 34 Independent auditors report 35 Financial statements 36 Telecommunications Total dividend for the free cash ow positive year of 44.31 pence in the second half of per ordinary share, the year an increase of Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, as shown on the face of the consolidated profit and loss account and dened in footnote 2 on page 15.
Operating profit for a segment is before 2.6% goodwill amortisation and exceptional items as shown in the segmental analysis by class of business in note 2 of the financial statements.
post rights issue 2004 Annual Report printed on Soporset Premium Offset made from ECF pulp Unless otherwise stated, amounts and percentage sourced from certied sustainable forests.
This material is manufactured to the movements on pages 1 to 17 relating to the profit most stringent environmental requirements from mills accredited with ISO14001.
and loss account are stated before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Design and produced by Black Sun plc 020 7736 0011.
Chairmans statement significant move forward Sir Richard Evans,... by raising around 500 million Chairman through the first stage of the rights issue and by continuing to grow support services businesses strongly.
Performance Corporate governance The group has moved forward A sound corporate governance regime signicantly over the past year, both by is essential to the smooth running of any raising around 500 million through the modern business and the board takes its first stage of its rights issue to help fund responsibilities in this area very seriously.
future investment demands in its regulated We welcome the new Combined Code businesses and by continuing to grow on Corporate Governance which will its support services businesses strongly.
apply next year and we describe later Turnover including share of joint ventures in this report both our compliance with rose 10.2 per cent to 2,115.5 million, the existing code and the steps we have reecting improved performance across taken to comply with the new code.
Total operating Looking forward profit rose 6.3 per cent to 597.1 million.
Our regulated businesses continue to This increase reects improved operating work with Ofwat and Ofgem in setting profits in infrastructure management, the agenda for the next five-year regulatory business process outsourcing and licensed period.
We anticipate a further large capital multi-utility operations and reduced programme in water and wastewater, operating losses in telecommunications.
driven by the need to maintain existing Dividend services and meet higher drinking water In line with our promise to maintain and environmental standards.
dividends in real terms, the board is Our support services businesses again proposing to increase the final dividend, made good progress in the year and we after adjusting for the rights issue, by expect further growth in non-regulated 2.6 per cent.
The final dividend for the income in the year ahead.
year ended 31 March 2004 of 29.88 pence per ordinary share and 14.94 pence In March, we were pleased to welcome per A share will be paid on 27 August the Eurocall team to the group.
Eurocall 2004 to shareholders on the register will complement Your Communications business, broadening its customer base at the close of business on 2 July 2004. and strengthening its position for the future.
People The board was pleased to welcome Overall, the group is well positioned Charlie Cornish as an executive director to meet all of its challenges and I look in January 2004.
Charlie has taken up forward to watching it grow and prosper the post of managing director of Service over the coming year.
Delivery and he brings with him a wealth of experience, gained latterly as chief operating officer with Thames Water UK and Ireland.
It is a testament to the strength of our Service Delivery team that Sir Richard Evans business continued as usual in the gap Chairman leading up to his appointment.
I must again thank the team for exceptional performance and in particular pay tribute to the Service Delivery finance director, Steven Beaumont, for deputising so ably throughout that period.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 1 Chief executives review Improved performance John Roberts, All of our businesses have made Chief executive significant progress during the year and contributed to the groups improved performance.
Business performance due to their more complex nature, these In licensed multi-utility operations, as well contracts can take longer to secure, as growing profit, we have met our output they allow us to manage more risk targets and delivered over 1 billion of our and give us higher margins compared capital investment programme, our highest to transactional based deals.
As the ever in a single year.
business mix continues to change, we are targeting Vertexs operating margins For our water business, during the to increase to above our previous seven 2000-05 period, we are expecting to to eight per cent range.
outperform our quality capital investment programme, which is targeted at meeting During the year, United Utilities Contract higher drinking water and environmental Solutions has continued to grow its standards, by around ten per cent.
In operations in its target UK and central order to improve our service performance, European markets, strengthening its we are increasing our capital maintenance position as the leading utility infrastructure expenditure during the latter part of the outsourcing company in the country.
We believe that As well as mobilising the Scottish Water this new level of expenditure, which has contract, which was the first time also been proposed in our final business a UK water utility had outsourced the plan, is appropriate to sustain our service management of its capital investment level improvements for the next review programme to another utility, we also period and beyond.
increased our shareholdings in our European concessions.
This was achieved Vertex continues to make good progress, in partnership with the European Bank growing operating margins to 6.8 per for Reconstruction and Development, cent and operating profits by a third.
which, for the first time, took a substantial Vertex is also successfully changing its equity position alongside a water utility.
business mix with transformational contracts, which involve the re-engineering In March, we announced the acquisition of business processes, accounting for an of Eurocall, a telecoms reseller based increasing proportion of sales.
Although, in north west England.
As a result of this acquisition, we expect to deliver significant synergy savings and improve profit before tax the utilisation of our network, thereby accelerating Your Communications up 6% to drive towards profitability.
Excluding the acquisition of Eurocall, Your Communications met our target of being a net cash contributor to the group, on a post-tax basis this year and was 349m also free cash ow positive in the second half of the year.
We are now targeting the business to generate an operating profit in the second half of 2004 05.
2 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 profit before tax m Turnover m Adjusted basic earnings per share pence 350 2,500 60 340 50 2,000 330 40 320 1,500 30 310 300 1,000 20 2002 2003 2004 2002 2003 2004 2002 2003 2004 Adjusted basic earnings per share excludes Regulation Outlook exceptional items and goodwill amortisation and In its final business plan for the United Utilities Water is set to benefit from has been restated for all periods prior to the rights issue using an adjustment factor based on the 2005-10 period, which was submitted an allowed price increase of 11.4 per cent consideration received from the first stage of the in April, United Utilities Water proposed in 2004 05, reecting an allowed real price rights issue and assumed proceeds from the second a capital investment programme of rise of 8.9 per cent and retail price ination stage, which are due to be received in June 2005.
This is based on a package of 2.5 per cent.
Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items as shown on the face of the consolidated profit and of maintaining existing services loss account and dened in footnote 2 on page 15.
With the final water and electricity to customers, meeting higher drinking distribution regulatory determinations Operating profit for a segment is before goodwill water and environmental quality standards amortisation and exceptional items as shown in the expected towards the end of the year, the and targeting customers expressed segmental analysis by class of business in note 2 of business is now entering a crucial period.
We remain rmly focused on achieving the In order to fund this investment, we right outcome from the reviews for all of estimate that customer bills would need our stakeholders and continue to expect to increase by an average of 7.8 per cent that the reviews will provide acceptable ahead of retail price ination each year allowed returns for our shareholders.
Our non-regulated businesses continue to The extension of United Utilities capital make good progress in their target markets.
base through the rights issue, together With turnover from these businesses with a number of other contributing exceeding 1 billion for the first time, they factors, has signicantly mitigated the now contribute over 75 million of operating impact of the capital investment profit to the group, compared to around programme on customer bills.
As a result, break even in my first full year as chief the proposed average annual real increase executive, three years ago.
Based on has reduced by over a third compared to contracts already secured, and opportunities the draft business plan.
we are currently pursuing, we are confident Ofwat plans to publish its draft decision that these businesses offer good growth on the level of investment and impact on prospects for the future.
customer bills on 5 August 2004, with its final determination due on 2 December 2004.
Turnover up by John Roberts Chief executive 195m to 2,115.5 million United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 3 Operating review Licensed multi-utility operations United Utilities Service Delivery Charlie Cornish, We had considerable success this Managing director year, improving quality, compliance, performance and delivering 1 billion of capital investment.
United Utilities Service Delivery owns index, up from 99.49 per cent the previous and operates the licensed electricity year.
The long dry summer of 2003 had distribution, water and wastewater an impact on water supply and demand.
networks in north west England.
Our team managed our water resources in such a way as to maintain reservoirs at In water and wastewater, we manage acceptable levels.
Given the higher rainfall a major capital investment programme, in the winter, reservoir levels have now ensuring value for money for our customers returned to normal.
whilst meeting all our regulatory targets.
We delivered a significant improvement Our 3 billion AMP3 capital investment on wastewater compliance.
This year programme in water and wastewater is we reduced our score on non-compliant the most extensive in the UK water sector.
works measured per head of population In electricity distribution, our asset served to 0.26 per cent, improved from replacement strategy has continued to 12.12 per cent last year.
Furthermore, focus on minimising fault rates.
As a result, we are improving service levels and we have sustained our good performance, this is expected to improve our Overall with customer interruptions and customer Performance Assessment OPA score, minutes lost outperforming Ofgems targets as measured by Ofwat, by around 15 for 2003 04. per cent from 2002 03 to 2003 04.
The target over the next few years is to sustain We will continue to strive to be a this level of operational performance and responsive, focused, productive and reduce the cost of short-term remedial efficient market leader, to achieve work required.
excellence in customer service and to have the right commercial capability, while We also turned around our previous years remaining socially responsible.
performance on prosecutions related to pollution incidents and consent breaches, Business objectives cutting the number from 29 to eight.
We We aim to create value through the achieved this by working closely with efficient management of our assets.
The the Environment Agency, highlighting key objectives continue to be to deliver our the reduction in pollution incidents as regulatory contracts, to align our resources a particular target for the business.
We efficiently within the common geography also increased our investment in odour of our licensed networks in north west control systems, addressing an issue England and to continue to improve that had become of growing concern service for customers.
Our strategies aim to maximise the We have implemented a series of health benets of our multi-utility status and and safety initiatives to reduce risks and endeavour to integrate our systems and reduced the days lost due to accidents procedures to generate efficiencies across from 1,493 to 985.
This helped us achieve our operations.
We also work closely with a four star rating and commendation in the Customer Sales to ensure a seamless first ever British Safety Council audit of our service for our customers.
Business performance We delivered over 1 billion worth of our On water quality, we improved our five-year capital investment programme performance to 99.72 per cent on the this year, the largest United Utilities has Drinking Water Inspectorates water quality ever delivered in a single year.
4 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Working in partnership with our contractors, Service Delivery Supply interruptions Wastewater compliance we continued to be ahead of Ofwats Ofwat key performance indicator DG3 regulatory output schedule at 31 March It is important for us to consider the 2004.
Our policy to standardise designs 0.4 impacts of our activities on all our and equipment, wherever possible, is stakeholders and the environment.
helping to make sure we invest money This year, intensive efforts have 0.3 wisely and at the same time reduce resulted in a significant improvement the whole-life costs of our new plant in wastewater compliance.
achieved by putting problem works 0.2 into an intensive care programme, In December 2003, we received Ofwats increasing our maintenance spend, final decision on our Interim Determination 0.1 operator involvement and capital of K IDoK application, which allows us work.
In 2003 04, as part of our capital to increase real prices by a further 4.4 per investment programme, we delivered cent next year.
This is in addition to the 0.0 29 continuous discharge and 219 allowed 4.5 per cent real price rise which 2002 2003 2004 intermittent discharge improvement was set at the last price review and brings Percentage of properties affected by supply projects.
The Environment Agency our total allowed real price increase for interruptions of greater than 12 hours has praised our efforts, as a model next year to 8.9 per cent.
The increase of company responsiveness.
reects additional costs the business interruptions and minutes lost per has experienced since 2000 that were Licensed multi-utility operations connected customer.
Through good not initially allowed in the current five-year Financial highlights contingency planning and rapid response, regulatory period.
Turnover increased by 5.7 per cent to our teams were able to minimise the impact The proposed expenditure relating to a 1,300.7 million in 2003 04, largely due to on customers of damage to the distribution number of schemes in our sewer overow a real increase of 4.0 per cent in water and network caused by winter storms.
programme also known as unsatisfactory wastewater prices.
This compared with Business impacts intermittent discharges, which we identied growth of 1.8 per cent in 2002 03 when The biggest potential impacts on the as being poor value for money, was water and wastewater prices remained business continue to be the two price eliminated from 2004 05 prices as a result constant in real terms and a real reduction reviews.
It is essential that we achieve of the IDoK decision.
We have proposed a of 3.0 per cent in electricity distribution balanced outcomes, which are fair to all revised sewer overow programme in our prices was applied.
United Utilities has a final business plan to Ofwat and discussions Operating profit increased by 3.3 per major commitment to discussions with are continuing with the Environment Agency cent to 519.6 million in 2003 04, reecting our regulators, the Environment Agency in relation to this programme.
It is not yet the increase in turnover offset by a number and others to translate the anticipated clear as to the extent to which the revised of factors, principally higher operating outputs into tangible and achievable proposal will be accepted by the regulators.
costs and depreciation mainly due to investment programmes.
If we are required to carry out significant the expanding asset base resulting from additional works we will seek to recover To ensure that we continue to deliver higher capital expenditure on quality related these costs through the next price review levels of performance during the years obligations.
Operating profit decreased or subsequently.
2005-10, we are working on new initiatives by 5.1 per cent in 2002 03, reecting that to improve efficiency and reduce cost.
In electricity distribution, we outperformed price increases were more than offset by both our regulatory targets and our own higher operating costs and depreciation.
We are currently developing our procedures internal targets for providing continuous for the management of the next five-year Capital investment for the year was supplies to customers.
We cut customer capital investment programmes in water 1,013.9 million, 864.2 million was and wastewater and electricity distribution.
spent on water and wastewater and This will ensure we have the appropriate 149.7 million on electricity distribution, business processes, organisation, systems the highest ever undertaken by United and commercial contracts to provide Utilities in a single year.
This has enabled maximum shareholder value from our the business to remain ahead of its asset base.
59.31 regulatory output schedule in water and wastewater as at 31 March 2004.
Our operational strategy is being customer minutes lost realigned to deliver further efficiencies in operations and maintenance.
Areas that will yield benets include automation and Last year: 67.7 remote monitoring of plant, streamlining of processes and development of high Ofgem measure of electricity supplies, performance teams, reductions in overheads calculated as the average duration of and accommodation costs and supply chain interruptions per connected customer Operating profit for a segment is before goodwill management to maximise value from our per annum amortisation and exceptional items as shown in the scale and deliver benefit from long-term segmental analysis by class of business in note 2 of partnerships with key suppliers.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 5 Operating review Licensed multi-utility operations United Utilities Customer Sales Bob Armstrong, We have put in place a number of Managing director key building blocks to deliver continuing improvements in service and further cost reductions.
United Utilities Customer Sales Business impacts The Water Act 2003 is now in place, is responsible for our regulated ruling out competition in the domestic customer base of 2.9 million domestic market.
We fully support this position households and business premises in since we believe the costs associated with north west England.
It is also a major introducing competition would outweigh the provider of water and wastewater potential benets to customers.
However, services in the competitive industrial we welcome competition for business market throughout the UK.
customers in water services as a driver for Business objectives efficiency and innovation.
We play a key role Our focus continues to be to maximise in industry working groups to develop the competitive framework.
There is a need profitability and cash ow, maintain and for a well managed process to deliver improve our levels of customer service, competition to the government timetable.
manage our reputation and contribute to the debate regarding the regulatory agenda.
The Water Act also sets out a new obligation for water companies to uoridate Business performance supplies when requested by a Strategic Through the regulatory process this Health Authority.
Our position on this matter year, we successfully secured additional is that it is not for us to decide matters of income for the business with our Interim public health, we simply act in accordance Determination of K IDoK submission.
with the instructions we receive.
Throughout the year, we achieved real One result of the impending price review is improvements in managing cash and that prices are likely to rise substantially for we are gradually solving the problems customers and we share concerns about associated with long-standing customer the affordability of water bills, particularly debt.
The Payment Card system we for vulnerable customers.
We have introduced last year has performed well.
processes in place to manage debt in a We now have 360,000 customers on way that is fair for customers and effective instalment plans plus a further 176,000 for the business.
Furthermore, we also cards in issue.
A complete re-appraisal have a range of initiatives that provide support, such as our vulnerable customer of our meter reading processes improved tariff, an arrears allowance scheme and both cash ow and service performance.
We also outperformed our regulatory targets We have taken a leading role in the Debt on all our customer service measures.
The Focus Group of Water UK, an industrynumber of telephone calls we answered wide body, looking at ways to improve the within 30 seconds was 93.3 per cent, Department for Work & Pensions Water against our regulatory target of 86 per Direct scheme.
We are continuing to cent and a 2002 03 industry average lobby for changes to the benets system of 92.5 per cent.
to extend the range of benets from which deductions can be made and to improve We launched our new customer billing take-up of such schemes.
programme to a small number of customers in March 2004.
Roll out will be achieved During the months ahead, we need to to all customers during 2004 05.
This make sure that all customers understand investment is targeted to deliver cost the reasons for increased bills and we savings for the business from 2005 06 have active programmes to ensure they and improve the service for customers.
6 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Operating review Infrastructure management United Utilities Contract Solutions Gordon Waters, This was a year of steady growth with Managing director successes across the board, the major highlight being the establishment of Scottish Water Solutions.
United Utilities Contract Solutions opportunities.
Our current experience means applies the groups core infrastructure we are well placed to take advantage of management expertise to competitive similar future opportunities.
It has grown quickly since The renewable energy market continues it was set up three years ago and is to focus on offshore and onshore wind.
The now the leading utility infrastructure government has raised its target to increase management outsourcing business the amount of electricity generated from in the UK.
renewable sources from two per cent We operate throughout the UK and today to 15 per cent by 2015. in key markets overseas Australia, Networks multi-utility expertise presents us Canada, the Far East and central Europe.
with real growth opportunities within the UK In all, the business provides services to utility sector as companies continue to seek 11 million people.
new ways to deliver cost effective services.
We focus our activities on three Business performance market areas: Operations Management Operations Management develops and The major achievement this year was the operates contracts in selected markets.
establishment of Scottish Water Solutions.
This includes our International business, This joint venture has already delivered our participation in Scottish Water Solutions 160 million of Scottish Waters capital discussed further on page 8, our contract to provide operations and maintenance services programme, which is expected to total to Welsh Water and our Industrial business, around 1.1 billion over the contract life.
which offers waste management and As well as being paid a fee for managing the electricity services to industry.
programme, efficiencies, after being adjusted Green Energy develops and operates for a number of key performance criteria, renewable energy generation projects.
are shared between consortium partners.
We operate more than 40 renewable One of the ways in which the consortium energy projects throughout the UK.
is looking to make savings is through asset standardisation, which reduces design, Networks provides multi-utility connections procurement and construction costs.
and metering to domestic, commercial and industrial developers and utility suppliers.
In Industrial, we expanded our services and We are the UK leader in this area and also acquired two major plants to deal with more provide an energy efficiency service to difficult, higher-value liquid and chemical industry and local authorities.
We also now operate and maintain high voltage electrical equipment for clients, Business objectives with around 700 contracts on sites from Our objectives are to grow non-regulated supermarkets to airports.
earnings from the groups infrastructure management expertise.
By applying our By combining our services we have created core skills to other markets, we seek to win new opportunities in the industrial and public and grow secure long-term income streams sector markets.
We have created a totally for the business, without materially new multi-utility service for clients who wish increasing risk within the group.
It is hard The approach adopted by Scottish Water to for many of our competitors to replicate the delivery of its capital programme shows this multi-utility approach, which offers the the continuing trend for bigger outsourcing prospect of regular but low risk income.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 7 Operating review Infrastructure management United Utilities Contract Solutions continued Our contract with Dwr Cymru Welsh Infrastructure management Scottish Water Solutions Water has continued to perform well.
operating profit m In particular, Welsh Water has risen from Scottish Water Solutions is a company 80 near the bottom of the Ofwat Operational majority owned by Scottish Water, set Performance league tables to second up to deliver over 1,200 projects, 70 position during the contract period.
We 65 per cent of Scottish Waters capital pre-qualied for the re-letting of the contract programme to 2006. post 31 March 2005 and have submitted The eight equity partners are Scottish our bid to Dwr Cymru Welsh Water, which 50 Water and two consortia: UUGM is expected to announce the contracts United Utilities and construction preferred bidders in August 2004.
35 groups Galliford Try and Morgan Est : During the year, we agreed to buy and Stirling Water Thames Water, KBR, International Waters shareholdings in our Alfred McAlpine and MJ Gleeson.
European concessions in Bulgaria, Estonia 20 Martin Bradbury, previously asset 2002 2003 2004 and Poland, in partnership with the European management director of United Bank for Reconstruction and Development Utilities Service Delivery, heads the EBRD.
This gives us a strong strategic team of around 450 people as chief partner and a platform for further growth.
reached project expectations as the operating officer.
contract has moved into its second In Manila, the existing shareholders bought Work includes building and upgrading year and out of its mobilisation phase.
out the International Water shareholding, water and wastewater treatment increasing our stake to approximately Networks acquired a gas connections works and water distribution and 19 per cent.
business from Lattice Energy Services, sewer renewal projects, serving around which signicantly expands our capabilities five million household and business In Australia, work has started for the in this area.
At the same time we sold our customers throughout Scotland.
construction and 20-year operation of a relatively small-scale private gas networks 7 million advanced wastewater treatment assets for 3.1 million.
Due to changes plant and network at Victor Harbor for the Financial highlights in the regulatory framework in the gas South Australian Water Corporation and Turnover increased by 12.5 per cent industry, this no longer forms part of our state government.
to 446.9 million in 2003 04, largely due long-term strategy.
to the impact of the new Scottish Water The legal dispute between NOSS contract and the first full year impact Our metering and connections businesses Consortium, in which North West Water of the British Gas Trading contract.
This International Limited is a partner, and the continued to grow outside north west compares with an increase in turnover Bangkok Metropolitan Authority is now England.
Energy Management Services of 2.9 per cent in 2002 03.
Excluding proceeding into full arbitration.
It relates to signed a 9 million three-year contract turnover from operations in the Americas, a contract that was terminated by NOSS with the Welsh Development Agency with from which we withdrew in 2002 03, Consortium in March 1998.
No outcome Objective One support for providing energy turnover increased by 18.5 per cent in is expected within the next financial year.
efficiency services to small and medium- 2002 03 due to the British Gas Trading sized enterprises in Wales.
Green Energy contract and increased revenues from We are developing a number of schemes, Business impacts other contracts within the operations with a potential capacity of 750MW, of Our businesses serve different markets management division.
which some 100MW take advantage of with different inuences.
In Green Energy, Operating profit increased by 15.3 per for example, planning and regulatory our position as owner of electricity, water cent to 67.8 million in 2003 04, reecting issues on distribution are key factors.
In and land assets in north west England.
the increasing maturity of our contracts liquid waste treatment, we are dependent Danish electricity utility Energi E2 A S has and the impact of the Scottish Water for growth on the application of new taken a 50 per cent share in the special contract and increased shareholdings European legislation.
purpose company we set up to develop in our European concessions.
Operating A key issue as we grow is to recruit, retain the Scarweather Sands offshore wind farm profit in 2002 03 increased by 96.0 per and develop the right people.
This project is currently subject to cent to 58.8 million as the period of introduced sponsorship of undergraduate public enquiry and a decision is expected start-up costs that had accompanied the students, which involves a job placement later this year.
previous years growth came to an end.
whilst at university, and have been recruiting We have applied for planning permission for our apprenticeship programmes in for a 28 turbine project at Thorne, near Wales and Scotland.
Doncaster, with a capacity of up to 84MW We have an active programme of risk and a 26 turbine, 64MW scheme located management within the business, including on Scout Moor in Rossendale.
Both factors such as competition issues and schemes are subject to consent from regulation.
Our strategic alliance with the the Department for Trade and Industry.
EBRD is a novel way of addressing some Operating profit for a segment is before goodwill Networks of the risks in European markets and we amortisation and exceptional items as shown in the Activity levels for the metering services aim to avoid countries where currency segmental analysis by class of business in note 2 of contract with British Gas Trading have now uctuations could be a significant risk.
8 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Operating review Business process outsourcing Vertex Tom Drury, Our success lies in building Managing director long-term partnerships, based on collaboration and trust.
Vertex is a growth business with Market demand for BPO continues to a highly visible income stream and grow and there is a trend towards multiexcellent prospects, based on a process outsourcing where organisations diversied portfolio of long-term outsource more than one element of their contracts across multiple sectors.
We are continuing are one of the UKs largest providers of to develop our transformational skills and business process outsourcing.
Major services in line with market demands.
To clients in the private sector include meet our clients needs, we have developed Marks & Spencer, Powergen and an in-house team of some 600 technology Vodafone and, in the public sector, and change consultants to manage these Westminster City Council and the complex and large-scale transformation Department for Work & Pensions.
programmes that add value for both the client and ourselves.
Business process outsourcing BPO means managing, and often transforming, Over the next few years we are looking to the processes which support a clients expand into other BPO areas, both in the business, such as human resources, UK and North America.
We have already procurement, finance and accounting.
increased the range of services we offer We are far from being simply a call our clients and have begun to broaden centre bureau and fewer than half of our our offer in service areas such as human employees work in call centres.
We help resources, procurement and finance our clients to transform their end-to-end and accounting.
Higher margins can processes, improving efficiency and be achieved from these more complex reducing costs, but at the same time processes and it means we can offer more creating a better understanding of, and services to existing clients and grow their stronger relationships with, their customers.
We can also benefit from economies of scale as we standardise Our markets are local and central processes across our operations, reducing government, the UK service sector our cost base, sharing common and utilities sectors in the UK and North America.
A study released in November infrastructure and improving margins.
2003 by market analysts Ovum Holway As the business mix continues to change, BPO: Trends and opportunities in the we are targeting our operating margins UK market identied Vertex as the fourth to increase above our previous seven to largest BPO company in the UK by turnover.
Business objectives Business performance Key markets for our growth continue to be This year was principally one of contract the public sector in the UK and the utility renewals, extending and building on sector in North America.
existing client relationships, worth a The expertise we have developed in combined total of over 200 million.
improving service and reducing backWe secured major extensions with ofce cost in the utility sector is much Westminster City Council and the in demand in the public sector.
We are Department for Work & Pensions and currently bidding for over 1 billion worth extended other existing contracts.
of contracts in the UK local and central Our contract with Westminster City government sector.
All are due to be awarded during 2004 05.
Council, which is worth up to 422 million, United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 9 Operating review Business process outsourcing Vertex continued is progressing well.
We are helping Vertex turnover m Marks & Spencer Westminster City Council to improve their 400 customer service levels by rationalising the This year we signed a new contract numerous points of contact that exist and with Marks & Spencer and will be re-engineering their business processes.
350 one of the first outsourcers to be considered for any further customer Our contract with the Department for services related work that Marks & Work & Pensions, which is in partnership 300 Spencer chooses to outsource.
with Atos Origin and involves modernising the way in which state benets are paid, We will work in partnership with continues to perform well.
As a result 250 Marks & Spencer, providing it with of its success, we have been awarded, a range of customer management through a sub-contract with Atos Origin, services.
Using our specialist a secondary programme of work worth 200 expertise in customer care and 2002 2003 2004 an additional 21 million.
business process transformation, During the year we signed a nine-year we will work with Marks & Spencer contract with Powergen, replacing our and change the way it interacts FRAs clients include Xcel, AT&T, T-Mobile previous ten-year contract with TXU with its customers to help it gain and Verizon.
Europe, whom Powergen acquired in an even greater understanding of October 2002.
This contract consolidates its customers and their needs.
This acquisition strengthens our offering in our relationship.
one of our key target markets, the North American utilities sector, in preparation for Financial highlights We have signed a new five-year contract further contract opportunities.
We already Sales increased by 19.8 per cent to with existing client Marks & Spencer, worth operate one contract in North America, 368.5 million in 2003 04, predominantly 35 million, to provide additional services.
providing customer management services due to the first full year impact of the Our new contract with Lloyds TSB is to for the Canadian utility Hydro One, which contracts with the Department for provide customer management and IT is progressing well.
Work & Pensions and Westminster City related billing services for its home energy Council.
Turnover in 2002 03 increased Business impacts and telephony operation.
We also agreed by 8.7 per cent to 307.6 million, primarily Balancing the interests of our stakeholders renewal terms with Vodafone and expanded through new contracts secured in is an important part of the way we do the range of services we provide.
Twice a year an independent Continuing growth led to our largest ever organisation asks our clients about their Operating profit has improved by recruitment drive.
We now operate in 30 satisfaction with our service.
The results have 33.5 per cent to 25.1 million, reecting UK locations and we have also grown our shown a demonstrable improvement over the effect of increased external contract operations in India, which forms another the year.
We were also the recipient of a activity and margins.
Operating profit part of our total delivery capability, number of key industry awards in 2003. in 2002 03 increased by 33.3 per cent to complementing our UK operations.
18.8 million due to the ow through of We have an active and robust corporate In March, we acquired First Revenue increased turnover and improved margins.
governance programme to manage the Assurance FRA, a debt collection agency strategic and tactical risks which could Vertexs operating margin improved to based in Denver.
FRA employs around impact the business.
Risks are clearly 6.8 per cent in 2003 04 from 6.1 per cent 200 people, has total annual revenues of identied and monitored on a regular basis.
in the previous year and 5.0 per cent in around 7 million and has a client base 2001 02.
This has been achieved due With clear objectives and an experienced that is principally spread across the utility to the increased maturity of the external management team, we believe that we and telecoms sectors in the United States.
contract portfolio and cost reductions on are on course to continue our growth by increasing the choice of services we offer intra-group contracts, together with the to clients and by helping them transform the relatively low level of contract mobilisation way they do business.
201 m customer transactions handled in the year Operating profit for a segment is before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items as shown in the segmental analysis by class of business in note 2 of the financial statements.
10 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Operating review Telecommunications Your Communications Hugh Logan, Your Communications achieved good Managing director growth and fullled its commitment to be a net cash contributor on a post-tax basis.
Your Communications is a mediumBusiness performance sized alternative telecommunications Excluding the Eurocall acquisition, we met provider, with a dense network in the our major target this year, which was to be north of England complemented by a net cash contributor to the group on a a lean national network.
post-tax basis and we were also free cash ow positive in the second half of the year.
We offer voice, mobile and data services Our cash ow target was achieved to the public sector and small to mediumthrough sales growth, by improving sized corporate customers, predominantly efficiencies and reducing our capital in the Midlands and north of England.
The continuation Business objectives of these achievements, together with the Our ongoing objective is to sustain our benets of the Eurocall acquisition, has progress.
Our sector is growing but is increased our drive towards profitability.
By participating We are now targeting the business to in ongoing consolidation now, we are generate an operating profit in the strengthening our position for the future.
In March 2004, we announced the Our network carried a total of 2.94 billion acquisition of Eurocall for a cash minutes in 2003 04, compared with 2.67 consideration of 42 million, of which billion in 2002 03.
30 million has been paid and 12 million Business impacts is payable in stages over the next 18 The new unied industry regulator, Ofcom, months.
Eurocall is profitable and cash was established during the year.
We look ow positive, with annualised revenues forward to working with them to help to of 55 million.
We expect to fund this make sure that the voices of the smaller acquisition from the post-tax cash ows players in the industry are heard.
of the enlarged Your Communications business over the next three years.
Eurocall complements our existing operations and adds significant breadth Financial highlights and depth to our customer base.
The Turnover increased by 14.8 per cent in acquisition will also enable us to better 2003 04 to 185.6 million compared with utilise our network and to deliver an increase of 7.5 per cent in 2002 03, as significant savings by integrating the a result of the continued progress of the operations of the two businesses, both of business in increasing its proportion of which are based in Manchester.
Since the higher value business sales.
acquisition, we have already put in place initiatives that will deliver annualised Operating losses were reduced by synergy savings of around 2.5 million.
14.9 per cent to 16.6 million in 2003 04 As a result of the purchase, all of compared to a reduction of 18.1 per cent Eurocalls 15,000 customers and 137 in 2002 03.
This is due to increased employees have transferred to our revenue and control of operating costs.
It is expected that the headcount of the combined business Operating profit for a segment is before goodwill will fall by around 50, with the majority of amortisation and exceptional items as shown in the this reduction expected by the end of segmental analysis by class of business in note 2 of June this year.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 11 Corporate responsibility United Utilities is committed to delivering business performance that balances the needs of all its stakeholders.
We believe that being responsible in and opportunities.
We use a combination of methods to do this.
An important part of the way we conduct our operations our approach is stakeholder consultation.
Active This enables us to understand the interests management of our key environmental, and priorities of the different groups of social and economic impacts helps people who are affected by our activities.
us work in a way that is ethical By engaging with these groups through and balances the needs of all our various means we are able to gain an stakeholders.
It enables us to reduce appreciation of the areas of our business risk, identify business opportunities, that are material to them.
This helps us stabilise our markets, protect resources, to target where we should place most make savings, improve performance emphasis in our internal programmes and build trust and understanding.
and, in turn, drives our reporting process.
Our approach We operate formal management systems Our Business Principles guide the way we to cover many of our impact areas, manage our activities and our relationships including environment, health and safety with stakeholders.
They set the context for and quality.
Where appropriate, we seek our approach to corporate responsibility.
formal certication of these systems.
This Two complementary strands to our year we have gained ISO 9001:2000 for approach corporate social responsibility Service Deliverys business management CSR and sustainable development SD system and in 2004 05 we intend to seek are now integrated within the businesses ISO 14001 accreditation.
Our corporate We benchmark ourselves to track our responsibility policies are considered as performance, drive continual improvement part of our business planning process and and seek out best practice.
environmental performance is a personal objective for each member of our Key impact areas Executive Leadership Team.
Environment The focus of our programmes is determined We continue to manage our impact by identifying and prioritising our impacts on the environment and, where possible, BiE Index 2003 score Health and safety days lost 95.5% 2, 173 Last year: 93.6% Last year: 3,044 days FTSE 100 average: 83% 12 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Group expenditure on environmental improvements m 280 enhance it through the implementation of placement opportunities for graduates of our sustainable development plans and their motor mechanics course and enabling other objectives.
inmates to nd gainful employment at the 210 end of their sentences.
Our most significant environmental impact in recent years has been the contribution Three inmates have placements at United 140 we have made to cleaning up the north Utilities depots.
In addition, inmates are wests rivers and coastal waters through working on time-expired vehicles that need 70 sustained investment in our wastewater servicing and valeting prior to auction.
36 of the regions 37 bathing Marketplace 0 waters now meet strict EU standards.
The 2002 2003 2004 Customers and suppliers contractors are regions rivers are cleaner than at any time two of our key stakeholder groups.
have 2.9 million customers in north west Key areas of environmental interest England and well over 30,000 suppliers.
for stakeholders are drinking water Key areas of marketplace interest for WaterAid quality, climate change and renewables: stakeholders are standards of service, compliance with legislation and waste Our customers and employees have charging policy, the investment programme minimisation recycling.
helped raise more than 5 million in and business ethics.
the past ten years for WaterAid.
To Our major capital investment programmes Vertexs partnership with Westminster City celebrate this landmark, United Utilities bring big environmental benets but we Council has helped it win the Council of launched a partnership with the aid have to manage projects sensitively to the Year accolade in the national Local agency in March to help deliver the limit any adverse environmental impact Government Chronicle awards in March.
governments Millennium Development during construction.
For example, a new The partnership was also highly Goal of halving the number of people process was developed to maximise commended in the category of without access to safe water and re-use of aggregate when laying pipes.
Public Private Partnership of the Year.
On one project alone, this saved 10,000 Our regulated businesses liaise with local cubic metres of aggregate and 2,000 authorities and residents groups to ensure lorry journeys.
Performance highlights disruption to local communities during During the year, United Utilities has made Community capital improvement works is minimised.
progress in both the BitC Business in the We have identied three focus areas for Community Corporate Responsibility Index Workplace community activity: environment, social and the BiE Business in the Environment United Utilities values its employees, they inclusion and education and training.
Index of Corporate Environmental are one of our key assets.
Areas of interest We have developed strategic partnerships for our employees are work life balance, Engagement.
We were ranked 21st out with organisations active in these areas health and safety, skills and job training of 138 companies in the 2003 Corporate Groundwork, the Princes Trust and Young and pensions.
Key topics of community per cent was a significant increase on interest for stakeholders are environmental Our health and safety strategy continues education, job creation and unemployment, 78.5 per cent in 2002 and compares to to develop.
We have received external consideration for our neighbours, access an average FTSE 100 score of 79.68 per recognition both for our performance and and recreation.
Our score of 95.46 per cent in the the quality of our reporting.
The Royal BiE index is our best yet and moves us We have developed a working partnership Society for the Prevention of Accidents into their Premier League.
with Thorn Cross Young Offenders RoSPA recently awarded us its Gold Institute.
We have provided an employee Award.
Whilst our businesses regularly Our approach is also recognised through on secondment, helping to develop work receive awards for their performance, this our inclusion in the Dow Jones World is the first time we have received recognition and STOXX Sustainability Indices, the for the group as a whole.
In 2003 the FTSE4Good index at global, European Health and Safety Executive commissioned and UK levels and our B2 rating in Morleys In-house renewable a research project to review the public Sustainability Matrix.
energy generation reporting of 279 top companies and 42 We received recognition for our public sector organisations.
United Utilities commitment to sustainability in north west was identied as an exemplar of public England and our work in the community reporting and, specically, the only company in Liverpool.
We were also successful in in the UK that had reported a high 72GWh the BCE Business Commitment to the standard against all its specified parameters.
Environment Awards, for our sustainable More information on our stakeholder Last year: 58 GWh farming demonstration work.
We won approach, identication of key impact three Green Apple awards last year for areas and detailed information, our community and environmental work.
Within our regulated water business.
performance data and discussion can Days lost through accidents at work be found within our stakeholder and corporate responsibility reports, or on fell again during the year from 3,044 our web site www.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 13 Financial review Simon Batey, The group successfully undertook Group finance director an innovative rights issue in the year to raise a total of 1 billion from our shareholders.
The group has made considerable control of operating costs and reduced progress in the year, with all of our capital expenditure, has enabled the businesses contributing to the groups business to be a net cash contributor improved performance.
to the group on a post-tax basis for the year, excluding the acquisition of Eurocall.
To assist in funding future investment in our Eurocall is one of the UKs largest regulated water and electricity businesses, independent providers of telecom services the group successfully undertook an to the small and medium-sized enterprise innovative rights issue in the year to raise a market.
The acquisition will enable Your total of 1 billion from our shareholders.
The Communications to deliver significant fund-raising has been structured so as to business improvements and savings upon raise the proceeds in two stages in order the integration of the two businesses and to align the receipts more closely with our make more efficient use of its UK network.
The first tranche, received during September 2003, raised International Financial around 500 million net of costs from Reporting Standards the issuing of 309,286,997 A shares.
The From 1 April 2005 the group will be second tranche of proceeds is expected required to comply with International to be received in June 2005 reecting the Financial Reporting Standards IFRS subscription for further A shares.
At this endorsed for use in the European Union.
point, all A shares will then be consolidated To facilitate this transition a project has and reclassied as 1 ordinary shares on the been initiated, with the aim of selecting basis of one ordinary share for two A shares.
appropriate accounting policies under IFRS and identifying and implementing In licensed multi-utility operations, as well any systems changes necessary.
as continuing to be ahead of our regulatory output schedule, we have also delivered These financial statements have been 1 billion of capital investment, the highest prepared in accordance with applicable UK ever undertaken in a year.
The key differences between UK GAAP and IFRS Turnover in infrastructure management that will impact the group are summarised increased by 12.5 per cent as the Scottish below.
This summary should not be taken Water contract commenced in the year as an exhaustive list of differences and and the British Gas Trading contract is based on the information presently contributed for a full year.
It is currently too early to quantify margins also increased to 15.2 per cent.
The International Business process outsourcing turnover Accounting Standards Board IASB is improved by around 20 per cent principally expected to continue to revise and issue due to the full year impact of the further new standards, which the group Westminster City Council and Department will consider for early adoption on an for Work & Pensions contracts.
operating margins have increased by The major differences between UK GAAP 36 per cent over the past two years and and IFRS that will impact the group are have reached 6.8 per cent in 2003 04. expected to be: Your Communications has continued to achieve good growth, with turnover Financial instruments: under IFRS all increasing by nearly 15 per cent during financial assets and liabilities are to be the year.
This, combined with increased measured at fair value.
The resulting 14 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 changes in valuation are recognised annually and where there is an indication losses through the statement of total immediately in the profit and loss account of potential impairment with write-downs recognised gains and losses, as required by or statement of total recognised gains and when appropriate.
Financial Reporting Standard FRS 17. losses depending on the class of Fixed asset accounting: UK GAAP Pensions instrument.
This includes any derivatives contains specic rules pertaining to The group applies SSAP 24 as the basis that fail to meet the hedge accounting when it is appropriate to use renewals for accounting for pension costs, and criteria.
The criteria with which an instrument accounting for infrastructure assets.
continues to make the required transitional must comply in order for it to be classed There is no reference to renewals disclosures for FRS 17 as disclosed in as a hedge are more restrictive under IFRS accounting in IFRS and therefore no note 25 of the financial statements.
This could potentially result departure will be permitted from the in significant earnings volatility.
The valuation of the groups pensions principle that the depreciation expense schemes under FRS 17 results in a net is determined by reference to an assets Deferred tax: under IFRS discounting pension deficit at 31 March 2004 of depreciable amount.
of a deferred tax asset liability is not 264.4 million compared with a net deficit permitted.
Therefore, there will be Pensions: under IAS 19 the group will of 298.1 million at 31 March 2003 and a a significant increase in the groups be required to recognise the full pension surplus of 15.1 million at 31 March 2002. balance sheet liability and consequently scheme deficit on the balance sheet.
The group has increased its pension cash a reduction in shareholders funds.
Actuarial gains or losses may be contribution rates in 2003 04 and will recognised in the income statement Goodwill: under UK GAAP, goodwill review these again when the results of the immediately or gradually via the ten per is carried on the balance sheet and full actuarial valuations as at 31 March 2004, cent corridor approach whereby actuarial amortised over its expected economic currently being conducted, are known.
life normally assumed to be no more gains or losses are deferred and than 20 years.
However, the IASB have Group results will no longer be amortised but rather recently proposed to include an option Turnover increased by 10.2 per cent to subject to impairment reviews both within IAS 19 to recognise such gains or 2,115.5 million in 2003 04 compared to 2004 2003 2002 Financial highlights m m m 1 Turnover 2,115.5 1,920.5 1,871.6 2 Total operating profit 597.1 561.7 553.3 2 profit before tax before goodwill and exceptional items 349.0 330.3 322.7 profit before tax 337.5 327.5 302.8 profit after tax 362.6 280.1 263.4 3 Basic earnings per share 54.5p 45.8p 43.4p 4 Adjusted basic earnings per share 54.7p 42.2p 44.0p Dividend per ordinary share 44.31p 47.6p 47.0p Dividend per A share 22.155p N A N A 5 Re-presented dividend per ordinary share 44.31p 43.18p 42.64p 6 Interest cover 2.4 2.4 2.4 7 Dividend cover 1.2 1.0 1.1 Notes 1.
Turnover includes the groups share of joint ventures turnover.
Total operating profit and profit before tax are presented before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items as dened below: Total operating profit profit before tax 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 m m m m m m Post goodwill and exceptional items 583.7 524.9 533.4 337.5 327.5 302.8 Exceptional items 4.6 29.3 11.9 2.7 4.7 11.9 Goodwill amortisation 8.8 7.5 8.0 8.8 7.5 8.0 Pre goodwill and exceptional items 597.1 561.7 553.3 349.0 330.3 322.7 3.
Basic earnings per share has been restated for all periods prior to the rights issue to reect the bonus element of the rights issue as required by FRS 14.
The adjustment factor is based on the consideration received from the first stage of the rights issue.
The calculation of basic earnings per share is set out in note 10 to the financial statements.
Adjusted basic earnings per share excludes exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
All periods prior to the rights issue have been restated to reect the consideration received from the first stage of the rights issue and assumed proceeds from the second stage.
The calculation of adjusted basic earnings per share is set out in note 10 to the financial statements.
Prior year dividends per ordinary share have been re-presented for comparative purposes to take account of the bonus element of the first stage of the rights issue.
The factor applied to the prior year dividends per share is 0.9072, calculated using 576.0 pence per ordinary share, this being the closing price on 25 July 2003, the last business day prior to the announcement of the rights issue.
Interest cover is the number of times the interest charge is covered by profit before non-operating items, goodwill amortisation, exceptional items, interest and tax.
7. Dividend cover is calculated by dividing profit for the year before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation by the dividend charge.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 15 Financial review continued an increase of 2.6 per cent in 2002 03. adjustment to the carrying value of the capital investment undertaken by These movements reect the impact of telecommunications assets in accordance the group and the benets of Advance the allowed regulatory revenues, for which with FRS 11 Impairment of xed assets Corporation Tax ACT planning established United Utilities Water received a real price and goodwill and restructuring charges in earlier years.
A tax credit position has increase of four per cent in 2003 04, primarily in the telecommunications arisen in the current year following the combined with continued growth in business following the completion of agreement of prior year tax returns.
business process outsourcing, infrastructure its network building phase.
The effective current ordinary tax credit management and telecommunications.
Basic earnings per share increased by excluding exceptional items is 6.1 per Total operating profit increased by 19.0 per cent to 54.5 pence.
Earnings cent compared with a credit of 9.0 per 6.3 per cent in 2003 04 to 597.1 million, cent in 2002 03 and a charge of 5.2 per per share has been restated for all periods principally reflecting improved operating cent in 2001 02.
The effects of deferred prior to the rights issue to reect the bonus profits in business process outsourcing tax result in an effective ordinary tax credit element of the rights issue in accordance and infrastructure management, together excluding exceptional items of 7.1 per with FRS 14.
Goodwill amortisation was with a marginal increase in licensed multicent compared with charges of 17.6 per 8.8 million in 2003 04, 7.5 million in utility operations where the increase in cent and 12.5 per cent in 2002 03 and 2002 03 and 8.0 million in 2001 02.
An exceptional turnover is largely offset by higher operating Exceptional items are discussed above.
deferred tax credit in 2003 04 of 0.8 costs and depreciation on the expanded Adjusted basic earnings per share improved million mainly arises from the integration asset base.
Telecommunications operating by 29.6 per cent to 54.7 pence, principally costs of the Eurocall business.
An losses have continued to reduce as reecting the deferred tax credit due to exceptional credit of 9.4 million including revenues and gross profits increase.
the effect of increased discount rates and 3.1 million deferred tax was recorded in Total operating profit increased by the increased operating profits discussed 2002 03 primarily due to the adjustment to 1.5 per cent in 2002 03, mainly due to above.
This compares with a decrease value in the telecommunications business.
improved operating profits in infrastructure of 4.1 per cent in 2002 03 reecting the management and business process Deferred tax excluding exceptional impact of reduced discount rates on outsourcing, offset by the anticipated fall deferred tax is a 3.4 million credit in deferred tax offsetting the increased in the licensed businesses due to the real 2003 04 compared with charges of 85.9 operating profits.
The calculation of the regulatory price reductions and cost growth.
million and 23.0 million in 2002 03 and adjusted earnings per share is set out in 2001 02 respectively.
The credit in 2003 04 The net interest expense for the year was note 10 to the financial statements.
The is principally due to the effect of increased 248.1 million compared with 231.4 adjusted measure is included to provide UK government bond rates on the discount million in 2002 03 and 230.6 million in a better understanding of the underlying of the full potential liability, whereas the 2001 02.
The increase in 2003 04 primarily trading performance of the group.
increased charge in 2002 03 reects reects higher average net debt in the year.
The dividend per ordinary share for the year the effects of reduced discount rates.
The small increase in 2002 03 reected is 44.31 pence, an increase of 2.6 per cent increased net debt and the cost of Cashows post first stage rights issue adjustment.
prefunding a substantial proportion of Net cash inow from operating activities the groups nancing requirements in the Taxation increased to 923.5 million, from 851.5 regulated business, offset by a reduction The current UK mainstream corporation million in 2002 03 and 799.8 million in in oating rates.
The increase in 2003 04 reects low charge in 2001 02 reect the high level the increased operating profits discussed profit before tax in 2003 04 increased of accelerated tax allowances arising from above.
Similarly, the increase in 2002 03 by 3.1 per cent to 337.5 million.
This is stated after an exceptional charge of 2.7 million, which principally reects 2004 2003 2002 Summary cash ow m m m the restructuring costs relating to the integration of the newly acquired Eurocall Net cash inow from operating activities 923.5 851.5 799.8 business, offset by a small credit in respect Income from joint ventures 1.2 2.8 2.1 of disposals.
The increase in profit before Returns on investment and servicing of finance 151.8 218.9 223.7 tax is driven by improved operating Taxation 2.6 2.4 profits in infrastructure management, business process outsourcing and licensed Capital expenditure and financial investment 1,018.0 697.9 583.6 multi-utility operations and reduced Acquisitions and disposals 46.0 3.0 9.8 operating losses in telecommunications.
Dividends 281.2 262.0 256.1 profit before tax increased by 8.2 per cent Cash outow before use of liquid to 327.5 million in 2002 03.
The increase resources and nancing 574.9 321.5 273.7 was due to the growth of the support Issue of shares, exchange and services businesses resulting in improved other non-cash adjustments 510.4 8.4 19.3 operating profits.
Movement in net debt 64.5 313.1 254.4 profit before tax in 2002 03 included an Opening net debt 3,373.9 3,060.8 2,806.4 exceptional credit of 4.7 million.
This related to the withdrawal from infrastructure Closing net debt 3,438.4 3,373.9 3,060.8 management in the Americas, offset by the 16 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 was principally as a result of increased activity.
It seeks to ensure sufficient funding Interest rate management turnover and operating profits.
is available to meet foreseeable needs We manage interest rate exposure by and maintains reasonable headroom for seeking to match nancing costs as Returns on investment and servicing of contingencies.
Long-term borrowings are closely as possible with the revenues finance includes 83.0 million of cash structured or hedged to match earnings, generated by our assets.
Our exposure received in 2003 04 due to the early which are largely in sterling, indexed to to interest rate uctuations is managed termination of certain interest rate swap ination and subject to regulatory price in the medium-term through the use contracts.
This reduced particularly large reviews every five years.
Exposure to of interest rate swaps and the use of exposures to swap counterparties.
The interest rate movements for the following financial futures contracts traded on LIFFE.
resultant gain has been deferred in the 12 months is largely eliminated at the The average interest rate for 2003 04 was balance sheet and will be released to the start of each financial year using short- 7.0 per cent, compared with 6.9 per cent profit and loss account over the period of term hedges.
The credit quality of in 2002 03 and 7.3 per cent in 2001 02. the underlying debt, which was unchanged counterparties and individual aggregate by these transactions.
Tax payments remain low reecting the Debt nancing benets of previous tax planning and the Moodys Investor Service rates the credit current tax charge discussed above.
of United Utilities PLC as A3 on a longA significant level of investment continues term basis with a stable outlook and P-2 to be made, mainly as a result of the on a short-term basis.
Equivalent ratings water and wastewater capital investment published by Standard and Poors Rating programme.
The 2003 04 capital Services are BBB long-term with a investment of 1,018.0 million represents positive outlook and A-2 short-term.
The groups u5 billion medium-term Cash payments in respect of acquisitions and $1.5 billion short-term note issuance in 2003 04 included the Eurocall acquisition programmes continue to provide efficient by Your Communications, the acquisitions sources of funding.
In addition, the group of Park Environmental Services and a waste has a $2 billion shelf registration in the management facility from Associated Octel name of the holding company with the by Contract Solutions and the acquisition United States Securities and Exchange of First Revenue Assurance in Denver Commission.
This provided access to by Vertex.
Cash receipts in 2002 03 the US bond market in 2003 04 and will included the proceeds from the disposal continue to allow the holding company of our investment in US Water, offset exibility to access the US market in a by the investment in 7C.
In 2001 02, similar way to the European medium-term the acquisitions and disposals cash note programme.
flow included cash settlements on the disposal of the energy supply business Since 31 March 2003, the group has and deferred consideration on earlier arranged 689 million of various long telecommunications acquisitions.
As a result of these new borrowings, and the funding Mainly as a result of the first tranche raised by the rights issue, cash and shortof the rights issue, 504.1 million was term investments at 31 March 2004 were received from the issue of shares 1,031.3 million, up from 689.3 million compared to 3.3 million in 2002 03. last year.
We have arranged 50 million of Dividend payments in 2003 04 represent new medium-term committed bank an increase in line with our dividend policy facilities and time extensions on 100 and reect the increased share capital million of existing medium-term committed following the rights issue.
In total, committed facilities maturing after more than one year amount As a result of the above, net borrowings to 723.1 million which, together with cash increased by 64.5 million to 3,438.4 and short-term investments, provides million at the year end.
Gearing, measured substantial pre-funding for the groups as net debt divided by total capital capital investment programme.
employed being equity shareholders funds plus net debt, fell to 53 per cent, The groups net debt of 3,438.4 million compared with 57 per cent at 31 March at 31 March 2004 comprised 3,486.9 2003 and 55 per cent at 31 March 2002. million of bonds, 695.3 million of loans Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, as from EIB, our largest investor, 81.1 million Treasury policy shown on the face of the consolidated profit and loss account and dened in footnote 2 on page 15. of long-term leasing and 206.4 million The groups treasury function operates of bank loans and other borrowings, Operating profit for a segment is before goodwill within policies approved by the board, amortisation and exceptional items as shown in the does not act as a profit centre and does offset by 1,031.3 million of cash and segmental analysis by class of business in note 2 of not undertake any speculative trading short-term investments.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 17 Board of directors 1 3 2 4 1 Sir Richard Evans age 61 3 Simon Batey age 50 Chairman Group finance director Sir Richard Evans was appointed a nonSimon Batey joined the board as group finance executive director in September 1997 and director in April 2000.
He had previously been chairman in January 2001.
Born in north west group finance director of AMEC Plc from 1992 England, he has worked in the aircraft and and prior to that deputy finance director.
He aerospace industry for more than 30 years.
He was closely involved in the reshaping of that was appointed chairman of British Aerospace group through a number of major investments plc now BAE SYSTEMS plc in May 1998.
He and disposals and the development of its has had a long association, through BAC and policy towards private finance initiatives.
BAe, with their Warton division in Lancashire, He also served on the boards of Fairclough where he was deputy managing director from Homes Group Limited and the major French 1983 to 1986.
He joined the board of British electrical contractor SPIE SA.
He is also Aerospace in 1987 as marketing director.
He a non-executive director of Arriva plc.
After was a director of the programme management graduating from Oxford, Simon joined companies for the Anglo French Jaguar aircraft, Armitage & Norton now part of KPMG for the Anglo German Italian Tornado aircraft where he trained and qualied as a chartered and a director of the Airbus company.
accountant, and worked in a number of management posts.
2 John Roberts age 58 4 Charlie Cornish age 44 Chief executive John Roberts joined the board as chief Managing director executive in September 1999.
He had United Utilities Service Delivery previously been a director of Hyder plc and Charlie Cornish is responsible for the groups chief executive of Hyder Utilities, and before regulated asset management business.
He that, chief executive of South Wales Electricity joined the group in January 2004 and was after its acquisition by Hyder.
Before joining formally appointed to the board on 27 January Hyder in 1996, John had been chief executive 2004.
He was previously chief operating officer of Manweb Plc from 1992.
Having graduated with Thames Water UK and Ireland having from Liverpool University, he joined Manweb served as its global business performance in 1967, where he was appointed finance director, working across Europe, Asia Pacic director in 1984 and managing director in and the Americas.
John is a non-executive director of Volex Strathclyde University and has worked for Plc.
He has been president of the Electricity British Aerospace, Plessey Telecommunications, Association, chairman of the Electricity Pension Associated British Foods and has also served Trustees Limited, a member of the CBI Wales as an executive director of NHS trusts.
As HR Council and a member of the Royal Director of West of Scotland Water he was Commission on Environmental Pollution.
involved with major change programmes and went on to become its customer services director and later chief executive.
18 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 5 7 9 6 8 10 5 Gordon Waters age 56 7 Sir Peter Middleton age 70 9 Andrew Pinder age 57 Managing director Non-executive director Deputy chairman and senior United Utilities Contract Solutions Andrew Pinder was appointed a non-executive independent director Gordon Waters is responsible for the groups director on 1 September 2001.
He has been Sir Peter Middleton joined the board as infrastructure management business.
He the governments e-Envoy since October a non-executive director in January 1994. joined the group in 1996 and was appointed 2000.
He previously worked for 18 years After National Service, he joined HM Treasury, to the board in 1997.
He graduated as a civil in the Inland Revenue before moving to the serving as permanent secretary from 1983 engineer and structural engineer from the City private sector, working for the Prudential to 1991.
He is chairman of Barclays plc and University London in 1969.
He joined a major Corporation as director of systems and was deputy chairman of Barclays Bank and UK consulting engineering practice before business processes and then as head chairman of Barclays Capital from 1991 to May working for a number of major UK construction of operations and technology for western 1998.
He has been a member of the Council of companies.
From 1987 to 1996, he worked Europe at Citibank.
After performing other the Manchester Business School, the Financial for Tarmac Construction Limited joining the roles in Citibank, including spells in New York, Reporting Council and the London Business board of Tarmac Construction Limited in 1993. continental Europe and Dublin, Andrew left School.
He is Chancellor of Shefeld University He was responsible for all their major projects the bank in 1999.
Since leaving Citibank, he and is chairman of Shefeld One.
and regional civil engineering companies both has been involved in new technology related in the UK and overseas.
He is a non-executive start-ups, as a partner in a venture capital 8 Jane Newell, OBE age 60 director of The Carbon Trust.
rm, as well as carrying out a number of Non-executive director management consultancy assignments for Jane Newell joined the board as a nonthe government including work on UK online.
6 Norman Broadhurst age 62 executive director in September 1996.
She Chairman of the audit committee is chairman of the United Utilities Pension 10 John Seed age 65 Norman Broadhurst was appointed as Scheme and the United Utilities group of a non-executive director in April 1999.
He Chairman of the remuneration committee the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme.
retired from his position as finance director John Seed joined the board as a non-executive After ten years as an international civil servant, with Railtrack Group PLC in March 2000. director in March 1996.
He was formerly chief she joined the Liverpool School of Tropical Before joining Railtrack in 1994, he was joint executive of South Western Electricity plc.
Medicine, and became chairman of Council deputy chief executive, finance commercial, A chartered engineer, he spent 29 years in from 1995 to 1997.
In 1992, she was with VSEL Plc and prior to that, finance a number of engineering and general appointed founder trustee and subsequently director.
He worked for Platt Saco Lowell management posts with Eastern Electricity.
chairman of the Maxwell Pensioners Trust and Limited for 11 years from 1970, becoming He was appointed deputy chairman of South in 1997 received the OBE for this work.
He joined the China Light Western Electricity in 1986, becoming is also a trustee of the Dixon Groups Pension and Power Company Limited in Hong Kong in managing director at privatisation and then Scheme, an external assessor for the Home 1981 as financial controller and then divisional chief executive in 1992.
He is a non-executive Ofce for promotions in the police, prison and manager, finance and administration.
In 1986, director of British Smaller Companies VCT plc.
re services, pro-chancellor and chairman of he was appointed finance director of United He was chairman of Great Western Assured the board of governors of London South Bank Engineering Steels Limited.
He joined VSEL Growth plc from 1991 to 1997, of Windelectric University and a J. P. in 1990.
He is chairman of Chloride Group plc Limited from 1996 to 1999 and of Warren and Freightliner Limited and is also a nonAssociates Limited from 1998 to 2001 and executive director of Cattles PLC, Old Mutual has held a number of other non-executive PLC and Tomkins PLC.
directorships in the public and private sectors.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 19 Directors report Principal activities and business review The directors The company is the holding company of a group which manages and The names of the present directors and their biographical details are given operates electricity distribution, water and wastewater assets: manages on pages 18 and 19.
Charlie Cornish was appointed on 27 January 2004 infrastructure and business processes for its own and other businesses: and and will therefore submit himself for re-appointment at the 2004 annual provides voice, basic and advanced communication services to the business general meeting.
In addition, Sir Richard Evans, Sir Peter Middleton and customer market.
The principal subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures of Simon Batey are standing, and are recommended by the board for rethe company and details of acquisitions and disposals during the year are appointment, at the 2004 annual general meeting.
shown in note 13 to the financial statements.
Purchase of own shares The chairmans statement, the chief executives review and the operational, At an extraordinary general meeting held on 26 August 2003, the company corporate responsibility and financial reviews on pages 1 to 17 report on was authorised by the shareholders to purchase, in the market, up to the groups activities during the year and on likely future developments.
55,680,000 of its own ordinary shares of 1 each and up to 30,933,000 of its own A shares of 50 pence each.
No shares were purchased pursuant to The business for the annual general meeting this authority during the year.
This authority is normally renewable annually Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the 2004 annual general meeting and approval will be sought from shareholders at the 2004 annual general are set out in the notice calling the meeting.
There is also a full explanation meeting to renew the authority for one year.
of the resolutions in the leaet containing the notice, enclosed with this report.
Directors interests The dividend for shareholders At 31 March 2004, the directors and their immediate families had the The directors are recommending a final dividend of 29.88 pence for each following interests, all of which were beneficial interests, in the companys ordinary share for the year ended 31 March 2004 14.94 pence for each ordinary and A shares and options to subscribe for shares: A share, making a total for the year of 44.31 pence for each ordinary share 22.155 pence for each A share.
Subject to shareholders approving this recommendation at the annual general meeting, the dividend will be paid on 27 August 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 2 July 2004.
Table 1: Interests in ordinary shares At 1 April 2003 or upon appointment At 31 March 2004 Share Deferred Share Deferred Shares options shares Total Shares options shares Total John Roberts 35,214 3,579 15,264 54,057 72,610 4,139 19,444 96,193 Simon Batey 49,464 1,740 12,732 63,936 478 3,763 16,218 20,459 Charlie Cornish Gordon Waters 26,595 2,621 8,850 38,066 39,789 3,030 11,273 54,092 Sir Richard Evans 245 245 245 245 Norman Broadhurst 341 341 341 341 Sir Peter Middleton 4,574 4,574 4,574 4,574 Jane Newell 4,356 4,356 4,356 4,356 Andrew Pinder 4,000 4,000 John Seed 5,535 5,535 5,550 5,550 Table 2: Interests in A shares At 1 April 2003 or At 31 March Notes: upon appointment 2004 Each executive director is a member of the class of discretionary beneciaries of the United Utilities Employee Share Trust and is therefore treated as having an interest in John Roberts 40,372 the 459,891 shares held by United Utilities Employee Share Trust Limited as trustee of the United Utilities Employee Share Trust at 31 March 2004.
As at 19 May 2004, Simon Batey 181,340 United Utilities Employee Share Trust Limited held 459,891 shares.
Charlie Cornish Except as described above, none of the directors had any interest in any share capital of any other group company or in any debenture of any group company.
Gordon Waters 26,330 From the end of the financial year until 19 May 2004, there have been the following Sir Richard Evans 136 changes in the above interests: Norman Broadhurst 189 On 19 April 2004, John Roberts, Simon Batey and Gordon Waters each acquired 23 ordinary shares pursuant to the ShareBuy share incentive plan.
Sir Peter Middleton 2,541 On 17 May 2004, John Roberts, Simon Batey and Gordon Waters each acquired Jane Newell 2,419 27 shares pursuant to the ShareBuy share incentive plan.
Andrew Pinder 2,222 John Seed 3,082 20 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 People key contributors to corporate success Political and charitable donations The groups employees are key to achieving the business strategy and Charitable donations by the group in the year amounted to 1,335,759 enhancing shareholder value.
The group is making special efforts to recruit 2003 1,015,310. new employees from ethnic minority communities and is seeking more The groups policy is not to make any donations for political purposes.
applications from people with disabilities.
A review of key employee and However, the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 has safety issues arising in the year is contained within the corporate redened the term donation very widely and, as a result, certain expenses responsibility review on pages 12 and 13. legitimately incurred as part of the process of talking to government at all levels United Utilities remains committed to maintaining high standards of health and making our position known, are now reportable.
At the last annual general and safety in every area of its business.
Our health and safety aims and meeting an authority was taken to cover such expenditure.
Pursuant to that objectives are integrated into the business planning processes.
Progress authority, in the year the company incurred costs of 6,217 2003 4,000. is monitored regularly at all levels throughout the business.
Approach to technology development The companys risk prole is characteristic of a large multi-utility.
As in The group is committed to using innovative, cost-effective and practical previous years, the majority of absences from work resulted from manual solutions for providing high quality services.
It also continues to make full handling activities and slips, trips and falls.
There are already specic use of the wide-ranging expertise, abilities and facilities within the group.
programmes in place to manage down these risks, together with improved It recognises the importance of ensuring that it properly focuses its absence management arrangements.
However, as the business develops, investment in the development of technology, that it has the right skills our risk prole is continually monitored and the risks arising from transition are to apply technology to achieve sustainable competitive advantage and managed appropriately.
In this context, we work collaboratively with clients, that it continues to be alert to emerging technological opportunities.
contractors and partners in joint ventures, sharing experience and best practice.
We met last years short-term published health and safety targets.
Substantial shareholdings in the company Our risk management procedures remain effective in highlighting high risk At 19 May 2004, the directors were aware of the following notiable interests areas, which we can then target for improvement.
For example, during the in the companys issued ordinary share capital: year, we made progress on a number of initiatives, including road risk, health Company Date of notication No.
of shares % and well being, stress management and behavioural safety programmes.
Legal & General Group PLC 24 January 2003 18,562,270 3.33 In addition, the increasing terrorist threat has prompted us to review the potential impact of major incidents on our business and we have taken steps Sprucegrove Investment to test and upgrade our existing emergency and business continuity plans.
Management Limited 4 July 2003 17,950,003 3.02 The involvement of all staff in these initiatives is a prerequisite and the The directors were also aware of the following notiable interests in the group has continued to work in partnership with a range of trade unions companys issued A share capital at 19 May 2004: and employee representatives operating across the businesses.
These Company Date of notication No.
of shares % processes will continue and develop during the year ahead.
UBS Investment Bank 12 May 2004 24,217,253 7.83 A statement of principles underpins the approach to labour relations across the group.
Changes to employment legislation in the UK are increasing the Sprucegrove Investment numbers of employees embraced by collective bargaining arrangements.
Management Limited 4 February 2004 9,539,973 3.08 Good industrial relations remains a priority for United Utilities across the whole of its business and parts of the group have been recognised in the Creditor payment policy and practice UK for excellence in this area.
In particular, our Service Delivery business The group does not follow any specic external code or standard on has committed to work more closely with five trade unions Unison, Amicus, payment practice.
Its policy is normally to pay suppliers according to terms Prospect, GMB and T&GWU and collective bargaining for 4,600 employees of business agreed with them on entering into binding contracts and to keep is a major part of this commitment.
It has also established a consultation to the payment terms providing the relevant goods or services have been process and guidelines to manage the relationship.
supplied in accordance with the contracts.
The group and the company The group is committed to improving its employees skills.
Through training had 60 days 2003 60 days and 29 days 2003 35 days respectively and development and nurturing a culture in which they feel valued, the group of purchases outstanding at the end of the financial year.
encourages them to work to their full potential.
The group respects the dignity and rights of every employee, supports them in performing various roles in Independent auditor society and challenges prejudice and stereotyping.
The group is equally The auditor is required to be re-appointed at each annual general meeting at committed to involving employees through open and regular which accounts are presented.
Following the conversion of Deloitte & Touche communications about business developments and issues of general to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP, effective from 30 July 2003, the board interest, both formally and informally.
consented to the appointment as auditor being extended to the succeeding partnership, namely Deloitte & Touche LLP pursuant to section 26 5 of the Owning shares in the company is an important way of strengthening Companies Act 1989.
The board is proposing the re-appointment of Deloitte employees involvement in the development of the business and of bringing & Touche LLP.
Special notice of the intention to propose this resolution has together their and shareholders interests.
The group encourages and helps been given to the company in accordance with section 388 3 of the employees to participate in its share schemes.
Fullling social and environmental responsibilities Approved by the board on 19 May 2004 and signed on its behalf by As described in the corporate responsibility review on pages 12 and 13, the group seeks to manage its total impact on society as a responsible Tim Rayner Secretary corporate citizen.
Full details are set out in the companys separate corporate responsibility report, which is an important part of the companys integrated approach to reporting on the groups overall performance, together with the annual report, the stakeholder report and the web site.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 21 Corporate governance The Combined Code Directors The board remains committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The board is scheduled to meet ten times each year with additional meetings Throughout the year to 31 March 2004, the company has complied with the called if required.
The board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it, provisions set out in Section 1 of The Combined Code Principles of Good which ensures that it takes all major strategy, policy and investment decisions Governance and Code of Best Practice issued by the Financial Services affecting the group.
In addition, it is responsible for business planning and risk Authority.
A revised Combined Code was published in July 2003 which will be management and for the development of group policies including such areas applicable to all listed companies with reporting periods commencing on or as health and safety, directors and senior managers remuneration and for after 1 November 2003.
The board recognises that the revised Code is seen social, environmental and ethical issues.
Attendance by individual directors at as best practice and this report, together with the remuneration report on meetings of the Board and its Committees during the year ended 31 March pages 26 to 33, gives details of how the principles in the existing Code and 2004 is shown in the table below and full biographical details of the directors the revised Code have been applied within the company.
Attendance by individual directors at meetings of the board and its committees Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual John Roberts 12 12 4 2 Simon Batey1211 Charlie Cornish 33 Gordon Waters 12 12 Sir Richard Evans 12 12 658744 Norman Broadhurst 12 9668744 Sir Peter Middleton 12 10 648743 Jane Newell 12 10 638742 Andrew Pinder128638741 John Seed 12 10 658844 The chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors without Directors and ofcers insurance the executive directors present.
Led by the senior independent director, the The company maintains an appropriate level of directors and ofcers non-executive directors meet without the chairman present at least annually insurance in respect of legal action against the directors.
to appraise the chairmans performance.
Directors have a right to ensure Chairman and chief executive that any concerns they have, which cannot be resolved about the running Separate individuals have been appointed to the positions of chairman of the company or a proposed action, are recorded in the board minutes.
The board has agreed clearly dened responsibilities In addition, upon resignation a non-executive director shall be asked to for the roles and has adopted a set of guiding principles to govern the provide a written statement addressed to the chairman, for circulation to relationship between them.
The chairman is primarily responsible for the the board, if they have any such concerns.
The chief executive is responsible for running the groups business and for implementing board strategy and policy.
Delegating and working through committees The groups governance structure ensures that all decisions are made Board balance and independence by the most appropriate people in such a way that the decision-making The board aims to maintain a balance of executive and non-executive process itself does not unnecessarily delay progress.
The board has formally directors and presently comprises the chairman, four executive directors and delegated specic responsibilities to board committees, including the audit five non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
The see page 24, remuneration see page 26, nomination see Appointments directors have a wide and diverse range of business experience and expertise.
to the board on page 23, approvals and treasury committees.
All board The revised Code does not regard the chairman as being independent committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
in view of his unique role in corporate governance although, were he not The approvals committee considers and approves expenditure and chairman, Sir Richard Evans would satisfy the independence criteria laid investment proposals within limits delegated by the board.
Its members down by the Code.
Taking into account the provisions of the Code, the are the executive directors, the group strategic planning director and the board has determined that all of the remaining five non-executive directors company secretary.
are independent and free from any business or other relationship which could compromise their independent judgement.
The treasury committee considers and approves borrowing, leasing, bonding and other banking facilities within limits set by the board.
Its members are In particular, the board has determined that Sir Peter Middleton remains the chairman, the chief executive, the group finance director and one of independent, notwithstanding that he has served on the board for more than the other executive directors together with, for more significant or complex nine years, because of his breadth of experience, financial independence transactions, one other non-executive director.
Norman Broadhursts daughter is a partner based in Deloitte & Touche LLPs Birmingham ofce.
It has been agreed that The directors of subsidiary companies are responsible at law for those she will not be involved with the United Utilities account in any way.
They are tasked with the delivery of the targets set within &Touche LLP services United Utilities account from its Manchester and the budgets approved by the group board and for the implementation of London ofces.
group strategy and policy across their businesses.
United Utilities Water PLC, for example, is a sizeable business in its own right and its board Senior independent director includes two independent non-executive directors Phillida Entwistle and Sir Peter Middleton has been appointed as senior independent director.
The senior independent director would be available to shareholders if they 22 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 have concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed to The board has adopted policies governing the rights of directors to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The terms of reference of obtain independent professional advice.
The board has adopted a protocol the senior independent director state that his primary duty is to ensure that under which directors have access, through the company secretary, to the views of each non-executive director are given due consideration.
Other independent professional advice at the companys expense where they duties of the post include authority to call a meeting of the non-executive judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
directors and to conduct periodic performance appraisals of the chairman.
Performance evaluation Appointments to the board and the nomination committee The board has agreed a self-evaluation process for the performance The nomination committee leads the process for board appointments by evaluation of the board which will be carried out during the current financial making recommendations to the board about lling board vacancies and year and will be reported upon in next years annual report.
The board has appointing additional persons to the board.
The committee also considers determined that the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent and makes recommendations to the board on its composition, balance and director, will undertake a performance evaluation of the chairman, taking membership and on the re-appointment by shareholders of any director into account the views of executive directors.
under the retirement by rotation provisions in the companys articles of Re-appointment of directors association.
It met four times in the year to 31 March 2004.
The board initially appoints all new directors, having first considered The committees members are the non-executive directors, including the recommendations made to it by the nomination committee.
Following such chairman, together with the chief executive.
Although the chairman is also appointment, the director is required to retire and seek re-appointment at chairman of the committee, he will not chair the committee when it deals the next annual general meeting.
There is a process of rotation, which with the appointment of a successor to the chairmanship.
The nomination ensures that approximately one third of all directors are required to retire and committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on seek re-appointment at each annual general meeting and that no director the board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepares a description of the serves for more than three years without being proposed for re-appointment roles and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
at an annual general meeting.
Biographical details of directors being submitted for appointment or re-appointment are set out in the notes During the year, the committee prepared a description of the roles and accompanying the relevant notice of meeting.
capabilities required for the appointment of a Managing Director, Service Delivery, engaged the services of Spencer Stuart, an independent consultancy Non-executive directors are appointed for specified terms subject to rm, and made recommendations as part of the final selection process.
re-appointment under the companys articles of association and subject to Companies Acts provisions relating to the removal of a director.
Following the The nomination committees terms of reference are available to shareholders 2004 annual general meeting, the board intends to explain to shareholders on request and are also available on the companys web site at in the papers accompanying a resolution to elect a non-executive director www.
why they believe an individual should be appointed.
The chairman will confirm Policy on external appointments to shareholders when proposing re-appointment that, following formal The company recognises that its executive directors may be invited to performance evaluation, the individuals performance continues to be effective become non-executive directors of companies outside the group and and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Any term beyond six years for exposure to such non-executive duties can broaden experience and a non-executive director will be subject to particularly rigorous review and knowledge, which will be to the benefit of the company.
Subject to board will take into account the need for progressive refreshing of the board.
approval which will not be given if the proposed appointment is with a Any non-executive director serving longer than nine years will be subject competing company, would otherwise lead to a conict of interest or could to annual re-appointment.
A resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming have a detrimental effect on a directors performance, the boards policy annual general meeting to alter the articles of association of the company is that a full time executive director can accept no more than one nonto give effect to this new Code provision.
executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company or the chairmanship of such a company and may retain the fees.
John Roberts is a non-executive director Accountability and audit of Volex Group plc, for which he earned and retained a fee of 26,000 during Statement of directors responsibilities for the financial statements the year to 31 March 2004.
Simon Batey was appointed a non-executive The directors are responsible for preparing, in accordance with the director of Arriva plc on 1 October 2003 and earned and retained a fee of Companies Act 1985, financial statements for each financial year which 15,000 for the period from his appointment to 31 March 2004. give a true and fair view of the companys and the groups state of affairs Information and professional development as at the end of the financial year, and of the profit or loss and cash ows The quality of the contribution that directors, particularly non-executives, for the financial year.
can make is directly dependent on the quality of the information they receive.
The directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements, the Accordingly, all directors receive comprehensive information on a regular group has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied basis.
Board papers are normally distributed a week in advance of the and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates.
relevant meeting to allow sufficient time for directors to be fully briefed.
The All applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any papers are sufciently detailed to enable the directors to obtain a thorough departure and explanation described in the notes to the accounts.
grasp of the management and financial performance of the company and the operating businesses.
Minutes of committee meetings are circulated to The directors have a legal responsibility for ensuring that the company keeps all board members.
accounting records which disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the companys and the groups financial position and which enable them The board has established a governance framework which encourages all to ensure the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. directors to bring an independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, The directors also have a general legal responsibility for taking such steps performance, resources, including key appointments and standards of as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the companys and the groups conduct.
New directors receive appropriate induction training on joining the assets and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
As part of this, the company will offer to major shareholders the auditors statement about its reporting responsibilities is set out on page 35. opportunity to meet a new non-executive director.
Financial reporting and going concern All directors have access to the advice and services of the company In presenting the annual and interim financial statements and similar secretary, who is responsible to the board for ensuring that board significant publications, the directors aim to present a balanced and procedures are complied with.
The appointment and removal of the understandable assessment of the groups position and prospects.
company secretary are matters for the board as a whole.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 23 Corporate governance continued The directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing these an annual health and safety performance review carried out by our infinancial statements.
This is based upon a review of the groups budget for house safety professionals in addition to the normal health and safety risk 2004 05, the five-year business plan and investment programme, together assessment and management processes carried out within each of the with the cash and committed borrowing facilities available to the group.
operating businesses: The board also took into account potential contingent liabilities and other centralised treasury operations operating within dened limits and risk factors as interpreted by the Guidance on Going Concern and Financial subject to regular reporting requirements and internal audit reviews: and Reporting for Directors of Listed Companies registered in the United Kingdom, published in November 1994. established procedures, set out in a group internal control manual, for planning, approving and monitoring major capital expenditure, major projects Internal control system evaluating and managing risk and the development of new business which includes short and long-term The board is responsible for the groups internal control framework and budgets, risk evaluation, detailed appraisal and review procedures, dened for reviewing its effectiveness.
Throughout the year under review and up authority levels and post-investment performance reviews.
to the date of this report, the board has operated procedures meeting the The audit committee and the auditor requirements of the Combined Code relating to internal control as set out The audit committees members are Norman Broadhurst Chairman, in the September 1999 guidance Internal Control Guidance for Directors Sir Richard Evans to 30 March 2004, Sir Peter Middleton, Jane Newell, on the Combined Code produced by the Institute of Chartered Accountants Andrew Pinder and John Seed.
The board is satisfied that Norman in England and Wales.
Each year the board reviews all controls, including Broadhurst has recent and relevant financial experience.
The committee financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management met six times in the year to 31 March 2004. procedures.
The internal control system is designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the groups business objectives and The committee has primary responsibility for making a recommendation can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material to the board on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external misstatement or loss.
auditor which the board then puts to shareholders for their approval in general meeting.
It keeps under review the scope and results of the audit The key features of the internal control system are: and its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the a control environment with clearly dened organisation structures operating auditor.
The committee has established policies and procedures to prewithin a framework of policies and procedures covering every aspect of approve the provision of any audit or non-audit services and keeps the the business: nature and extent of non-audit services under review.
In the year under review, the fees paid or payable to the auditor were as follows: comprehensive business planning, risk assessment and financial reporting procedures including the annual preparation of detailed operational Fees to Deloitte & Touche LLP: budgets for the year ahead and projections for subsequent years: 2004 2003 Item 000 000 a monthly board review of financial and non-financial key performance indicators to assess progress towards objectives: Audit fees 563.1 490.0 monthly meetings prior to each board meeting of the executive leadership Audit related fees 1 882.0 168.0 team, a forum in which the executive directors, the managing directors of Tax fees 2 335.0 189.0 the groups businesses, the group functional directors and the company Other fees 3 149.0 secretary exchange information and discuss strategic and operational issues which are of group-wide importance: Total 1,780.1 996.0 regular monitoring of risks and control systems throughout the Notes: year by the operating businesses, supported by the use of risks 1 Audit related fees are fees billed for work on regulatory returns and assurance work reasonably related to the statutory audit, including due diligence and assurance and issues databases: work, work associated with raising debt and equity finance and securities ling work.
a self-certication process, subject to internal audit, whereby the operating In 2004, these fees included assurance work in support of the rights issue.
businesses are required to confirm that the system of internal control is 2 Tax fees are fees incurred for tax compliance, tax advice and related tax work.
operating effectively: 3 Other fees incurred relate to project and financial modelling work.
an internal audit function to provide independent scrutiny of internal control 4 In 2003, 265,000 of tax and other fees were paid to Deloitte & Touche under engagements commenced prior to their appointment as auditor which have systems and risk management procedures: subsequently been completed.
a bi-monthly risk management forum chaired by the group finance director, 5 In addition to the above, fees relating to joint ventures of the group were paid and comprising the company secretary, the group internal audit manager, to Deloitte & Touche LLP in 2004 totalling 66,800 2003 26,000. the group health and safety manager and senior representatives from each All non-statutory audit or non-statutory tax compliance services provided of the operating businesses, to scrutinise key risks in depth: by the auditor must be reported to the audit committee and prior approval a quarterly sustainable development panel chaired by the chief executive, is required from the senior independent director for any such projects.
In and comprising the managing directors of United Utilities Service Delivery granting such approval, he is required to consider the cumulative proportion and United Utilities Contract Solutions, the head of environment and the of fees paid for such work compared with the statutory audit fees.
community and three external professional specialists, Walter Menzies, The audit committee also reviews the half-year and annual financial Clive Jeanes and Dr Mark Everard.
The role of the panel is to advise on statements before submission to the board, reviews periodically the scope, environmental policy and, in particular, to identify risks to the environment, remit and effectiveness of the internal audit function and the effectiveness of recommend targets and monitor performance against those targets: the groups internal control systems.
It also reviews arrangements by which an annual risk assessment exercise involving self-assessment by staff of the company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible management of all business risks in terms of impact, likelihood and control improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The terms strength and an objective challenge of that assessment by the internal of reference of the audit committee are available to shareholders on request audit team: and are also available on the companys web site at www.
24 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Relations with shareholders Dialogue with institutional shareholders There is a programme of investor meetings and presentations which take place throughout the year, both in the UK and overseas.
During the year, the board met, or offered to meet, with 110 different funds, representing 44 per cent of the companys issued share capital.
This, together with regular announcements of significant events affecting the group and frequent updates on current trading, emphasises our commitment to keep our equity and debt investors informed of developments affecting the group.
The board regards this programme as important to improve investors awareness of the business and for the board to gain an understanding of investors priorities.
Non-executive directors are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and would attend them if requested by major shareholders.
The board has taken steps to ensure that members of the board and, in particular, the non-executive directors, develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about their company through an annual survey of shareholder opinion produced for the company by Makinson Cowell.
Constructive use of the annual general meeting The board encourages shareholders to exercise their right to vote at the annual general meeting.
The notice calling the meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue.
Voting on all resolutions takes place by means of a poll which ensures that all shareholders votes are taken into account, whether lodged in person at the meeting, or by proxy.
The poll vote is scrutinised by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Presentations are made on the progress and performance of the business prior to the formal business of the meeting.
Shareholders are encouraged to participate through a question and answer session and individual directors or, where appropriate, the chairman of the relevant committee, respond to those questions directly.
Normally, the chairmen of the audit, nomination and remuneration committees will be available at the annual general meeting to answer questions relevant to the work of those committees.
Shareholders have the opportunity to talk informally to the directors before and after the formal proceedings.
Publications and the web The interim report, the annual report, the stakeholder report and summary financial statement remain the primary means the board has of communicating during the year with all of the companys shareholders.
However, the board recognises the importance of the internet as a means of communicating widely, quickly and cost-effectively.
A library of information about the company is available 24 hours-a-day, world-wide at www.
Financial news releases are made available on the site contemporaneously with release through other news channels and anyone with an email address can register free of charge to receive an email alert upon the posting of each new release.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 25 Directors remuneration report Reward philosophy paid to Jane Newell includes an amount to reect additional responsibilities The group needs people of the right calibre able to meet and beat the as chairman of the trustees of the companys major pension schemes.
challenges it faces, in order to ensure corporate success and to enhance Non-executive directors do not participate in any annual bonus or incentive shareholder value.
Therefore, the group must ensure its remuneration plan, the pension scheme, the healthcare arrangements, the companys long arrangements attract and keep the right people.
term incentive plans, Sharesave scheme or ShareBuy.
The company repays The groups overall philosophy is to: the reasonable expenses they incur in carrying out their duties as directors.
attract, develop, motivate and keep talented people at all levels: Non-executive directors remuneration pay competitive salaries and benets to all its staff: With the exception of the chairman, non-executive directors fees were encourage its staff to hold shares in the company: and increased with effect from 1 May 2004.
The base fee to be paid is now focus remuneration arrangements to help each business in the group 45,000 a year.
The annual fee to be paid to Sir Peter Middleton, deputy meet its specic challenges.
chairman, is 80,000 and the additional fee to be paid to Jane Newell is When pay levels are set, account is taken of the work an employee does, 30,000 a year.
The additional fee to be paid to the chairmen of the audit what is paid in other companies for that work and how well the groups and remuneration committees is 10,000 and 7,500 a year respectively.
The board believes that share ownership From 1 July 2004, the chairmans fee will increase to 198,000 a year.
The is an effective way of bringing together the interests of employees and next review is due in September 2005 and annually thereafter.
The company promotes greater ownership of its shares directors remuneration for the year to 31 March 2004 is set out in table 2. by offering employees the opportunity to build up a shareholding through its share schemes the Sharesave SAYE share option scheme and Table 2: Non-executive directors fees audited information the share incentive plan, ShareBuy.
Senior executives also have the Total fees opportunity to acquire shares through the groups performance share plan.
2004 2003 000 000 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Sir Richard Evans 180.0 180.0 A committee of the board decides the remuneration of the non-executive Norman Broadhurst 40.0 39.6 directors other than the chairman.
Its members are the chairman Sir Richard Evans and the executive directors John Roberts, Simon Batey, Sir Peter Middleton 60.0 59.2 Charlie Cornish and Gordon Waters.
The committee may take independent Jane Newell 55.0 54.2 advice.
It is also advised by the groups human resources director Linda Andrew Pinder 35.0 34.6 Booth.
The committee did not meet during the year.
The remuneration committee decides the remuneration of the chairman.
The chairmans John Seed 40.0 39.6 remuneration was not reviewed during the year.
Total 410.0 407.2 Terms of appointment Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS which may be renewed for further three-year terms thereafter.
However, as with all directors, they are subject to re-appointment at an annual general The remuneration committee meeting at least every three years.
After nine years in ofce a nonThe remuneration committee makes recommendations to the board on the executive director will be required to seek re-appointment each year at the groups framework of executive remuneration and its cost.
The committee annual general meeting.
They do not have contracts of service and, in the approves, on the boards behalf, the general recruitment terms, remuneration event of early termination of their appointment for whatever reason, they benets, employment conditions and severance terms for executive are not entitled to compensation.
The letters of appointment of nonmanagement.
It decides the specic recruitment terms, remuneration benets, executive directors are made available for inspection at the companys employment conditions, pension rights, compensation payments and registered ofce.
They set out the expected time commitment and nonseverance terms for the executive directors and for other senior executives.
executives agree to devote sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
The committees members are John Seed Chairman, Norman Broadhurst, Sir Richard Evans to 30 March 2004, Sir Peter Middleton, Jane Newell and Table 1: Non-executive directors terms of appointment Andrew Pinder, all independent non-executive directors.
They have no Date first Date of last Re-appoint Compensation personal financial interest in the company other than as shareholders and appointed appointment no later than Notice upon early the fees paid to them as non-executive directors.
They have no conicts of to board AGM in AGM in period termination interest arising from cross directorships and are not involved in the day-toSir Richard Evans 01.09.1997 2001 2004 none none day running of the groups businesses.
The committees terms of reference Sir Peter Middleton 01.01.1994 2001 2004 none none are available to shareholders on request and are on the companys web site at www.
Norman Broadhurst 01.04.1999 2002 2005 none none During the year, the committee appointed New Bridge Street Consultants LLP Jane Newell 01.09.1996 2003 2006 none none to advise it on executive remuneration.
They have no other connection with the Andrew Pinder 01.09.2001 2002 2005 none none company.
Mercer Human Resource Consulting also advised the committee.
John Seed 01.03.1996 2002 2005 none none They are also the actuaries to one of the companys pension schemes United Utilities Pension Scheme and advise the company on matters relating to its Policy statement on non-executive directors remuneration operation.
Addleshaw Goddard provide legal advice on the operation of the The companys policy is to pay annual fees that reect the responsibilities groups share incentive and share option plans, including drafting the rules and placed upon the non-executive directors.
They also provide general legal advice to the When reviewing fees, account is taken of the level of fees paid in company and other companies in the group.
companies of similar size and complexity.
There are separate annual fees for the chairman, deputy chairman and the other non-executive directors.
The committee is assisted by the chief executive John Roberts, who is Additional fees are paid to the chairmen of the audit and remuneration consulted on proposals relating to the remuneration of the other executive committees Norman Broadhurst and John Seed respectively.
The fee directors and senior executives and by the group human resources director.
26 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 The chief executive and group human resources director attend meetings except market median but may pay more for an outstanding performer or to attract executives of the right calibre.
Earnings may be increased through the operation when the committee discusses matters relating to their own remuneration.
of annual and long-term incentive plans.
In its work, the committee considers fully the principles of good governance The incentive plans are designed to encourage and reward out-performance.
and the code of best practice.
The committee met eight times in the year to 31 March 2004.
Details of individual attendance at the meetings is stated in They link executives rewards directly to the groups performance and shareholders interests.
The company expects executive directors and other the corporate governance report on page 22. senior executives to acquire and hold shares at least to the value of their The board accepted the committees recommendations without amendment.
To assist them in satisfying this minimum share ownership The chairman of the board ensures the company talks to its major target, it may pay incentive awards partly or wholly in shares.
shareholders, when appropriate, about matters relating to remuneration.
The committee aims to achieve an appropriate balance between xed and variable rewards.
Fixed rewards include: Policy statement on executive directors remuneration The boards policy for executive directors and senior executives basic salary: remuneration is to: a car allowance or company car and fuel for private mileage: pay a basic salary which competes with other companies of about the medical insurance: and same size and complexity: pension benets.
use short and long-term incentives to encourage executives to outperform key targets, thereby giving them the opportunity to increase their earnings: The taxable value of the car, fuel, medical insurance and life insurance element of pension benets are included in other benets in table 3. encourage executives to hold shares in the company: and Variable rewards take the form of the annual bonus and the performance overall, reward executives fairly and responsibly for their contribution to share plan.
These rewards are performance based and provide each the groups short and long-term performance and avoid paying more than executive director with the opportunity to earn up to a further 60 per cent is necessary for achieving this objective.
and 80 per cent of basic salary respectively each year.
Together, this is In deciding the executive directors total remuneration package and individual almost 60 per cent of their total annual reward opportunity excluding pension benets.
Detailed policy in relation to each element of executive elements of it, the remuneration committee assesses where the company should be positioned relative to other companies.
It makes appropriate directors remuneration is set out below.
The board continually reviews its comparisons but treats them with caution.
The company aims to pay about the policy in the light of emerging best practice.
Les Dawson resigned from the board on 25 March 2003 and ceased employment with the company on 31 August 2003.
His emoluments for 2003 relate to the period up to and including the date of his resignation as a director.
The value of the long-term incentive vesting during the year ended 31 March 2004 relates to the full performance period to 31 March 2003.
The value of the long-term incentive vesting during the year ended 31 March 2004 is based on the share price when the options were exercised.
Charlie Cornish was appointed to the board on 27 January 2004.
His other benets during the year ended 31 March 2003 include a non-pensionable salary supplement of 3,332 to compensate him for lost pension benets from his previous employment and relocation costs of 74,043.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 27 Directors remuneration report continued A Salary of the maximum awards becomes payable when threshold targets The committee reviews salaries each year taking account of group are met.
Awards increase in value on a straight line basis until half of the and personal performance.
Any changes are made with effect from maximum award is payable for achieving an intermediate target midway 1 September.
The committee commissions independent assessments between the threshold and stretch targets.
Awards continue to increase of market rates based on the practice of other utility companies and in value on a straight line basis between the intermediate and stretch companies of a similar size and complexity.
The committee also takes targets at which point the maximum award is payable.
Thus, there is account of the levels of pay awards elsewhere in the group.
Following greater incentivisation to achieve stretch targets.
The stretch targets are its annual review in 2003, the committee agreed the following changes demanding and achievement represents results which are in excess of to the annual salaries of executive directors: expectations.
One fifth of the annual bonus, accounting for 12 per cent of salary, will depend on achieving improvements in the groups score Table 4: Executive directors salary review in the Business in the Environments BiE Index, the groups employee 1 September 2003 1 September 2002 opinion survey and the achievement of individual objectives.
000 000 b 2003 04 John Roberts 480.0 450.0 The financial measures for the determination of annual bonuses for Simon Batey 330.0 300.0 2003 04 were also PBEIT and PBET.
The maximum bonus opportunity allocated to each of these targets was 24 per cent, the same as for Gordon Waters 280.0 230.0 2004 05.
The stretch PBET and PBEIT targets were achieved.
The total Note: payable for performance against financial targets was, therefore, 48 per Charlie Cornish was appointed to the board on 27 January 2004.
Non-financial targets accounted for up to 12 per cent of salary.
Six is 235,000. per cent was based on the achievement of individual objectives, three per B Annual bonus cent on the group score in the BiE index and three per cent on scores in The annual bonus is designed to motivate executive directors and other senior the 2003 04 employee opinion survey.
Each director achieved their executives to achieve the groups key operational and strategic objectives.
individual objectives and the environmental and employee-related targets The maximum award is 60 per cent of annual salary.
Directors are rewarded were achieved.
Therefore 12 per cent bonus was payable bringing the according to the companys financial and non-financial performance for the overall bonus payable to a total of 60 per cent of salary.
year and the achievement of individual targets.
Targets are set each year.
The c Prior year annual bonuses paid in deferred shares non-financial and individual targets may include personal objectives, measures Half of the value of the 2001 annual bonus awards for executive directors related to customer service and environmental performance and performance were satisfied by the grant of contingent rights to receive shares in the against other key stakeholder measures.
Annual bonus awards may be made company to be purchased in the market by the companys employee share partly or wholly in shares where a participant has still to satisfy the companys trust.
The right to these shares may be forfeited in certain circumstances minimum share ownership target.
if an executive is not in the companys employment when the shares are a 2004 05 due to be transferred to him from the trust in June 2004.
The financial performance measures to be used for determining annual The company does not match the number of deferred shares and there bonuses for 2004 05 are profit before exceptional items, interest and tax are no additional performance measures associated with the release of PBEIT and profit before exceptional items and tax PBET.
A maximum award of 24 per cent of salary is allocated to each measure.
One quarter these shares see table 5.
Table 5: Executive directors contingent interests in deferred shares relating to past bonus awards audited information Contingent interest Contingent interest Shares transferred Contingent Award in Contingent interest in Contingent interest in in shares at in shares added to executive interest in shares respect of shares at date of award shares at 1 April 2003 27 August 2003 during the year during the year at 31 March 2004 Value Value Value Value Value Value No.
This was the average of the mid-market price of a share for the three business days immediately prior to 1 June 2001.
The value of the contingent interest in shares on 1 April 2003 is based on the mid-market price of a share on that day of 601.5 pence.
The number of shares comprising the contingent interest in shares at 27 August 2003 incorporates an adjustment to take account of the rights issue.
The values of the shares comprising awards based on the last quoted cum rights share price of 531.5 pence was divided by the theoretical ex-rights price of 459.54 pence to determine the revised numbers of shares comprising awards shown above.
The contingent interest in shares added during the year is calculated by taking the values of notional dividends payable on 29 August 2003 and 9 February 2004 on the shares in trust and dividing by the mid-market price of a share on those dates.
These were 466.5 pence and 484.5 pence respectively.
The value of the contingent interest in shares on 31 March 2004 is based on the mid-market price of a share on that day of 519.0 pence.
28 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 C Other benets a 2004 05 grant Directors are paid a car allowance or have the use of a company car It is proposed to apply the above performance conditions to awards to where business use warrants it, are reimbursed fuel for business and be granted during 2004 05 and that each director is awarded an option to private use and are provided with medical and life insurance.
Charlie acquire shares worth up to 80 per cent of their annual salary.
It is expected Cornish is paid a non-pensionable salary supplement of 18,500 a year that for the 2004 05 award, the TSR comparator group will comprise to compensate him for the reduction in employer contribution rate the following 16 companies in addition to United Utilities: AMEC, AWG, to his pension scheme relative to his previous employment.
BAA, Balfour Beatty, BG Group, BT Group, Centrica, International Power, Kelda Group, National Grid Transco, Northumbrian Water, Pennon Group, D Long-term incentives Scottish & Southern Energy, Scottish Power, Severn Trent, and Viridian.
It is the boards policy that shareholders will be invited specically to In addition, three smaller companies, Bristol Water, East Surrey Holdings approve all new long-term incentive schemes as dened in the Listing and International Energy Group, will be included as a notional combined Rules and significant changes to existing schemes, save in the 17th company made up in proportion to their market capitalisations at the circumstances permitted by the Listing Rules.
start of the performance period.
The performance period will be 1 April 2004 The performance share plan, adopted at the annual general meeting held to 31 March 2007.
Awards will vest after the end of the performance period on 21 July 2000, is the long-term incentive scheme for executive directors provided that the remuneration committee is satisfied that the companys and a restricted number of other senior executives.
Participation is at recorded TSR performance is consistent with the achievement of the discretion of the plans trustee United Utilities Employee Share Trust appropriate measures of underlying business performance.
Limited on the recommendation of the remuneration committee.
Each year, b 2003 04 grant participants may be awarded a right to acquire shares or, at the discretion During the year awards to a maximum value of 80 per cent of annual salary of the trustee, the cash equivalent normally worth up to 80 per cent of their were made to directors in respect of the 2003 04 performance share plan.
annual salary at the date of the award, at no cost to them.
The number The extent to which awards vest will be based on the companys TSR of shares awarded is based on the market price of a share at that time.
performance relative to the comparator group of companies over the period A resolution will be proposed at the annual general meeting to be held in 1 April 2003 to 31 March 2006.
At the beginning of the performance period July 2004 seeking shareholder approval to increase the maximum value the comparator group comprised the following 15 companies in addition to of an award to 100 per cent of annual salary.
United Utilities: BAA, BG Group, Boots Company, British Energy, Centrica, The proportion of the award that will vest depends on the groups International Power, J Sainsbury, Kelda Group, Morrison Supermarkets, performance against specified targets over a performance period.
This National Grid Transco, Scottish & Southern Energy, Scottish Power, Severn period is usually not less than three years duration, beginning at the start Trent, Tesco and Viridian.
There have been no changes during the year.
The of the financial year during which the award is made.
test against measures of underlying business performance will take account of performance against the earnings per share, dividend cover and interest The extent to which awards granted to date vest depends on a the cover targets for 2005 06 set out in the groups five-year business plan to companys total shareholder return TSR performance when compared 2007 08.
The awards are scheduled to vest after 31 March 2006. with the TSR performance of a group of other companies over three year performance periods and b underlying business performance.
TSR is c 2002 03 grant widely accepted as an easily understood and externally veriable measure The extent to which awards vest will be based on the companys TSR of a shareholders return.
Relating awards to the companys relative TSR performance relative to the comparator group of companies over the period performance supports the policy objectives of linking executives rewards 1 April 2002 to 31 March 2005.
At the beginning of the performance period directly to the groups performance and shareholders interests and giving the comparator group comprised the following 18 companies in addition executives the opportunity to increase their earnings by meeting and to United Utilities: AWG, BAA, BG Group, Boots Company, British Energy, out-performing key long-term measures.
Centrica, International Power, J Sainsbury, Kelda Group, Lattice Group, Morrison Supermarkets, National Grid Group, Safeway, Scottish & Southern The inclusion of appropriate companies in the comparator group is critical Energy, Scottish Power, Severn Trent, Tesco and Viridian.
The merger of for relative performance to be meaningful.
However, it is also important National Grid Group and Lattice Group occurred within the first three months that the comparator group should be of a reasonable size to avoid the of the performance period.
Lattice Group has, therefore, subsequently been performance of a few companies having a disproportionate impact on the excluded from the group.
Takeover activity affecting Safeway and AWG outcome of the plan, to be able to accommodate changes in the comparator occurred after the first three months of the performance period.
They have, group and to avoid too high a leverage between the companys relative therefore, been retained in the group and United Utilities TSR performance position in the group and the proportion of the award that vests.
The relative to them will be compared from the beginning of the performance remuneration committee determines the composition of the comparator period until the day before takeover activity announcements.
The test group when awards are granted each year.
It has the discretion to make against measures of underlying business performance will be determined subsequent adjustments to the group or the period over which relative TSR by performance against the earnings per share, dividend cover and interest is measured during the performance period, for example, following a takeover cover targets for 2004 05 set out in the groups five-year business plan to bid or merger demerger announcement to maintain the integrity of the plan.
The awards are scheduled to vest after 31 March 2005.
During the year, the remuneration committee considered the treatment of changes affecting companies in the comparator groups for awards made d 2001 02 grant in 2001 02 and after where the respective performance periods had not The extent to which awards vest will be based on the companys TSR nished.
performance relative to the comparator group of companies over the period 1 April 2001 to 31 March 2004.
At the beginning of the performance period No award will vest if the companys TSR performance is below the median the comparator group comprised the following 24 companies in addition for the comparator group.
If the companys TSR performance is between to United Utilities: AWG, BAA, BG Group, Boots Company, British Energy, median and upper quartile, the proportion of the maximum award which the Capita Group, Centrica, Daily Mail & General Trust, Dixons Group, Imperial participant may receive will be calculated on a straight-line basis between Tobacco Group, International Power, J Sainsbury, Kelda Group, Lattice 33 per cent and 100 per cent.
Group, National Grid Group, Powergen, Railtrack, Safeway, Scottish & However, awards will not vest unless the remuneration committee is satisfied Newcastle, Scottish & Southern Energy, Scottish Power, Severn Trent, that the companys recorded TSR performance is consistent with the Viridian and Whitbread.
Powergen was subsequently excluded from the achievement of appropriate measures of underlying business performance.
comparator group as a result of the takeover bid announcement occurring United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 29 Directors remuneration report continued within the first three months of the performance period.
The announcements announcements and the date of Railtracks share suspension.
The test of the merger of National Grid Group and Lattice Group, the takeover bid against measures of underlying business performance will be determined for Safeway, takeover activity for AWG and the suspension of dealings in by performance against the earnings per share, dividend cover and interest Railtrack shares occurred after the first three months of the performance cover targets for 2003 04 set out in the groups five-year business plan period.
All were retained in the comparator group.
The awards are scheduled to vest after 31 March 2004. continued as National Grid Transco.
United Utilities TSR performance Details of directors continuing scheme interests in the performance share relative to the other companies will be compared from the beginning of the performance period until the day before merger or takeover activity plan, including those awarded during the year, are set out in table 6.
Table 6: Executive directors continuing scheme interests in the performance share plan audited information Contingent scheme Contingent scheme Contingent scheme interest at 1 April interest awarded interest at 31 March Award details 2003 note a during the year 2004 note a Market price Maximum value of a share Max.
at award date Performance at award Max.
value Award date period % of salary 000 pence of shares of shares 000 of shares 000 of shares 000 John Roberts 2001 02 9.7.
b The maximum number of shares comprising the contingent scheme interest at 31 March 2004 for the 2001 02 and 2002 03 awards incorporate an adjustment to take account of the rights issue.
The values of the shares comprising awards based on the last quoted cum rights share price of 531.5 pence was divided by the theoretical ex-rights price of 459.54 pence to determine the revised numbers of shares shown above.
c The market price of a share at award is the mid-market price of a United Utilities PLC share on close of business on the last trading day immediately prior to the award date.
This is used to calculate the maximum number of shares comprised in the award.
d The 2003 04 awards comprise ordinary and A shares in the ratio of 9:5 to reect the rights offer to shareholders.
The maximum value of the awards for John Roberts, Simon Batey and Gordon Waters were based on their annual salaries on the original intended date of award, 30 June 2003.
Awards were not granted until 29 September 2003 because of dealing restrictions associated with the rights issue.
e The above awards were granted as option awards, whereby the participant is granted an option to acquire the number of shares which vests under the plan.
The options are exercisable over a period of three months from the vesting date.
No consideration is payable by the executives either upon grant of the option award or its subsequent exercise.
30 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 e 2000 01 grant measures of underlying business performance.
The awards, therefore, During the year, awards granted under the 2000 01 plan vested.
vested in accordance with the companys relative TSR performance.
The extent to which awards vested was based on the companys TSR Further details of directors scheme interests in the performance share plan, performance relative to the comparator group of companies over the period vested during the year, are set out in table 7.
At the beginning of the performance period Performance graph the comparator group comprised the following 27 companies in addition The following graph compares the companys annual total shareholder return to United Utilities: AWG, BAA, BG Group, Boots Company, British Energy, TSR performance for the past five years against the FTSE 100 Index, the Capita Group, Centrica, Daily Mail & General Trust, Dixons Group, Flextech, most appropriate broad equity market index.
The TSR indices used in the Hyder, Imperial Tobacco Group, International Power, J Sainsbury, Kelda chart have been calculated in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Group, National Grid Group, National Power, Powergen, Railtrack, Safeway, Report Regulations 2002 relative to a base date of 31 March 1999.
Scottish & Newcastle, Scottish & Southern Energy, Scottish Power, Severn Total shareholder return Trent, Thames Water, Viridian and Whitbread.
Flextech and National Power 140 were subsequently excluded from the comparator group as a result of the takeover bid announcements prior to the beginning of the performance 120 period.
TSR calculations for Hyder, Powergen, Thames Water, Safeway 100 and AWG were calculated up to the ofcial date of takeover activity 80 announcement and for Railtrack for the period to the share suspension date.
60 United Utilities TSR for the performance period was 12.04 per cent which 40 placed it eighth out of 26, resulting in 88 per cent of the maximum award United Utilities vesting and 12 per cent lapsing, subject to the additional measures of 20 FTSE 100 Source: Thomson Financial underlying business performance being satisfied.
The test against measures 0 Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar of underlying business performance was determined by performance against 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 the earnings per share, dividend cover and interest cover targets for 2002 03 This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2004, of 100 invested in United Utilities set out in the groups five-year business plan to 2004 05.
The remuneration on 31 March 1999 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
committee was satisfied that the TSR performance was consistent with The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Table 7: Executive directors scheme interests in the performance share plan vested during the year audited information Contingent scheme interest Contingentlapsed Contingent scheme interest during scheme interest Value of Award details at 1 April 2003 the year vested during the year award at exercise Market Market Maximum price of price of value at a share a share Award Performance % of award date at award Max.
of Value at exercise Value date period salary 000 pence of shares of shares 000 shares shares 000 pence 000 John Roberts 2000 01 29.3.
03 80 146.4 607.5 24,098 24,098 145.0 2,892 21,206 130.4 614.0 130.2 Notes: The market price of a share at award is the mid-market price of a United Utilities PLC share on close of business on the last trading day immediately prior to the award date.
The maximum values shown for 1 April 2003 have been calculated using the mid-market price of a United Utilities PLC share of 601.5 pence on close of business on that date.
Awards vested on 4 June 2003 in respect of 88 per cent of the maximum number of shares under option and lapsed in respect of 12 per cent.
The values for scheme interests vesting during the year have been calculated using the mid-market price of a United Utilities PLC share of 615 pence on close of business on that date.
The above awards were granted as option awards, whereby the participant was granted an option to acquire the number of shares which vests under the plan.
No consideration is payable by the executives either upon grant of the option award or upon the subsequent exercise of the option.
Simon Batey exercised his option on 10 June 2003 and John Roberts and Gordon Waters on 16 June 2003 over all of the shares that vested.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 31 Value Directors remuneration report continued Share options earnings for calculating benets.
The company has put in place separate The executive directors do not participate in the company share option plan arrangements, the effect of which is to provide pension benets calculated 1999.
They can participate in the all-employee Sharesave scheme.
Neither on the same basis as for executives whose pensionable earnings are not the award nor the exercise of Sharesave options is dependent upon the limited by the cap.
Further details of Sharesave options Although pension benets are calculated on basic salary only, to protect are shown in table 8. his contractual entitlement, the calculations are adjusted for Gordon Waters, Pension arrangements whose annual bonus had been pensionable before the incentive plan The United Utilities Pension Scheme is open to all eligible employees.
It provides pensions and other benets to members within Inland Revenue The pension benets earned by directors during the year are shown in limits.
John Roberts, Simon Batey and Gordon Waters are members of, table 9 on page 33. and contribute to, the dened benefit section of the scheme.
It provides a pension for them on normal retirement at age 60 equal to 1 30th of Since 1 July 2003, the dened benets section of the pension scheme pensionable earnings for each completed year of service.
The maximum has been closed to newly recruited executive directors.
They may join pension is two thirds of pensionable earnings.
Early retirement is possible the dened contribution section of the scheme.
Charlie Cornish is a from age 50 if the company agrees.
member of, and contributes to, the dened contribution section of the The Finance Act 1989 restricts the pension benets that can be paid by the pension scheme.
The accrual of his pension benets is limited by the scheme to the executive directors as the earnings cap limits pensionable earnings cap.
The mid-market price of an A share on 31 March 2004 was 319.75 pence and the range in the year was 262.0 pence to 332.0 pence.
After adjusting for the rights issue, the ordinary share price range in the year was 453.75 pence to 544.27 pence.
No amount is payable by a participant for the grant of a Sharesave option.
The number of shares under option and the exercise prices except for Sharesave 2004 were adjusted on 27 August 2003 to take account of the rights issue.
The aggregate notional gain made by directors on the exercise of options during the year based on the difference between the mid-market price of a share on the day on which options were exercised and the exercise price was nil 2003 nil.
32 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Table 9: Executive directors pension benets dened benefit scheme audited information Increase in accrued pension during the year Transfer value Total change Accumulated total accrued Accumulated total accrued of increase in transfer value pension at 1 April 2003 pension at 31 March 2004 Increase net Member net of member net of member Transfer value of ination contributions contributions contributions Transfer value 000 p. a.
Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 8.1 of guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
The transfer value of the net increase in pension 2 represents the incremental value to the director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption that service terminated at the year-end, or at date of leaving employment or retirement if earlier.
It is based on the accrued pension increase 1 and is calculated after deducting the directors contribution.
The change in the transfer value 3 includes the effect of uctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the company and directors, such as stock market movements.
It is calculated after deducting the directors contribution.
Voluntary contributions paid by directors and resulting benets are not shown.
The transfer value represents a liability of the company to make pension payments in the future but not a sum paid to the individual.
During the year ended 31 March 2004, the company paid contributions for Charlie Cornish totalling 7,187 2003 nil to the dened contribution section of the pension scheme.
Contracts of service and compensation for termination Service contracts do not provide explicitly for termination payments other The companys policy is that the executive directors normally have one-year than for holidays due but not taken, liquidated damages or payments in lieu notice periods.
The company may offer a longer notice period if it considers of notice.
If a contract is to be terminated, the remuneration committee will, that necessary to recruit a new director.
If it offers an initial notice period of in each circumstance, determine the compensation that may be paid after more than one year, it will usually reduce that to a rolling one-year notice applying such mitigation it considers is fair and reasonable.
It will take into period after the initial period has expired.
All the current executive directors account the best practice provisions of the Combined Code and will take have one-year notice periods.
legal advice on the companys liability to pay compensation and the amount of the compensation in each case.
Its policy is to take a robust line on Contracts terminate automatically upon the director reaching age 60 Charlie reducing compensation to reect departing directors obligations to mitigate Cornish: 65 unless the company agrees that a director may continue to work after attaining age 60 Charlie Cornish: 65.
The committee reviews this policy each year.
No changes were made apply if there is a change of control.
Details of directors contracts are set out in table 10.
Table 10: Executive directors service contracts Date of contract Unexpired term to 60th birthday Notice period Contractual compensation upon early termination John Roberts 01.09.99 2 March 2006 12 months rolling No explicit provision other than payment for outstanding holidays Simon Batey 01.04.00 4 September 2013 12 months rolling No explicit provision other than payment for outstanding holidays Gordon Waters 01.03.96 6 June 2007 12 months rolling No explicit provision other than payment for outstanding holidays Charlie Cornish 05.01.04 30 November 2024 12 months rolling No explicit provision other than payment for outstanding holidays Note: The unexpired term for Charlie Cornish is to his 65th birthday.
Approved by the board of directors on 19 May 2004 and signed on its behalf by John Seed Remuneration committee chairman United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 33 Useful information for shareholders Key events for shareholders Paying your dividends direct to your account The company is holding its 2004 annual general meeting on Friday, 30 July 2004 The registrars pay dividends direct to a shareholders bank or building at the Bridgewater Hall, Manchester.
The notice society account through the BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Service calling the meeting and a full explanation of the resolutions to be proposed system.
If you have not already arranged for your dividends to be paid direct at the meeting are set out in the leaet sent to shareholders with this report.
to your bank or building society account and you want to do so, please contact the companys registrar, at the address above.
During the next year, the company will: Dealing in United Utilities shares cost effectively pay the 2004 final dividend on 27 August 2004: You can now buy or sell our ordinary and A shares using Lloyds TSB announce the half-year results in December 2004: Registrars low cost share dealing service telephone: 0870 850 0852 or deal online at www.
co. uk dealing pay the 2005 interim dividend in February 2005: Holding your shares tax efficiently announce the preliminary full-year results in May June 2005: The United Utilities single company ISA a Maxi or Mini shares-only individual publish the annual report and accounts, the stakeholder report and savings account, managed by Lloyds TSB Registrars, offers a tax efficient summary financial statement, and form 20-F in June 2005: way of holding United Utilities shares.
To get more information, please ring 0870 24 24 244 quoting United Utilities shareholder.
collect subscription monies for the second stage of the rights issue in June 2005: Donating shares to the ShareGift scheme Many shareholders can nd themselves owning parcels of shares so small reclassify all A shares as ordinary shares on completion of the rights that it would cost more to sell them than they are worth.
The ShareGift issue in July 2005: and scheme, a registered charity administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, hold the annual general meeting in July 2005. allows you to donate shares to the Foundation which aggregates them, sells them when possible and donates the proceeds to a growing list of charities.
Keeping you in the picture If you would like further information, write to The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, You can nd more information about United Utilities quickly and easily on 46 Grosvenor Street, London, W1K 3HN telephone: 020 7337 0501, the United Utilities web site.
In addition to the annual report and accounts, or visit the schemes web site.
the corporate responsibility report and other reports, company www.
org announcements are also published on the web site, including the interim and preliminary results announcements and associated presentations.
Enquiring about the American listing www.
com United Utilities shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American depositary shares ADS, evidenced by American In addition to these reports, the group also publishes in printed form a wide depositary receipts ADR and trade under the symbol UU.
Each ADS range of reports, leaets and factsheets about aspects of its businesses.
The Bank of New York is the depositary and its You can get more information about them from Ian Priestner, group director address for enquiries is The Bank of New York, Shareholder Relations, of communications, at Dawson House, Great Sankey, Warrington WA5 3LW PO Box 11258, Church Street Station, New York NY 10286 1258 telephone: 01925 237000: email: ian.
telephone: 1 888 BNY-ADRS US toll free or outside the US, Copies of the separate regulatory accounts for the year ended 31 March 1 610 382 7836.
2004 for the licensed water and electricity businesses, which are required www.
com to be given to the water and energy regulators, are available free of charge.
American Depositary Receipt holders can get a copy of the annual report If you would like copies please contact Julie McGowan in the group on form 20-F, which is led with the Securities and Exchange Commission secretariat on 01925 237000. in the USA from the Bank of New York.
Other shareholders can obtain Enquiring about your shareholding a copy of the annual report on form 20-F from Julie McGowan in the group If you want to ask about your shareholding, or need any information, please secretariat on 01925 237000. contact the companys registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Avoiding unsolicited mail Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA telephone: 0870 600 3971 The company is legally obliged to make its register of members available or textphone for shareholders with hearing difficulties: 0870 600 3950. to other organisations.
Because of this, you may receive mail you have The registrars web site allows shareholders with internet access to view not asked for.
If you want to limit the amount of personally addressed details of their shareholdings and dividends, to vote at general meetings and unsolicited mail you receive, please write to the Mailing Preference Service, to register to receive communications electronically.
You can use the tools on MPS Freepost LON20771, London W1E 0ZT or ring Alison McKenzie the web site to value your portfolio by reference to a recent market price and Complaints 020 7291 3321. even sell your shares online.
Registering with Shareview is easy, secure, and www.
co. uk, click on Create a portfolio and If you have any further questions about your dividend or shareholding, follow the onscreen registration process using the 8-digit account number please call the helpline on 0870 600 3971 or have a look at our web site.
on the enclosed proxy form.
com If you have received more than one copy of this document, you may have more than one account in your name on the register of members.
To merge your holdings, please write to Lloyds TSB Registrars at the above address giving details of the accounts concerned and how you want them to be merged.
34 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of United Utilities PLC Basis of audit opinion We have audited the financial statements of United Utilities PLC for the year We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing ended 31 March 2004, which comprise the consolidated profit and loss standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes account, the balance sheets, the consolidated cash ow statement, the examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and statement of total recognised gains and losses, the reconciliations of disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors movements in equity shareholders funds and the related notes 1 to 35, remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes together with the reconciliation of net cash ow to movement in net debt.
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the company the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
and the group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for statements, and the part of the directors remuneration report described as no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept having been audited, are free from material misstatement, whether caused or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company, and the by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the the opinions we have formed.
financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the companys Opinion directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in In our opinion: accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of They are also responsible for the preparation of the other information the company and the group as at 31 March 2004 and of the profit of the contained in the annual report, including the directors remuneration group for the year then ended: and report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements, and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited, in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements described as having been audited have been properly prepared in and auditing standards.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements, and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited, have been Deloitte & Touche LLP properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with Manchester the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting 19 May 2004 records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company and other members of the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section, including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 35 Consolidated profit and loss account Before Goodwill Before Goodwill Before Goodwill goodwill and and goodwill and and goodwill and and exceptional exceptional 2004 exceptional exceptional 2003 exceptional exceptional 2002 items items Total items items Total items items Total For the year ended 31 March Note m m m m m m m m m Turnover: group and share of joint ventures 2 2,115.5 2,115.5 1,920.5 1,920.5 1,871.6 1,871.6 Less: share of joint venture turnover 2 55.5 55.5 41.7 41.7 85.4 85.4 Group turnover 2,060.0 2,060.0 1,878.8 1,878.8 1,786.2 1,786.2 Net operating costs 3 1,477.2 12.7 1,489.9 1,332.7 36.1 1,368.8 1,245.4 19.2 1,264.6 Group operating profit 582.8 12.7 570.1 546.1 36.1 510.0 540.8 19.2 521.6 Share of operating profit of joint ventures 2, 13 14.3 0.7 13.6 15.6 0.7 14.9 12.5 0.7 11.8 Total operating profit 2 597.1 13.4 583.7 561.7 36.8 524.9 553.3 19.9 533.4 profit on sale or termination of operations 4 4.3 4.3 34.0 34.0 Loss on disposal of xed assets 4 2.4 2.4 profit on ordinary activities before interest 597.1 11.5 585.6 561.7 2.8 558.9 553.3 19.9 533.4 Net interest payable and similar charges: Group 237.6 237.6 220.1 220.1 216.7 216.7 Joint ventures 7, 13 10.5 10.5 11.3 11.3 13.9 13.9 7 248.1 248.1 231.4 231.4 230.6 230.6 profit on ordinary activities before taxation 349.0 11.5 337.5 330.3 2.8 327.5 322.7 19.9 302.8 Current taxation credit charge on profit on ordinary activities 8 20.9 29.1 16.4 Deferred taxation credit charge on ordinary activities 8 3.4 85.9 23.0 Taxation credit on exceptional items 8 0.8 9.4 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 8 25.1 47.4 39.4 profit on ordinary activities after taxation 362.6 280.1 263.4 Equity minority interest 1.6 2.3 1.6 profit for the financial year 24 361.0 277.8 261.8 Dividends 9, 24 315.3 264.8 260.9 Retained profit for the financial year 45.7 13.0 0.9 Basic earnings per share 10 54.5p 45.8p 43.4p Adjusted basic earnings per share 10 54.7p 42.2p 44.0p Diluted earnings per share 10 52.1p 45.7p 43.3p See accompanying notes to the accounts.
There were no differences between reported profits and historical cost profits on ordinary activities before taxation in any of the above financial years.
The results of subsidiary acquisitions have not been disclosed separately as they do not form a significant part of the groups results.
All activities relate to continuing operations.
Approved by the board of directors on 19 May 2004 and signed on its behalf by Sir Richard Evans Simon Batey Chairman Group finance director United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 37 Consolidated cash ow statement 2004 2003 2002 For the year ended 31 March Note m m m Net cash inow from operating activities 28 923.5 851.5 799.8 Income from joint ventures 1.2 2.8 2.1 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 29 151.8 218.9 223.7 Taxation 2.6 2.4 Capital expenditure and financial investment 30 1,018.0 697.9 583.6 Acquisitions and disposals Acquisitions 31 46.0 4.9 2.8 Disposals 31 7.9 7.0 46.0 3.0 9.8 Equity dividends paid 281.2 262.0 256.1 Cash outow before use of liquid resources and nancing 574.9 321.5 273.7 Management of liquid resources 32 338.4 282.0 13.4 Financing Issues of shares 33 504.1 3.3 18.0 Increase in debt 33, 34 418.8 610.5 202.1 922.9 613.8 220.1 Increase decrease in cash 9.6 10.3 40.2 Reconciliation of net cash ow to movement in net debt 2004 2003 2002 For the year ended 31 March Note m m m Increase decrease in cash 9.6 10.3 40.2 Cash inow from increase in debt and lease nancing 33, 34 418.8 610.5 202.1 Cash outow inow from management of liquid resources 32 338.4 282.0 13.4 Change in net debt resulting from cash ows 34 70.8 318.2 255.7 Exchange and other non-cash adjustments 34 6.3 5.1 1.3 Movement in net debt 64.5 313.1 254.4 Opening net debt 3,373.9 3,060.8 2,806.4 Net debt at 31 March 34 3,438.4 3,373.9 3,060.8 38 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Statement of total recognised gains and losses Group 2004 2003 2002 For the year ended 31 March Note m m m profit loss for the period Group 360.3 275.9 266.3 Joint ventures 13 0.7 1.9 4.5 24 361.0 277.8 261.8 Currency translation adjustment on equity investment in Argentina 4, 24 6.8 78.6 Other exchange adjustments 24 2.2 4.0 0.9 Total recognised gains and losses since last annual report 363.2 275.0 184.1 Reconciliations of movements in equity shareholders funds Group Company 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 For the year ended 31 March m m m m m profit for the period 361.0 277.8 261.8 269.6 601.8 Dividends 315.3 264.8 260.9 315.3 264.8 Retained profit loss for the financial year 45.7 13.0 0.9 45.7 337.0 New share capital issued 504.1 3.3 18.0 504.1 3.3 Capitalisation of reserves in respect of shares issued via QUEST 5.0 Goodwill on business disposals 0.9 Currency translation adjustment on equity investment in Argentina 6.8 78.6 Own shares held in employee share trust 2.3 2.3 Other exchange adjustments 2.2 4.0 0.9 Net increase decrease in equity shareholders funds for the year 549.7 14.4 63.8 456.1 340.3 Opening equity shareholders funds 2,533.6 2,519.2 2,583.0 5,023.5 4,683.2 Equity shareholders funds at end of the year 3,083.3 2,533.6 2,519.2 5,479.6 5,023.5 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 39 Notes to the accounts 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES g Tangible xed assets Tangible xed assets comprise infrastructure assets mains, sewers, The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in impounding and pumped raw water storage reservoirs, dams, sludge dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the groups pipelines and sea outfalls and other assets including properties, overground financial statements.
plant and equipment and electricity operational assets.
a Basis of preparation of financial statements Infrastructure assets The consolidated financial statements of United Utilities PLC and its Infrastructure assets comprise a network of water and wastewater systems.
subsidiaries the group set out on pages 36 to 64 have been prepared Expenditure on infrastructure assets relating to increases in capacity or under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable enhancements of the network and on maintaining the operating capability of the United Kingdom accounting standards and the Companies Act 1985, except as noted below under item h. network in accordance with dened standards of service is treated as an addition, which is included at cost after deducting related grants and contributions.
Unless otherwise stated, the acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
Under this method, the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired The depreciation charge for infrastructure assets is the estimated level or disposed of in the year are included in the consolidated profit and loss of annual expenditure required to maintain the operating capability of the account from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
network, which is based on the groups independently certied asset management plan.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United Kingdom requires management to make Employee costs incurred in implementing the capital schemes of the group estimates and assumptions that affect the: are capitalised within xed assets.
reported amounts of assets and liabilities: Other assets Additions are included at cost.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial assets are depreciated by writing off their cost less their estimated residual statements: and value evenly over their estimated economic lives, based on managements reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
judgement and experience, which are principally as follows: Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Buildings 30-60 years b Cash Operational assets 5-80 years In the consolidated cash ow statement and related notes, cash includes Fixtures, ttings, tools and equipment 3-40 years cash at bank, deposits repayable on demand and overdrafts.
Deposits are Computer software 3-10 years repayable on demand if they are in practice available within 24 hours without penalty.
Carrying value of tangible xed assets c Turnover The carrying values of fixed assets are reviewed for impairment wherever Turnover represents the income receivable in the ordinary course of business circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not for goods or services provided.
Where relevant, this includes an estimate of be recoverable.
the sales value of units supplied to customers between the date of the last h Grants and contributions meter reading and the year end, exclusive of value added tax and foreign Capital contributions towards infrastructure assets are deducted from the cost sales tax.
This is not in accordance with Schedule 4 to the Companies d Research and development Act 1985 under which the infrastructure assets should be stated at their Expenditure on research and development is expensed as incurred.
purchase price or production cost and the capital contributions treated as deferred income and released to the profit and loss account over the useful life e Pre-contract costs of the corresponding assets.
The directors are of the opinion that, although Costs incurred in the development of activities are treated in accordance with UITF 34 Pre-contract costs, which requires that pre-contract costs provision is made for depreciation of infrastructure assets see item g above, should only be recognised as an asset after the point where it is virtually these assets have no nite economic lives and the capital contributions would certain that a contract will be entered into with net cash inows that will therefore remain in the balance sheet in perpetuity.
The treatment otherwise recover the costs capitalised.
Such capitalised costs are amortised over required by the Companies Act 1985 would not present a true and fair view of the expected contract period.
the groups effective investment in infrastructure assets.
The financial effect of this accounting policy is set out in note 12. f Goodwill Purchased goodwill both positive and negative arising on consolidation Grants receivable in respect of other tangible xed assets are treated as in respect of acquisitions before 1 April 1998, when Financial Reporting deferred income, which is credited to the profit and loss account over the Standard FRS 10 Goodwill and intangible assets was adopted, was estimated economic lives of the related assets.
written off to reserves in the year of acquisition.
When a subsequent disposal i Leased assets occurs, any related goodwill previously written off to reserves is written back Assets nanced by leasing arrangements, which transfer substantially all the through the profit and loss account as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee finance leases are capitalised Purchased goodwill representing the excess of the fair value of the in the consolidated balance sheet and the corresponding capital cost is consideration and associated costs over the fair value of the separable shown as an obligation to the lessor.
Leasing repayments comprise both net assets acquired arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions post a capital and a finance element.
Where the lease is of a xed interest rate 1April 1998 is capitalised.
Positive goodwill is amortised to nil by equal nature, the finance element is written off to the profit and loss account so annual instalments over its estimated useful life, generally not exceeding as to produce an approximately constant periodic rate of charge on the 20 years.
Where the lease is of a oating interest rate nature, the finance element written off to the profit and loss account reects the On the subsequent disposal or termination of a business acquired post oating interest rate charge incurred during the period on the outstanding 1April 1998, the profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after obligation.
Such assets are depreciated over the shorter of their estimated charging crediting the unamortised amount of any related useful lives and the period of the lease.
In the companys financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on astraight line basis over the period of the lease.
and joint ventures are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
40 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 j Fixed asset investments pay less tax in the future have occurred.
Timing differences are differences Fixed asset investments, except for investments in joint ventures, are stated between the groups taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial at the lower of cost and recoverable amount.
The consolidated profit and statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax loss account includes the groups share of the profits less losses, interest assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in and taxation of joint ventures.
The group balance sheet includes the the financial statements.
investment in joint ventures at the groups share of their net assets in Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply accordance with FRS 9 Associates and Joint Ventures.
in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based k Current asset investments on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by Current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and net the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a discounted basis to realisable value.
reect the time value of money over the period between the balance sheet date and the dates on which it is estimated that the underlying timing l Stocks differences will reverse.
The discount rates used reect the post-tax yields Stocks are stated at cost less any provision necessary to recognise damage to maturity that can be obtained on government bonds with similar maturity and obsolescence.
dates and currencies to those of the deferred tax assets or liabilities.
Finished goods and goods for resale are stated at the lower of cost, p Joint ventures including appropriate production overheads, and net realisable value.
Joint ventures are entities in which United Utilities PLC holds an interest on m Pensions along-term basis and which are jointly controlled with one or more other The group operates a number of dened benefit schemes, which are parties under a contractual arrangement.
The groups share of profits less independent of the groups nances, for the substantial majority of its losses of joint ventures is included in the profit and loss account on the employees.
Actuarial valuations of the schemes are carried out as gross equity accounting basis.
determined by the trustees at intervals of not more than three years, the q Financial instruments rates of contribution payable and the pension cost being determined on Debt instruments the advice of the actuaries, having regard to the results of these valuations.
New borrowings are stated at net proceeds received after deduction of issue In any intervening years, the actuaries review the continuing appropriateness costs.
The issue costs of debt instruments are amortised at a constant rate of the contribution rates.
over the life of the instrument.
The cost of providing pensions is expensed over employees working lives.
Interest rate swaps and financial futures Variations from regular cost are allocated over the average remaining service Interest rate swap agreements and financial futures are used to manage interest lives of current employees.
Any difference between the charge to the profit rate exposure.
Instruments that are designed as a hedge of a debt are and loss account in respect of funded plans and the contributions payable accounted for on an accruals basis, with amounts payable or receivable in to each plan is recorded in the consolidated balance sheet as a prepayment respect of these instruments being recognised as adjustments to interest or provision.
expense of the designated liability.
In addition, the group also operates a dened contribution scheme, for Realised gains and losses that occur from the early termination of such which the amount charged to the profit and loss account in respect of instruments designated as a hedge are deferred and are amortised to pension costs is the contributions payable in the year.
Differences between interest expense over the period of the hedged position, to the extent contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown that the originally designated liability remains outstanding.
as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the notional amount of the groups The group has included the disclosure requirements of FRS 17 Retirement Benets in note 25, together with details of pension and interest rate swaps and financial futures must not exceed the amount of its funding arrangements.
existing variable rate debt, must change the interest rate characteristics of the underlying debt and the contractual maturities cannot exceed the n Foreign currency maturities of the debt.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rates ruling on the dates of the transactions, adjusted for the effects of any hedging Currency swaps arrangements.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are The group enters into currency swaps to manage its exposure to uctuations translated into sterling at the relevant rates of exchange ruling at the in currency rates.
Principal amounts are revalued at exchange rates ruling consolidated balance sheet date.
at the date of the group balance sheet and included in the sterling value of debt.
In order for such swaps to qualify for hedge accounting, the forward On consolidation, the balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries and joint contract currency swap must relate to an existing asset, liability or rm ventures are translated into sterling at exchange rates applicable at the year commitment, be in the same currency as the hedged item and reduce the end.
The profit and loss accounts are translated into sterling using the average rate.
Exchange differences resulting from the translation of such balance risk of foreign currency exchange movements to the groups operations.
sheets at rates ruling at the beginning and end of the year, together with the Where they do, exchange gains and losses are taken directly to reserves differences between profit and loss accounts translated at average rates and and are included in the statement of total recognised gains and losses in rates ruling at 31 March, are dealt with as movements on group reserves.
accordance with SSAP 20 Foreign Currency Translation.
Where net investments in overseas subsidiaries are matched in whole or in r Share-based compensation arrangements part by foreign currency borrowings, the exchange differences arising on the Shares issued as a result of the exercise of options granted in accordance re-translation of such borrowings are also recorded as movements on group with the rules of the schemes see note 24 are recorded in share capital reserves to the extent allowed by Statement of Standard Accounting and share premium at their exercise price at the date the option is exercised.
Practice SSAP 20 Foreign Currency Translation.
Any excess is taken A compensation expense is recorded in respect of the executive share option to the profit and loss account.
schemes for the difference, if any, between the exercise price and the share o Taxation price at the date of grant.
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at The costs of short-term and long-term incentive awards to executive amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws directors in accordance with the incentive plan see the report on that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
remuneration are expensed on a straight line basis over the period in which Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have performance is measured.
The amount to be expensed is based upon originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or managements estimate of the probability that the performance criteria events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to will be met.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 41 Notes to the accounts continued In respect of the groups Sharesave schemes, no compensation expense UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts issued in December 2003 brings the is recorded for the difference between the exercise price and the share price accounting for shares held within ESOP trusts and share schemes into line at the date of grant or exercise, as the group is taking advantage of the with the provisions of UITF 37 as above.
It requires that an entitys own exemption permitted by UITF 17 Employee share schemes in respect of shares held by an ESOP trust should be presented as a deduction from Inland Revenue approved SAYE schemes.
The group has adopted UITF 38 during the year ended 31 March 2004, which did not require any prior period adjustments.
s Environmental remediation Environmental expenditure that relates to current or future revenues is FRS 20 IFRS 2 Share based payments issued in February 2004 expensed or capitalised as appropriate.
Expenditure that relates to an recognises that there is an expense when another party is given the right to existing condition caused by past operations and does not contribute shares of a company.
The principle is that the accounting for a share-based to current or future earnings is expensed.
payment transaction should reect the value of goods or services received for employee share transactions.
The fair value should be measured as at Liabilities for environmental costs are recognised when there is a legal the date of grant, being the date on which both parties have an or constructive obligation, environmental assessments or clean-ups are understanding of the terms.
When the grant is for past performance, the probable and the associated costs can be reasonably estimated.
Generally, charge is recognised immediately.
In all other cases it should be spread over the timing of these provisions coincides with the commitment to a formal the period from the grant date to the date when the other party has the right plan of actions or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites.
to the shares the vesting period.
This accounting standard, along with the t Recent UK accounting pronouncements other International Financial Reporting Standards, is applicable for UITF 37 Purchases and sales of own shares issued in October 2003 accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005 and will be requires the groups holdings of its own shares to be accounted for as adopted by the group from 1 April 2005. a deduction in arriving at shareholders funds, rather than to be recorded as assets.
Purchases and sales of own shares, together with any profits or losses, are required to be shown as changes in shareholders funds.
profits and losses are not recognised in the profit and loss account.
b Total operating profit comprises group operating profit amounting to 570.1 million 2003 510.0 million: 2002 521.6 million and share of operating profits of joint ventures of 13.6 million 2003 14.9 million: 2002 11.8 million.
For 2004, the above segmental analysis is combined with the non-operating exceptional credit of 1.9 million 2003 34.0 million: 2002 nil as discussed in note 4 of the accounts, and net interest payable of 248.1 million 2003 231.4 million: 2002 230.6 million as shown in note 7 of the accounts, to give profit on ordinary activities before taxation of 337.5 million 2003 327.5 million: 2002 302.8 million.
c Net operating assets comprise xed assets and net current assets excluding net debt, corporation taxation and dividends.
d Goodwill amortisation for 2004 consists of 4.0 million relating to telecommunications 2003 3.4 million: 2002 4.4 million, 3.8 million relating to business process outsourcing 2003 2.8 million: 2002 2.3 million and 1.0 million relating to infrastructure management 2003 1.3 million: 2002 1.3 million.
e The inter-business eliminations are principally from business process outsourcing and infrastructure management primarily to the licensed multi-utility operations, substantially within the United Kingdom.
f Business restructuring costs in 2004 of 4.6 million relate to costs arising from the Eurocall acquisition.
In 2003, severance costs of 3.8 million related to telecommunications and in 2002, severance costs of 11.9 million related to licensed multi-utility operations.
In 2003, in accordance with FRS 11 Impairment of xed assets and goodwill the group carried out a review to determine whether there had been an impairment of its tangible and intangible xed assets within its telecommunications business, Your Communications.
The carrying values of tangible and intangible xed assets of each of Your Communications income generating units were compared to their recoverable amounts, being their values in use to the group.
The values in use of the income generating units were calculated using discounted cash ow projections and a discount rate of 16 per cent on a pre-tax basis.
The review resulted in an exceptional charge to operating profit in 2003 of 25.5 million of which 10.9 million related to intangible xed assets and 14.6 million related to tangible xed assets and an exceptional tax credit of 5.6 million.
g The geographical destination of turnover does not differ materially from the geographical origin analysis above.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 43 Notes to the accounts continued 3 NET OPERATING COSTS 2004 2003 2002 Note m m m Employee costs: 3 a Wages and salaries 383.0 329.8 326.0 Social security costs 30.9 24.6 24.8 Pension contributions 25 11.2 8.2 5.0 425.1 362.6 355.8 Capital schemes and charges against provisions 72.0 69.8 67.6 353.1 292.8 288.2 Depreciation: 3 b Owned xed assets 366.2 345.6 312.2 Fixed assets held under finance leases 1.8 4.2 4.4 Amortisation of intangible assets 8.1 7.1 7.4 376.1 356.9 324.0 Other operating costs Auditors remuneration 0.6 0.5 0.4 Research and development 0.8 0.8 1.5 Operating leases: hire of plant and machinery 5.9 4.5 4.1 land and buildings 10.0 8.2 7.5 Cost of sales 495.6 451.2 423.2 Rents and rates 65.4 75.7 68.0 General, administration and other costs 193.4 163.8 147.7 771.7 704.7 652.4 Other income 5 15.6 14.9 11.9 756.1 689.8 640.5 Net operating costs before exceptional items 1,485.3 1,339.5 1,252.7 Exceptional items: business restructuring 3 a 4.6 3.8 11.9 adjustment to the carrying value of telecommunications assets 3 b 25.5 Total net operating costs 1,489.9 1,368.8 1,264.6 Fees paid or payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP and its associates for non-audit services during the year were 1.2 million 2003 0.5 million primarily relating to regulatory returns, work associated with raising debt and equity finance, due diligence and tax work.
Further analysis of non-audit fees is included within the Corporate Governance section of this report.
The audit fee for 2004 in relation to the company amounted to 81,000 2003 74,000.
Information relating to the emoluments, long-term incentives, share options and pension entitlements of the directors is contained in the report on remuneration.
a Employee costs are included above on a gross basis before removing those components capitalised in connection with the groups capital schemes.
The adjustments made in the above table for Capital schemes are capitalised during the relevant period and included within tangible xed asset additions.
Employee costs including business restructuring exceptional items amount to 357.7 million 2003 296.6 million: 2002 300.1 million.
b Total depreciation and amortisation including for 2003, the exceptional adjustment to the carrying value of telecommunications assets amounts to 376.1 million 2003 382.4 million: 2002 324.0 million.
44 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 4 NON-OPERATING EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 2004 2003 2002 m m m profit on sale or termination of operations 4.3 34.0 Loss on disposal of xed assets 2.4 1.9 34.0 IEBA, the Argentine electricity utility for which United Utilities has been technical operator, and in which the group has a minority interest, defaulted on its repayments to bondholders in September 2002.
There is no recourse to United Utilities in respect of these debts and the group has no further balance sheet exposure to IEBA.
Following the Argentine governments dissolution of the Peso US Dollar link, the subsequent devaluation of the Argentine Peso and the restrictions placed on the utilitys pricing policies, there was no expectation of a financial restructuring of the utility in which United Utilities would choose to participate.
United Utilities has notied IEBA and its majority shareholder, Gruppo Camuzzi, that it would neither inject any additional equity into the company nor, with the exception of meeting the groups obligations under the technical support contract, participate in the future management of IEBA and its operating subsidiary, EDEA.
United Utilities therefore concluded that it no longer had a participating interest in IEBA.
The accounting provision that existed at 31 March 2002 in respect of the investment in Argentina was taken to the profit and loss account in 2003 which, along with the disposal of US Water and costs associated with withdrawing from infrastructure management in the Americas, gave rise to an exceptional credit of 34.0 million.
In 2004, a further credit of 4.3 million has been recognised relating to the withdrawal from infrastructure management in the Americas.
5OTHER INCOME 2004 2003 2002 m m m profit on disposal of xed assets 7.1 4.5 3.6 Net rents receivable 7.1 7.3 6.9 Dividend income 0.8 2.6 0.8 Other 0.6 0.5 0.6 15.6 14.9 11.9 6EMPLOYEES 2004 2003 2002 Licensed multi-utility operations 4,684 4,269 4,368 Infrastructure management 2,381 2,163 2,076 Business process outsourcing 7,746 6,540 6,576 Telecommunications 709 681 743 Other activities 154 149 130 Average number of persons employed by the group during the year 15,674 13,802 13,893 7NET INTEREST PAYABLE AND OTHER SIMILAR CHARGES 2004 2003 2002 m m m Interest payable: Group: on bank loans, overdrafts and other loans 273.8 243.8 220.8 on finance leases 2.9 2.2 8.0 Joint ventures 10.5 11.3 13.9 Total interest payable 287.2 257.3 242.7 Interest receivable and similar income 39.1 25.9 12.1 Net interest payable and other similar charges 248.1 231.4 230.6 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 45 Notes to the accounts continued 8TAXATION ON PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES 2004 2003 2002 m m m Ordinary tax: Current tax: UK corporation tax at 30 per cent 11.0 13.6 Overseas tax 3.2 0.1 0.4 Share of joint ventures tax 2.4 1.7 2.4 Prior years tax adjustments 26.5 41.9 Total ordinary current tax 20.9 29.1 16.4 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of timing differences 104.6 88.2 82.8 Increase decrease in discount 119.3 0.3 59.8 Prior years tax adjustments 11.3 2.6 Total ordinary deferred tax 3.4 85.9 23.0 Total ordinary tax 24.3 56.8 39.4 Tax on exceptional items: Current tax: Exceptional tax on restructuring of businesses 6.3 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of timing differences 0.8 4.5 Decrease in discount 1.4 Total tax on exceptional items 0.8 9.4 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 25.1 47.4 39.4 The table below reconciles the notional tax charge at the UK corporation tax rate for the year to the actual current rate for taxation.
2004 2003 2002 m m m profit on ordinary activities before tax 337.5 327.5 302.8 % %% UK corporation tax rate 30.0 30.0 30.0 Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 41.3 24.2 28.6 Other timing differences 10.5 1.4 1.7 Withdrawal from infrastructure management in the Americas 4.0 Prior years tax adjustments 7.8 12.8 Net costs not deductible for tax purposes 2.4 1.6 2.3 Actual current tax rate 6.2 10.8 5.4 9DIVIDENDS 2004 2003 2002 m m m Ordinary shares: Interim dividend of 14.43 pence per ordinary share 2003 15.5 pence: 2002 15.3 pence 80.3 86.2 84.7 Final dividend of 29.88 pence per ordinary share proposed 2003 32.1 pence: 2002 31.7 pence 166.5 178.6 176.2 A shares: Interim dividend of 7.215 pence per A share 22.3 Final dividend of 14.94 pence per A share 46.2 315.3 264.8 260.9 The first dividend for which the initial A shares ranked was for the 2003 04 interim dividend.
The amount of this dividend is 50 per cent of that paid on an ordinary share.
46 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 10 EARNINGS PER SHARE 2004 2003 2002 profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders 361.0m 277.8m 261.8m Restated Restated 2004 2003 2002 Basic earnings per share 54.5p 45.8p 43.4p Diluted earnings per share 52.1p 45.7p 43.3p Adjusted basic earnings per share: m m m profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders 361.0 277.8 261.8 Adjustments: Exceptional items: business restructuring 4.6 3.8 11.9 non-operating exceptional items 1.9 34.0 adjustment to the carrying value of telecommunications assets 25.5 Tax on exceptional items 0.8 9.4 Amortisation of goodwill 8.8 7.5 8.0 Adjusted profit for financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders 371.7 271.2 281.7 Adjusted basic earnings per share 54.7p 42.2p 44.0p Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders by 662.8 million, being the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year 2003 606.0 million: 2002 603.2 million.
For the purposes of calculating the weighted average number of shares used in the earnings per share calculations, the A shares have been treated as part-paid ordinary shares, two A shares being equivalent to one ordinary share.
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated by dividing profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders by 693.5 million, being the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year including dilutive shares 2003 607.7 million: 2002 605.1 million.
The weighted average number of shares can be reconciled to the weighted average number of shares including dilutive shares as follows: Restated Restated 2004 2003 2002 million million million Average number of ordinary shares in issue basic 662.8 606.0 603.2 Average number of potentially dilutive ordinary shares under option 10.3 10.5 10.9 Number of ordinary shares that would have been issued at fair value 8.8 8.8 9.0 Number of A shares to be issued in 2005 ordinary share equivalent 82.8 Number of A shares that would have been issued at fair value ordinary share equivalent 53.6 Average number of ordinary shares in issue diluted 693.5 607.7 605.1 The basic and diluted weighted average number of shares have been restated for all periods prior to the rights issue to reect the bonus element of the rights issue as required by FRS 14.
The adjustment factor is 0.9176, calculated using 531.5 pence per ordinary share, being the closing price on 26 August 2003, the date of approval of the rights issue at the EGM.
Adjusted earnings per share has been calculated by dividing adjusted profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders by 680.1 million, being the adjusted weighted average number of shares in issue during the year 2003 643.2 million: 2002 640.2 million.
The adjusted weighted average number of shares has been restated for all periods prior to the rights issue using an adjustment factor based on the consideration received from the first stage of the rights issue and assumed proceeds from the second stage, which are due to be received in June 2005.
The adjustment factor is 0.8646, calculated using 531.5 pence per ordinary share, being the closing price on 26 August 2003, the date of approval of the rights issue at the EGM.
This reects the full bonus element of the rights issue which arose at the first stage, as demonstrated by the movement in the share price following the approval of the rights issue at the EGM.
Adjusted earnings per share is being presented to provide a better understanding of the trading position of the group.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 47 Notes to the accounts continued 11 INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Other Goodwill intangibles Total Group m m m Cost: At 1 April 2003 90.0 9.0 99.0 Additions see notes 13 and 31 55.0 55.0 At 31 March 2004 145.0 9.0 154.0 Amortisation: At 1 April 2003 20.8 9.0 29.8 Charge for the period 8.1 8.1 At 31 March 2004 28.9 9.0 37.9 Net book value: At 31 March 2004 116.1 116.1 At 31 March 2003 69.2 69.2 12 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Fixtures, Assets in Land and Infrastructure Operational ttings, tools course of buildings assets assets and equipment construction Total Group m m m m m m Cost: At 1 April 2003 344.8 3,436.5 4,734.8 837.0 794.7 10,147.8 Arising on acquisitions disposals of businesses 8.7 0.1 8.8 Additions 4.3 114.8 174.7 48.6 714.6 1,057.0 Grants and contributions 9.8 9.8 Transfers 8.3 91.2 216.9 33.5 349.9 Disposals 6.1 37.3 45.9 89.3 At 31 March 2004 351.3 3,632.7 5,097.8 873.3 1,159.4 11,114.5 Depreciation: At 1 April 2003 94.4 1,141.3 1,389.1 435.7 3,060.5 Charge for the year 11.3 88.3 150.3 118.1 368.0 Disposals 3.5 35.5 44.4 83.4 At 31 March 2004 102.2 1,229.6 1,503.9 509.4 3,345.1 Net book value: At 31 March 2004 249.1 2,403.1 3,593.9 363.9 1,159.4 7,769.4 At 31 March 2003 250.4 2,295.2 3,345.7 401.3 794.7 7,087.3 Grants and contributions received relating to infrastructure assets have been deducted from the cost of xed assets in order to show a true and fair view accounting policy note 1 h. As a consequence, the cost of xed assets, as adjusted for any amortisation in the year, is 109.2 million March 2003 99.4 million lower than it would have been had this treatment not been adopted.
Within tangible xed assets are assets held under finance leases at the following amounts: 2004 2003 m m Cost: Operational assets 132.2 250.8 Fixtures, ttings, tools and equipment 0.9 0.7 At 31 March 133.1 251.5 Accumulated depreciation: Operational assets 60.9 81.4 Fixtures, ttings, tools and equipment 0.8 0.5 At 31 March 61.7 81.9 Net book value: Operational assets 71.3 169.4 Fixtures, ttings, tools and equipment 0.1 0.2 At 31 March 71.4 169.6 48 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 2004 2003 m m Capital commitments: Contracted but not provided for 526.4 402.7 Fixtures, ttings, tools and equipment Company m Cost: At 1 April 2002 and 31 March 2003 4.8 Depreciation: At 1 April 2003 3.8 Charge for the year 0.1 Disposals At 31 March 2004 3.9 Net book value: At 31 March 2004 0.9 At 31 March 2003 1.0 The company had no capital commitments at 31 March 2004 and 31 March 2003.
13 FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS Other unlisted Joint ventures investments Unlisted Loans Total Total Group m m m m m At 1 April 2003 28.5 11.7 40.2 19.4 59.6 Additions 22.8 1.8 24.6 24.6 Share of profits 0.7 0.7 0.7 Disposals 2.4 2.4 Distributions and loan repayments 1.2 3.2 4.4 0.9 5.3 Transfers 9.0 9.0 9.0 Revaluation 3.9 3.9 Exchange adjustments 0.4 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.3 At 31 March 2004 59.4 10.6 70.0 3.0 73.0 Included within unlisted joint ventures is total goodwill of 8.2 million net of amortisation of 2.1 million principally in respect of the groups investment in AS Tallinna Vesi.
Share of profits comprises share of operating profits of 13.6 million, interest charge 10.5 million and taxation charge 2.4 million.
Shares in subsidiary Other undertakings investments Total Company m m m Cost: At 1 April 2003 5,554.8 3.9 5,558.7 Additions 183.6 183.6 Revaluation 3.9 3.9 At 31 March 2004 5,738.4 5,738.4 Details of principal operating subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures, all of which are unlisted, are set out below.
These undertakings are included within the consolidated group financial statements.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 49 Notes to the accounts continued Class of share Proportion of share capital Nature of capital held owned voting rights business Subsidiary undertakings: Great Britain: United Utilities Water PLC Ordinary 100% Water and wastewater services and network management United Utilities Electricity PLC Ordinary 100% Electricity distribution and related services Your Communications Limited Ordinary 100% Telecommunications Eurocall Limited Ordinary 100% Telecommunications Vertex Data Science Limited Ordinary 85.4% Business process outsourcing Vertex Customer Management Limited Ordinary 85.4% Business process outsourcing United Utilities International Limited Ordinary 100% Consulting services and project management United Utilities Green Energy Limited Ordinary 100% Renewable energy services United Utilities Industrial Limited Ordinary 100% Water treatment operations United Utilities Facilities and Property Services Limited Ordinary 100% Property and facilities management United Utilities Operational Services Limited Ordinary 100% Operation and maintenance of water and wastewater assets of Dwr Cymru United Utilities Operational Services Highland Limited Ordinary 100% Operation and maintenance of wastewater assets United Utilities Operational Services Tay Limited Ordinary 100% Operation and maintenance of wastewater assets United Utilities Operational Services Moray Limited Ordinary 100% Operation and maintenance of wastewater assets United Utilities Networks Limited Ordinary 100% Multi-utility metering and network operations Australia: United Utilities Australia Pty Limited Ordinary 100% Water treatment operations, technical and management services United Utilities Macarthur Operations Pty Limited Ordinary 100% Technical and management services Yabulu Water Pty Limited Ordinary 100% Technical and management services Canada: Vertex Customer Management Canada Limited Ordinary 85.4% Business process outsourcing United States: First Revenue Assurance LLC Ordinary 100% Debt collection agency India: Seven C Customer Services India Private Limited Ordinary 64.0% Business process outsourcing Joint ventures: Great Britain: Catchment Limited Ordinary 50% Contract operations and maintenance services Catchment Tay Limited Ordinary 33% Contract operations and maintenance services Catchment Moray Limited Ordinary 33% Contract operations and maintenance services Meter Serve North West Limited Ordinary 50% Metering services Meter Serve North East Limited Ordinary 50% Metering services UUGM Limited Ordinary 60% Consulting services and project management Australia: Yan Yean Water Pty Limited Ordinary 50% Water treatment operations Macarthur Water Pty Limited Ordinary 50% Water treatment operations Riverland Water Pty Limited Ordinary 50% Water treatment operations Campaspe Asset Management Services Pty Limited Ordinary 50% Asset management and water treatment Estonia: AS Tallinna Vesi Ordinary 37.8% Contract operations and maintenance services Bulgaria: Sojska Voda A. D. Ordinary 59.6% Contract operations and maintenance services Philippines: Manila Water Company Inc.
Ordinary 18.8% Contract operations and maintenance services Poland: Aqua SA Ordinary 25.0% Contract operations and maintenance services Shares are held directly by United Utilities PLC except where marked with an asterisk where they are held by subsidiary undertakings.
A full list of the companys subsidiary undertakings is included within the companys annual return.
50 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Acquisitions Revaluation Fair value Book value adjustments to group m m m Tangible xed assets 10.3 1.5 8.8 Intangible xed assets 4.9 4.9 Stock 0.3 0.3 Debtors 8.4 0.2 8.2 Cash 0.3 0.3 Creditors falling due within one year 8.1 1.6 9.7 Provisions for liabilities and charges 0.4 0.4 Tax liabilities 0.6 0.6 Net assets liabilities 15.5 8.6 6.9 Consideration: Cash 46.3 Deferred consideration 15.6 Goodwill arising 55.0 The group acquired First Revenue Assurance LLC on 31 March 2004, Eurocall Limited on 29 February 2004, Park Environmental Limited on 22 December 2003, Octel Waste Management Limited on 26 June 2003 and Connections Plus on 15 April 2003.
The net assets acquired and their fair value to the group are included in the above table.
The revaluation adjustments are to reect the elimination of goodwill in the acquired entities and to align accounting policies.
14 STOCKS Group 2004 2003 m m Raw materials and nished goods 9.1 8.5 Work in progress 8.0 12.1 17.1 20.6 15 DEBTORS Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m Amounts falling due within one year: Trade debtors 317.4 313.6 Provisions for doubtful debts 107.8 93.9 209.6 219.7 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 1,363.1 1,841.0 Other debtors 14.7 8.6 0.2 Prepayments and accrued income 269.6 218.6 0.3 1.7 493.9 446.9 1,363.6 1,842.7 Within prepayments and accrued income is 98.2 million which falls due after more than one year 2003 59.6 million.
16 CURRENT ASSET INVESTMENTS Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m Managed funds and short-term investments 989.2 650.8 637.5 37.1 Other current asset investments 18.6 18.1 1,007.8 668.9 637.5 37.1 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 51 Notes to the accounts continued 17 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m Loans 49.7 35.9 Bank overdrafts and temporary borrowings 32.6 157.5 7.4 124.8 Obligations under finance leases 108.7 Trade creditors 72.6 61.2 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 859.6 1,295.2 Dividends 213.8 179.7 213.8 179.7 Corporation taxation 123.0 148.9 Other taxation and social security 10.3 3.3 10.5 4.5 Accruals and deferred income 872.8 728.9 48.9 55.5 1,374.8 1,424.1 1,140.2 1,659.7 18 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m Loans 4,306.3 3,680.0 1,120.6 768.5 Obligations under finance leases 81.1 81.1 Other creditors 16.5 24.0 Deferred grants and contributions note 19 298.1 285.5 4,702.0 4,070.6 1,120.6 768.5 19 DEFERRED GRANTS AND CONTRIBUTIONS m At 1 April 2003 285.5 Received in the year 22.7 Credit to profit and loss account for the year 10.1 At 31 March 2004 298.1 20 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES Group Deferred tax note 21 Restructuring Other Total m m m m At 1 April 2003 335.6 6.6 2.8 345.0 Arising on acquisitions 0.4 0.4 Utilised 5.3 0.8 6.1 profit and loss account 4.2 4.6 0.4 At 31 March 2004 331.4 5.9 2.4 339.7 The majority of restructuring provisions are for costs of restructuring in relation to the Eurocall acquisition which are expected to be utilised within the following 12 months.
21 DEFERRED TAX 2004 2003 m m Accelerated capital allowances 1,333.9 1,183.4 Short-term timing differences 116.1 80.7 Undiscounted provision for deferred tax 1,217.8 1,102.7 Discount 886.4 767.1 Discounted provision for deferred tax 331.4 335.6 52 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 22 BORROWINGS Below is an analysis of gross debt which, after taking into account cash and short-term investments of 1,031.3 million, reduces to net debt of 3,438.4 million.
2004 2003 m m Bank overdrafts and temporary borrowings 32.6 157.5 Term loans 4,356.0 3,715.9 Finance leases 81.1 189.8 4,469.7 4,063.2 2004 2003 Repayments fall due as follows: Year m Year m After five years 2010 2,214.4 2009 2,291.0 From four to five years 2009 733.4 2008 901.2 From three to four years 2008 907.1 2007 50.9 From two to three years 2007 63.8 2006 468.1 From one to two years 2006 468.7 2005 49.9 After more than one year 4,387.4 3,761.1 Within one year 2005 82.3 2004 302.1 4,469.7 4,063.2 Bank overdrafts and temporary borrowings The bank overdrafts and temporary borrowings are repayable in less than one year.
The weighted average rate of interest on bank overdrafts and temporary borrowings was 3.87 per cent 2003 4.25 per cent.
The group had available committed bank facilities of 775.0 million 2003 935.0 million of which 773.1 million was unutilised at 31 March 2004 2003 934.2 million.
Of the amounts unutilised, 50.0 million expire within one year, 100.0 million expire after one year but in less than two years, and the remaining 623.1 million expire in more than two years.
Term loans Amounts repayable after more than five years comprise loans repayable between 2010 and 2053.
Interest rates range from 1.135 per cent to 14.83 per cent on 1,852.9 million 2003 1,932.0 million and are at oating rates on 361.5 million 2003 359.0 million.
Finance Leases An analysis of finance lease repayments is given in note 26.
On total borrowings, interest rates range from 0.705 per cent to 14.83 per cent on 3,892.9 million and are at oating rates on 576.8 million.
The analysis of net debt prior to the effect of derivative instruments is as follows: Borrowings at 31 March 2004 2003 m m Fixed rate borrowings: Sterling 1,589.7 1,308.7 United States dollars 1,091.9 753.0 Euros 1,093.2 1,102.3 Japanese yen 118.1 100.6 3,892.9 3,264.6 Floating rate borrowings: Sterling 532.1 641.0 Japanese yen 12.3 12.3 United States dollars 19.9 13.8 Euros 119.0 Hong Kong dollars 12.5 12.5 576.8 798.6 Floating rate investments: Sterling including cash 1,031.3 689.3 Net debt at 31 March 3,438.4 3,373.9 Currency items are recorded in the balance sheet at the hedged rate.
Included in the above table is a loan with Japanese yen principal paying a United States dollar coupon.
Included in xed rate borrowings is a loan of 50.0 million for which the principal and interest are linked to the Retail Price Index.
The fair values of the groups financial instruments are shown on page 55.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 53 Notes to the accounts continued Taking into account derivative instruments, net debt can be analysed as follows: Weighted average interest Weighted average period for Borrowings at 31 March rate at which borrowings are xed which interest is xed 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m % % Years Years Fixed rate borrowings: Sterling 3,190.0 2,938.8 7.3 7.3 3.5 4.1 Floating rate borrowings: Sterling 1,279.7 1,124.4 Floating rate investments: Sterling including cash 1,031.3 689.3 Net debt at 31 March 3,438.4 3,373.9 Floating interest rates are based on LIBOR.
Company Excluding amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings, the company has borrowings totalling 1,128.0 million 2003 893.3 million, of which 7.4m falls due within one year.
The remaining loans totalling 1120.6m have maturities and interest rates as follows: 212.1million repayable in August 2005 has interest charged at 6.25%: 15.9 million maturing in February 2008 has interest charged at 0.705%: 311.3 million maturing in the year ending 2009 has interest charged at 6.45% on 298.5 million, at 4.21% on 6.7 million and at oating rates on the remaining 6.1million: 338.9 million maturing in the year ending 2019 has interest rates of 5.375% on 190.0 million and 4.55% on 148.9 million: 242.4 million is repayable in the year ending 2029 with interest charged at 6.875%.
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The primary financial risks faced by the group are interest rate risk and exchange rate risk.
The board has reviewed and agreed policies for managing each of these risks as summarised below.
The board has also approved all of the classes of financial instruments used by the group.
The groups treasury function, which is authorised to conduct the day-to-day treasury activities of the group, reports at least annually to the board.
The group uses a variety of financial instruments, including derivatives, to raise finance for its operations and to manage the risks arising from those operations.
The group borrows in the major global debt markets in a range of currencies at both xed and oating rates of interest, using derivatives, where appropriate, to generate the desired effective currency prole and interest basis.
The effect of the use of derivatives is illustrated in note 22.
Under an interest rate swap, the group agrees with another party to exchange at specic intervals the difference between xed rate and oating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed notional principal amount.
The notional principal of these instruments reects the extent of the groups involvement in the instruments, but does not represent its exposure to credit risk which is assessed by reference to the fair value.
Under a currency swap, the group agrees with another party to exchange the principal amount of two currencies, together with interest amounts in the two currencies agreed by reference to a specic interest rate basis and the principal amount.
The principal of these instruments reects the extent of the groups involvement in the instruments, but does not represent its exposure to credit risk which is assessed by reference to the fair value.
All transactions are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities and no speculative trading is undertaken.
The counterparties to these instruments generally consist of financial institutions and other bodies with good credit ratings.
Although the group is potentially exposed to credit loss in the event of non-performance by counterparties, such credit risk is controlled through credit rating reviews of the counterparties and by limiting the total amount of exposure to any one party.
The group does not believe it is exposed to any material concentrations of credit risk.
As noted above, the group uses derivatives to manage its exposure to currency risk on its borrowings.
Subsidiary undertakings make no significant sales or purchases in currencies other than that of the country in which they operate.
Accordingly, the group has no material unhedged foreign currency exposures.
Financial instruments utilised by the group can be summarised as follows: Interest rate swaps Interest rate swaps are used solely to manage oating rate borrowings in order to reduce the financial risk to the group from potential future changes in medium-term interest rates.
Financial futures Financial futures are used to manage the groups exposure to possible future changes in short-term interest rates.
Forward contracts The group generally hedges foreign exchange transaction exposures up to one-year forward.
Hedges are put in place using forward contracts at the time that the forecast exposure becomes reasonably certain.
Currency swaps The group uses currency swaps to hedge currency exposure where debt is raised in one currency to fund in a different currency.
54 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Fair values of financial instruments Fair value estimates are made at a specic point in time, based on relevant market information and information about the financial instrument.
These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgement and therefore cannot be determined precisely.
Changes in assumptions could signicantly affect the estimates.
2004 2003 Fair Fair Book value value Book value value At 31 March m m m m Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt 82.3 82.3 302.1 302.1 Long-term debt 4,387.4 4,599.8 3,761.1 4,230.2 4,469.7 4,682.1 4,063.2 4,532.3 Interest rate swaps 43.7 27.7 Foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps 99.8 240.3 Total borrowings 4,469.7 4,626.0 4,063.2 4,319.7 Fair values have been estimated using the following methods and assumptions: Long-term investments The fair value of investments for which there are no quoted market prices, approximate to their carrying value of 73.0 million.
Current assets and liabilities Financial instruments included within current assets and liabilities excluding cash and borrowings are generally short-term in nature and accordingly their fair values approximate to their book values.
Long-term receivables and liabilities The fair values of financial instruments included within long-term receivables and liabilities excluding borrowings are based on discounted cash ows using appropriate market interest rates.
Net borrowings and non-equity interests excluding foreign exchange contracts The carrying values of cash and short-term borrowings and current asset investments approximate to their fair values because of the short-term maturity of these instruments.
The fair value of quoted long-term borrowings and guaranteed preferred securities is based on year end mid-market quoted prices.
The fair value of other long-term borrowings is estimated by discounting the future cash ows to net present values using appropriate market interest rates prevailing at the year end.
Currency and interest rate swaps The group enters into currency and interest rate swaps in order to manage its foreign currency and interest rate exposures.
The carrying value of debt is shown in the balance sheet at the hedged rate.
The impact of the hedged currency rates as opposed to translation at year-end exchange rates is 25.4 million 2003: 114.3 million.
The fair value of these financial instruments is estimated by discounting the future cash ows to net present values using appropriate market interest rates prevailing at the year end.
The fair values of currency and interest rate swaps excludes the related accrued interest receivables and payables.
Hedges Unrecognised gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities for which hedge accounting has been used at the balance sheet date were 192.0 million and 135.9 million respectively 2003 379.3 million and 166.7 million.
The group anticipates that 20.7 million of these gains and 62.6 million of these losses will be realised in the forthcoming financial year.
Of the unrecognised gains and losses on hedges as at 1 April 2003 the net loss recognised in the profit and loss account for the year ended 31 March 2004 was 29.7 million.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 55 Notes to the accounts continued 24 CAPITAL AND RESERVES The movements in shareholders equity are as follows: Group and company Group Company Called up Share profit profit share premium and loss and loss Other capital account account Total account reserves Total m m m m m m m At 31 March 2001 552.9 656.6 1,373.5 2,583.0 1,195.8 2,544.8 4,950.1 profit loss for financial year 261.8 261.8 24.0 24.0 Dividends on ordinary shares 260.9 260.9 260.9 260.9 Shares issued net of costs 3.0 15.0 18.0 18.0 Capitalisation of reserves in respect of shares issued via QUEST 5.0 5.0 Currency translation adjustment on equity investment in Argentina 78.6 78.6 Exchange adjustments 0.9 0.9 At 31 March 2002 555.9 671.6 1,291.7 2,519.2 910.9 2,544.8 4,683.2 profit for financial year 277.8 277.8 601.8 601.8 Dividends on ordinary shares 264.8 264.8 264.8 264.8 Shares issued net of costs 0.6 2.7 3.3 3.3 Goodwill written back on the sale of US Water 0.9 0.9 Currency translation adjustment on equity investment in Argentina 6.8 6.8 Exchange adjustments 4.0 4.0 At 31 March 2003 556.5 674.3 1,302.8 2,533.6 1,247.9 2,544.8 5,023.5 profit for financial year 361.0 361.0 269.6 269.6 Dividends on ordinary shares 315.3 315.3 315.3 315.3 Shares issued net of costs 155.3 348.8 504.1 504.1 Own shares held in ESOP 2.3 2.3 2.3 2.3 Exchange adjustments 2.2 2.2 At 31 March 2004 711.8 1,023.1 1,348.4 3,083.3 1,199.9 2,544.8 5,479.6 As allowed by section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985, the company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
The amount of group profit for the financial year dealt with in the companys profit and loss account is 269.6 million 2003 601.8 million: 2002 24.0 million loss after accounting for dividends receivable from subsidiary undertakings of 282.0 million 2003 958.6 million: 2002 6.9 million.
The cumulative amount of goodwill included in reserves resulting from acquisitions, before FRS 10 became effective, net of goodwill attributable to subsidiaries or businesses demerged or disposed of prior to 31 March 2004, amounts to 1,023.0 million 2003 1,023.0 million: 2002 1,023.9 million.
Consolidated retained earnings at 31 March 2004 include retained losses of joint ventures and associated undertakings of 11.8 million 2003 12.5 million: 2002 14.4 million.
The cumulative amount of exchange adjustments included within consolidated retained earnings is 5.1 million 2003 7.3 million: 2002 11.3 million.
Apart from dividends from United Utilities Water PLC and United Utilities Electricity PLC, which are subject to certain regulatory restrictions, there are no significant statutory or contractual restrictions on the distribution of current profits of subsidiary or joint venture undertakings: undistributed profits of prior years are, in the main, permanently employed in the businesses of these undertakings.
The undistributed profits of group undertakings overseas may be liable to overseas taxes and or UK taxation after allowing for double taxation relief if they were to be distributed as dividends.
No provision has been made in respect of potential taxation liabilities on realisation of assets at restated or revalued amounts or on realisation of joint venture undertakings at equity accounted value.
The authorised ordinary share capital of the company was 800,000,000 ordinary shares of 1 each at 31 March 2004 2003 800,000,000: 2002 800,000,000.
The allotted and fully paid ordinary share capital of the company at 31 March 2004 was 557,125,006 ordinary shares 556,526,651 ordinary shares at 31 March 2003: 555,942,338 ordinary shares at 31 March 2002.
598,355 ordinary shares were allotted during the year ended 31 March 2004 2003 584,313 ordinary shares: 2002 3,041,313 ordinary shares for the exercise of options in accordance with the rules of the employee Sharesave schemes and the executive share option scheme for a total consideration of 2.9 million 2003 3.3 million: 2002 18.0 million.
The five for nine rights issue, structured so that the proceeds are received in two stages, was approved at the extraordinary general meeting EGM of shareholders on 26 August 2003.
The authorised A share capital of the company was 638,000,000 A shares of 50 pence each.
The allotted and fully paid A share capital of the company at 31 March 2004 was 309,286,997 A shares nil A shares at 31 March 2003 and 31 March 2002.
The first tranche of the proceeds, received during September 2003, raised 501.2 million net of costs from the issuing of those shares.
The second tranche of proceeds are due to be received in June 2005, reecting the subscription for further A shares.
All A shares will then be consolidated and reclassied as ordinary shares on the basis of one ordinary share for two A shares.
Since 31 March 2004, 88,688 ordinary shares have been allotted on the exercise of options and at 19 May 2004, the companys issued ordinary share capital, credited as fully paid, was 557,213,694 and A share capital, credited as fully paid was 309,286,997.
56 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 The employee Sharesave scheme is available to all eligible employees and the company share option scheme 1999 is for senior executives excluding, with effect from the introduction of the groups long-term incentive plan, executive directors and other executives participating in that plan and its successor, the performance share plan.
The Sharesave scheme is based on SAYE savings contracts with options exercisable within a six-month period from the conclusion of a three or fiveyear period as appropriate from the date of grant.
Under the terms and conditions of this scheme, for every month up to no more than six months an employee fails to contribute the agreed monthly amount determined under the rules of the scheme, the last date exercisable will be delayed by one month.
Options under the company share option scheme 1999 are exercisable in a period beginning no earlier than three years five years for discounted options under the former executive share option scheme, which are no longer granted and ending no later than ten years from the date of grant.
2 The exercise price represents 85 per cent of the market price as at the date the option was granted.
3 The exercise price equalled the market price at the date the option was granted.
4 The number of options outstanding at 31 March 2003 and the exercise price for those options have been restated to reect the bonus element of the rights issue using an adjustment factor of 0.8646, based on the consideration received from the first stage of the rights issue and assumed proceeds from the second stage, which are due to be received in June 2005.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 57 Notes to the accounts continued An opportunity to join the employee Sharesave scheme was offered during the years ended 31 March 2004, 31 March 2003 and 31 March 2002, and options were also granted under the company share option scheme 1999.
In the year ended 31 March 2004, options were granted under the option schemes in respect of a total of 2,311,435 ordinary shares 2003 4,016,642 ordinary shares: 2002 3,538,123 ordinary shares, options for 521,504 ordinary shares 2003 1,447,851 ordinary shares: 2002 3,079,711 ordinary shares were exercised and options for 2,466,866 ordinary shares 2003 349,451 ordinary shares: 2002 1,386,409 ordinary shares lapsed or were cancelled.
United Utilities established a Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust QUEST in 1998, an employee benefit trust complying with requirements of the Finance Act 1989.
The QUEST trustee assumed the obligation to satisfy options granted under the existing United Utilities Sharesave scheme.
As a result of changes in the tax regime, shares have been allotted directly to Sharesave participants since 1 April 2003 and arrangements are now being made to wind up the QUEST.
There were no shares held in the QUEST at 31 March 2004.
The United Utilities Employee Share Trust was established by a trust deed executed on 21 August 1996.
The Trustees hold the trust fund for the benefit of the beneciaries being employees or former employees of the groups companies and their relatives to the extent determined by the rules of the share schemes.
As at 31 March 2004, the Trust held 459,891 shares on trust and these shares will be used to satisfy awards payable under the groups performance share plan and deferred share plan.
All dividends payable on the shares during the year were waived.
25 PENSIONS The group participates in a number of pension schemes principally in the UK.
The major schemes are funded dened benefit schemes the United Utilities Pension Scheme UUPS and the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme ESPS the Schemes, of which the ESPS is closed to new employees.
UUPS also includes a dened contribution section which constitutes less than 0.5 per cent of the total asset value.
The assets of these Schemes are held in trust funds independent of group nances.
For UUPS and ESPS, the pension cost under the accounting standard SSAP 24 has been assessed in accordance with the advice of a rm of actuaries, Mercer Human Resource Consulting, using the projected unit method.
For this purpose, the actuarial assumptions adopted are based upon investment growth of 6.0 per cent per annum, pay growth of 4.0 per cent per annum and increases to pensions in payment and deferred pensions of 2.5 per cent per annum.
The actuarial value of the assets was taken as the market value of the assets.
The last actuarial valuations of the two Schemes were carried out as at 31 March 2001.
An actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2004 is currently being performed.
The combined market value of the groups share of the assets of the two Schemes at the valuation date was 1,833.0 million.
Using the assumptions adopted for SSAP 24, the combined actuarial value of the assets represented 113 per cent of the value of the accrued benets after allowing for expected future earnings increases.
In deriving the pension cost under SSAP 24, the surplus in the Schemes is being spread over the future working lifetime of the existing members.
For UUPS, the employers contributions have been assessed in accordance with the advice of Mercer Human Resource Consulting using different assumptions to those described above.
For ESPS, the employers contributions have been assessed in accordance with the advice of a rm of actuaries, Hewitt Bacon and Woodrow, using different assumptions and methods to those described above.
The group also operates a series of unfunded, unapproved retirement benefit schemes.
The cost of the unfunded, unapproved retirement benefit schemes is included in the total pension cost, on a basis consistent with SSAP 24 and the assumptions set out above.
In accordance with these unfunded arrangements, the group has made payments to former directors, including lump sum payments, of 298,556 in total in the year ended 31 March 2004 2003 207,387: 2002 205,946.
The total pension cost for the period was 11.2 million 2003 8.2 million: 2002 5.0 million.
A prepayment of 97.0 million is included in the balance sheet at 31 March 2004 2003 58.5 million.
Information about the pension arrangements for executive directors is contained in the report on remuneration.
FRS 17 Transitional disclosures Group The pension cost gures used in these accounts comply with the current pension cost accounting standard SSAP 24.
Under transitional arrangements of FRS 17 Retirement Benets, the group is required to disclose the following information about its pension arrangements and the gures that would have been shown under adoption of FRS 17 in the financial statements.
The latest formal valuations of the Schemes were carried out as at 31 March 2001.
The valuation of liabilities detailed below has been derived by projecting forward the position at 31 March 2001 and has been performed by an independent actuary, Mercer Human Resource Consulting.
FRS 17 gives the present value of pension liabilities by discounting pension commitments including an allowance for salary growth, at an AA corporate bond yield.
The major difference arising between these two methodologies is in the valuation of the Schemes liabilities, which under FRS 17 are higher.
Deferred pensions are revalued to retirement age in line with the Schemes rules and statutory requirements.
The major financial assumptions used by the actuary were as follows: At 31 March At 31 March At 31 March 2004 2003 2002 Discount rate 5.50% 5.50% 6.00% Pensionable salary growth 4.30% 4.00% 4.30% Pension increases 2.80% 2.50% 2.80% Price ination 2.80% 2.50% 2.80% 58 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 The assets and liabilities of the Schemes, along with the expected rates of return on the Schemes assets as at 31 March 2004, 31 March 2003 and 31 March 2002 were as follows: At 31 March 2004 At 31 March 2003 At 31 March 2002 Expected Expected Expected rate of Total rate of Total rate of Total return m return m return m Equities 7.60% 1,268.9 7.50% 1,008.0 8.25% 1,137.5 Property 7.60% 2.1 7.50% 3.5 8.25% 73.5 Bonds 5.50% 193.2 5.50% 217.4 6.00% 233.0 Gilts 4.60% 383.4 4.50% 314.3 5.25% 302.5 Other 4.60% 1.7 4.50% 24.2 5.25% 28.3 Market value of assets 1,849.3 1,567.4 1,774.8 Present value of Schemes liabilities 2,227.0 1,993.2 1,753.2 Implied deficit surplus in the Schemes 377.7 425.8 21.6 Related deferred tax asset liability 113.3 127.7 6.5 Net pension liability under FRS 17 264.4 298.1 15.1 If the above amounts had been recognised in the financial statements, the groups net assets and profit and loss reserve as at 31 March 2004, 31 March 2003 and 31 March 2002 would be as follows: 2004 2003 2002 m m m Net assets excluding pension liability 3,102.9 2,551.3 2,534.4 SSAP 24 prepayment, net of deferred tax 67.9 41.0 25.8 Accruals for unfunded scheme 7.2 6.2 5.4 Pension liability 264.4 298.1 15.1 Net assets including pension liability 2,777.8 2,218.4 2,529.1 profit and loss reserve excluding pension liability 1,348.4 1,302.8 1,291.7 SSAP 24 prepayment, net of deferred tax 67.9 41.0 25.8 Accruals for unfunded scheme 7.2 6.2 5.4 Pension liability 264.4 298.1 15.1 profit and loss reserve including pension liability 1,023.3 969.9 1,286.4 The amounts which, on full implementation of FRS 17, will be required in the financial statements are as follows: Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit 2004 2003 m m Current service cost 45.1 41.4 Past service cost 1.8 2.6 Total operating charge 46.9 44.0 Analysis of other finance costs 2004 2003 m m Expected return on pension scheme assets 108.4 129.5 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 115.0 104.4 Net return 6.6 25.1 Analysis of amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses 2004 2003 m m Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 176.4 395.4 Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities 3.3 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities 122.9 59.0 Actuarial gain loss 53.5 457.7 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 59 Notes to the accounts continued Movement on pension scheme deficit during the year 2004 2003 m m deficit Surplus at 1 April 298.1 15.1 Movement in year: Current service cost 45.1 41.4 Contributions 48.1 29.1 Past service cost 1.8 2.6 Net interest cost return on assets 6.6 25.1 Actuarial gain loss 53.5 457.7 Movement in deferred tax asset 14.4 134.3 deficit in scheme at 31 March 264.4 298.1 History of experience of gains and losses 2004 2003 Difference between the expected and actual return on scheme assets: Amount m 176.4 395.4 Percentage of scheme assets 9.5% 25.2% Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities: Amount m 3.3 Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities 0.2% Total amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses: Amount m 53.5 457.7 Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities 2.4% 23.0% In addition, nil 2003 1.5 million is included for pension severance benets, within the business restructuring exceptional item.
During the year, the group made 0.3 million 2003 0.1 million of contributions to the dened contribution section of UUPS.
Company The companys assets and liabilities are included in the Schemes but its share of underlying assets and liabilities cannot be separately identied.
26 LEASE COMMITMENTS Subsidiary undertakings are committed to making the following payments under operating leases during the next 12 months: 31 March 2004 31 March 2003 Land and Plant and Land and Plant and buildings machinery buildings machinery m m m m Leases which expire: Within one year 1.2 1.4 0.3 0.6 Between two and five years 1.5 2.1 2.4 3.4 After five years 4.6 4.6 7.3 3.5 7.3 4.0 Minimum future lease payments under finance leases and minimum rental commitments under non-cancellable operating leases of property, plant and equipment at 31 March 2004 were as follows: Finance Operating leases leases m m 2005 10.8 2006 0.8 7.6 2007 5.1 6.5 2008 6.3 5.3 2009 7.4 4.9 Thereafter 61.5 184.1 Total 81.1 219.2 60 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 27 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The company guaranteed certain loans and overdrafts of group undertakings up to a maximum amount of 695.3 million 2003 715.8 million, including 595.3 million 2003 625.8 million relating to United Utilities Water PLCs loans from European Investment Bank, 90.0 million 2003 90.0 million relating to United Utilities Electricity PLCs loans from European Investment Bank and 10.0 million 2003 nil relating to United Utilities Green Energy Limiteds loan from European Investment Bank.
The company has entered into performance bonds in the ordinary course of business.
28 RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING PROFIT TO OPERATING CASHFLOWS 2004 2003 2002 Note m m m Group operating profit 570.1 510.0 521.6 Exceptional charges within operating profit 4.6 29.3 11.9 Operating profit before exceptional charges 574.7 539.3 533.5 Depreciation 3 368.0 349.8 316.6 Amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets 3 8.1 7.1 7.4 profit on disposal of tangible xed assets 5 7.1 4.5 3.6 Stocks decrease increase 3.5 11.8 0.5 Debtors increase decrease 53.9 21.9 3.4 Creditors increase decrease 34.6 0.6 41.0 Outow related to exceptional items 4.4 7.1 17.0 923.5 851.5 799.8 29 RETURNS ON INVESTMENTS AND SERVICING OF FINANCE 2004 2003 2002 m m m Interest received 36.0 26.8 12.1 Interest paid on bank loans, overdrafts and other loans 264.3 233.2 227.8 Interest paid on finance leases 6.1 12.1 8.0 Termination of interest rate swap contracts 83.0 Dividends paid to minority equity interest 0.4 0.4 151.8 218.9 223.7 30 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND FINANCIAL INVESTMENT 2004 2003 2002 m m m Purchase of tangible xed assets, net of grants and contributions 1,010.5 718.2 588.2 Sale of tangible xed assets 13.0 7.2 12.2 Purchase of xed asset investments 0.4 20.4 Financial restructuring of joint ventures 20.5 5.7 Sale of xed asset investments other than joint ventures 7.8 12.8 1,018.0 697.9 583.6 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 61 Notes to the accounts continued 31 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS Acquisitions Disposals 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 m m m m m m Fixed assets 8.8 3.1 Net current liabilities assets 1.5 2.1 2.8 10.0 7.0 Provisions for liabilities and charges 0.4 3.0 Fair value of net assets acquired book value of net assets disposed 6.9 2.0 2.8 10.0 7.0 Cost of disposal 3.4 Goodwill acquired written back on disposal 55.0 7.2 0.9 Consideration for undertakings acquired 61.9 5.2 2.8 profit on disposals 0.4 61.9 5.2 2.8 7.9 7.0 Less: Cash included in undertakings acquired disposed 0.3 0.3 Deferred consideration 15.6 Cash consideration 46.0 4.9 2.8 7.9 7.0 Comprising: Outow inow arising on: current year acquisitions disposals 46.0 4.7 7.9 previous year acquisitions disposals 0.2 2.8 7.0 46.0 4.9 2.8 7.9 7.0 The group acquired First Revenue Assurance LLC on 31 March 2004, Eurocall Limited on 29 February 2004, Park Environmental Limited on 22 December 2003, Octel Waste Management Limited on 26 June 2003 and Connections Plus on 15 April 2003.
All of the above are detailed in note 13 and the cashows in respect of those acquisitions are shown above.
On 2 December 2002, Vertex Data Science Limited acquired the business and assets of the UK contact centre operator, 7C, and its 75 per cent shareholding in 7C India Limited.
The cashows in respect of that acquisition are shown above.
On 31 July 2002, the group sold its joint venture shareholding in US Water, effectively completing the groups withdrawal from infrastructure management in the Americas.
The cashows in respect of that sale are included above.
Movements on loans and investments with joint ventures are included in note 13 of the accounts.
There were no other material related party transactions during the year.
64 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Financial highlights Five-year summary 2004 2003 2002 Notes 1 Turnover includes the groups share of joint 1 Turnover 2,115.5m 1,920.5m 1,871.6m ventures turnover.
2 2 Total operating profit is before goodwill amortisation Total operating profit 597.1m 561.7m 553.3m and exceptional items as dened in footnote 2 on 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 page 15. profit and loss accounts m m m m m profit before tax before goodwill and 3 As dened in footnote 2 on page 15.
3 exceptional items 349.0m 330.3m 322.7m Turnover 2,060 1,879 1,786 1,692 2,356 4 Adjusted basic earnings per share excludes exceptional items and goodwill amortisation and profit before tax 337.5m 327.5m 302.8m Net operating costs 1,490 1,369 1,265 1,194 1,697 has been restated for all periods prior to the rights 4 issue using an adjustment factor based on the Adjusted basic earnings per share 54.7p 42.2p 44.0p Group operating profit 570 510 521 498 659 consideration received from the first stage of the 5 rights issue and assumed proceeds from the second Basic earnings per share 54.5p 45.8p 43.4p Share of operating profits of joint ventures 14 15 13 9 4 stage, which are due to be received in June 2005.
Exceptional items 2 34 191 Dividend per ordinary share 44.31p 47.6p 47.0p 5 Basic earnings per share has been restated for all periods prior to the rights issue using an Net interest payable and other similar charges 248 231 231 220 206 Dividend per A share 22.155p N A N A adjustment factor based on the consideration received from the first stage of the rights issue.
6 profit on ordinary activities before taxation 338 328 303 478 457 Re-presented dividend per ordinary share 6 Prior year dividends per ordinary share have post rights issue 44.31p 43.18p 42.64p been re-presented for comparative purposes to Tax credit charge on profit on ordinary activities 24 57 39 68 92 take account of the bonus element of the first Net debt 3,438.4m 3,373.9m 3,060.8m stage of the rights issue.
Exceptional taxation credit charge 1 9 69 7 Gearing is measured as net debt divided by total Equity shareholders funds 3,083.3m 2,533.6m 2,519.2m profit on ordinary activities after taxation 363 280 264 341 365 capital employed.
Total capital employed is equity shareholders funds plus net debt.
7 Minority interest 2 2 2 Gearing 53% 57% 55% 8 Interest cover is the number of times the interest 8 charge is covered by profit before exceptional items, profit for financial year 361 278 262 341 365 Interest cover 2.4 2.4 2.4 goodwill amortisation, non-operating items, interest 9 and tax.
Dividends 315 265 261 255 249 Dividend cover 1.2 1.0 1.1 9 Dividend cover is calculated by dividing profit Retained profit for the financial year 46 13 186 116 for the year before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation by the dividend charge.
Balance sheets profit before tax Licensed multi-utility Fixed assets 7,959 7,216 6,833 6,586 6,300 increased by operations operating Net current assets liabilities 186 249 510 634 1,139 profit increased by Amounts falling due after more than one year 4,702 4,071 3,478 3,093 2,434 Provisions for liabilities and charges 340 345 311 262 370 6% Net assets 3,103 2,551 2,534 2,597 2,357 3% to 349 million Equity share capital and share premium 1,735 1,231 1,227 1,209 1,195 to 520 million Reserves and retained profits 1,348 1,303 1,292 1,374 1,162 Minority interest 20 17 15 14 Capital employed 3,103 2,551 2,534 2,597 2,357 Contents Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements Business process Infrastructure Chairmans statement 1 This report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the company.
Chief executives review 2 outsourcing operating management operating Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about the companys beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements.
Your Communications 11 34% 15% Corporate responsibility 12 Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties.
United Utilities PLC cautions investors that a number of important factors could Financial review 14 cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or implied in any forward-looking statements.
These factors include: i the effect of, to 25 million to 68 million Board of directors 18 and changes in, regulation and government policy: ii the effects of competition and price pressures: iii the ability of the company to achieve cost Directors report 20 savings and operational synergies: iv the ability of the company to service its future operations and capital requirements: v the timely Report on governance 22 development and acceptance of new products and services by the company: vi the effect of technological changes: and vii the companys Directors remuneration report 26 success at managing the risks of the foregoing.
The company cautions that the foregoing list of important factors does not address all the factors Shareholder information 34 that could cause the results to differ materially.
Independent auditors report 35 Financial statements 36 Telecommunications Total dividend for the free cash ow positive year of 44.31 pence in the second half of per ordinary share, the year an increase of Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, as shown on the face of the consolidated profit and loss account and dened in footnote 2 on page 15.
Operating profit for a segment is before goodwill 2.6% amortisation and exceptional items as shown in the segmental analysis by class of business in note 2 of the financial statements.
post rights issue 2004 Annual Report printed on Soporset Premium Offset made from ECF pulp Unless otherwise stated, amounts and percentage movements on pages 1 to 17 relating to the profit and sourced from certied sustainable forests.
This material is manufactured to the loss account are stated before goodwill amortisation most stringent environmental requirements from mills accredited with ISO14001.
United Utilities PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Annual Report 04 United Utilities PLC Registered in England and Wales Dawson House Registered number 2366616 Great Sankey Warrington www.
