Vedanta Resources plc 22 Annual Report 2004 Corporate Social Responsibility Vedanta Resources plc 23 Annual Report 2004 Corporate Social Responsibility continued As one of the largest metals and mining groups next year as indicated in the panel below.
ISO14001 in India and with two mines in Australia, the includes the requirement that environmental impacts Group is committed to managing its business in a are identified and that there are ongoing programmes socially responsible manner.
The management of for improvement across key impact areas.
environmental, employee, health and safety and community issues in respect of our operations is The sites in India work within a regulatory framework central to the success of our business.
established through the system of environmental permits and limits set by the Indian State Pollution The Groups Health, Safety and Environment Control Board.
These require regular reporting on the HSE Management Framework monitoring and analysis of various environmental The Board has overall responsibility for the safe, impacts.
Legislative compliance is a minimum healthy and environmentally sound management of expectation for all sites.
Each of the sites within the three Businesses have teams of specialist HSE Significant business drivers such as cost savings, managers who, along with site management teams, particularly in energy which is a significant focus on HSE risk management and performance operational cost, and water usage, especially within improvement.
Each of the Businesses have HSE regions susceptible to water shortages, encourage policies and management systems.
The Group is good environmental performance.
Examples of water making around US$2 billion of capital investment in saving activities at HZL and energy saving activities new projects at the Tuticorin smelter, Orissa and within Sterlite are provided in the top panel on page Korba, which are supporting improvements in HSE 24.
Several sites, including HZL sites in Rajasthan and standards across the Group.
the Groups largest copper smelter at Tuticorin, have policies of zero wastewater discharge from the sites.
Environment The Company aims to reduce the impact of its activities Secure landfill sites designed to high standards have on the environment wherever feasible.
The majority of been developed at these sites.
Initiatives are under sites within the Group are certified to the international way to recycle waste where possible.
For example, environmental management systems standard HZL has undertaken a pilot study to use smelter slag in ISO14001 or have planned certification within the cement production, Sterlite sells gypsum and smelter Site Date of ISO14001 certification Date of OHSAS18001 certification Sterlite Tuticorin smelter 11 May 2001 1 July 2001 Silvassa copper refining facility 11 February 2001 14 December 2003 Mt Lyall mine Review 2005 Review 2005 Thalanga mine Not required Not required HZL Rampura Agucha mine 15 September 2003 15 September 2003 Rajpura Dariba mine 11 December 2003 11 December 2003 Zawar mining complex 30 March 2004 15 April 2004 Chanderiya smelter 15 September 2003 15 September 2003 Debari smelter 19 December 2002 19 December 2003 Vizag smelter 15 December 2003 Expected July 2004 BALCO Mainpat mine Target March 2005 Target March 2005 Bodai-Daldali deposit Target March 2005 Target March 2005 Korba complex Target December 2004 Target December 2004 MALCO Yercaud mine Review 2005 Review 2005 Kolli Hills mine Review 2005 Review 2005 Mettur Dam complex 30 January 2004 30 January 2004 Vedanta Resources plc 24 Annual Report 2004 Corporate Social Responsibility continued HZL and the Drive to Minimise Water Use Rajasthan is a State with scarce water supplies.
With water being a key input to HZLs operations, its consumption is a vital element of HZLs environmental management programme.
Improvements in water containment, treatment and recovery have led to reduced water usage at all HZL sites.
The Chanderiya zinc-lead smelter has achieved over 20% reduction in water use per million tonnes of zinc produced between Many sites have achieved certification to the 2001 and 2004, whilst the Rampura Agucha international occupational H&S management system mine has reduced water consumption by over OHSAS18001, or are planning certification please 25% per million tonnes of ore treated in the refer to the panel on page 23.
This standard requires same period.
All HZL sites in Rajasthan have a H&S risk assessments to be undertaken and action zero discharge of wastewater from their sites.
Maintaining the Water reduction programmes are ongoing.
certifications requires frequent independent monitoring through compliance audits.
Regular safety reviews are undertaken both internally Charter on Corporate Responsibility for Environment Protection CREP and by external advisers, as a result of which action for Zinc Industries programmes are developed.
Safety awards won by During 2003 HZL, along with others in the zinc industry, committed to an the Group are highlighted in the panel on page 25. environmental charter with the Indian Central Pollution Control Board and the Ministry of Environment and Forests, establishing levels of environmental All Group Businesses have occupational health performance beyond legal compliance.
Some of the major actions under CREP are: programmes including medical examinations for all halving sulphur dioxide SO2 emissions by 2006: new recruits and regular ongoing medical examinations achieving zero wastewater treatment discharge through 100% recycling by for those working in the mines and smelters.
December 2004 already achieved by HZL sites : recycling of intermediate and waste materials: The Group ensures that contractors also comply with reducing fugitive dust emissions from vehicles: and H&S regulations and obliges them to ensure that their developing greenbelt areas around the plant and accommodation areas.
employees are provided with safe working environmental and safety equipment.
HZL has prepared action plans requiring an investment of Indian rupees 380 million US$8.7 million over the next two to three years to meet the charter commitments.
Employees Employee Consultation and Communication A number of employee engagement mechanisms are in place including: Preservation of Energy Award for Sterlite The Confederation of Indian Industry CII has given Sterlite the National Award for regular communication meetings with employees at Excellence in Energy Management for three consecutive years: 2001, 2002 and 2003. all levels of the organisation: Energy efficiencies have been achieved through a number of technology improvements such as generating power from steam from the waste heat recovery boilers, installing internet sites for Sterlite and HZL launched during sensors on feed conveyors to minimise usage and upgrading of motors.
2003, which include facilities feedback: structured approaches in several businesses such as slag and MALCO sells red mud and pot ash generated Total Quality Management and Total Productive during their processes to the cement industry.
Maintenance which include proactive engagement with a cross section of employees: Environmental management training and awareness specific consultation and involvement regarding is provided through annual environmental awareness major changes to business operations: and weeks or days for all employees and specialist change management workshops throughout environmental training for relevant individuals.
Health and Safety The management of health and safety H&S is a Unions are not present in all of the Groups core activity for the Group.
By its nature, the metal Businesses, although all employees have the right to and mining industry brings with it H&S risks and join a union.
Where unions do exist, regular meetings the Group ensures that these risks are monitored take place between management and union and mitigated through a variety of programmes representatives.
and training within each of the Businesses.
H&S performance is reported and discussed during Board meetings of the three Businesses.
Each site has H&S managers and committees.
H&S is also reported at meetings of the Executive Committee and the Board.
Vedanta Resources plc 25 Annual Report 2004 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Business Ethics Support to Employees Families An ethics policy covering issues such as harassment, Many of the employees families are supported bribery, personal integrity, protection of intellectual through the provision of housing, schools, medical property rights and competition has been circulated and recreational facilities in the areas in which the throughout the Group.
In addition, these facilities provided concerning ethics and employee behaviour is in place.
for employees and their families are made available All prospective employees are issued with terms of for use by others in the local communities.
employment prior to joining the organisation.
These terms incorporate a code of conduct for employees Community which include the prohibition of bribery.
Working with Communities Working with the communities in which the Group Employee Training operates is critical to the ongoing success of its Training is managed at both the Group and Business operations and an important element of the Groups level.
The Group has recently recruited a Head of philosophy and culture.
Learning and Development who will be developing Group-wide training programmes.
Each of the The Sterlite Foundation is financially supported Businesses have a process of identifying and by the Group.
The Sterlite Foundation helps providing for training needs.
Training centres exist underprivileged young people by providing them within the Businesses such as the BALCO Learning with computer training.
The Foundation has set up Centre and HZLs Technology Institute.
IT training is also provided to inmates at more than 20 Equal Opportunities prisons in India.
The Foundation is also engaged in There has been a conscious effort to increase the other social improvement programmes.
numbers of women and minority groups that we employ.
This approach has been implemented across Group operations bring employment opportunities, the Group through change management workshops both through direct employment and indirectly and a proactive recruitment process.
Equal through supporting activities in the local and regional opportunities and diversity form part of the Group economies.
The Group has a policy of recruiting local recruitment policy.
As part of the Groups approach to equal In addition to the numerous informal routes opportunities, applications from disabled persons are for understanding local community concerns or always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes needs, Group employees regularly meet with elected of the applicant concerned.
The training, career representatives of the local communities.
The Group development and promotion of disabled persons is takes an active role in supporting local needs of expected, as far as possible, to be identical with that which the following are examples: of other employees.
In the event of an employee becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure HZL that employment within the Group continues and Contributed Indian rupees 51 million US$1.1 that appropriate training is arranged.
million for drought relief work in Rajasthan, which included supply of drinking water and the Contractors deepening of wells for surrounding villages, cattle Contractors working for the Groups Businesses are camps to provide much needed fodder, water and protected under the Indian Contract Labour Act, veterinary services: which covers issues such as minimum wages, health Provided 30% of the funds of around Indian rupees benefits, health and safety and working hours.
180 million US$4.1 million required for the Mansi Wakal Project, the construction of a dam Safety Awards to supply water for that In March 2002 Sterlites copper smelter at Tuticorin received the British Safety region, which will be Council five star award, the first copper smelter in the world to achieve such completed during 2005: a rating.
This builds on a background of safety awards with the Tamil Nadu Government issuing State level safety awards for the years 1999 and 2000, and again in 2003 for the longest accident free period and highest reduction in accident rate.
In September 2003 the National Safety Award was presented to HZLs Debari zinc smelter by the Indian Ministry of Labour for outstanding performance in industrial safety during the year in achieving the longest accident free period.
Vedanta Resources plc 26 Annual Report 2004 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Contributed Indian rupees 63 million US$1.4 licences undergoes an impact assessment, which million for the construction of the HZL Cardiology includes a review of environmental and social impacts.
It was inaugurated in April 2003 and is now operated by the Government of Liaison with the elected local community Rajasthan: and representative is a critical part of the process of opening new mines.
The Group makes compensation Contributed Indian rupees 5 million US$0.1 for any loss of land.
This includes the provision of million for the construction of a cultural centre in replacement land paid for by the Group for relocated eastern India.
families, the building of new villages or infrastructure such as water provision, healthcare facilities or roads Sterlite and the opportunity for employment with the Group Organised mobile health clinics, seven health camps for a member of each family impacted.
for families below the poverty line in which more than 2,000 people were given free medical care Remediation measures are taken by the Businesses and a mega eye camp in association with the on the closure of mines including, as appropriate, Arvind Eye Hospital in which 120 cataract backfilling and replanting.
Many of the actions taken operations were performed: and by the Businesses in the past are reflected in new Organised self help groups for rural women to laws introduced by the Indian Ministry of Mines develop skills networks and provide support for in 2003.
The laws require the development and self-employment.
implementation of mine closure plans.
Future Plans BALCO Significant improvements in HSE performance have Various health initiatives for the local communities been made in recent years.
However the Group including the donation of Indian rupees 1.4 million acknowledges that performance improvement is a US$32,000 for construction of a telemedical continuing challenge.
In particular the Board is keen centre to provide medical services for 20 to ensure that its performance in the area of surrounding villages, and the provision of free corporate responsibility is of a standard consistent medical consultation and primary medicines to with international benchmarks set by other leading 8,500 patients across four villages during the year.
This included regular visits by doctors employed by the Business and the running of a free eye camp in HSE management will be further enhanced in the association with district health authorities, during coming year through the Group Health, Safety and which 202 cases of eye diseases were attended Environment Committee the Committee which upon and 39 cataract operations carried out: and was initially chaired by Sir David Gore-Booth and Contributed Indian rupees 10 million US$0.2 includes Mr Kaura, the Chief Operating Officer.
million to a municipal school project and Following his appointment to the Board on 14 June construction of a cultural centre in eastern India.
2004, Mr Rodier has agreed to replace Sir David as Chairman of the Committee.
Additionally, two MALCO external specialists are currently being identified to Provision of support for a number of medical sit on the Committee to bring valuable technical and health related activities including support to expertise to this Committee.
The Committee met for Gonnur Village maternity ward, a free health camp the first time in June 2004 to review its membership at the MALCO township, an AIDS awareness and to consider its terms of reference for approval by campaign organised on World AIDS Awareness the Board.
This Committee will focus on ensuring Day and support to the Government with the common HSE standards across the Group and that Pulse Polio Programme for local villages: and HSE performance continues to improve.
As part of Runs a large school of 2,900 pupils in Mettur its proposed terms of reference, the Committee is having provided the land and buildings, financial to report to the Board on a quarterly basis and to support and IT equipment.
undertake regular operational reviews at each of the key Businesses.
A Group HSE Manager has been appointed to drive and facilitate the coordination New Mine Developments and Closures of HSE performance across the Group.
The Group acknowledges that new mining developments can be controversial.
In establishing Our objective will be to expand the information a mining operation there is frequently a requirement about HSE published within our disclosures on to purchase land.
Any new development including Corporate Social Responsibility in future years.
extensions to existing abstraction or operating
