Corporate and Social Responsibility Report For over 40 years, Avis Europe has been committed to the We try harder.
As a result, we are one of the leading car rental companies in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Asia.
The principle of striving to do things better has also ensured that we are at the forefront of our industry environmentally, socially and ethically.
How we manage CSR Environmental impacts and the Edinburgh Centre for Carbon The Group Personnel and Corporate We are committed to identifying and, where Management, Avis Europe has implemented Affairs Director has responsibility for practical, reducing the main environmental a market-leading three-point plan to reduce Corporate and Social Responsibility impacts of our business operations.
It details CSR at Board level, supported by how we will: To measure and assess all relevant direct the Country Managing Directors and and indirect environmental impacts we set a plan to reduce CO emissions 2 Regional Licensee Directors, who conduct a review of our operations each from corporate operations primarily are responsible for ensuring policy year.
To achieve this we use a combination through improving energy efficiency implementation at a local level.
of company data backed up by site in our ofces and rental stations: From 2005 all CSR related matters will visits and analysis from independent maintain our CarbonNeutral status be monitored and managed through environmental consultants.
Our most across all our corporate European the Groups Risk Management System.
significant environmental impact comes operations, by offsetting non-reducible Country Risk Management Committees from greenhouse gas emissions from greenhouse gas emissions from our report regularly to the Groups Audit our own management operations and from energy use and non-recycled waste: Committee, which has oversight of the the vehicles which customers rent.
As a overall process and reports regularly result we currently focus our data collection enabling and encouraging customers to the Board.
and reporting systems on greenhouse gas to offset the CO emissions from their 2 emissions from our European corporate car rentals.
Secondary impacts also linked Our 2004 assessment programme includes We have a devolved structure and a to climate change, come from waste that a detailed examination of opportunities to wide-reaching network so we take a we send to landll and incinerate.
reduce emissions and further improvements pragmatic approach to CSR.
Data collection and analysis is done by an to our data collection process.
Targets for Our main focus remains the Groups independent organisation, the Edinburgh emission reductions will be set this year European corporate countries, which Centre for Carbon Management working for 2006. accounted for over 90% of Group revenue with Future Forests.
They help us to conduct In 2004, Avis, its staff and customers, in in 2004.
In the medium-term our strategy an annual assessment, which collates conjunction with Future Forests, offset will be to broaden and deepen CSR in and analyses data on emissions from the approximately 18,500 tonnes CO through 2 those areas of our business where we following six sources: electricity, gas, oil, a combination of clean-energy technology have direct control.
Where appropriate, propane, landll waste and incinerated projects and public-access, long-term we are beginning to introduce centralised waste.
In future reporting periods we intend native forestry schemes across Europe.
reporting and annual performance targets.
to use this data as a basis to target annual Since the start of our partnership with reductions in emissions in each country.
We encourage independent licensees Future Forests, Avis has planted a total to embrace the same CSR principles, The environmental emissions results for of some 200,000 saplings over a period and ensure they comply with the laws, 2004 are as follows: of four years to offset greenhouse gas regulations and rules applicable to best emissions.
Year 2002 2003 2004 practice in their individual countries.
CO emissions tonnes 13,545 22,231 23,763 2 Avis Europe also encourages customers Incineration waste tonnes 454 427 428 We have participated in the Business in to offset the CO emissions from their 2 Landll waste tonnes 4,238 3,859 the Community Corporate Responsibility rentals by giving renters booking via the 2002 emissions do not include emissions from business Index Survey for the third year and we internet the opportunity to make their travel.
participate in all questionnaires received journey carbon neutral and in 2004, just Part of this increase is attributable to additional facilities from EIRIS Ethical Investment Research over 1,000 customers booking European and changes in data collection methodology in a number Service.
We are members of the Kempen of countries.
rentals on-line chose to do this.
SNS Smallcap SRI Europe Index.
Landll waste data was not collected in 2002.
Education is a key part of the lower Our CSR policy focuses on the four areas emissions programme.
We have developed Greenhouse gas emissions where we can have the most impact an environmental driving code for customers With the support of Future Forests, the environment, community, workplace and to reduce the amount of fuel they use.
international climate change business, marketplace.
14 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Employees are also continuously being Avis cars for an annual fee, plus time and Management Rating Agency, compared educated with a number of initiatives mileage, thereby reducing car ownership, to the transport industry average of CC, to reduce the amount of energy used in congestion and pollution from unnecessary and we are a member of the FTSE4Good our operations.
In addition, Avis Europe car journeys as people combine their Index, which guides investors towards worked with schools local to the Groups urban travel with public transport.
headquarters to enable pupils to Avis in Sweden has achieved eco ISO In 2004 Car Plus, a national body understand the effects of CO emissions 14001 standard.
2 promoting responsible car use, on the environment and investigate how awarded our Urbigo scheme Car Club Avis is a member of the World Travel they could reduce emissions in their accreditation.
There are currently four and Tourism Council WTTC, and own homes.
Urbigo schemes in operation: Sutton, Green Globe, the travel industrys We change the rental eet approximately Southwark, Oxford and Deptford.
The WTTC every six months, ensuring that vehicles continued to grow in 2004 with individual works with Governments to realise the are at the optimum level of efficiency.
members using the cars between 2 and economic and environmental impacts of Over 40 checks between each rental 25 hours per month.
Over the last six travel and tourism.
ensure the vehicles are well maintained.
months the total number of hours used Over the last ten years, a typical Avis by all locations in the scheme has risen Community rental car has improved fuel consumption from around 250 to 450 hours per month.
We aim to make a positive contribution by 15% and now achieves some of the to the communities in which we operate.
Towards the end of the year, Avis highest European standards for lower Portugal and Honda concluded an Given the diversity of our operations, our emissions.
This is the result of lighter agreement to enable Avis customers to businesses determine their community materials, better aerodynamics, improved rent environmentally friendly gasolineinvestment policies locally and we prefer engine technology and more efficient electric hybrid vehicles for the first time to work closely with a smaller number transmissions.
In addition, Avis Europe is from the beginning of 2005 in the main of groups rather than making many building opportunities into eet contracts three Portuguese airports.
To encourage small donations to multiple charities.
with leading suppliers, specically use, the rental price of the Honda and We continue to look for a good t between General Motors, to reduce further the Toyota hybrids will be equal to the lowest our business and the projects and causes environmental impact of vehicles in the price for a rental of a regular vehicle and we support.
The main areas we support rental eet.
the number of cars available is expected globally are road safety and the provision Our car club project, Urbigo, which was to increase to around 100 by the end of cars and transport to facilitate fundlaunched in 2002 as part of a European of 2005. raising for children, the sick and the Commission integrated transport underprivileged.
Our external environmental accreditation programme, continues to develop well.
includes an improved rating of A from Formal targets have not been set as local Urbigo is a pay-by-the-hour car-sharing the Safety and Environmental Risk managers are encouraged to base their scheme, whereby members use a pool of Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 15 Corporate and Social Responsibility Report In April 2004, Avis Italy established a partnership with Unicef to support their worldwide fund-raising programme.
decisions on the quality of projects in their Making a Difference to the Community The Group operates non-discriminatory areas.
In 2004, Avis gave donations and Awards as part of the companys Spirit policies and practices in relation to staff time to over 30 different organisations of Avis recognition programme.
recruitment, development, compensation across our corporate operations.
Here are and advancement opportunities with Supporting charities through the some of the highlights and case studies.
regard to gender, religion, race, marital provision of cars and vans status, age, sexual orientation and Buying food aid for children in countries Avis France, Spain and Germany continued disabilities.
Avis requires the highest affected by war to provide complimentary cars to help a standards of honesty, integrity and In 2004, Avis Italy continued its support number of charities carry out their work.
One element of the fundThese included Les Restaurants du raising programme took place during Coeur in France, a charity that provides The Group operates an Avis European the We try harder.
week, involving both free meals to the underprivileged during Employee Council with representatives from rental counters and reservation centres the winter period: Cancer Research in all corporate countries.
Representatives throughout Italy helping Unicef support Germany and Cooperacion Internacional and management meet twice a year for an children currently living in countries in Spain, an organisation focused on exchange of views and dialogue on subjects affected by war.
For every rental from an improving housing in poor city areas.
The Council then Italian ofce for one week in April, Avis distributes a joint communiqu of each Tsunami donated 0.50 to Unicef.
The money meetings discussions to all employees.
Following the Indian Ocean earthquake raised helped distribute portions of BP-5 and subsequent tsunami at the end of The Group believes its employment a food rich in proteins, carbohydrates 2004, the Group contributed 25,000 practices encourage employee and vitamins to 800 children for one in the form of direct aid contributions.
involvement, continuity and business week and provide hydrating salts to save performance.
Approximately 50% of the lives of more than 30,000 children.
Workplace the Groups employees have more than Introduction of Making a Difference to Employment five years service with Avis Europe and the Community Awards The Group aims to have an organisation we have a good track record of internal In addition to supporting Group structure and working climate in which promotions within the Group.
initiatives, Avis UK introduced a local both the business and employees grow Employee satisfaction CSR programme at country level in and develop.
Employee satisfaction and The Group conducts regular employee 2004.
The programme empowers people development are high priorities satisfaction surveys.
In 2004 2005, local teams to make a difference to the for the Group.
12 business units across Avis Europe community by providing each station The employment policies of the Group participated in the survey accounting and HQ department with funds for embody the principles of diversity and for around 90% of corporate employees.
donations, fund-raising activities and are tailored to meet the local needs of Early indications are overall positive for charitable car rentals.
Their efforts are individual countries.
the Group, despite a difficult trading year.
recognised through the introduction of 16 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 200,000 saplings planted over the last four years to offset CO 2 emissions from corporate operations In 2004, Avis Lithuania, a licensee, planted Having heard about Avis Lithuanias tree over 3,000 trees in partnership with Vilnius planting programme, Reval Hotel Lietuva, a forestry, designed to absorb the carbon partner of Avis Lithuania joined the initiative dioxide output from the companys in October 2004. operations in Lithuania.
Avis Lithuania has established itself as the first carbon neutral rental and leasing company in the Lithuanian travel industry.
The Group strives to achieve a score Marketplace cross functional Customer Action Teams of 70% or higher in the areas regarded Customer satisfaction programme who are tasked with reducing customer as most important by employees.
In Customer satisfaction and loyalty are queries and improving customer 2004 2005 the key indicators of overall fundamental to the Groups success satisfaction for their country.
They use employee satisfaction and pride in working and we are the first car rental company both process and training tools to ensure for Avis were all ahead, with pride in to achieve the ISO 10002 standard continuous improvements.
working for Avis scoring over 72%.
This is an One key measure of customer international standard and, as a Group Budget employees in the four corporate satisfaction is the customers overall system, it covers all our European ofces.
markets and central support functions perception of all aspects of the rental.
The standard recognises the importance participated in the survey for the first time This has shown a gradual increase we place upon our customers and that since Avis acquired Budget in March 2003. over the last six rental months analysed.
we have the tools in place to collect, Scores for Budget exceeded 70% in two A second key measure is the ratio of record and collate feedback, and correct of the three areas regarded as the most refunds to rentals where we have seen any service failures to the customers important by employees.
Both overall a 20% improvement since we began satisfaction.
satisfaction and pride in working for tracking this data in 2001.
We receive customer feedback from both We have consistently continued to solicited surveys and customer queries Areas for improvement will now be reduce our customer queries through and complaints.
Each month Avis sends identied, monitored and managed the actions carried out in our Customer out over 12,000 customer opinion surveys by Group senior management.
to a random selection of customers Human rights shortly after the end of their rental, with Honesty, integrity and fairness are an average response rate of over 25%.
the foundation of business ethics for All customer feedback is restated to the the Group.
Avis Europe has an ethical month of the rental and then related to policy relating to employment of staff rental activity transactions and revenues and the operation of its business within for reporting purposes.
The data can be the network of third parties with which it cut according to the research required works.
We adhere to local regulations on to ensure we take root cause actions human rights and employment practices to prevent a reoccurrence of the same and ensure we not only meet the minimum dissatisfaction.
standards but also aim to retain and attract loyal staff to the Group.
We issue customer satisfaction reports to all corporate countries.
Local Customer Champions then work with the local Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 17
