123 4 5 6 7 8 1 Protecting employees from the potentially dangerous conditions in which they work is one of the most important functions of the Ceramics divisions flow control products.
2 Cookson Precious Metals is one of the largest processors of gold in the world.
3 Technical centres opened in Shanghai and Shenzhen, China will support the Electronics divisions activities in that country.
4 Solder spheres manufactured by the Assembly Materials sector are used to attach semiconductors to PCBs.
5 The Polyclad Laminates Electronics division California, USA facility celebrated the expansion and modernisation of its state-of-the-art manufacturing area.
6 Close-up of a PCB demonstrates the soldering materials, final finishes, chemistry and parylene coatings that are all supplied by Electronics division business units.
7 ALPHA environmentally sound, lead-free fluxes, solder pastes and cored wire used for PCB assembly.
8 An automotive wheel rim plated with Enthone chemistry delivers aesthetic excellence and wear and corrosion resistance.
3 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004 AROUND YOUR WORLD IN 2004 Building on strong leadership positions Opening up new business opportunities two major investments to support the sterling silver and can be laser-welded, which Rapid growth in Asia-Pacific continued growth of our flow control business in opens up new avenues in application and throughout 2004 in the Ceramics division, Central Eastern Europe: one to extend design.
Argentium Sterling Silver provides especially in China where crude steel VISO capacity and the other to modernise opportunities for Cookson Precious Metals production now exceeds the EU and an existing line to manufacture latest in its core jewellery market as well as other the USA combined, leading to increasing technology slide gate refractories.
Both areas including cutlery and flatware gifts.
demand for flow control refractories and projects will be completed during 2005.
Argentium Sterling Silver has the the technical service for which Vesuvius additional benefit of being environmentally is renowned.
A programme started in Maximising materials management friendly because it eliminates the need for the fourth quarter will double Chinese The past three years have seen a significant chemical processes to remove an unwanted VISO capacity by April 2005, making the shift in the way Vesuvius has dealt with raw substance called firescale which develops Suzhou plant one of the Groups biggest.
material supply from China, moving away when standard sterling silver is heated Elsewhere, it was decided to increase our from purchasing through traders to dealing during manufacturing.
share of the slide gate joint venture with directly with the Chinese producers.
Direct Wuhan Iron & Steel from 25% to 50% with purchasing enables us to source quality raw Prestigious R&D centre opened in India effect from 2005.
This plant, managed by materials at truly competitive prices and has October 2004 saw the opening of the Vesuvius since March 2003, will install new also allowed us to develop direct relationships Electronics divisions Indian Research mixing and pressing equipment to increase with Chinese producers who, as a result, Centre in Bangalore.
The new facility capacity and improve quality.
gave Vesuvius preferred customer status is a partnership with Indias pre-eminent The fused silica plant in Kua Tang, China through a period of high demand in 2004. scientific institution, the Indian Institute opened its second phase in January 2004.
Many of the raw materials Vesuvius uses of Science, and is located in Bangalores This plant is our most modern and, as well are becoming available in China and it is only prestigious Entrepreneurship Centre.
The as producing glass tempering rollers, now by being based there that new supplies can Centre is an integral part of the divisions manufactures large diameter ceramic rollers, be identified at the earliest possible stage.
global R&D effort, where the focus is on the opening up new business opportunities in By tightly controlling raw material quality, development of leading edge technologies float line furnaces.
we are now able to take full advantage for a wide range of applications.
This of Chinas low processing costs and send commitment to scientific excellence will Poland our gateway to Eastern Europe processed materials to many of our plants allow us to continue to meet the technology The evolution of the global economy in around the world, with confidence that the challenges of the future cost-effectively and the last ten years has prompted Eastern quality will be within specification for every particularly to serve the rapidly growing European countries to modernise their bag of material supplied.
industrial practices and hence their usage of refractory products.
From No more polishing its manufacturing platform in Poland, Through a collaborative effort with the UKs Vesuvius is helping its customers to Middlesex University, Cookson Precious undertake this transformation.
The transfer Metals has introduced Argentium Sterling of the divisions monolithics technology to Silver, a revolutionary alloy.
Argentium Poland has allowed Vesuvius Poland to Sterling Silver is highly tarnish resistant, double its monolithics output over the last staying bright and beautiful without polishing.
In 2004, we embarked upon It is harder and more durable than standard 4 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004
