Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our approach We involve and inform our employees as much as possible.
The Weir Group is a global organisation, working in sectors and Given the diverse nature and geographical spread of our industries that have a significant impact on human and natural operations, it would be inappropriate and impractical to resources.
As an organisation, our core values include integrity, apply uniform procedures Group-wide and each company is self-determination and valuing people.
These values ensure we therefore responsible for achieving and maintaining appropriate remain focused on meeting our responsibilities to our customers, consultation and communication with their employees.
Through suppliers, employees and shareholders, as well as to the the production and distribution on a regular basis of printed and communities where we work.
electronic newspapers and bulletins for employees to promote awareness of current progress and developments within the By ensuring that corporate social responsibility is an inherent Group we communicate generally with employees.
part of leadership that crosses all boundaries in our organisation, we seek to combine business success with support for people, The Group gives full and fair consideration to employment communities and the environment.
We recognise that corporate applications from disabled persons.
Where an employee becomes social responsibility requires us first and foremost to listen to disabled, arrangements are made wherever practicable to continue our external and internal customers in everything we do and employment by identifying an available job suited to that persons to respond to their needs through the enduring excellence of capabilities and providing any necessary retraining.
The Groups our policies and processes.
career development programme encourages disabled employees to reach their full potential.
In line with this philosophy, we pursue excellence through our global Environmental, Health and Safety Forums whose goal is Weir Hazleton in the United States has just completed a to eliminate work-related injuries, prevent pollution, conserve voluntary safety programme.
It took two years and over 4,800 resources, comply with regulatory requirements and improve hours of meetings and training to achieve the required standard.
These annually review our performance in these Through changes in workplace practices and attitudes, Weir areas, collect data, share best practice and plan for the coming Canada has experienced a 46% decrease in minor injuries.
In turn, these plans are disseminated and included within individual business plans throughout our operations.
This ensures New policies have been introduced this year at Weir Materials consistency in performance measurement and improvement and Foundries in the UK including a Policy on Work Related activities.
Forum members also perform cross company safety Stress, a revised policy on Hand Arm Vibration syndrome and audits to identify practices that are working well and areas for a Policy on Substance Abuse.
Concern reports are used to track completion The Group has experienced a 75% reduction in the number of of corrective actions.
Lost Time Accidents LTAs over the last four years.
In the last year Throughout 2004, the Group Operations Executive Committee LTAs have reduced by 48%.
The increased focus on this important reviewed the safety, quality and environmental performance against area included full investigations of all accidents being carried out objectives set for 2004.
The primary objectives are to reduce and reported at the Group Operations Executive Committee accidents in the workplace and maintain high standards of meetings.
Year on year the companies who have the highest environmental management in all of our activities.
numbers of accidents are audited by our insurers to ensure that the proper systems and processes are in place.
The reduction can Workplace also be attributed to improvements in education and training and Safety has the highest priority within Weir.
The Groups policy on adoption of Lean manufacturing principles.
In 2005, we are focusing health and safety requires that all our companies take a responsible not only on accidents, but on near misses to further improve the attitude to the protection of their employees health and safety.
safety culture that is being engendered across the Group.
All companies carefully evaluate risks to personnel wherever they are working and take appropriate steps to minimise such risks.
Lost Time Accidents 2001 - 2004 These include ensuring that project design engineers consider design factors that minimise or eliminate the risk of accidents to 350 personnel during site installation and commissioning.
All Group 300 companies are required to comply with the legislation governing 250 health and safety at work and to conduct regular formal health and 200 safety reviews at plant and site level.
These reviews are undertaken 150 by nominated managers and employees to ensure that risks are 100 properly evaluated, events leading to accidents are examined and 50 appropriate remedial or avoidance action initiated and subsequently 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 monitored.
Formal reporting procedures have been implemented so Total 314 212 155 80 that the safety performance of individual companies is monitored and peer-to-peer audits are conducted in order to provide a critical assessment of each companys performance.
36 The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2004 Environment Within Weir Valves & Controls USA they recycle wood, Weir Group is committed to the protection of the environment cardboard and ofce paper and in 2004 recycled approximately in which all its companies operate.
Each Weir company will comply with the relevant regulatory At Weir Specialty Pumps in the United States a reduction in requirements applicable to its business.
Volatile Organic Compound emissions of 15% was achieved.
At Rubber Engineering the reduction was 33%.
Over the last Each Weir company will ensure that it is seen to be a good three years the annual water usage has decreased from citizen in the community in which it operates and adopt an average of 50 million gallons per year, to less than 30 practices aimed at minimising the environmental impact of million gallons per year.
At Weir Canada improvements to drains and water treatment The Groups environmental policy is the responsibility of the to eliminate contamination to waste waters has resulted in a Board, while its implementation is the responsibility of divisional 50% reduction in water consumption.
Each Weir division is required to report on environmental performance and maintain environmental As part of a group of 28 manufacturers, Weir Floway in Fresno, management practices.
California, is involved in the Water Cluster, which aims to raise awareness of water technology as one of the ways of resolving As stated in last years Report, we have been committed to the worlds water problems.
Weir Floway is involved in the achieving ISO 14001 accreditation for all companies and this design and layout of a testing and certication laboratory.
During 2004, Weir Netherlands was involved in the production At Weir, we recognise the wider benets that accreditation can of a High Concentration Slurry Disposal system commissioned bring.
The three processes of ISO 14001 - to set objectives, by electricity producers to move y ash from silos at a power implement the programme and monitor progress - are cyclical plant in Calcutta to a landll area more than 2km away on and continuous and ensure best environmental practice.
ISO the banks of the River Ganges.
Also with English Partnerships, 14001 creates a culture where environmental considerations are the agency responsible in the UK for the Land Stabilisation actively managed rather than merely observed or avoided.
Programme, Weir Netherlands is supplying pumps for the An effective environmental management system certied to ISO project to stabilise four abandoned salt mines lled with 14001 helps the Group operate in a safer, more cost-efficient and concentrated brine.
environmentally responsible manner while also complying with Community relevant environmental legislation.
During the year, Group companies were involved in numerous The key benets associated with implementing a certied community, social and cultural initiatives.
Causes, events and environmental management system are: charities are often nominated and supported by our employees, reecting their own interests and social engagement.
We demonstrating conformance: participate in a range of educational and training initiatives, management confidence: including a programme involving Weir Pumps to raise approved management of environmental risk: industrial awareness in schools through Scottish Business in independent assessment: the Community, engineering support for the Young Enterprise compliance with legislative and other requirements: scheme, work experience placements for school children and continual performance improvement: an accessible and well-respected apprenticeship scheme.
cost reductions: supply chain benets.
Weir Materials and Foundries in the UK has been involved in a variety of community projects including providing facilities for the Initiatives undertaken by Weir Group companies during training of police dogs, and the specialist training of the Greater 2004 include: Manchester Search and Rescue training group.
Weir Valves & Controls UK now uses the heat generated by the Weir-EnviroTech in South Africa through its Social Responsibility compressors to heat goods inwards and has tted light sensitive Committee donated money to be used to educate 193 children of cells in the main workshop to minimise the lighting usage.
For the past 10 years the company At Weir Warman Australia the solid waste generated by its has been funding a number of community related projects.
operation includes metal, paper, cardboard, rubber and timber In the United States, Weir Slurry North America runs an annual waste.
At the beginning of 2004, they set a target to achieve campaign to assist United Way, an organisation involved in 5% reduction of solid waste but achieved 17% through providing respite and crisis child care for parents and promoting elimination of activities that generate waste and subsequent independence for people with physical disabilities.
Liquid waste has been reduced by 50% support Second Harvest Foodbank of Southern Wisconsin, one of in 2004 by improving the efficiency of waste water recycling 200 afliate food banks of America, the largest domestic hungerthrough maintenance and installation of a more efficient oil relief organisation.
The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2004 37
