Corporate social responsibility Whitbread takes corporate social Travel Inn A top 100 employer David Lloyd Leisure responsibility CSR very seriously with Travel Inn has followed on from David Lloyd Leisure has demonstrated Angie Risley, group human resources a number of our other brands by the importance that it attaches to director, being the director with board being included in the Sunday Times training and development by responsibility.
It is integral to the list of the top 100 best companies to creating its own Campus.
It has also business behaviour of each of the work for.
In particular, Travel Inn was developed an industry-leading RVQ companys brands.
The relationships recognised for showing strength qualification in health & fitness that we enjoy with our stakeholders in the following areas: training.
To date 600 employees have reflect the value that the company achieved this qualification.
strong sense of family within attaches to CSR.
Whitbread believes that its teams: business has an important role to play Employee involvement in creating healthy communities in which open and honest communication Whitbread is committed to listening to trade and that being a good corporate between managers and employees: to and involving its employees and citizen is an essential ingredient in believes that open and regular two-way excellent training schemes including achieving sustainable growth.
communication at all levels is an essential induction, service training, part of the management process.
For Whitbread, corporate social appraisal and graduate training: responsibility is: All employees are asked their views via Travel Inn was the only UK hotel regular opinion surveys and specific Being the Employer of Choice company in the top 100.
Managing plans are put in place to address implementing policies that will help director, Mike Tye, commented that feedback from these surveys.
Whitbreadbecome theEmployerofChoice: he was extremely proud to be part of a business that is so highly rated by Employees also have opportunities Taking the environment seriously the people who work for us.
to express their views and receive reducing its environmental impact information about the company at where it makes sound commercial sense: In addition to Travel Inns inclusion in regular meetings with management, Community commitment building the the Sunday Times list, Marriott and through elected representatives at strong and mutually beneficial T. G. I. Fridays are the only hotel and Business Improvement Groups.
partnerships with its communities: restaurant businesses to be included in the Financial Times list of the best 50 Beefeater Marketplace leadership running its companies to work for.
In a recent opinion survey over 80% businesses in a way that will single it of the Beefeater workforce said that out as a great provider of services, and Training & development they were satisfied working for the a favoured partner to do business with.
The recruitment and retention of highly company.
However, a number of motivated and talented people is essential.
In addition Whitbread maintains high employees felt that they could Great emphasis is placed on improving standards of corporate governance the perform even better with additional the skills, expertise and performance of Corporate Governance report is set out training and there was the suggestion employees through a continuing on pages 36 to 39 of these report and that staff facilities could be improved.
programme of training and development.
The company listened to the views expressed and, as a result, a new To demonstrate the importance of CSR Whitbread Restaurants training programme has been to the company an in-depth report can Whitbread Restaurants has created created and work has begun to be found on the companys website the Chef Modern Apprenticeship improve facilities for staff.
This year alone it has recruited of the report and accounts however, over 250 people who are currently Employee share scheme explains some of the policies which working towards an NVQ award.
In December 2003,2, 551 employees were have been agreed at group level.
It also Marriott granted options over 1,005,199 shares highlights, through a number of case Marriotts Apprenticeship Scheme at 610.7 pence under the terms of the studies, ways in which some of our brands currently has more than 400 young Savings-related Share Option Scheme.
have applied these policies in practice.
people working towards either At 21 April 2004 over 5,000 employees foundation or advanced modern held options over more than 3.7 million Employer of Choice apprenticeships.
They came from shares under that scheme.
Whitbread is committed to offering across the country and most areas Disability management its people a rewarding and challenging of hotel operation, including reception, As part of an ongoing and rigorous workplace.
It aims to become the Employer administration, kitchen, restaurant, policy review process, the company is of Choice, demonstrated by current and bar, as well as spa and leisure club.
committed to implementing a formal past employees recommending the The Marriott Golf Management disability management policy.
This company as a great place to work.
Diploma, the Marriott Virtual includes a detailed training programme University and the Marriott In pursuit of this goal Whitbread has a to ensure that Whitbread is capable of Graduate Programme are further range of policies covering such issues as offering people with disabilities the examples of Marriotts commitment diversity, employee well-being and same employment opportunities as to training and development.
The company will other employees.
continue to develop policies on any other If an employee becomes disabled in the human rights issues which may arise.
course of his or her work with the group, full support can be provided.
This may be page 33 Corporate social responsibility The environment through training programmes for There were a number of highlights in 2003 4: example, to ensure that wherever Whitbread has long been aware of energy consumption reduced by 7.8% possible, the individual can remain in its responsibility to the environment, on a like-for-like basis across the group, continued employment within the group.
and three years ago stepped up its and by 15% at David Lloyd Leisure: commitment.
There is now a formal Health & Safety policy and progress is reported on CO emissions reduced by almost 2 Whitbread endorses the Health & Safety Whitbreads website.
The aim is to 25,000 tonnes during the year: Commissions Revitalising Health & improve performance every year and Safetystrategy and in support of this: Water consumption reduced by new systems are being put in place 262,000 cubic metres, equating to an the Chief Executive has been appointed to track progress more accurately.
annual cost saving of 470,000: the director responsible for ensuring The sheer scale of its business makes that health & safety risk issues are A new partnership agreement was Whitbread a significant contributor to addressed: signed with Groundwork under the UK economy.
However, the company which Whitbread is set to deliver 300 brand managing directors have is also aware of the potential scale of its regeneration environmental projects submitted papers to the board setting environmental impact.
nationwide over the next three years.
out their personal commitment and Whitbread is committed to reducing the strategy for embedding health & that impact and making a positive safety throughout their businesses: A greener car fleet contribution when appropriate.
This is Whitbread has been working hard to each brand has a health & safety plan not only because it wants to be counted reduce the environmental impact of that is reviewed each quarter as a company which makes a difference, its car fleet since 1999, and was but also because it makes sound quarterly health & safety performance recently awarded its third green star commercial sense.
reports are presented to the board under the Government backed for review.
Nevertheless, over the last three years the Transport Energy Motorvate scheme.
company has been working towards a The scheme recognises company car unified approach wherever it makes good fleets that are managed in an During the year: business sense and at the same time environmentally responsible manner.
the health & safety officers focusing its energies on achieving in each David Lloyd Leisure club verifiable measurement systems for all its received an externally accredited Community commitment major environmental performance areas Chartered Institute of Environmental across its businesses.
The Whitbread group has been actively Health CIEH qualification involved in the community for over in health & safety: 25 years.
Throughout that time it has Whitbread Food Logistics an indoor play area child safety started, funded, joined or supported Whitbread Food Logistics WFL is video was produced for Whitbread a range of leading and award-winning responsible for the distribution of Restaurants and distributed into programmes.
food, drink and supplies to the the business: groups 1,900 restaurants, hotels and During last year alone, Whitbreads over 750 restaurant brand unit and clubs throughout the UK.
Its fleet of community investment programme, area managers attended full day 105 articulated trucks delivers including the Whitbread Charitable health & safety workshops: 20 million boxes and travels almost Trust, contributed over 2m.
This was 11 million km a year.
made up of direct cash contributions, ten Marriott hotel managers received donated employee time and re-cycled the advanced CIEH accreditation in By routing its trucks more efficiently, furniture and equipment.
In addition, health & safety with more courses using only modern vehicles five years Whitbreads employees, members and planned for next year: old or less, and introducing backhauling guests have raised a further 1m collecting from our suppliers on the swimming pool safety was reviewed through charitable activities.
way back from deliveries WFL and revised: managed to significantly reduce CO The umbrella theme of the companys 2 crisis management plans have been emissions and generate significant programme is helping young people reviewed and tested: cost savings to the business.
achieve their potential, specifically because young people are critical to the number of reportable employee WFL has pioneered state-of-the-art its business.
Not only does Whitbread accidents was reduced by 10% from technology within the fleet with footemploy many thousands of young people, 393 to 352. operated tail lifts that synchronise but many tens of thousands more are with rolling shutter doors.
These not among its customers.
only reduce driver fatigue and improve safety they also provide better To realise the ambition of helping young temperature control thereby reducing people, Whitbread has established the amount of diesel needed to run a number of successful partnerships the refrigeration units.
All WFLs vehicles with young peoples charities and now have this new technology.
page 34 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 4 Corporate social responsibility Whitbread Young Achiever Awards Another successful partnership is that Costa Fairtrade The new Whitbread Young Achiever between David Lloyd Leisure and the Costa supports Fairtrade, the global Awards, launched in 2003 in Sir Steve Redgrave Charitable Trust.
organisation dedicated to ensuring partnership with the Home Office that communities which grow Active Community Unit, specifically products such as tea and coffee receive David Lloyd Leisure Flag Relay recognise and reward the outstanding a fair price for their work and products.
During 2003, David Lloyd Leisure achievements of young volunteers, signed up to a new partnership with Fairtrade accredits companies which aged 16 to 25, in four areas: sport, the Sir Steve Redgrave Charitable buy direct from the growers and thus community, environment and the arts.
Trust in a bid to help raise thousands benefit them and their communities.
Each category is sponsored jointly by of pounds for the five-times Olympic Cafedirect is the leading British a charity or industry partner and one champions young peoples charity.
Fairtrade accredited tea and coffee of our brands: company, and Costa has been stocking The first major project of the its products for several years.
The Sport Award Sport England partnership got off to a great start and David Lloyd Leisure: when members of David Lloyd Leisure carried a symbolic flag in a six week Investing to meet customer needs The Community Award The Home fund-raising relay.
Whitbread has always worked hard Office Active Community Unit and to make sure all its customers and Costa: Starting in May, members and staff guests have the opportunity to enjoy transported the flag by land and sea The Environment Award all its facilities.
For example the between each of David Lloyd Leisures Groundwork and Marriott: company has developed a specific 55 clubs.
The relay started in Dublin, compliance programme for the The Arts Award The RSA and travelled north to Belfast before requirements of the Disability T. G. I. Fridays.
crossing to Glasgow in Drum, the Discrimination Act.
veteran of the Whitbread Round the In its first year, the awards attracted World Yacht Race, and making its way Ensuring customers can make almost 500 nominations on behalf of south via the Derby Water Sports informed choices young people throughout the UK.
The flag arrived in London in While Whitbread is passionate about addition to a significant cash prize June when Sir Steve joined the team making sure its customers have a great for personal and project development, in a final row up the Thames to time when they visit its restaurants, the the winners received 12 months County Hall.
company is also keen to be known as a follow-up support, which included responsible restauranteur.
With this in many money cant buyopportunities.
The relay raised over 125,000 for mind Whitbread has undertaken the Trust all of which is now being significant work across its brands to Charities of the year distributed to the local young reduce the salt levels in many of its Following an extremely successful peoples charities nominated by most popular dishes.
In addition partnership with Comic Relief for members and staff at each of Whitbread has increased the number Red Nose Day 2003, which saw David Lloyd Leisures clubs.
of healthier meal options available on Whitbread Restaurants raise over its childrens menus.
500,000 for the charity, the companys Marketplace leadership individual restaurant brands have been Beefeater has also increased the researching and signing up with Whitbread aspires to running its proportion of grilled dishes and given charity of the yearpartners.
businesses in a way that singles it out its guests increased opportunities to as a great provider of services and a choose healthier meals.
Each brand was looking for a partner favoured partner to do business with.
which was either already doing, or had the potential to do, extraordinary work Suppliers This report has highlighted just a few with young people.
One such Whitbread is wholly committed to an examples of Whitbreads approach partnership is between Brewsters and ethical way of operating and sets out to CSR.
There are many others from the Childrens Wish Foundation.
clear standards of behaviour for all around the group.
Further, in depth, employees in the Code of Business information on the companys policies Brewsters and Childrens Wish Ethics.
This code extends to dealings and activities will be available in the Foundation with suppliers and the companys fair CSR section of the companys website.
Childrens Wish Foundation is about trading policy sets the objective of www.
families, with its aim of bringing ensuring that suppliers share the happiness to very sick children and companys values and commit to their families by making their special meeting its standards.
Brewsters is committed to working with Childrens Wish Foundation and harnessing the power of extraordinarypeople.
We believe that with our customerssupport, we can make a difference to children suffering from debilitating or potentially terminal illnesses.
Customers and staff nationwide are now being invited to nominate young people and their families who could benefit.
