William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Corporate Responsibility Statement Corporate Responsibility Statement groups the Government, customers, employees, practice code for LBOs and a code of practice Introduction suppliers, investors and the wider community : governing the supply and use of fixed-odds William Hill recognises that the Group has a the Groups existing policies and procedures in betting terminals in LBOs.
ARGO, the responsibility to the wider community, as well these key areas: and the action currently being Association of Remote Gambling Operators, as to its shareholders and employees, and undertaken by the Group.
The meetings also was established in 2004 and it introduced a believes it makes good business sense to identified potential future action and after each social responsibility code in that year.
The implement policies and procedures that take meeting a detailed action plan was circulated social responsibility codes deal with issues due regard of stakeholders legitimate including responsibilities and timescale for relating to responsible and underage gambling expectations.
The Board is committed to achievement.
Early in 2005, the Board and cover such areas as advertising and improving continuously its practices in the area appointed a Corporate Responsibility promotion, staff training, customer of corporate responsibility.
The range of issues Committee, comprising of Messrs Edmonds communication and support for social impact embraced by the term corporate responsibility Chairman, Harding and Scott.
As can be seen from the information CR is extremely wide, however, the areas of will deal with a range of corporate referred to below, the Group has an major focus for the Group relate to those responsibility issues, including in relation to ongoing programme to review its activities matters which are considered to be material responsible and underage gambling, in these areas.
and these are referred to below.
employment policies and community matters.
Crime and disorder Risk management Communication and activities The Groups current operations are licensed The Board uses the risk management processes The Group identified a need to increase under relevant legislation and the Group is referred to on pages 24 and 25 to identify and communication, both internally and externally, committed to gambling being conducted in a manage risks arising from social responsibility on the Groups activities in the area of corporate way that is crime free and appropriately matters.
The most significant CR issues for the responsibility.
This report increases the level of regulated.
The Group has appointed a Group are considered to be as follows: disclosure made in previous years and it is compliance officer, the Groups Head of Security, Compliance with relevant laws, regulations planned to make additional information who is responsible for ensuring that the Group and codes of conduct relating to responsible available on the Groups website.
In the 12 complies with relevant legislation in the area of gambling: underage gambling and months prior to this report, the Board has money laundering and proceeds of crime, and protecting the vulnerable: prevention of formally adopted either new or revised policies that appropriate training is provided to crime and disorder: and product integrity in the areas of customer relations, responsible employees.
The ABB, of which the Group is a issues: gambling, privacy, health and safety, smoking member, has a memorandum of understanding and environment.
Copies of these policies are in place with the Jockey Club relating to the The ongoing training, development and being made available at sharing of information when either criminal motivation of employees to retain the widest www.
The Group also offences or the integrity of racing is suspected.
possible range of talented staff: adopted a Code of Business Conduct which A similar document is in place with the Football covers the basic principles the Board expects Association.
The ABB also has arrangements Provision of a safe and healthy workplace in to be complied with across the Group in a agreed with greyhound racing, snooker, cricket accordance with relevant legislation: variety of areas, including bribery, corruption and rugby league and its practice is to inform Providing appropriate levels of customer and fraud.
the relevant governing body of the sport service: and whenever matters concerning integrity arise.
The Group co-operates with the ABB on Government Protecting customer privacy and the proper integrity issues.
The Security Department handling and use of data within the Group Gambling Bill maintains close relationships with relevant law in accordance with relevant legislation.
The Governments key area of focus during enforcement agencies and the provision of 2004 has related to the Groups core gambling information is strictly controlled by the Head of Leadership and management framework business and the Gambling Bill issued towards Security to ensure compliance with the Data Mr Harding, the Groups Chief Executive, is the the end of the year states the licensing Protection Act.
director with responsibility for overseeing objectives as: William Hills activities in this area and regular The Groups Security Department undertakes reporting is provided to the Board, or one of its The prevention of crime and disorder: risk assessments of those LBOs considered to committees, on the Groups activities in the CR be potentially vulnerable to robberies and Conducting gambling in a fair and open way: area.
In the summer of 2004, the Group appropriate crime prevention measures are and established a Corporate Social Responsibility introduced to meet the perceived risk.
During Working Group which met on two occasions Protecting the vulnerable.
2004 a close liaison has been established and during the second half of the year and once in maintained with a number of local authority the first quarter of 2005.
It comprises the Chief Codes of conduct environmental health departments and crime Executive and Company Secretary together The Group supports these principles and works prevention offices.
with functional heads for the corporate strategy with relevant trade associations to adopt and development, human resources, property, appropriate codes of practice and to exchange security and customer service departments.
best practice in this area.
During 2003, the During 2004, this group considered the key Association of British Bookmakers ABB areas of focus for the various stakeholder introduced a social responsibility and good 29 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Corporate Responsibility Statement Information relating to conducting gambling in committed to listening to the views of relevant gifts and hospitality and whistle blowing.
a fair and open way and protecting the stakeholder groups.
The Group has an ongoing These are communicated to employees as vulnerable is set out below.
dialogue with GamCare, a charity involved in appropriate.
In the early part of 2005 the Group providing information, advice and practical help has also approved a Code of Business Conduct regarding the impact of gambling, and is also a which will be communicated to employees Customers and communities major contributor to the Responsibility in as appropriate.
The Group is committed to William Hill is committed to undertaking its William Hill is committed to high standards of implementing appropriate procedures within operations in a way which respects individuals customer service and to conducting its the organisation to deal with both responsible human rights and treats individuals with gambling operations in a fair and open way.
The Group has dignity and respect.
William Hills customers are key to the Groups introduced self-exclusion procedures for ongoing success.
Dedicated customer service customers, made additional information Health and safety departments are in place for each of the Groups available in LBOs and online and undertaken A copy of the Groups health and safety policy is main operations handling enquiries on a large training programmes for staff.
GamCare have being made available at range of issues.
Service complaints are given assessed the understanding of responsible and www.
A Health and Safety serious consideration and consistent procedures underage gambling issues within the Groups Committee meets regularly to review are in place across the Group and are LBOs.
This involved visits to 39 LBOs in 4 compliance with applicable health and safety monitored.
Comprehensive betting rules, which regions during December 2004.
The Group legislation and regulation, to keep up to date detail the terms and conditions under which all passed the audit and feedback was provided with best practice and to review and maintain transactions placed with William Hill are from GamCare following the completion of the compliance with health and safety procedures.
accepted, are available to customers.
GamCare have also provided assistance The Committee is comprised of senior endeavours to resolve all betting disputes in a by reviewing the Groups internal training managers from the Groups human resources, fair, consistent and equitable manner, however, materials for both the retail and remote security, property and company secretarial if these are unable to be resolved to the businesses.
A best practice age verification departments, together with representatives of customers satisfaction they are entitled to refer process for use with online and telephone operational management.
An external health the matter to the Independent Betting customers is also being introduced and will be and safety consultant advises the Committee.
William Hill has operational in April.
A dialogue is ongoing with Staff are provided with information and agreed to abide by any ruling they make.
banks via relevant trade associations to training on health and safety issues as part of establish if they can provide additional Product integrity their induction and on an ongoing basis.
Risk verification in this area.
William Hill will assessments are undertaken and the Group William Hill has a number of products where continue to monitor best practice as it develops monitors the application and understanding of the outcome of an event is determined by a and to review its policies and procedures on a the safety instructions through a system of random number generator RNG.
safety audits, Health & Safety Co-ordinators either administered by external third parties or, and the Health and Safety Committee.
The where this is not the case, the Group is Access to services Groups practices in the areas of lone working introducing a procedure to test the randomness Customers with disabilities have a right of have recently been reviewed and are being of its own RNGs and a reputable third party access to the Groups services.
In the past year, the health and safety will provide regular assurance of the accuracy, issues are taken into account in accordance section from the Groups LBO Procedures fairness and integrity of its gaming systems.
with appropriate codes of practice when Manual has also been comprehensively opening and refitting the Groups LBOs and a Privacy reviewed and updated to reflect the impact on combination of ramps, stair lifts, disabled toilets working practices of the introduction of The Group has systems in place to protect the and induction loops for the hard of hearing are electronic point of sale in William Hills retail privacy of information provided by customers.
William Hill complies with the Data Protection Act 1998 and the Data Protection Principles set Employees Equal opportunities out in that Act in the collection and processing William Hills ongoing success is dependent on The Group is committed to equal opportunities of personal information.
Periodic audits are its employees and it is committed to high in the workplace in terms of selection, undertaken with relevant heads of department standards of employment practice.
The Group promotion, training and development.
Relevant to review practices in this area.
rewards individuals fairly and is committed to policies are communicated to Group employees providing equality of opportunity, training and Responsible and underage gambling and there are clear lines of responsibility development and a safe workplace.
regarding monitoring their effectiveness, William Hill encourages a socially responsible implementation and communication to staff.
attitude within the betting and gaming industry Policies and within its own organisation and is A comprehensive set of human resources Training and development committed to the Governments stated objective policies are in place including policies covering William Hill is committed to investing in the of protecting children and the vulnerable from health and safety including specific policies on training and development of all its employees.
being harmed or exploited by gambling.
The stress management and smoking, equal The Group provides initial induction training at Group is actively involved through relevant opportunities and harassment, flexible working, the commencement of employment supported, trade associations in developing industry-wide training and development, the acceptance of if necessary, by specific skills training relevant codes in the area of social responsibility and is 30 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Corporate Responsibility Statement to their job.
Further training and development between directors, management and staff and Greyhound and racehorse welfare: is provided to individuals throughout their to make the fullest use of employees Support to disadvantaged individuals in career to enable employees to maintain and experience and ideas.
Representatives from the horse and greyhound racing.
improve standards of performance, deal retail staff councils attend the National Staff effectively with any changes to the work Conference held at least three times a year and The Group is also committed to providing environment and to develop their abilities and each conference is chaired jointly by the Retail support, wherever possible, to its employees realise their full potential.
Selection for further Operations Director and the Group Director, through their own fundraising efforts.
In the training and development is based on Human Resources.
past this has been dealt with on a relatively individual needs, ability and the needs of the ad-hoc basis, however, for 2005 the Group has During 2004, William Hill embarked on a business.
Training is provided either internally allocated a proportion of the Groups charitable group-wide communication programme or externally as appropriate and the Group has donations budget to match funds up to a regarding the introduction of electronic point of a dedicated team of employees providing specified limit raised by employees on local sale within its LBO estate.
This programme is training and development within the Group and charitable projects.
Employees are also able to being continued into 2005 and to date has facilitating training by District Training contribute to charities in a tax efficient manner involved a survey of all LBO staff, circulation of Co-ordinators.
In addition to the usual induction through the Give As You Earn Scheme.
On briefing videos to all Group employees, regular process, an example of training provided during occasion, the Group also supports organisations briefing meetings for line management, the year includes social responsibility and with whom we do business in their fundraising cascade briefings to all staff with feedback responsible gambling.
For the LBO estate, this efforts and in these cases donations may forms provided, one-to-one consultation with involved briefings to the Groups area and not fall within the donations policy referred staff affected by the introduction and off-site district managers, production of a training pack to above.
EPOS events for middle and senior for cascading to all LBO employees, production management.
The Regional and National Staff In early 2005, the Group reacted to the of a reference guide for use in LBOs on a dayCouncils were also consulted and feedback unprecedented events in south-east Asia by to-day basis and confirmation by all staff that encouraged from, and provided by, employees collecting donations in its LBOs for the Tsunami training had been provided and understood.
112,594 was raised from customers GamCare reviewed and commented on the and the Group donated a further 100,000. training documentation, prior to Supporting sports-related and implementation.
During 2004, the Group made charitable other bodies donations of 211,000 the largest proportion of The Group also has in place a Management William Hill is committed to being a which 200,000 was paid to the Development Policy focussed on identifying responsible corporate citizen and recognises its Responsibility in Gambling Trust.
The Group is those individuals within the organisation that wider social responsibility by seeking to establishing a Charitable Donations Committee demonstrate both the ability to operate at a support the communities in which the Group which will review requests for charitable more senior level and the personal drive and operates through charitable donations and donations against the Boards agreed policy.
programmes are in place covering development for supervisory junior management, middle Environment Levies management, senior management and senior It is recognised that all business activities have The Group supports horse and greyhound executives.
a direct and indirect impact on the environment racing via the statutory levy and voluntary and William Hill strives to act in an donation to the British Greyhound Racing Fund Communication environmentally responsible manner.
The sums payable for 2004 were The Group places considerable value on the 25.3m and 2.8m respectively.
These funds involvement of its employees and is committed Policy are used by the respective bodies for a to providing effective communication on As a retail and service organisation, the Groups wide variety of purposes including animal matters which may affect them and more main impact on the environment is through the welfare issues.
generally regarding the development and buildings William Hill operates and the performance of the Group.
This is achieved resources used by staff in their day-to-day Charitable donations through formal and informal meetings and the work.
The Groups environmental practices The Groups charitable donations are mainly Group produces a magazine, Inform, on a reflect William Hills business operations, and focussed on organisations involved in areas of quarterly basis, which is circulated to all its main risks and interactions with the greatest relevance to the William Hill business employees.
Employee representatives are environment, and are largely focussed on: and in the early part of 2005 the Board adopted consulted regularly on a wide range of matters a charitable donations policy stating that the Compliance with environmental laws and affecting their current and future interests and major focus of the Groups efforts would be in regulations: are encouraged to raise any issues or concerns.
supporting bodies involved in: The Group has established staff councils for Minimising waste by the promotion of retail staff in each of the Groups geographic Promoting a responsible approach to recycling practices and re-use of materials as regions, which are chaired by the relevant gambling: undertaking research into opposed to disposal, where this is Regional Director, together with councils for the problem gambling: and providing practicable: Groups major administrative centres.
Each information, advice and help to those who council meets four times a year, with the aim of Efficient use of energy and water and are at risk or are experiencing difficulties providing an additional channel of consultation investigating ways of reducing consumption with their gambling: 31 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Corporate Responsibility Statement in this area: and Future action The Board is committed to taking steps to Raising awareness of environmental issues improve continuously its practices in the CR within the Group.
area and to embedding CR issues into its corporate governance and operating Action to date framework.
In 2005 it is planned to progress The Groups Property Department takes primary with the initiatives that are already ongoing, responsibility for identifying issues and including compliance with the various industry opportunities within the Groups LBO estate codes of conduct in the area of social and the following action has been taken: responsibility and keeping up to date with best Air-conditioning and fascia lighting are practice in the area of responsible gambling.
controlled by time clocks to ensure efficient The Group also plans to review the key use of energy: performance indicators which are collected across the Group and the systems in place for A new fascia style is being rolled out which reviewing this information.
The aim would be will reduce electricity consumption: to set meaningful targets and over time to An evaluation has been undertaken of more make additional information available to energy efficient inverter air conditioning stakeholders via the Groups website and in units and these are being installed on new future annual reports.
The Group welcomes projects and when replacements are feedback on its activities.
required: Water management systems for toilet facilities are being rolled out to reduce water consumption and the majority of the LBO estate is fitted with water meters: and Electrostatic air cleaners have been installed in all of the Groups LBOs.
The Property Department is also assessing the potential costs and benefits of introducing highfrequency light fittings.
Facilities for recycling paper and toner cartridges are in place at the Groups head office and regional office buildings.
The Group has investigated recycling of materials from the William Hill LBOs and will continue to monitor opportunities in this area.
