Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Morrisons and social responsibility We take regular account of the signicance of social, environmental and ethical matters in relation to our operations through our Business Ethics Working Group.
Our aim is to reduce the impact of our business on the environment in which we operate through a programme of continuous improvement, minimising risks and managing costs.
Being a responsible retailer driven by commercial best practice, we take a pragmatic approach that favours building practical action into our overall trading operations.
Our work is focused on the following key priority areas: Avoiding waste Preventing pollution Saving energy Conserving natural resources Fostering fair and ethical trade Supporting local communities and their environments The associated business risks in these areas are addressed through our Working Group and taken into account during the normal course of our business.
Waste We are committed to waste avoidance and recovery programmes.
Our approach to waste management is based on minimisation and includes the recycling of polythene and cardboard, as well as the extensive use of returnable transit baskets through our supply chain.
The volume of polythene and cardboard returned and baled for recycling increased by 9% during the year, to 57,486 tonnes.
The use of returnable transit baskets and trays through the supply chain has been extended to include more fresh food lines, increasing tray movement by 48 million trips to over 13 million.
We are also committed to working with local Councils to provide customer collection points for recycling at our stores, wherever feasible.
Energy We continue to actively control the use of energy across the entire estate through our building management systems and in-house monitoring of measures to reduce energy consumption.
On-going investment in energy efficient technology includes utilisation of the governments Enhanced Capital Allowance scheme applicable to this equipment.
Our work has resulted in the overall consumption of energy being managed down to a level of increase far less than anticipated by our higher level of trading activity.
Secondary refrigerants are now being trialled at three of our petrol lling stations to reduce our dependence on HFC refrigerants.
Our water consumption is managed by working closely with Yorkshire Water on the installation of water controls, for example, push taps and cistern dams, in all our stores.
To maximise the efficiency of our transport operations we are achieving ongoing improvements in fuel efficiency and vehicle usage, in addition to managing emissions and reducing waste to landll by 20%.
Ethical trading We endeavour to maintain a clear understanding of ethical issues in the supply chain and to identify and address associated risks, being committed to the implementation of our ethical trading code.
All our buyers are now trained in the application of the code and many have taken the opportunity to test its principles when visiting suppliers in various countries.
Information is also gleaned through technical audits and we take a positive and constructive approach to any non-compliance, working with suppliers to achieve the improvements as necessary.
Community support Our Charitable Trust provides donations to national and local causes and throughout the business we also provided additional support to various community initiatives.
Last year the value of this support amounted to 130,000, not including numerous gifts in kind.
Over 545,000 was raised for our staff-nominated Charity of the Year, Marie Curie Cancer Care, along with 92,000 for Children in Need.
These are but a few examples of the many efforts being made throughout the business to benefit the environment in which we operate.
We constantly strive to make improvements: working in a way that we believe is appropriate to our commercial operations, with our Working Group providing a forum to address any new information, or issues arising.
