WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 38 When the Habitat for Humanity organisation needed a willing partner to provide We needed to erect 24 materials for a Builders Blitz, they turned to Stock Building Supply SBS.
Working closely with 24 custom home builders, the SBS team provided supplies 24 hours a houses in five days for day for five days.
Planning took a full year and more than 500 workers came together the Habitat for Humanity on the project.
Thanks to these efforts, 51 children will now have the chance to live in 24 fine homes and be a real part of the community.
project in North Carolina WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 39 39 Corporate social responsibility report Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate social responsibility report Although the Board believes that the environmental impact of our distribution activities is comparatively low, we are committed to sound Over 11 million Corporate Social Responsibility CSR policies and practices for good was spent business reasons.
Our commitment to CSR is not simply a response to increased market pressures in this area, but such issues reinforce the on employee way that our various businesses operate.
We regard CSR as a sustainable training, with over approach to business that seeks benefits for all of our stakeholders, be they 64,500 training customers, employees, communities, the environment or the Company and its shareholders.
During the year we have begun to seek out and act upon days provided stakeholder opinion as to ways in which we might improve our performance during the year and reporting.
We are committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and environmental as well as other CSR issues form part of the overall internal control process.
The Board believes that the businesses are best served by creating a PBM, like Build Center and Stock Building Supply, has engaged with the safe working environment, which encourages and supports high levels suppliers of Indonesian plywood with a view to ensuring that any illegal of business performance.
We focus on issues such as safety, training, logging is excluded from the supply chain.
Imports of Indonesian plywood behaviour based performance and the provision of opportunities for our accounted for 2.4 per cent of all timber purchased by PBM in the year ended employees career growth and development.
Local community initiatives 31 December 2003 and 2 per cent in the financial year ended 31 July 2004. are considered to be investments providing support that will assist local Build Centers purchases of Indonesian plywood amounted to less than communities, complement the aspirations of our customers, give our 1.5 per cent of its timber purchases in the year ended 31 July 2003 and employees opportunities for professional development and help us to this reduced to 0.2 per cent in the year ended 31 July 2004 following Build achieve our business objectives.
The Board believes that the progressive Centers decision to cease sales of such plywood from September 2003. integration of CSR throughout the business and the incorporation Stock Building Supplys purchases of Lauan plywood reduced from of broader social and environmental issues into day-to-day decision 0.09 per cent of its timber purchases in the year ended 31 July 2003 making will better enable us to achieve our goals.
to 0.07 per cent in the year ended 31 July 2004.
None of Build Center, PBM or Stock Building Supply purchase without appropriate permits any Health, safety and environment species of timber included in any of the Appendices to the Convention A key driver of the Groups success has been the high degree of autonomy on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, which has been afforded to local managements, allowing them to serve which, inter alia, identify threatened species of trees.
local markets in the most appropriate manner.
Within this decentralised structure, the Board has set down a number of health, safety and PBM is a member of Le Commerce du Bois, the French timber trade environment principles with which all businesses are required to comply.
PBM intends to become a signatory to a code of practice being drawn up by that federation which will set the standards for timber The principles relating to environment cover: the integration of environmental sourcing, purchasing and distribution in France based on both domestic management into business operations: a commitment to the adoption and French and internationally recognised standards.
The federation, with the achievement of best practice wherever this is practicable: a commitment support of PBM and its other members, is also engaging the French to prevent pollution: compliance with local environmental legislation: the Government with a view to securing the adoption of a code of practice adoption where practicable of local formal environmental management recognised across France.
systems: a commitment to strive for continual improvement: and a commitment to ensure proper communication with employees on Further progress has been made during the year at Build Center with environmental matters.
regard to the responsible sourcing of timber and the elimination of illegal 3 timber from the supply chain.
Build Center purchased some 247,000m 3 Timber of timber in the year ended 31 July 2003 and some 273,000m of timber PB & M formerly Pinault Bois et Matriaux PBM, the French heavyside in the year ended 31 July 2004.
More than 97 per cent in each of 2003 3 business that was acquired in July 2003, purchased some 907,000m and 2004 of such timber was sourced from Finland, Sweden, Germany, 3 of timber in the year ended 31 December 2003 and 856,000m of timber Latvia, the UK and other European countries.
Less than 1.5 per cent in the year ended 31 July 2004.
More than 85 per cent in the calendar in 2003 and less than 1.2 per cent in 2004 of such purchases were year 2003 and 86 per cent in the financial year 2004 of such lumber was of hardwood.
Some 40 per cent of the raw material purchases made softwood, mainly sourced from countries such as Finland, France and in 2003 was from certified sources.
A small minority of the timber purchased was hardwood, sourced from suppliers who have not been censured by the United Nations as part Build Center has volunteered to test a responsible purchasing policy in of resolution number 2001 1343.
PBM has been working with its suppliers conjunction with the Timber Trade Federation TTF.
The policy has been since 2000 with a view to ensuring that timber is sourced from forests formulated by the TTF to meet the requirements of the UK Governments which have been certified by recognised forestry associations which promote own timber procurement policy.
The policy is being developed with sustainable forestry management.
Some 46 per cent of the timber purchased the benefit of input from principal suppliers, with a view to ensuring that in the year ended 31 July 2004 was sourced from sustainable sources, an increasing volumes of sustainable timber are progressively being made improvement of 1 per cent over the calendar year ended 31 December 2003. available to the business.
WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 40 40 Corporate social responsibility report Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate social responsibility report continued 3 Stock Building Supply purchased some 3,750,000m of lumber in the PBMs hardwood business achieved certification for its chain of custody 3 year ended 31 July 2003 and some 4,400,000m of lumber in the year procedures in November 2003.
Cerland, PBMs garden products business, 3 ended 31 July 2004, of which some 1,400,000m were of structural panels.
also achieved certification for its chain of custody procedures during 2003.
Almost all of such purchases in both the financial years 2003 and 2004 Significant progress has been made during the year to achieve the same 3 were sourced from the USA and Canada, with less than 100,000m being recognition in PBMs softwood import business, with the requisite pre-audit sourced from Europe.
Some 90 per cent in the year ended 31 July 2004 report having been completed in March 2004.
PBM is currently planning 85 per cent in 2003 of such purchases were made from suppliers who to have achieved certification for the import business by the end of 2005. hold certifications from recognised forestry sustainability agencies, such as the American Forest Products Association and the Canadian Standards Stock Building Supply does not have a formal chain of custody procedure Association.
The American Forest Products Associations Sustainable Forest for its lumber as it relies upon the chain of custody procedures in place within Initiative programme requires participants to meet an exacting standard its suppliers.
As noted above, the vast majority of purchases made by of environmental principles, objectives and performance measures.
The Stock Building Supply are from suppliers who hold recognised certifications standard integrates the perpetual growing and harvesting of trees with and the company maintains an extensive dialogue with them on sustainability the protection of wildlife, plants, soil and water quality, together with a wide issues including chain of custody.
While there remains a negligible amount of product sourced from non-certified sources, Stock Building Supply constantly Waste management reviews suppliers policies and encourages sustainable forestry management.
All of the European companies comply with EU and domestic waste Suppliers are required to verify and certify their stated environmental management regulations.
In Ireland, Heatmerchants has begun to look practices and a constant dialogue is maintained along the supply chain.
for ways of reducing compliance costs by back-loading secondary waste paper, cardboard, wood pallets and plastic from branches to the main Stock Building Supply has continued to promote the development distribution centre.
Brossette in France has installed containers at each of innovative alternative building materials including substitutes for of its branches for the collection of plastic paper, wood and metal for wide dimension solid-sawn lumber, sales of which increased by over recycling.
AG in Austria continues to operate its waste management 35 per cent in the year ended 31 July 2004.
Such substitutes improve strategy that has been in place since 1994 and which streams waste for structural performance, thereby reducing the need to harvest as many collection and reprocessing by specialist contractors.
Stock Building Supply larger, older trees.
has optimised the use of off-cuts in its truss manufacturing facilities and, where possible, off-cuts which cannot otherwise be used are recycled by Chain of custody wood products manufacturers in order to minimise waste, reduce the It is well recognised that whilst sustainable sourcing is vital, it is also key need to use landfill sites and to reduce costs.
Equipment has been installed that illegal timber is eliminated from the supply chain, from the forest of at distribution warehouses in the UK to bale and recycle cardboard and origin to the end user.
Build Center began work last year on a chain of hard plastic.
Recycling programmes now operate in all of the businesses custody project that has seen the implementation of new procedures in corporate offices.
five branches with 16 products currently within scope, all of which have been independently audited and approved by, or on behalf of, both the Forest Stewardship Council and the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification.
The project has required Build Center to identify certified sources for these 16 products, adapt management systems to identify and capture relevant data, undertake on-site training, create a dialogue with suppliers, and create new documentation to ensure that despatch notes and invoices contain chain of custody certification numbers and references to the certified status of the product.
Internal and independent third party audits have had to be conducted.
Although only 16 products comprising sheet materials such as MDF medium density fibreboard are currently within the scheme, Build Center sells many hundreds of products from sustainable sources.
Build Center intends to increase the number of products within the chain of custody scheme to around 1,500 by the end of December 2004 and by the same date to increase by 300 per cent the number of branches that have secured accreditation.
WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 41 41 Corporate social responsibility report Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Environment and significant savings are expected to be achieved.
Ferguson has a policy The US Virginia Marine Resources Commission continues to endeavour to of sourcing vehicles from a supplier with a leading reputation in environmentally stimulate the oyster population by using porcelain pieces as a substitute for friendly diesel technology.
The engines for all replacement vehicles are oyster shell on a sanctuary reef in Chesapeake Bay, where it is hoped that certified to meet the US Governments 2007 standard for particulate the oyster population will increase tenfold by 2010.
Ferguson continues to emissions and all 175 new vehicles acquired during the year were each contribute damaged and broken toilets, which would otherwise have been equipped with emissions technology that meet this standard.
Ferguson, for the third year in succession, also participated also seeking to take full advantage of new digital valve technology to improve in Clean the Bay day, the annual community effort to remove waste and air quality and fuel economy throughout its entire distribution network.
debris from Chesapeake Bay and its estuaries.
Over 7,000 pounds of debris were collected from five miles of waterways and a number of As part of Stock Building Supplys transport management programme, Ferguson employees and their families were involved in the clean-up.
many suppliers back-load their delivery vehicles to avoid wasteful return journeys.
This initiative is part of a programme that also includes investment Wolseley UK has formed an environmental steering group comprising in a national fleet management and servicing system aimed at achieving senior managers and local Board directors.
The Group identifies ways optimal fleet efficiency and curbing excessive emissions.
An extensive in which environmental issues can be captured and improvements made.
programme of education has ensured that an appropriate level of capital Wolseley UK has agreed an environmental policy, which sets out the expenditure is invested in new environmentally friendly vehicles.
These Companys position to customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
vehicles incorporate emission and fuel economy technologies which already Commitment has been made to continuous improvement in environmental comply with, or exceed, forthcoming US Government standards.
During performance, the prevention of pollution and to improving efficiency in the the year ended 31 July 2004, over 265 such vehicles were replaced.
use of resources including energy, water, packaging and other raw materials.
Such new vehicles are approximately 70 per cent more fuel efficient than An extensive internal communication exercise has been undertaken to the ones they replaced.
In common with other Wolseley companies, Stock explain the objectives and the way in which each employee can contribute.
Building Supplys maintenance programme seeks to improve both safety and fuel efficiency by increasing reliability through the direct purchase of Transport is another key area for Wolseley UK.
Tight controls are enforced spare parts and also by rigorous tyre management.
Stock Building Supply to ensure that the minimum number of vehicles operate out of each site recently tested a GPS pilot programme, the results of which indicate that and emphasis is placed upon route planning to minimise delivery journeys further efficiencies could be achieved and would allow the company to and the number of miles travelled.
Progress continues to be made across plan more efficient delivery routes to enhance customer service and further the whole UK transport fleet to improve this utilisation.
The introduction reduce the number of miles driven.
The pilot demonstrated that safety of further high capacity trailers has reduced the number of vehicles could also be improved as drivers speed can be monitored.
Stock Building operating between each of the UK distribution centres and there has been Supply has already rolled out the GPS initiative in the local Raleigh market a substantial increase in the volume of back hauling from suppliers, thereby and intends to extend this in the short term to those segments of its enhancing the efficient use of the fleet.
Significant investment has been distribution network where immediate benefits can be achieved.
Multiple stock replenishment deliveries to branches from suppliers have been reduced as loads are consolidated Stock Building Supplys regional distribution centres were designed to in Wolseley UKs own distribution warehouses for onward delivery.
facilitate product delivery by rail.
More than 50 per cent of deliveries to the Consolidating loads reduces the number of supplier vehicles on the road distribution centres are made in this way, with over 14,000 wagon loads while minimising the local impact around branches.
There is a continued equivalent to some 56,000 lorry loads received during the last year alone, focus on pooling branch vehicles across each of the Wolseley UK brands, an increase over the 2003 financial year of more than 12 per cent.
Delivery which will ensure that the fleet eliminates wasteful multiple deliveries and by rail continues to be encouraged and is expected to continue to grow.
reduces the number of miles travelled.
Brossette in France has implemented a reorganisation programme to A major project is underway at Wolseley UK to improve fuel consumption reduce the number of warehouses and to regroup branches in order to across its primary distribution fleet.
This is being achieved through individual improve productivity and customer service while at the same time reducing vehicle monitoring, combined with driver training initiatives and the the number of delivery journeys and transport costs.
Brossette has a replacement of older, less fuel efficient vehicles.
Some 200 vehicles were national fleet maintenance programme in place, which seeks to secure replaced over the last year.
A number of fleet vehicles have also been trialed optimal use of its delivery vehicles while minimising the impact on with particulate filtration, allowing them to gain reduced pollution certificates.
Brossette seeks to take advantage of technological Wolseley UKs transport group also pays continuous attention to servicing improvements when renewing its fleet to both reduce emissions and programmes which include regular emissions checks to ensure vehicle to optimise fuel consumption.
All new vehicles are fitted with the latest efficiency and has adopted a reduced emissions and tyre pressure software technology to improve efficiency and to reduce the number of management system for optimal fleet use.
Some 31 vehicles were replaced during the year.
PBM has embarked upon a fleet renewal programme to increase fuel efficiency, Ferguson in the USA has been using a transportation management system improve safety and reduce both emissions and transport costs.
Fleet for its 1,200 plus diesel powered delivery vehicles.
The system optimises the efficiency is underpinned by a national fleet management programme, delivery of goods from distribution centres to branches as well as directly which ensures uniform operating standards.
PBM ensures that its drivers to customers, thereby reducing handling and transport costs together with training is maintained and seeks ways of encouraging good driving.
The new system has been implemented at a branch level WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 42 42 Corporate social responsibility report Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate social responsibility report continued Health and safety Acquisitions The Company has developed a health and safety framework which A great deal of importance is placed on environmental matters during the requires local management to have suitable procedures in place to ensure due diligence process for acquisitions.
External environmental consultants compliance with applicable laws and regulations and, wherever possible, review and assess environmental risks to which the Group could potentially to employ best practice.
One of the key issues for the Group is the creation become exposed.
Depending upon the type of proposed acquisition, this of a work environment free from injury and illness and how we go about assessment could include reviews of environmental management systems, improving our health and safety performance driven, not only by legal compliance with laws and regulations and the respect and care shown responsibility, but also the ethical desire to protect our employees.
Health and safety compliance and processes are also considered as part of the process.
Appropriate dialogue with, and Wolseley UK has a health and safety committee, supported by the health indemnities from, the proposed vendors are sought where appropriate.
This comprises senior managers and local Board directors.
The committee reviews the UK Groups performance in health and Code of ethics safety matters, promotes good practice and ensures appropriate consultation A Group-wide Code of Ethics has been in place since 2003.
This sets out a on any intended changes to the health and safety management systems.
number of fundamental principles which all companies and employees are All branch and area managers are trained in this area and all employees expected to follow.
In keeping with our decentralised approach, businesses are trained to complete their daily tasks in a safe manner.
were required to adopt their own codes which respected local cultures and businesses but which also set standards that are still no less exacting than Brossette has a central health and safety committee which oversees those detailed in the Group-wide Code.
To a large extent, these individual the work carried out by the health and safety committees in individual codes simply underpinned and endorsed existing practices.
Representatives of the company and employees sit on each Code covers many areas including fair competition, compliance with laws, local committee, together with an occupational health doctor.
All new including anti-trust laws, maintenance of the Groups reputation for integrity employees and managers receive appropriate induction and training including a prohibition on bribery and general principles for dealing with which includes matters related to health and safety.
PBM seeks to increase suppliers and authorities and can be viewed on the Companys website awareness of the importance of health and safety matters throughout the at www.
com or a printed copy is available from the Group business using a programme which reinforces the fact that each person Company Secretary.
throughout the company has both a responsibility and a part to play in maintaining and improving health and safety standards.
Wolseley UK, for example, has incorporated the Code of Ethics into a wider document which sets out the principles on which business is Stock Building Supply has a safety committee with responsibility for transacted.
This includes principles related to diversity, safety, inducements, developing, introducing and monitoring the effectiveness of the companys communication, the environment and human rights.
The human rights overall safety programme and objectives.
The committee comprises policies and procedures are based on the principles set out in the employees with different perspectives and from varied disciplines.
Each United Nations Universal Declaration on Human Rights.
branch manager is responsible and accountable for health and safety at his or her branch, including compliance with regulations, safety awareness and The workplace accident prevention.
All new employees are given induction training relating One of the Boards objectives is to ensure that we provide a workplace to safe working practices and hazards present in the workplace.
Training environment that encourages and supports our employees in achieving is also provided when an employee is requested to handle new processes, their best personal performance.
Further work was undertaken during procedures or equipment.
Monthly mandatory safety meetings are held at the year in this area coordinated by the recently established Group-wide each branch during which, as a minimum, topics designated by the safety human resource function that now resides in Theale.
The development committee must be discussed.
Safety issues within each branch are dealt of leadership skills of senior managers is also a key objective and further with by a safety coordinator or local safety committee consisting of a progress has been made to enable more participants than ever before cross-section of employees.
to attend programmes at Darden and IMD.
Training and development programmes for all employees are crucial to the ability of the business to Stock Building Supply and Ferguson have been working together over achieve its goals.
The businesses continue to devote significant attention the last 12 months to improve their performance in the areas of both health and resource to this issue, recently aided by the recruitment of human and safety and traffic accidents.
The joint initiative has been driven not resource leaders in both the UK and Central European businesses.
only by the costs to the business of soaring medical and other expenses More than 11 million was spent on training of employees during the associated with claims for workers compensation but also the desire to year, with over 64,500 days of training provided.
reduce the incidence of injury and to reduce the consequential effect that such incidences have on other employees and the business.
Each of the Whilst Wolseley is committed to promoting equal opportunities for all, businesses has set targets during the year to reduce the frequency and it is believed that, overall, women and minorities are under represented.
cost of both workers compensation and traffic incidents, enhance their We believe that we have the right policies in place to meet or exceed programmes to encourage employees to return to work even if this is on legal requirements in this area but we also recognise the need to better modified duty, improve the reporting of claims to ensure that prompt action understand the factors that are critical to achieving greater diversity.
is taken and increase measures to ensure that employees are able to seek Further work is being undertaken in this area.
We will measure the extent to which the targets have been met in late 2004 and will look to set further targets and consider how best we might report our performance against the targets in the future.
WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 43 43 Corporate social responsibility report Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Community relations PBM works with a company dedicated to the employment of disabled people Notwithstanding the international nature of the business, the Group continues throughout Western France.
They are mainly involved in the assembly of to operate with a high degree of autonomy, working in and with our local products sold by PBM under its garden products Cerland brand.
We recognise our responsibility to invest in the communities our new Swiss business, works with a similar company dedicated to the in which our businesses operate and to act as a good corporate citizen.
employment of disabled people in Switzerland.
The Company is a member of Business in the Community in the UK and has worked with that organisation to help develop our approach and practice.
Ferguson has a community partnership with the Achievable Dream Academy, a programme that targets at-risk children between the ages of 4 and 16.
The Groups businesses are involved in a wide range of initiatives for the Ferguson is an annual sponsor of the Academys major fundraising event, benefit of local communities, of which the following are representative: which helps to raise funds for school uniforms, teacher assistants, counsellors, supplemental instruction and other operating expenses.
For As part of its continuing commitment to Habitat for Humanity, the nonthe past three years Ferguson associates have helped raise funds for the profit organisation which seeks to eliminate substandard housing and St Jude Dream Home which is part of the St Jude Childrens Research homelessness from the world, Stock Building Supply became an Hospital, a leading paediatric cancer research centre.
Ferguson donated Ambassador Level sponsor by contributing seven lorry loads of trim and toilets and other goods as well as encouraging suppliers to provide other millwork together with a further 22 lorry loads of lumber and supplies, for pieces of equipment for the home.
Ferguson also donated $500,000 to the the construction of 24 homes in Raleigh, North Carolina.
These 24 homes Childrens Hospital of the Kings Daughters in Virginia, offering hope to local were constructed in five days as part of the 2003 Builder Blitz organised children fighting cancer, heart and lung diseases, diabetes and AIDS by by the Wake County division of Habitat for Humanity.
Normally Habitat for bringing advancements in childrens medicine, research and technology to Humanity requires future homeowners to invest their own labour into building the Virginia Peninsula, as well as $500,000 to the Boy Scouts organisation their own house, which is then sold to them at no profit, with affordable low to help build a year-round camp beside the Rappahannock River in Virginia.
As some prospective homeowners did not participate in the 2003 Builder Blitz they will contribute a total of 400 hours of their sweat Through the combination of a corporate gift and a company match for equity hours on other homes or in other ways.
They will also be required donations made by individual employees, Ferguson has given $1 million to invest another 100 hours in practical training in areas such as budgeting, to support the recent expansion of the Virginia Living Museum in Newport balancing a cheque book, home and property care.
In addition to the News, Virginia.
This museum is a combined native wildlife park, science commitment to Habitat for Humanity, Stock Building Supply has participated museum, aquarium, botanical preserve and planetarium, which provides in numerous fundraising events for other charities including community blood a wide range of educational and environmental activities for local schools drives, cancer research, and the MS Walk for Multiple Sclerosis research and the community.
and raised, with its employees, more money than any other non-sponsoring company for the Ronald McDonald House Appeal in Chapel Hill, ensuring Donations food, shelter, comfort and support for more than 220 families during the In addition to these initiatives, the Group supports charities relevant to year.
Over the last five years, Stock Building Supply has helped to raise the countries and to the locations in which businesses operate.
These are more than $1.6 million for cancer research at centres of excellence in wide-ranging and cover health, welfare, education, civic and community California and Virginia.
projects as well as culture and the arts.
Each year, several hundred donations are made.
In the USA, many of our employees make regular contributions Wolseley UK operates a local community donation scheme in the UK for to the United Way, an organisation which distributes funds to charities.
a wide range of good causes for sports, education and health schemes in In the UK, a Give as You Earn Scheme operates with the assistance of the local communities.
In the year to 31 July 2004, Wolseley UK also supported Charities Aid Foundation which distributes funds to UK charities.
Further diverse organisations including Macmillan Nurses and Diabetes UK.
Plumb details of the donations made during the year are set out on page 50.
Center also has a long-standing involvement with the National Childrens Home, with employees taking part in different fundraising activities.
Over 100,000 was raised for the National Childrens Home this year with Plumb Centers assistance.
