Corporate Social Responsibility How we do business Our commitment to responsible business practices continues.
As Woolworths improves its sourcing, distribution and retail processes, the delivery of shareholder value comes hand-inhand with an obligation to ensure that all of our businesses recognise the impact they have on people and the environment.
In our Marketplace We continue to scrutinise the engagement of new factories and workshops from which we source our goods to ensure that they abide by our policies and principles for ethical trading.
We have an ongoing programme of supplier audits to ensure compliance is maintained and, where appropriate, standards improved.
In our Workplace We continue to recognise that without the efforts of our colleagues, across management, our warehouses and store estate, our plans for success and delivery of value to shareholders could not be achieved.
Intense competition on the High Street places high demands on our workforce and we remain committed to providing the training, resources and support to help meet these challenges.
In our Environment We continue our efforts to minimise the impact of our business on the environment.
More efficient distribution, more energy efficiency and waste recycling all contribute to this task.
We also continue to monitor the chemical constituents of our vast product range, and to develop our policies in the light of best practice to ensure that our customers make informed choices and our environment is protected.
In our Community We continue to make a contribution to our local communities.
It is our basic duty to make Woolworths a safe place to shop and through Woolworths Kids First and other charitable initiatives our colleagues are able to help causes which are close to them.
During 2003 4, through the CSR Committee, Woolworths Group has continued to work to understand the impacts, both positive and negative, of our business.
A proper understanding of the risks we must manage and the opportunities we have to be a catalyst for improvement is a fundamental part of how we do business.
I am delighted that this year, Woolworths Group has been judged within the Top 100 Companies that Count by Business in the Community as part of their annual Corporate Responsibility Index.
For a full report on the Groups activities in CSR, please refer to the Companys website, www.
com, and click on Corporate Social Responsibility.
Alternatively, for a hard copy of the 2004 CSR report please contact the Company Secretary.
Yours sincerely Trevor Bish-Jones Chief Executive 23 March 2004
