Social marketing enables students from a range of ethnic backgrounds to gain Our operating companies undertake work for clients where work experience in the advertising industry.
Other diversity the objective is to advance a social cause.
This can have a initiatives at our agencies include: positive impact for example by providing health information JWT supports the American Advertising Federations or by engaging the public in an environmental objective like AAF Mosaic Awards: the AAFs Most Promising Minority energy saving.
Student Award and INROADS an internship programme An example from 2004 is PSMs public relations work for minority youth and partners with the Ad Women of for a UK government anti-bullying campaign.
The campaign New York to help female professionals nd positions and targeted young people using sports and music celebrities.
During the campaign more than 50 celebrities were recruited Ogilvy New York has two full-time recruiters dedicated to to wear a beat bullying blue wristband.
minority recruitment, and works with specialised diversity recruiting rms to bring minority executives into the agency.
Cause-related marketing Y&R sponsors conferences and recruitment fairs including Cause-related marketing links brands to charities, usually the Advertising Women of New York Conference, the job through a donation for every product purchased.
Executed fair of the National Society of Hispanic MBAs, the Asian sensitively, these campaigns benefit both brand and charity.
American Diversity Career Expo and the US Department Many WPP companies work on cause-related marketing.
of Labors Job Fair for Hispanics.
During 2005, we will review the diversity programmes WPP as an employer in WPP operating companies as part of our annual talent review process.
Diversity Our goal is to have a talent base that reects the Development and training communities in which we operate.
We believe diversity People achieve more when they are supported and contributes to creativity, new ideas and a richer workplace.
motivated to develop their careers and acquire new skills.
Our non-discrimination policy, introduced in 1992, Our approach includes performance assessment, succession commits us to select, develop and promote the best people planning and training.
without regard to factors such as race, religion, national Our goal is for our people to receive regular performance origin, colour, sex, sexual orientation, age or disability.
CEOs from our operating companies lead annual Groups Code of Business Conduct contains policies on development-focused reviews of their executive talent with human resource issues, such as harassment and the key objectives of cultivating the exceptional capabilities discrimination.
Our people can report any concerns or of our leaders whilst assuring responsible succession suspected cases of discrimination or misconduct planning.
Coaching, mentoring, and deliberate job moves are condentially and anonymously if desired through our essential by-products of these talent reviews.
We launched a Right to Speak helpline.
360 feedback development tool for CEOs from our major In 2004, women accounted for 32% of executive directors operating companies during 2004. of operating companies, 51% of account directors and 55% In 2004, WPP invested 25.1 million in training and wellof total employees.
There are three women on WPPs Board.
We have introduced courses aimed at developing creative leadership, client leadership and personal Gender diversity 2002-2004 leadership.
This year we extended our client leadership course to all our largest companies.
Account Senior Employees directors executives Staff training and welfare 45% 44% 45% 46% 46% 49% 65% 64% 68% 000 23,419 20,921 21,793 25,145 55% 56% 55% 54% 54% 51% 35% 36% 32% Male Female 02 03 04 02 03 04 02 03 04 WPPs US-based advertising agencies are part of Operation 01 02 03 04 Success, a new initiative launched by the American Association of Advertising Agencies AAAA to increase diversity in the US advertising industry.
We also sponsor The parent company runs the SparkLab program of events such as the annual Harvard Business School innovative behavioural workshops and master classes.
Devised, developed and tailored by WPP for its own The conference is a networking opportunity, informing people, SparkLabs aim to refresh daily working habits minority professionals about new career opportunities, and improve everyday communication and presentation and increasing visibility for WPP as a preferred employer skills.
These workshops are led by professionals from the among this audience.
Several WPP companies, including JWT, MindShare, Our operating companies also run a range of training Ogilvy & Mather, OgilvyOne and Y&R participate in the courses covering all aspects of agency business and creative AAAAs Multicultural Advertising Internship Program.
For example, Hill & Knowltons Virtual Academy WPP Annual Report 2004 99
