Health and well-being The main health and safety risks for our business are How we behave associated with posture at desks and work-related stress.
We aim to identify and reduce these risks and provide a safe Corporate responsibility workplace.
By reducing stress we can minimise absence from work and improve productivity and employee retention.
Our agencies seek to create an environment where people feel able to discuss any issues, including stress, with their manager or human resources department.
Managers are responsible for identifying stress-related issues on an individual basis, through informal interaction with employees as well as during annual appraisals.
Our companies also assess the risk of work-related stress through offers 18 online training courses covering core business regular staff surveys and by monitoring issues raised via our skills.
JWT and O&M provide a range of structured Right to Speak helplines, Employee Assistance Programs training options for their people to support their career and during exit interviews.
Courses cover entry-level business and Initiatives to combat workplace stress vary by company marketing skills through to cutting-edge research and but include: leadership development.
Employee Assistance Programs a source of condential advice, support and counselling.
Employee ownership Flexible benefit programs, including subsidised childcare.
Share ownership gives our people a financial stake in the Flexible work arrangements enabling people to work Company and a share in its success.
WPPs Worldwide part-time or from home.
Ownership Plan, introduced in 1997, has granted share Medical checks and health screening.
options to over 49,000 of our people.
Details of this plan Training on stress and time management.
and other executive stock options can be found on page 107.
People working in the Group including directors own or Employee external appointments have interests in around 113 million shares, 8.9% of the The Company recognises that its directors and senior issued share capital.
executives may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies and that such exposure may be beneficial Communication to the Group.
Consequently, executives are allowed to accept We keep our people informed and up to date with what is non-executive appointments with non-competing companies happening across the Group.
With 84,000 people in 106 subject to obtaining the approval of the Group chief countries this can be a challenge, so we place great emphasis executive in the case of senior executives and the approval of on good internal communications.
Some examples are: the Nomination committee in the case of executive directors.
Distribution of the Annual Report, the Navigator Any fees receivable out of such appointments are retained by company handbook, the Atticus Journal, The Wire the individuals concerned.
WPPs global newspaper, and regular FactFiles to all companies worldwide.
Social investment A monthly online news bulletin e. wire.
Regular communication on Group initiatives such as the WPP companies create advertising, marketing and research Worldwide Partnership Program, BRANDZ, the Atticus work for charities at no or minimal cost.
This pro bono Awards, the WPP Marketing Fellowship Program and work helps charities publicise their campaigns, raise money professional development workshops.
and recruit new members, and provides a creative challenge Periodic reports from Sir Martin Sorrell to participants in for our people.
We also donate money and equipment to LEAP, and to the Leaders, Partners and High Potential groups.
support a range of good causes around the world.
WPPs website, Group intranet site and professional In 2004, our total social investment was worth 14.1 Knowledge Communities.
million, equivalent to 0.33% of revenue 3.1% of pre tax Formal and informal meetings at operating company level.
This includes 11.4 million in pro bono work based Our annual corporate responsibility Report is widely on the fees the benefiting organisations would have paid for distributed across WPP and is available on our intranet our work and 2.7 million in donations.
WPP came sixth in and website.
the UK Guardian newspapers Giving List 2004 based on 2003 data that ranks FTSE 100 companies by the value of their social investment.
WPPs social investment reduced in 2004 primarily due to a smaller amount of pro bono work being undertaken.
During this period of high commercial activity the time and resources that our people were able to donate to pro bono work reduced, meaning that the value donated did not keep pace with revenue.
