Employee volunteering Pro bono work by category Many of our people give their time and expertise as 1 Health 28.0% 78 6 volunteers to support good causes in their local community.
2 Local community 22.6% 5 We encourage this because it benets the charity and our 1 3 Other 21.5% people.
Our data collection system is not sufciently reliable 4 Education 12.1% 4 to enable us to confirm that we achieved the goal of one day 5 Arts 9.6% per person per year.
6 Environment 4.3% 7 Illegal drugs 1.2% Environment and supply chain 8 Alcohol abuse 0.7% 3 2 We take environmental issues seriously.
Our corporate responsibility policy commits us to minimising our environmental impacts.
These are energy use, transport, Donations by category and consumption of paper and other resources.
We are also committed to managing any significant corporate 1 Health 30.4% 678 5 responsibility risks in our supply chain.
2 Local community 24.3% We have prioritised three environmental issues energy 1 3 Education 18.5% 4 consumption, paper use and recycling and are working 4 Other 17.9% on these with 10 of our biggest ofces.
We are also 5 Arts 6.7% introducing ethical and environmental considerations 6 Environment 1.9% into procurement decisions.
As a first step we have added 7 Alcohol abuse 0.2% ethical and environmental criteria to WPPs Procurement 3 8 Illegal drugs 0.1% Policy and developed a supplier corporate responsibility 2 questionnaire.
More information is available in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
Many WPP companies gave money and undertook pro bono work to support communities affected by the Asian tsunami.
For example: Asia Pacic XM, our internet solutions company, worked with Yahoo!
Asia to drive trafc to the Red Cross website.
UK MindShare worked with its pro bono client, the Disasters Emergency Committee, to gain support and free airtime from the media industry.
US Hill & Knowltons Washington ofce offered free public relations advice to the Center for International Disaster Information.
WPP the parent company The Company focuses its support on education and the arts.
Some initiatives supported include: UK Charles Edward Brooke Girls School, which specialises in media arts, sponsoring work placements and other pro bono assignments.
UK Royal College of Art annual illustration competition and support of Hardship Fund.
UK provision of two bursary awards for D&AD, the professional association for design and advertising.
UK the Company is a corporate patron of the National Portrait Gallery and Natural History Museum in London.
UK the London Business School.
Sir Martin Sorrell is an active participant in programs at the following international business schools: London Business School: the Judge Institute for Management Studies, UK: IESE, Spain: Indian Business School: Harvard Business School and Boston University.
WPP Annual Report 2004 101 How were rewarded 102 WPP Annual Report 2004
