Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Abbas Mohamed What Im building: I work as a technical team manager for a Stakeholder report Government client.
My team is building a bespoke multi-user web-based application to allow our client to consolidate reports and calculate subsidies for UK farmers.
28 In the UK, we established a consultative body of elected employees.
The new forum provides an opportunity to consult employees on key decisions in the workplace, ensuring their views are heard at the most senior level, on subjects as diverse as performance management, resourcing, catering and work life balance.
In India, a new extended leadership forum meets regularly to review performance.
Roadshows also aim to keep everyone up to date and encourage Xansa is building... the confidence and capability of questions directly to the leadership.
employees Our people are at the heart of Xansas offering.
Building on Xansas pioneering policies for flexible It is the spirited teamwork, excellent service delivery, working, and an enhanced focus on work life balance, long-term relationships and flexible resource mix that in the UK we introduced the right to request flexible working clients tell us they value.
With streamlining to our for all employees, not only those with young children who client-centric organisation now complete, we are focused have a statutory right.
A Family Friendly Friday policy has on building the confidence and capability of employees also been introduced so employees may take full advantage who deliver these vital outcomes.
of their weekends by requiring as few of them as possible We are committed to developing and actively deploying to travel away from their contractual base or normal working our people in line with business requirements, embedding location on a Friday.
In India, Family Days are regularly a high-performance culture and working toward being an hosted by Xansa.
Employees and their families enjoy fun employer of choice.
and games as well as recognition for top performance.
In the last year, we have doubled the number of people with project and service management qualifications.
Xansa is building... a new community investment Many employees have also benefited from technical training.
programme Xansa has a long and well-established practice To monitor morale and assess priority action areas, a of investing in its local communities.
Through our new employee feedback mechanism was introduced via programme, and our support for employees own community a half-yearly, on-line questionnaire.
From October 2003 activities, we aim to raise awareness of local and national to May 2004, progress was demonstrated in all areas.
issues and needs and provide organisations with access For example, employees indicated that they want open, to resources and skills.
honest and timely dialogue with the Company.
As a This year, the Board undertook a strategic review of our result, Xansa has increased the frequency of its internal community investment programme.
As a result, it restated communications and through a range of vehicles.
The goals Xansas commitment to homelessness and education with a are to ensure employees have a clear understanding of strong emphasis on encouraging and supporting employees Xansas vision and strategy, the role they play in achieving in volunteering activities important to them.
A new it and that they are tuned in to business developments and programme has been established outlining guidelines and celebrate team successes.
responsibilities at corporate, country and individual levels.
Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Roger Cripps What Im building: I am a resource manager for two large telecommunications clients working with my team to get the right people, with the right skills, in place at the right time.
This helps our clients produce the solutions they need when they need them.
In India, we will continue to focus our support on literacy, homelessness and education.
As a founding member of the NASSCOM Foundation, we will further support programmes that improve IT literacy.
Xansa already sponsors projects in the three cities where it has a presence, often working in partnership with the India Sponsor Foundation ISF.
By working together, Xansa and ISF have been instrumental in engaging the support of other businesses.
Plans include sustaining and extending the existing programme and replicating our model of engagement to other community groups and schools.
Manna Lal Nath In the UK, Xansa will put renewed emphasis on its What Im building: I am a senior employee volunteering programme and actively promote software engineer in India working employees support for homeless organisations and schools.
We are Xansa will also continue its Matched Funding schemes for building an enhanced website for employees own community activities.
This will provide the clients customers with an improved schemes resulted in donations of 35,109 to regional and internet shopping and home national charities, supplementing the 52,315 raised by delivery experience which in turn employees themselves.
will help our client improve sales.
Xansa is building... an Environmental Management System Xansa is aware of its responsibilities to the environment and is committed to monitoring, managing and seeking to continually improve its environmental Paul Jones performance.
Following an independent audit of our What Im building: I am a senior environmental impact in 2003, the Management Board analyst programmer working for has approved recommended changes to our policy and Xansa Barclaycard Partnership.
committed to developing an Environmental Management As part of the live systems support team, I help to build System EMS by the end of April 2005.
The EMS will enable the partnerships reputation for Xansa to quantify and verify its environmental impact service, quality and responsiveness.
Xansa will use recognised This underpins one of the clients benchmarks to assess performance, setting internal four vision commitments, to be first in the eyes of its customers.
improvement targets and reporting progress against them.
