18 Yell Group plc CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We will develop and maintain a leading-edge approach to In both the UK and the US our people participate in regular surveys to measure and benchmark employee Corporate Social Responsibility CSR that will deliver maximum value to all stakeholders and further promote Yell as a worldsatisfaction and to receive feedback on our performance.
From our UK survey results published in 2004, 84% of our people would recommend Yell as a good place to work, CSR is an inherent part of Yell, the values we adhere to, and and our overall Job Satisfaction Index of 76% places us at the business decisions we make.
We do not view our the top of high performing companies in the UK, as responsibilities to our environment, our communities and other benchmarked by research organisation International social stakeholders as optional.
For us they are part of Survey Research.
In a national US survey run by Selling everyday business.
They are an integral part of our key Power Magazine, Yellow Book was ranked fifth as one of objectives and are owned by all of our people.
John Condron The 25 Best Service Companies to Sell For.
is the Board member responsible for CSR and it is managed by a steering group throughout Yell.
community Workplace Our Harmony Programme in the UK lays out our In an increasingly competitive environment, recruiting talented commitment to a work-life balance and we have developed a people, and developing, recognising and rewarding them is range of policies and programmes to enable people to work critical to our future success.
In FY04, we employed 8,100 in a way which suits their out-of-work needs.
In the UK, we of our people are able to work from home.
As evidence of are recognised as an Investor in People and appeared in the success of the Harmony Programme, our 2004 employee the 2004 Sunday Times Top 100 Companies to Work For.
satisfaction survey showed that 87% of our people believed We are an equal opportunities employer and believe that a their manager was considerate of their life outside work.
diverse workforce is important to our business and future Our low employee turnover is testimony to our peoples sustainability.
Of our total workforce, 53% are female and commitment.
In the US, sales people turnover has reduced by people from ethnic minorities make up approximately 10% of an average of more than 11% in the last year.
We are accredited with the UKs Two Ticks retention of sales people of 82% and non-sales of 90% is symbol for our positive approach towards disabled people.
significantly better than the UK average.
UK - 80% of plastic vending UK - Annual paper consumption UK - Recycled fibre content in Yellow Pages 48.2% machine cups recycled reduced by 8.9% over the last 3 years Annual Report 2003 04 19 Our main UK charity partner is Marie Curie Cancer Care, with whom we have worked for six years.
The focus of this years Daffodil Campaign was Words Worth Reading, a world-record aspiring mass poetry recital.
More than 250,000 school children from across the UK simultaneously recited 'Daffodils' by William Wordsworth to coincide with its bicentenary and raise much needed funds for a very worthwhile cause.
US - We have partnered with Earth 911, US - United Way works with Yellow Global - 100% of virgin paper an environmental information network, to Book to ensure donations from resourced from countries with provide community-specic recycling employees support pressing local needs sustainable forestry policies 20 Yell Group plc Kirk is the mascot for the Yellow Woods Challenge, our award-winning UK schools environmental campaign.
This benets local environments, schools and the Woodland Trust.
Pupils bring old Yellow Pages directories to school for recycling in return for free environmental educational materials and the opportunity to win cash prizes for the school.
915 schools and 225,000 children took on the Yellow Woods Challenge in its first year.
UK - Yell is IiP registered UK - We pride ourselves on our continuing UK - In 2003 we were awarded a registration to leading international Business in the Community BIG TICK for standards, including ISO9001:2000, our positive impact on the environment ISO14001 & OHSAS 18001 in the UK Annual Report 2003 04 21 In the UK we support other national schemes and charities, In both the US and the UK we are committed to the highest such as the Give As You Earn scheme, which allows people standards of health and safety.
Throughout our UK offices we to make tax-free donations direct from the payroll.
We deploy a fully integrated health and safety management encourage fundraising activities for Jeans for Genes, system that is accredited to the OHSAS 18001 safety Children in Need and NSPCC Change for Kids as well as standard.
Our overall approach is managed through our running pledging centres for events such as Comic Relief.
Health and Safety Committee and a network of 50 health and safety representatives.
In the US we support more than 100 charities, usually through co-promotion.
We are an active participant in many We have recently been awarded a prestigious National Safety fundraising activities nationwide, through organisations such Award 2003 by the British Safety Council, in recognition of as the Make-a-Wish Foundation and Ronald McDonald our lower than average accident rates 1.6 per 1,000 Houses.
We are also involved with United Way an employees, good safety plans and strong commitment to organisation that works with companies and local health and safety.
communities to ensure donations from employees support the Community most pressing local needs.
We have a responsibility to invest in society, and our Environment community programme forms an important part of our We recognise the impact our products have on the environment overall business strategy as well as reinforcing our brand and are committed to managing the risks and opportunities values.
that arise from our processes.
Our activities in the UK are In the UK, our main charity partner is Marie Curie Cancer certied to IS014001.
In 2003 we were awarded a Business Care.
In 2003 we helped raise 1.9 million for the Marie in The Community BIG TICK for our positive impact on the Curie Daffodil Campaign and our sponsorship has resulted environment and a Green Apple Award for the Environment in more than 2.9 million in equivalent advertising value for the second year running.
through our public relations activity.
We work hard to ensure we use a high percentage of reWe launched the Yellow Woods Challenge in September 2002 cycled bre in our printed directories.
In the UK we have working with the Woodlands Trust, the UKs leading woodland maximised the content for Yellow Pages at 48.2% and we are conservation charity, and local education authorities.
Its aim increasing the amount of re-cycled bre in our Yellow Book is to encourage environmental conservation and to educate directories.
In its first year, 49 local All of the new paper for the production of Yellow Pages and authorities, 915 schools and more than 225,000 school Business Pages is sourced from sustainable forestry and our children participated in the scheme and more than 340 paper suppliers are registered with The Finnish Forest tonnes of Yellow Pages directories were recycled.
Certification Scheme, which is endorsed by the Pan Yell people are encouraged to participate in the community European Forest Certification Council.
In the US we are and are provided with the skills they need to carry out this working with our suppliers to ensure they use paper sourced work.
Our people are encouraged to participate as, for from sustainable forestry.
We work closely with our pre-press example, school governors and members of education and and printing suppliers to minimise paper wastage in our industry partnerships.
directory production process and have successfully reduced wastage to very low, industry-leading levels.
UK - Yell has won the Green Apple UK - In April 2002 we were proud to UK - In October 1999 we won Environment Award organised by be awarded a Queen's Award for the European Quality Award, The Green Organisation for two Enterprise: Sustainable Development recognising our philosophy of consecutive years continuous improvement 22 Yell Group plc In the UK we sponsor the Directory Recycling Scheme, which works directly with local authorities to encourage directory recycling.
Currently 83% of councils offer directory recycling, a 60% increase from 1998.
In the US, we work in partnership with Earth 911, an environmental information network, to provide community-specific recycling.
Within our UK operations we have an internal environmental policy, Think Again, to reduce, reuse and recycle for the benefit of the environment.
We have a formal environment management system and an environmental scorecard which is reviewed bi-annually by our environmental committee and administered through a network of 50 green representatives across the UK.
We also review the environmental performance of our suppliers during the tendering process.
Corporate Standards We are committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and pride ourselves on providing accurate and relevant information on our activities and performance to all our stakeholders.
We aim to be a good business to do business with, setting and working to fair terms and conditions of trade with our customers and suppliers.
In the UK, we work closely with nearly 30 key trade associations such as CORGI and The Institute of Plumbing as well as government agencies to promote best practice amongst reputable tradesmen.
We are registered to relevant management standards such as ISO 9001 and Tick-It.
We are also members of relevant industry associations such as the Directory Publishers Association UK, the European Association of Directory Publishers and the Association of Directory Publishers US.
We are also members of Business in the Community and the London Benchmarking Group.
For further information on our Corporate Governance, please see pages 25 to 27.
UK - We sponsor the directory recycling scheme working, with local authorities to encourage directory recycling.
