28 28 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility The information below acts as a summary of our principles and corporate responsibility activities during 2004 and key highlights from the last year.
For the first time the full Corporate Responsibility Report has been formally reviewed by the BAE Systems Board and is available to all stakeholders.
BAE Systems recognises its responsibilities to discrimination where all employees can receive The executives are supported in this work by the wider community and to the environment.
a dedicated CR team and a CR Forum, which the training they need to develop their careers.
We are determined to be regarded as a draws on staff with relevant expertise from well-managed, responsible company.
As a Community: We value our relationship with, and across all of the groups businesses.
The CR global aerospace and defence business, our support, the communities and charities in the Forum includes experts in communication, competitiveness and future success depend not countries where we operate through donations health and safety, community affairs, investor only on the skills of our employees and the quality and practical involvement.
of our products, but also on our standing in the Governance and risk Environment: We have a responsibility to community and our commitment to high Governance of CR risks are an integral part of our standards of corporate governance and corporate consider our impact on the environment and overall corporate governance.
The BAE Systems responsibility CR.
We aim to be, and to be seen are committed to manage our environmental disclosures are to be found in the corporate as, a responsible corporate citizen in all the performance and minimise risks.
governance section in this report.
communities in which we operate worldwide.
Marketplace: We are committed to ensure Assurance We have developed broad statements of intent compliance with the laws and controls governing It is important that our CR reporting addresses to encapsulate our strategy and direction on defence exports everywhere we operate and issues that are material to our business and corporate responsibility.
These are: ensure we meet the highest standards of reflects stakeholder concerns.
In 2004 we Engaging with our stakeholders: We want to be conduct in our work.
worked with csrnetwork, an independent open with our stakeholders and understand assurance organisation, to benchmark our CR Management their views.
We are keen to engage in debate reporting against other major companies and Overall responsibility for CR lies with the board about our role in society and to report our best practice standards using the Accountability of directors.
It has delegated certain matters progress on addressing stakeholder concerns.
More information on their assessment to a number of Board Committees.
Benchmarking: We know that we can learn from and recommendations can be found in our The Chief Executive is responsible for all other companies, as well as from the many annual CR Report.
normal operational matters and has delegated examples of good practice within our own specific responsibilities to the Group Legal Our business and how we operate organisation.
We will benchmark our Director Ethics and Compliance and the Our responsibilities performance, both externally and internally, Group HR Director Workplace, Community As a company we demand and expect honesty, using quantifiable performance indicators.
In addition, in integrity and fairness in all aspects of our Workplace: We are committed to supporting our 2005 the Board has resolved to create a business.
We are committed to comply with employees and aim to help them reach their new board committee for CR, chaired by a the law in every country where we operate.
This includes laws implementing the OECD potential by providing a safe workplace free from non-executive director.
Benchmarking performance Engaging with stakeholders : 2004 opinion leader survey How do you rate BAE Systems performance on CR?
How would you rate BAE Systems performance on CR?
20% 20% 60% 2004 2002 New question for 2004 Poor Satisfactory Good % of opinion leaders BAE BAE SYSTEMS Annual Repor SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 t 2004 29 29 Anti-Bribery Convention and the US Foreign We are proud of the results of this survey as it Recognition Corrupt Practices Act.
We will not tolerate both recognises the hard work we have been Our Chairmans Award for Innovation scheme bribery or other attempts to influence improperly doing in this area over the last three years and recognises employees whose ideas, actions and the decisions of customers and suppliers.
shows an understanding of some of the behaviours make BAE Systems a better, more difficulties we, as a defence company, face competitive company.
This year over 3,000 We have an anti-corruption compliance in reporting on those issues material to us nominations were received.
From those, 48 Silver programme in place throughout the company.
The table below highlights Awards were allocated across the two categories This includes robust procedures governing the findings of this survey and some of the of Innovation and Best Practice Implementation transactions with marketing consultants, the actions we are taking.
The best of these nominations were proper use of corporate hospitality and our considered for Gold Awards by a panel of 10 procurement processes.
This is supported Workplace judges chaired by Ian King, Group Managing by an awareness-training programme which All our people are encouraged to realise is mandatory for all senior managers and all Director of CS&S, and including Stan Porter, their full potential as valued members of employees working in sales and marketing Director General Commercial at the UK Defence the company.
Everyone who works for our functions, and underpinned by a clear statement Procurement Agency, previous Gold Award company contributes to our success.
By that infringements will result in disciplinary winners from our Underwater Systems and North working together we will stimulate innovation action.
More information is provided in our American businesses and Grace Johnstone, and generate a more exciting and rewarding annual CR Report.
UK Female Engineer of the Year 2003. environment in which we all feel valued and Engaging with stakeholders respected.
Dignity at work We encourage dialogue and open BAE Systems has a long-standing commitment communications with all our stakeholders These principles form the foundation for the to develop and maintain a working environment including employees, trade unions, policies and practices that govern people whereby all employees have the right, and the shareholders, customers, business partners, management and our approach to employees ability, to work in an atmosphere free from suppliers, competitors, governments and within the organisation.
intimidation of any kind and where they are local communities.
Much of this takes place treated with dignity and respect.
Our Respect Employee feedback in the normal course of business but this at Work policy and procedure ensures issues This year we carried out a global Employee year we conducted a specific CR survey to and complaints in this area are quickly and Opinion Survey.
More than 37,000 employees build our understanding.
The survey polled effectively resolved.
This year we strengthened took the opportunity to let senior management 25 independent opinion leaders with an our work in this area by partnering with the UK know what they felt had improved since the last understanding of CR reporting issues.
This Department of Trade and Industry DTI and enables us to track changing perceptions survey was conducted in 2002 and which areas Britains largest Trade Union, Amicus, to form and identify current and emerging issues still need work.
A summary of key improvements the Dignity At Work Partnership to encourage to help shape our reporting.
Engaging with stakeholders : Comments, feedback and actions Report strengths Report weaknesses Action taken in 2004 Report Good presentation of objectives No indication of how CR is managed More information included on how CR is managed and progress and top level responsibilities and board level responsibilities Clear and reader-friendly Agreement for new Board sub-committee on CR Good mix of data and narrative to be established Informative and not too glossy Too much policy, not enough on Greater explanation of our stakeholder engagement Comprehensive, addresses all the issues performance processes and more transparent feedback Inclusion of positive and negative quotes Attempts to answer difficult questions No explanation or trends shown Greater emphasis on performance and internal with data data management processes Lacking information on marketing Greater clarity over internal governance and processes ethical compliance Too much focus on community Greater explanation of the business need to report charity giving on community activities and charitable giving 30 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued best practice in dealing with workplace bullying.
represents five percent of all UK apprentices, achieved by 2005.
Our performance against This partnership is in its early stages and we and has an outstanding completion rate of 90%.
the 2005 values are shown in the table below.
aim to report on progress later in 2005.
Coupled with our graduate schemes, which We will continue to address causes of recruited 290 graduates in the UK and US in accidents to further increase the safety of Diversity 2004, this helps ensure we have the talent our operations.
BAE Systems is committed to equality of necessary to deliver our commitments to the Environment opportunity for all employees and creating a customer now and in the future.
We have a responsibility to manage our impact workplace where everyone is treated with Health and safety on the environment, be it as a direct result of respect.
Our Corporate Diversity Steering Group The health and safety of our employees and our manufacturing operations, waste from our is working with diversity coordinators in our the communities around our facilities is very offices or the products we produce.
business units to help us recruit and retain important.
Our statistics show that through the best talent for our business.
In 2004 the All our major manufacturing sites have now increased leadership, focus and attention Executive Committee agreed a more proactive achieved accreditation to the international and training and awareness amongst our approach to enhancing diversity amongst the environmental management standard ISO employees, our performance in this area employee population.
Details are provided in 14001 and we continue to deliver continues to improve to the benefit of all.
our Corporate Responsibility Report and we improvements in relation to energy use, We, along with other major companies, made will continue to report progress.
a corporate commitment to the UK Health & Training and development In 2004 our primary energy users in the UK Safety Executive HSE in 2001 to work with BAE Systems invests in the training and formed a Carbon Club to address collectively them to deliver on their strategy for Revitalising development of its people from apprentice energy reduction issues and extend best Health & Safety.
The HSE has set targets for school leavers through graduates to our most practice to reduce carbon emissions.
reduction by 2010 with mid way targets to be experienced functional professionals and managers.
Employees have access to over 350 2001 2004 HSE 2005 target BAE Systems actual on-line courses and all our major sites feature BAE Systems BAE Systems for reduction reduction against Learning Resource Centres for those without baseline Actual against baseline 2001 baseline access to a computer.
In addition, over 25,000 Number of major accidents 68 60 5% 11% professional personnel have completed rate per 100,000 employees elements of the Developing You programme Days lost due to work related injury 21,079 11,299 15% 46% covering key skills across the main functional rate per 100,000 employees areas of our business.
Days lost due to work related ill health 2,027 1,649 10% 18% rate per 100,000 employees In 2004, we recruited 300 people to our apprentice development scheme, which There were no work-related fatalities in 2004.
The above figures indicate that we are making noticeable progress against the HSE targets.
Employee Opinion Survey: Improvements since 2002 My business unit leadership team is taking positive steps to improve business performance.
2004 55% 2002 45% 49% Aerospace and electronics average 2004 My immediate manager team leader lets me know how I am doing on an ongoing basis.
2004 56% 2002 47% I believe my business unit will act on the results of the survey.
2004 43% 37% 2002 benchmark data not available % of employees who agree BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 31 Education case studies Education and community The projects they embarked on included landscaping and building a play area for the In 2004, we invested 213,000 directly in our BAE Systems takes an active role in community Association for the Mentally Challenged, building education partnerships in the UK.
We also make and education activities, supporting charities a contribution indirectly through our expenditure a basketball court at a school for the hearing and working directly with those communities on apprenticeships and university research impaired, re-furbishing a kitchen, dining room close to our facilities worldwide.
The money we and wash area for Cheshire Homes, improving Support for the education sector remains a the sports field at the Centre for Learning and spend in these areas enables colleges and key part of BAE Systems CR programme.
The universities to develop their capabilities and improving a sports field and building and company is working actively with education improve their facilities, raising standards and education hall for the Vatsalya School.
bodies, and with schools local to its principal improving engineering education.
sites, to ensure that young people have the right Information & Electronic Warfare Systems raised BAE Systems is partnering with the American skills and are inspired to consider careers in over $16,400 for the American Cancer Society Association of University Women to encourage engineering.
We have this year carried out a major at the companys fifth annual Pride Day, through young women to take an interest in science and ticket sales, raffles and sponsored sports review of our UK educational activities and will, engineering.
Female engineers from our site at events.
Employees have given over 15,000 as a result, be running in 2005 a special schools Lansdale, Pennsylvania took part in the Girls hours as volunteers for education initiatives roadshow involving theatre and a practical Understanding Engineering, Science and and raised over $215,000.
In total employees workshop and offering a wealth of new online Technology GUEST programme helping local in North America raised more than $900,000 resources at www.
com education students complete an engineering and team for the American Cancer Society during the 18- building project.
In 2004, our total community investment month campaign, breaking all previous records.
This includes cash and in kind In Saudi Arabia, we agreed phase 2 of the In Australia, employees raised a total of A$40,000 donations to charity.
In addition, Charity National Occupational Skill Standards and for The Cancer Council Australia, which will be Challenge, our company-wide fundraising and Curriculum Development Project with the matched by BAE Systems.
In addition, volunteering programme, raised 6m from Saudi government.
BAE Systems will provide employees also raised A$20,000 for a number of employee fundraising and BAE Systems administrative support, funding and resources other charities, including World Vision, Leukemia matched donations.
This year it reported over to develop standard qualifications and training Foundation, Regency Park, Cranio-Maxillo Facial 5,700 volunteer days for charities worldwide.
curriculum for technical trades and vocational Foundation, Bali orphanages and Indian charities.
This builds on the success of the Charity Challenge case studies projects first phase which saw the development In October 2004, a team of 15 employees from In March 2004, 70 Saudi employees took part in of 125 skills standards and 300 training Australia, Germany, Saudi Arabia and the UK a BAE Systems sponsored fun run raising money packages matched to workplace needs.
spent four weeks living and working with charities for the Centennial Charitys disabled children in Bangalore, India.
This initiative organised by our appeal.
This was the first fundraising event of its joint venture in India benefited five local charities.
kind organised by and involving Saudi employees.
Full information on our Corporate activity and commitments Responsibility can be found in the annual Corporate Responsibility Report on the web Report available in hard copy or at www.
