We have made satisfactory progress against mindful of an overall framework of suitable Corporate Social these over the course of the year and our key standards, rather than by abiding by hard Responsibility Report achievements are described in more detail later and fast, self-imposed CSR regulations.
This report describes each objective and In last years report we set out our CSR policy and commissioned contains case studies demonstrating our CSR Grainger, in common with all businesses, has in action.
many stakeholders, with differing requirements.
a study which identified the CSR issues that we consider to be Our business is rooted in communities, and the most important to our business: As part of the risk assessment process see can affect the lives of many tenants and the corporate governance report, the board communities in which we operate.
The focus of considers all risks including environmental risks our energy externally is therefore on social and How we treat our tenants: and health and safety risks.
Internally, Grainger recognises How we look after our employees: has also been established, with representation the value of its employees, and provides staff with How we meet environmental, social and legal requirements: from across the organisation.
Rupert Dickinson a clear path to reward and recognition for success.
heads the committee, demonstrating the groups How we support the communities in which we operate commitment to CSR.
He has overall responsibility We are in the process of defining suitable for community issues, although other senior CSR Key Performance Indicators KPIs in Based on these issues and with the aim of improving our management are also involved.
The main purpose order to monitor our progress and performance.
of the committee is to disseminate information These are presented for the first time this year, performance, we defined our three year objectives which are around the group and involve other employees under the relevant objectives section, and contain set out on the following pages.
in specific CSR projects where their roles or skills historical information where it is available.
Grainger pursues strategies into new business areas, we will develop further appropriate KPIs.
Grainger is a forward-thinking entrepreneurial organisation, which seeks to conduct its Finally, although not a full audit opinion, an business in a socially responsible manner at all external commentary has been provided by times.
We believe that this is achieved by being Casella Stanger, similar to last year.
External commentary 2004 Grainger CSR committee Grainger Trust CSR Performance Terms of reference Casella Stanger are pleased to be invited areas demonstrates that more formal data An executive director of Grainger will head Disseminate CSR information to again to comment on Grainger Trusts progress collection and reporting has been established the CSR committee stakeholders.
since the publication of their first Corporate and that year-on-year data will begin to show It will report through that executive director Social Responsibility CSR Policy in 2003. performance and further demonstrate progress.
to the board where appropriate and after the initial three year phase to: Last year four key objectives were established The committee will aim to meet quarterly, to improve CSR performance and Grainger Trust The focus for Grainger Trust over the coming subject to there being matters for Prepare new objectives relevant to Grainger is reporting on their progress to date, as well as year should be to communicate its CSR policy consideration situation at that time: setting out plans for the future.
and progress to stakeholders, as well as The main purposes of the committee are gathering data in a simple and formalised initially to: Initiate any further projects necessary to It is extremely encouraging that Grainger Trust manner.
Grainger Trust will then be able to achieve these objectives: has also been very clear in establishing plans assess the costs, benefits and value added Review progress against the three for future improvements in CSR that will be from its CSR programme.
year objectives: Re-evaluate communication to stakeholders, co-ordinated and reviewed by a specific to ensure information is communicated Board-level CSR Committee.
We look forward to working with Grainger Trust Plan, implement and monitor targets set to effectively.
as it develops its CSR reporting in future years.
achieve these objectives by involving other In our opinion, Grainger Trust has made good group employees and or consultants as progress in its first year against their CSR Prepared by appropriate: objectives.
In particular, the establishment Emma Griffiths of Charity of the Year and a focussed Principal Consultant programme for employee involvement in Casella Stanger charitable activities are to be encouraged.
In addition, Grainger Trusts activities to support Reviewed by employees and merge terms and conditions Ken Smith of employment is to be commended.
Grainger Business Director Trusts identification of KPIs in some key CSR Casella Consulting Grainger Trust plc 16 Annual report and accounts 2004 Objective 1 EPRA Award To identify CSR issues and develop In September 2004, Grainger was delighted a strategic response to stakeholder to receive the EPRA Best Small Mid-cap information requests.
Performance Award, based on the year ended December 2003 in a ceremony in Berlin.
EPRA Our key CSR issues were identified with Casella European Public Real Estate Association is Stanger, and they reported on these in September a common interest, not-for-profit organisation, 2003.
Casella also assisted in our response to an which has aims to promote, develop and EIRIS report.
represent the European public real estate sector.
It endeavours to establish best We have recognised that our tenants are our practice in accounting, reporting and biggest group of non-financial stakeholders.
As such, our initial focus has been on ensuring that they are treated with respect and understand The trophy was awarded on the basis of total EPRA Award how and when to contact us.
shareholder return, providing certain standards In September 2004, Grainger was delighted of corporate governance had been maintained.
to receive the EPRA Best Small Mid-cap Performance Award, based on the year ended The last year has seen significant changes in December 2003 in a ceremony in Berlin.
Grainger, with the bringing in of the former Number of tenants paying by direct debit Bromley joint venture.
Property Management At 30 September 2004 5,295 tenants paid by the term we use to describe all dealings with direct debit.
A further tenants, has been brought under one roof 13% paid by swipe card.
These electronic Grainger Residential Management.
All property methods make rent payments easier for both management activities are performed under this the tenant and us.
We regularly send out letters name, from repairs to rent collection.
Reviews offering these payment methods to tenants.
of best practice in several areas of property management have been completed and others Number of complaints are ongoing, to ensure that we offer a consistent, We have started to collect data regarding efficient and effective service to our tenants and complaints, and expect to report next year.
We have several payment methods, allowing tenants to choose the most suitable Planned activities for them and there is a centralised, dedicated Dedicated telephone numbers Over the next year we plan to continue We have dedicated telephone numbers for telephone number for rent queries.
We have our best practice reviews to ensure a our tenants to call in respect of repairs to arrears targets each year, which have fallen forward-looking and consistent service their properties.
relative to our rent roll year-on-year.
Repairs, is offered to tenants.
however, are dealt with locally, from our offices and agents around the country, where we feel our tenants can best be serviced.
We utilise the skills, flexibility and local knowledge of many small contractors.
Gittisham In April 2004, an opportunity arose for Grainger to enhance its property portfolio and provide some security to existing tenants.
27 properties in the picturesque village of Gittisham in Devon had been put up for sale by the landlord.
Grainger stepped in to buy 15 of the properties, giving assurances that the village community would be preserved and that residents would be able to stay in their homes long-term.
Capitalising on an opportunity In April 2004, Grainger gave assurances that the village of Gittisham would be preserved and that residents would be able to stay in their homes for the long-term.
Annual report and accounts 2004 17 Grainger Trust plc Figure 8 - Performance review process Objective 2 We also support employees to achieve further To formalise HR systems to provide relevant qualifications through our further Mission support and appropriate CSR training education policy.
During the year to for all staff.
30 September 2004, we sponsored Objectives 13 employees to obtain degrees or other We have made a significant effort to integrate the professional qualifications, plus seven employees Strategies staff from Grainger and the former Bromley joint studying for the IRPM the Institution of Performance reviews Training needs venture.
Terms and conditions were somewhat Residential Property Managers qualification.
different, and almost all have now been harmonised.
All staff are now employed by one Ann Johnson is one of several sponsorship group company and development and training success stories for Grainger.
Her achievements Our people activities encompass staff from all of our offices were featured in the local press in August 2004, Grainger has a core of committed staff expert in buying, selling, managing and developing as appropriate.
when she graduated with a BA in Housing residential property, as well as enthusiastic Sustainable Communities and also won an support staff based in our six offices.
We now have standardised policies relating award from the Chartered Institute of Housing, to all significant employment issues, including North East Region for Best Undergraduate equal opportunities, further education, family Student.
Ann joined Grainger in 1997 as a leave, harassment, and maternity.
secretary to the surveying department.
She has taken on more responsibility over the years and Worthy of note again this year is our enlightened has recently moved to another position within attitude towards our employees.
The groups Grainger land and regeneration division.
We share schemes have been opened up to the feel this demonstrates Grainger support and former Bromley staff, so that approximately development of staff for the benefit of the group two-thirds of staff are now shareholders.
as well as the individual.
Grainger is an entrepreneurial organisation.
Grainger take all staff matters seriously.
The Staff of all levels are encouraged to put forward group employs an HR manager for general ideas and all are given consideration.
Although matters and a specific HR manager for training formal employee satisfaction surveys are not yet and development.
Both of these employees undertaken, employees are encouraged to give report directly to the deputy chief executive feedback, particularly during the performance officer and finance director, who has overall review process see in figure 8, right.
No changes to terms and conditions are made without consultation In September 2004 a diligent process of formally with relevant staff.
Intranet aligning each employees personal objectives with We are overhauling our intranet.
This will result the overall objectives of the group was initiated.
A full overhaul of our intranet is ongoing.
The in a useful tool for communicating with our Objectives for each division were agreed end product should be a most useful tool for Figure 9 - Grainger staff statistics employees, and an invaluable source of guidelines between the head of that division and the both communicating with our employees and as to best practice.
At executive board member responsible for that an invaluable source of best practice guidelines.
As performance reviews were performed, The CSR policy will be included on it.
It is Women in senior management the objectives of the organisation were cascaded intended that our progress on our CSR objectives holding board positions 3 throughout and personal targets set which were will be updated after each CSR committee Total members of staff 177 in line with the overall objectives.
Employees will be encouraged to offer Year ended needs in order to achieve objectives set are being suggestions and take part in charitable events.
30 Sept 2004 gathered together, therefore we can be certain No.
staff who received training 125 that the money we spend on direct training will The health and safety of our employees is also No.
staff sponsored in further education 20 No.
leavers 23 specifically enhance our ability to meet stated paramount.
We have an overall policy and objectives.
significant guidance on our current intranet.
Figure 10 - Grainger employee ages 17 Under 30 38 24 3140 27 22 4150 15 Sponsorship success 11 Ann Johnson is one of several sponsorship Over 50 23 success stories for Grainger.
Her achievements were featured in the local press in August 2004, Male when she graduated with a BA in Housing Female Sustainable Communities.
Grainger Trust plc 18 Annual report and accounts 2004 Objective 3 We hope to be involved in various activities To structure our approach to charitable including Annual London Open House, an giving and community support.
event that takes place over a weekend each September and attracts over 350,000 people We have taken time to consider how best this to some 500 buildings and Junior Open House, objective can be achieved so as to ensure our an educational scheme for 11-14 year olds, actions are appropriate for our varied involving an extended training programme stakeholders.
for teachers, building visits for 2,000 school children, and culminating in an awards scheme.
The regeneration of arts and culture is important Open House have also offered their support to Grainger and as a company we have made a with community and educational events in commitment to make sure our business supports conjunction with our development projects the cultural development of the North East region, such as the regeneration site in Hornsey.
where Grainger has its roots.
Following the sponsorship of Antony Gormleys Domain Field From the current financial year, which started exhibition at the Baltic last year, this year we in October 2004, we will be nominating a sponsored an English Heritage project Fashion charity of the year.
If employees participate at Belsay FAB.
Well-known fashion designers in sponsored events, then Grainger will match and some not so well known from the University the sponsorship raised up to 100 per employee, of Northumbria, each selected an area within provided it is donated to our charity of the year.
Belsay Hall and its grounds, to create an original We are delighted to announce that our first piece of work.
Grainger guests were invited to nominated charity is Shelter the housing the launch night and we also held an event at and homelessness charity.
Shelter aim to end our year end to thank the key people we work homelessness and bad housing in Britain by with in other organisations.
We aim to sponsor advising and campaigning, as well as research one prominent art related event each year.
Shelter was a natural choice for us, but we will be defining appropriate In the South of the country, we have been conditions and criteria for our future nominees.
We are pleased to announce that we have Each office will also be encouraged to organise agreed to support Open House on an ongoing a fundraising event in aid of our chosen charity.
Open House is an architectural education Employees organising these events will be charity with three principal objectives: invited to the next CSR committee meeting to report the outcome.
To foster public awareness and appreciation of Londons excellent built environment and Other events in which we participated during Fashion at Belsay architecture through free access the year include the Cancer Research worlds This year we sponsored an English Heritage biggest coffee morning, where employees baked project Fashion at Belsay FAB.
Well-known To promote architectural literacy and further cakes and sold them, with the proceeds going to fashion designers and some not so well known a better understanding of architecture and the the charity, and JeansforGenes day.
from the University of Northumbria, each selected public environment across all sections of the an area within Belsay Hall and its grounds, to community, particularly with children and In total in 2004 we gave 25,455 to charitable create an original piece of work.
The above horse young people causes.
This included 1,000 for a new 85cc was designed by Stella McCartney.
scrambler bike for a 14 year old boy in Hadston, To create dialogues about the present and one of our development areas where we have future environments between the Capitals worked closely with the local community.
His residential and business community own new bike had been stolen and without one he could no longer participate in moto-cross, where he had won 75 trophies in the two previous years.
25,455 Given to charitable causes in 2004 Charity of the year Open House Shelter the housing and We are pleased to announce that we homelessness charity aim to end have agreed to support Open House homelessness and bad housing in on an ongoing basis.
Britain by advising and campaigning, as well as research and fundraising.
Annual report and accounts 2004 19 Grainger Trust plc Health and safety policy Objective 4 Another major concern for us is that the In 2005 we hope to develop briefing notes We have duties to our employees, tenants of To ensure compliance with all applicable contractors we engage adhere to the relevant for staff on the CSR legal requirements of owned or managed properties, contractors, social and environmental legislation as health and safety standards.
This will be as a result of a visitors, clients and the general public.
and consultants employed directly or indirectly thorough review of our register of legislation.
via agents by Grainger are to be risk assessed We aim to: As a matter of course, senior managers read and the results held on a database.
Having made a tentative start, based on careful Comply with the Health and Safety at Work etc.
relevant trade press, and are therefore aware consideration, we hope to make significant Act 1974 and all relevant statutory provisions.
of regulations which could materially impact The database will include the following details: progress on all of our stated objectives over Provide adequate resources to enable this policy on Grainger, as they develop.
In this current Area of operation and expertise the coming year.
climate of constantly emerging legislation, it Date of assessment approval Ensure the health, safety and welfare of our is increasingly difficult to monitor and interpret The most significant environmental issues Current public liability insurance employees and others who may be affected by its volumes.
We therefore took the decision affect primarily some 10% of the business Member of specialist organisation our activities.
to maintain a register of all relevant legislation, our development and trading division, further i. e. Corgi FENSA Provide such information, instruction, training which is provided to us and regularly updated we negotiate with external parties to ensure and supervision as is necessary to ensure the by consultants who specialise in this field.
In Grainger Homes, Any new contractors will have to ensure they meet health and safety of our employees.
for example, we employ a main contractor all the criteria including risk assessments before Ensure that all plant and equipment under our The committee will review the register after for each site and that contractor takes the they can be added to the database.
Contractors control is maintained in a safe condition and is each update in order to disseminate changes responsibility for all health and safety and who fail to comply or have outstanding relevant subject to routine and statutory inspections and to senior management whose departments will environmental matters on that site.
Our details will not be able to be used.
agreement with the contractor stipulates Ensure that assessments of the risks arising minimum standards, and requires compliance Grainger land and regeneration division is from our activities are undertaken and the We monitor our performance where key with all applicable legislation and regulations.
becoming increasingly involved in both social appropriate control measures and safe systems regulations affect us.
The main one relates and physical regeneration.
Of note this year of work are implemented.
to the necessity for a landlord to check gas No separate environmental report is therefore is a joint venture partnership arrangement Ensure that all accidents and dangerous supplies appliances.
The Gas Safety Installation produced.
Following further CSR work, we for the redevelopment of a 30-acre brownfield occurrences are reported and where necessary, and Use Regulations 1998 place a duty on will attempt to justify the expense of a formal site at North Shields, Tyne & Wear.
Significant investigated and appropriate action taken to landlords to ensure that gas appliances, fittings environmental audit, whilst considering any contamination exists at the site, which prevent recurrence.
and flues provided for tenants use are not likely benefit.
was viewed as potentially harmful to the posing a health risk.
The inspections must be surrounding community.
Equal opportunities undertaken by a CORGI registered contractor in We are able to report that we now recycle It is our policy to treat job applicants and each dwelling on an annual basis, and remedial waste paper in our offices and during the In the South East, Grainger has begun to work employees in the same way, regardless of their action must be taken where required.
Sometimes period between November 2003 and on projects to redevelop run-down locations.
sex, sexual orientation, age, race, ethnic origin or it can be difficult to gain entry for various reasons, 30 September 2004 we have saved over We are pleased with the progress we have disability.
Further, the organisation will monitor the and we have best practice guidelines which are 100 trees.
made on these projects, which demonstrate composition of the workforce and introduce followed rigorously to ensure both tenant and effectively how business can be conducted positive action if it appears that this policy landlord protection.
with favourable social outcomes and expect is not fully effective.
to be able to report further next year.
Redevelopment of brownfield site at North Shields, Tyne & Wear Of note this year is a joint venture partnership arrangement for the redevelopment of a 30-acre brownfield site at North Shields.
Grainger Trust plc 20 Annual report and accounts 2004
