16 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Whilst their primary duty is to increase shareholder value, the directors acknowledge that in discharging this obligation, they also have responsibilities to other stakeholders.
Introduction environmental policies and objectives, safe encapsulation or removal of The board is ultimately responsible which are considered an integral part of asbestos and other contaminative for the Groups strategy and policies in its business activities.
It views the proper materials from its sites: relation to corporate responsibility as part management of corporate responsibility reduction of waste: and of its corporate governance, recognising issues as an opportunity for future growth the potential environmental and social through control of risk, so as to provide the adoption of safe working practices impact its business operations might its shareholders and other stakeholders in the construction and maintenance have on the wider economy.
The Groups of its buildings.
two urban regeneration sites, Greenwich In addition to compliance with current and Wembley, are an illustration of how Amongst the measures taken during this legislation, the Group has policies and it is working towards the needs of future period to minimise the risk of harm to the codes of conduct encouraging high tenants, communities, local and central environment were: standards of corporate behaviour in government.
Built on brownfield land, areas such as equal opportunities and these mixed-use developments will compliance with relevant environmental health and safety.
revitalise communities through the creation regulations and local environmental of new jobs, homes for all social groups, controls: Whilst their primary duty is to leisure facilities, community and increase shareholder value, the directors office space.
evaluation of contamination issues acknowledge that in discharging this and the conduct of remedial work in obligation, they also have responsibilities Social and Environmental new projects: to other stakeholders.
Such interests The Group recognises the as those of its joint venture partners, importance of long-term maintenance appropriate controls requiring tenants tenants, staff and the local communities of the environment and encourages to comply with environmental best are important to the Groups long-term continuous environmental awareness, practice: and success.
aiming to minimise the risk of causing harm through: inspection of its properties from The Group is committed to the an environmental perspective.
management of health and safety, the careful consideration of construction environment and the development of techniques: In addition the Group has taken positive its people.
It aims to keep any negative steps to create sustainable mixed-use impact of its business operations to the specification and use of sustainable development projects which: materials with a view to the elimination a minimum, encouraging a positive contribution through appropriate of materials or substances harmful to the environment: 17 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Corporate Responsibility are safe and people friendly, with work closely with the relevant private Development Agency and the Secretary an adequate range of residential, bodies and local authorities to ensure of State for Culture, Media and Sport.
commercial and retail properties: all guidelines and regulations are The Group, together with its Greenwich properly considered and adhered to.
joint venture partner, Lend Lease support local shops, education, Europe Limited, is making a significant health and other community facilities Prior to the acquisition of every contribution towards the achievement including the incorporation of public property an environmental report is of The London Plan: the Mayors vision spaces to foster community cohesion: commissioned covering the potential for an exemplar world city.
existence of contaminative materials and include affordable housing, a recommendations for any necessary The urban regeneration projects will proportion of which is suitable remedial action.
have the following characteristics: for key workers: As part of an ongoing commitment be appealing places to live, with through economic regeneration create to reducing office waste, the use of landmark attractions, well-designed job opportunities for local people: electronic documentation is encouraged.
accommodation and community The holding of records and transactions spaces: concentrate on brownfield sites and in electronic format is constantly under urban centres, thereby rejuvenating review and steps have been taken be drivers of economic growth for the these areas: local community, bringing jobs to the towards this.
Agreements are in place for the recycling of as much of this waste area through provision of new office, reduce dependence on car use by leisure, entertainment and retail space, as possible.
siting developments close to public as well as by attracting people to the transport and local facilities, working Sustainable development including environment surrounding the landmark in co-ordination with local transport related environmental issues attractions of the Greenwich Millennium authorities: and The Group aims to deliver sustainable Dome, the new National Stadium and long-term regeneration, anticipating refurbished Wembley Arena: promote energy efficiency through lengthy involvement in projects such as better transport links, production Wembley and the Greenwich Peninsula be environmentally efficient through and use of building materials.
for the benefit of local people and their the use of both environmentally friendly communities.
construction techniques and designs During development the policy is to: that aim to minimise ongoing energy Through these two projects the Group, use, within the business constraints avoid the unnecessary generation of either solely or with its joint venture of each project: and waste through the recycling of waste partners, is involved in the provision and water: of 13,700 new homes for London.
be contributors to local infrastructure Of these, over 5,000 will be affordable through such means as the minimise the depletion of natural homes for key workers and those unable enhancement of transport links and resources and to reduce site to buy or rent in the open market.
It is construction of schools, as recently contamination to acceptable levels: anticipated that over 30,000 new jobs will demonstrated in Section 106 be created in these new neighbourhoods planning agreements.
wherever possible, protect wildlife and the Groups activities will bring to areas and or restore the ecological them improved economic growth and The Housing Corporation, which funds balance of the environment and social inclusivity.
and regulates housing associations, to promote a natural habitat for has agreed to support both of these enjoyment by the local community: There has been extensive consultation major developments by making grants with local resident and community available to partner housing associations use off-site manufacturing and building groups and local government.
There working with the Group.
techniques, where appropriate, to has also been significant liaison with the minimise disruption to residents during Mayor of Londons Office, the Office of construction: and the Deputy Prime Minister, the London 18 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Corporate Responsibility Health and safety The objectives include: 24 hours a day.
The team files a report The Group is committed to the highest with its Managing Director after every the elimination, wherever possible, of standards of care in the provision of event held on the Complex.
Health and a safe and healthy environment for risks to health and safety and, where safety issues are discussed at formal not possible, their effective control: its employees, tenants and visitors.
PLC board meetings and at Wembleys It actively promotes a culture of good board, senior manager and safety the reduction of accidents and other practice in health and safety, leading committee meetings.
incidents to their lowest possible level: to the avoidance of, or reduction in, During the year, the board initiated a risks to health and safety and ensuring ensuring that employees are compliance with the Health and rigorous process designed to check appropriately trained to carry that managing agents have appropriate Safety at Work Act 1974 and out their duties: associated legislation.
procedures in place for the buildings for which they are responsible, including the review of risks and controls on an To this end the activities health and safety and compliance with ongoing basis to improve standards of at its London office have been audited the Disability Discrimination and The health and safety and compliance with by its external advisor National Britannia Control of Asbestos at Work legislation.
legislation and best practice: Limited, which assists staff with specific Managing agents are now required to health and safety responsibilities in report on health and safety matters on the maintenance of a management reviewing exposure to risk.
system which, inter alia, identifies Groups Wembley office does not use responsibilities of key personnel and external auditors, it employs its own Following the introduction of recent a corporate health and safety legislation, appropriate external advice team of professionally qualified structure: and personnel.
In addition insurers and has been taken in relation to asbestos at the Groups properties, which is either underwriters arrange their own audit the promotion of staff awareness as part of the renewal process and removed or enclosed and monitored, in relation to good practice in whichever is the safer.
the minor recommendations made minimising risks.
During a recent audit process at Within Wembleys operating business, Wembley, the numerous contractors on there is a health and safety team of the Complex were assessed to establish 15 full-time staff headed by a dedicated, their competency to carry out works in fully-qualified and experienced health a safe manner.
This included completion and safety officer.
Other qualified of a lengthy questionnaire on work members of the team are on duty practices specifically targeted at their 19 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Corporate Responsibility health and safety arrangements.
The Group has an equally low level The Group is an equal opportunities Wembley required all safety issues of incidents within its property portfolio, employer.
Strict codes of conduct are set identified to be addressed and remedial where there were ten minor insurance out in the corporate handbook to ensure action taken as a condition of the claims in the financial year, nine of which that this policy is pursued throughout.
contractor being permitted continued occurred at the its largest shopping access to the site.
centre in Stockton-on-Tees where annual During the year the Group employed an average of 57 permanent staff at its head footfall exceeds four million people.
During the year the Groups Health and office and 113 at Wembley, comprising: Safety Policy and manual of regulations Staff The Group recognises the contribution % was reviewed and these will need to be reconsidered annually in line with a of its highly motivated staff to its continued Gender: Women 47 success.
Employees are encouraged to Ethnic origin: 10 philosophy of continuous improvement in all areas of the business including develop their careers through the funding Age range: 18-30 years 25 of appropriate training and qualifications, 31-45 years 38 safety performance and culture.
and are given relevant study leave.
46 and over 37 The services of a doctor and full-time Wembley has in-house training facilities The ages of members of the board nurse, located at Wembley, are available for those wishing to improve their skills ranged from 32 to 65. for all staff to consult in confidence.
in areas such as Information Technology.
During the year in excess of 155 Management responsibility During the year, and up to the date of professional or in-house training courses James Hamilton Stubber, the publication of this report, the directors were undertaken.
In addition each Chief Operating Officer, is the director confirm that no incident has occurred in employee is regularly appraised with a responsible for corporate responsibility any of the Groups properties either at view to maximising his or her potential matters.
the Wembley Complex or across the and contribution.
property portfolio which was so serious The Group is continually working as to necessitate the filing of a RIDDOR There are opportunities for staff to towards ways in which it can more report.
make formal input into the management effectively evaluate and monitor the of the business.
A flat corporate structure environmental and social conditions Notwithstanding more than two million and open door policy promotes upon which it has an impact.
visitors to the Wembley Complex in the communication and encourages financial year, only six incidents occurred maximum contribution.
Wembley which were sufficiently serious that the conducts a twice yearly staff satisfaction Groups insurers had to be informed, a survey and also has an Investor similar record to that of previous years.
