St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC Annual report 2004 Corporate and social responsibility Community Environment Building Partnerships St. Modwen is committed to improving the built environment.
Community involvement in the companys projects is essential The companys projects seek to transform areas of dereliction for their ultimate success.
Consequently extensive consultation and decay into sustainable communities.
The companys is undertaken via public and individual meetings with local commitment to the environment is demonstrated in many ways:- representative groups and councillors.
Local press are kept informed of all developments, and planning issues freely and Sustainability openly debated with interested parties.
The company has built The company seeks to use sustainable designs in its developments, strong and enduring relationships over many years in those areas to minimise the impact of new buildings on the environment.
in which it operates, and is proud to be seen as a key member Recent examples include:- of these communities.
The companys track record of obtaining planning permissions, and its continuing success in securing Achieving the highest BREEM ratings for its new buildings development agreements with local authorities, is an endorsement at Ludgershall and Heron Business Park of the time and effort put into ensuring that development The environmentally sensitive treatment of surface water proposals are properly consulted and fully endorsed.
by the use of swales a system of ditches and lagoons at the companys new head office at Quinton or the system Building Communities of soakaways designed using sustainable urban drainage The company seeks to build and develop sustainable systems SUDS techniques at Trentham Gardens communities from its regeneration projects.
This is achieved by The innovative use of lime stabilisation techniques at Trentham putting in place a robust infrastructure, including transport links, Lakes to minimise the quarrying and transportation impact and community facilities including schools, medical and leisure of foundation materials.
This approach reduced the amount centres, social clubs, libraries, and local shops.
Some of these of floor slab materials required by over 50,000 tonnes.
are provided through planning agreements, others on a voluntary Using timber from renewable sources in accordance basis.
Equally important in the establishment of a healthy with Forest Stewardship Council FSC best practice at community, is the creation or preservation of local jobs, whether Trentham Gardens by working with existing landowners to help them restructure, The demolition of the Avonmouth zinc smelter generated over or by providing opportunities to attract new employers.
38,000 tonnes of brick and concrete which was crushed and stockpiled on site for use under roads and parking areas.
In the station area of Rugby, the company is seeking to This will save on the need to import crushed quarried stone regenerate 125 acres of mainly redundant former heavy Reinforcing rather than replacing the existing landfill cap engineering facilities which, at their peak, provided employment at Norton Colliery reduced the volume of clay that needed for over 20,000 people.
Working with Rugby Borough Council, to be imported on to the site by over 195,000 tonnes thereby English Nature and the Commission for Architecture and the Built reducing the number of lorry movements to and from this Environment CABE over the last 18 months, the company has urban site by over 16,000 trips.
agreed a masterplan that will bring significant employment opportunities to the area, while rebuilding an entire community.
Regeneration This project will also involve: The company acquires brownfield industrial sites, often with significant remediation issues.
The company uses its expertise to investment of 8.5m for remediation of the land, demolition remediate sites by seeking wherever possible to treat or recycle of redundant factories and creation of new road infrastructure materials on site, removing them to landfill only as a last resort.
environmental enhancement, and integration with the built Infrastructure will be provided or upgraded to alleviate traffic area, of the river Avon frontage and Oxford canal problems and public transport and alternative transport solutions creation of a Centre of Vocational Excellence for Rugby College will be adopted wherever practicable.
New developments are construction of 840 new homes built with good quality landscaping and provision of public creation of a central hub of community shops and facilities as a open spaces.
focus for the community The company enters into long-term land recycling projects, Our mixed use town centre schemes such as Edmonton Green such as the 310-acre former British Steel site and derelict land and Wembley are often based in disadvantaged and deprived at Festival Park, Stoke on Trent, which has been developed areas, where the incorporation of community uses is an integral since 1988 to provide around one million square feet of retail part of our proposals.
Examples of these include: warehouse, office and industrial accommodation.
Extensive ground engineering and remodelling was undertaken in order an 11m community-run leisure centre and swimming pool to facilitate future developments in terms of foundation design.
a 22,000 sq ft primary health care centre Excavation to depths of three metres was undertaken, which a Police in the Community project centre included the breaking out of mass concrete and brick a new bus terminus foundations to smouldering houses and blast furnaces.
This a new public square material was crushed to a 6F2 standard and re-compacted in a high proportion of small, local occupiers for retail and market layers to give a favourable development plateau ready to be units, attracted or retained by the companys strategy of utilised to accommodate standard strip and pad foundations.
providing good value, affordable space 24 St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC Annual report 2004 The remediation and development of part of this site will continue Social into the next decade.
Similarly the 400 acre site at Trentham Heritage Lakes which was acquired from British Coal in 1996 has been The companys heritage activities enable buildings and facilities substantially reclaimed to transform a colliery into a business, of national significance, such as Trentham Gardens and Dudley leisure and distribution park, and a residential area.
Recent Zoo and Castle, to be restored for the future enjoyment of the acquisitions, including the 212 acre site from Britannia Zinc in nation.
Working in partnership with local authorities and national Avonmouth and the 600 acres of former steelworks at Llanwern organisations, including English Heritage and English Nature, offer significant long-term opportunities for regeneration of a the company aims to deliver sensitive restoration underpinned similar impact and magnitude.
The company uses its remediation skills to create good quality Employees The company encourages staff to be involved in community residential land from land previously used by traditional industry.
initiatives in the locality in which they are based, with many This is of significant benefit in avoiding the use of greenfield sites for development, and is strongly supported by current of the companys senior management active participants in government policy.
public consultation bodies and local strategic forums.
We closely monitor our employee policies and practices to All property developed by the company has a fully traceable audit trail resulting in a Land Quality Statement for the end user ensure we maintain high standards, particularly in relation to which identifies ground conditions, gas and other monitoring, equal opportunities in recruitment and career progression, as well as fair and equitable remuneration.
We maintain our policy remediation work done, and test results.
Remediation activity is of giving full and fair consideration to the employment of disabled based on a thorough assessment of the sources, pathways and targets of risk factors.
people, and for addressing the needs of those who may become disabled during the course of their employment with us.
Wherever possible the company uses on-site containment or Health and Safety treatment techniques such as the in situ bio-remediation process being undertaken at Llanwern, and avoids merely The company aims to safeguard the health and safety of moving waste to landfill sites.
The companys innovative the public and its employees by pursuing a policy which ensures that:- approach in this area has enabled it to obtain a commercial use Its business is conducted in accordance with standards that for over 40,000 tonnes of blue powder treated zinc and lead waste from the Avonmouth site, which would otherwise have are in compliance with relevant statutory provisions for health been disposed of in a hazardous waste tip.
Similarly, we will and safety of staff and any other persons on company premises A safe and healthy working environment is established and reprocess 400,000 tonnes of foundry sand from the former Lister maintained at all of the companys locations Petter site at Dursley by a stabilisation process which locks in the contaminants within the soil.
The processed material will be used Managers at all levels regard health and safety matters as a to create plateaux for industrial and residential developments.
prime management responsibility Sufficient financial resources are provided to ensure that By using this technique the sand can be retained on site and policies can be carried out effectively the need to import crushed rock for use beneath roads and buildings is substantially reduced.
The net effect will be to reduce Good standards of training and instruction in matters of the number of lorry movements to and from the site by some health and safety are provided and maintained at all levels of employment 64,000 trips.
Risk assessments are carried out where appropriate Co-operation of staff in promoting safe and healthy conditions and systems of work is required An adequate advisory service in matters of health and safety is provided and maintained Detailed policies and procedures are documented and made available to all staff.
The Health and Safety Forum, chaired by the Assistant Company Secretary, and reporting to the Chief Executive, meets regularly to discuss and resolve implementation issues.
The procedures are reviewed by the board annually, with health and safety matters included on the agenda of every board meeting.
Management responsibility Because of the importance to the company of community, environment and social issues, they are the responsibility of the Chief Executive.
