2 1 1 Berkeley Graduate Scholarship Trainee 2 Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth 3 Royal Clarence Yard, Gosport Prior to refurbishment 4 The Royal Arsenal, Woolwich, SE18 Computer generated image 3 16 www.
co. uk Sustainability Our approach to sustainability is an evolving one which draws on our experience of implementing a sustainability strategy over the past four years and aims to deliver continuing improvements in our performance.
The Berkeley Groups commitment to Investments.
The Report assessed the UKs Our approach to sustainability is an evolving one sustainability is founded upon our fundamental leading housebuilders against a wide range which draws on our experience of implementing responsibility to maximise shareholder value.
Our of sustainability criteria and Berkeley scored a sustainability strategy over the past four years sustainability strategy assists us to meet this key 70%, placing it second overall.
and aims to deliver continuing improvements in goal in two important ways.
First, it reinforces our performance.
our commitment to continuous improvement Continued participation in the Business in through the structured monitoring and review of the Environment 8th Index of Corporate As we reposition the Company over the coming all our procedures thereby giving the Company Environmental Engagement.
Our score here year to focus exclusively on urban regeneration, competitive advantage and so creating value.
improved for the third consecutive year.
we will continue to develop the sustainability Second, it helps guide our focus on the agenda throughout the business.
regeneration of redundant land in major cities The roll out across the Group of an across the country.
This has placed sustainable intranet, which is now the heart of our development at the heart of our business internal reporting systems for Berkeleys strategy and its a focus we will continue sustainability strategy.
Maintaining a listing in the FTSE4Good We are pleased with the progress we have and continued engagement with socially achieved over the past year while conscious that responsible investors.
Key important milestones for the Group this year have included: Initiation of a sustainability performance management tool.
Commendation for our approach to sustainability reporting in a landmark report Refinement of our key performance commissioned by the World Wildlife Fund indicator relating to waste.
now known as WWF the Global Environment Network and Insight Real progress in the development of the divisional implementation strategies.
