3i Report and accounts 2004 Corporate responsibility report Our approach Philosophy As an international business operating in 14 countries with around 750 employees worldwide, 3i aims to conduct its business in a socially responsible manner.
It is committed to being a responsible member of the communities in which it operates and recognises the mutual benefits of engaging and building relationships with those communities.
3i believes that respect for human rights is central to good corporate citizenship.
In everything 3i does, it aims to be commercial and fair, to maintain its integrity and professionalism and to respect the needs of shareholders, staff, suppliers, the local community and the businesses in which it invests.
3i endeavours to comply with the laws, regulations Responsibilities and accountabilities and rules applicable to its business and to conduct its The Board as a whole is responsible for ethical standards.
business in accordance with established best practice The executive Directors are responsible for ensuring in each of the countries in which it operates.
Environmental, compliance with 3is corporate values and standards.
ethical and social responsibility issues and standards The Corporate Responsibility Committee are also taken into consideration in every aspect of the Committee, comprising Tony Brierley, Company the business.
Secretary and Chairman of the Committee, Patrick Dunne, 3i aims to be a responsible employer and has Group Communications Director, Charles Richardson, adopted corporate values and standards designed to help Manager of a UK portfolio management team, and Hans guide its employees in their conduct and business Middelthon, an investment executive in 3is Oil and Gas relationships.
These values and standards are an integral team, considers and reviews environmental, ethical and part of 3is culture.
social issues relevant to 3is business and associated risks.
It also monitors and reviews the operation of 3is corporate responsibility policies and procedures.
Tony Brierley has specific responsibility for 3is environmental policies, leading the development of new initiatives and targets and reporting to the Board.
He is also a member of the Leadership Team of Business in the Environment.
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, identifies and assesses the significant risks and opportunities for 3i arising from social, ethical and environmental issues.
A risk matrix methodology is used to identify new risks, monitor developing trends and best practice, and consider changes in 3is business and culture.
This risk matrix is reviewed and updated at each meeting of the Committee and significant risks are reported to 3is Risk Committee, whose work is set out in more detail on page 36 of the Directors report.
The Committee reports regularly to the Board.
All employees have a responsibility to be aware of, and abide by, 3is environmental, ethical and social policies which are available to all staff through 3is intranet.
Employees are encouraged to make suggestions to improve processes and procedures.
25 3i Report and accounts 2004 Corporate responsibility report Environment As a corporate The environment As an employer As a financial services business employing around 750 3is staff are fundamental to the success of its business.
employees worldwide, 3is direct environmental impact is Accordingly, one of 3is core values is to respect its staff relatively low.
3i measures its own energy and resource and their needs.
usage where practicable and sets targets to achieve Employees are organised in small teams and an improvement.
The principal benchmarks against which environment of co-operation is encouraged to ensure the 3i measures its performance are for: highest standards of integrity and professionalism.
CO emissions: and In accordance with 3is core values, individual 2 recycling of paper and other materials.
consultation with employees on matters affecting them, and fair and open communication, are a high priority.
3i also assesses the environmental standards of suppliers, Periodically, internal communication surveys of employees through its procurement policy.
are conducted for 3i by independent researchers.
3i has comprehensive behaviour policies to help ensure that employees treat their colleagues and others with courtesy and respect.
3i also has a whistle blowing policy setting out procedures for staff to raise in confidence matters of concern, for an appropriate and independent investigation of such matters and, where necessary, for follow-up action.
3is employment policies are described in more detail in the Directors report on pages 35 and 36.
Health and safety 3i recognises that the promotion of health and safety at In Kind Direct work is an essential function of staff and management at all levels.
In an endeavour to achieve high standards, During the year, 3i supported appropriate policies and procedures have been put in In Kind Direct, a UK charity which distributes manufacturers surplus place.
These policies and procedures are the responsibility goods to other UK voluntary of Michael Queen, the Finance Director.
These include The purpose of 3is health and safety policy is to essentials such as toiletries and enable all members of 3is staff to go about their everyday tools, office supplies and equipment, and household business at 3is offices in the expectation that they can do products and appliances, which so safely and without risk to their health.
3i imposes might otherwise be disposed of in rigorous standards on its staff and subcontractors and landfill sites.
3i was particularly pleased to support a charity which endeavours to ensure that the health, safety and welfare of utilises surplus products in an its employees, visitors, customers, subcontractors staff environmentally efficient manner.
and the general public are not compromised.
3is objective is not to have any reportable accidents or incidents.
During the year to 31 March 2004, no reportable accidents or incidents occurred under UK Health and Safety regulations and no reportable accidents or incidents occurred under similar regulations outside the UK.
3is health and safety procedures are independently reviewed annually.
As a member of Tommys Pregnancy Accreditation Programme, 3i complies with criteria for pregnancy management, geared towards creating a positive environment for parents-to-be in the workplace.
26 3i Report and accounts 2004 Corporate responsibility report As an investor Investment policy 3i has a portfolio of investments in over 1,800 businesses in Europe, Asia Pacific and the United States.
As an investor, corporate governance is a priority and account is taken of environmental, ethical and social issues when making investment decisions.
3i believes it is important to invest in companies whose owners and managers act responsibly on environmental, ethical and social matters.
3i aims to invest in companies which: respect human rights: Where, after an investment has been made, 3i becomes comply with current environmental, ethical and aware that an investee company is not operating in an social legislation: acceptable way, 3i will seek to use its influence to have proposals to address defined future legislation: encourage improvement.
Where that is not possible, seek to comply with their industry standards and 3i will seek to divest itself of the investment.
Training and development 3i recognises that the most significant risks to 3is shortEncouraging the continuous development of staff is term and long-term value arising from environmental, ethical important to 3i and its business.
During the year, a revised and social matters arise from its investment business.
If a training and development programme was launched for 3i company in which 3i has an investment acts irresponsibly staff.
This programme includes courses on communications on corporate responsibility issues, this might affect the and presentations, working within a management matrix monetary value of that investment and, as a shareholder in environment, coaching and mentoring, and networking and that company, raise reputational issues for 3i.
In addition, investment staff are required does not have operational control over the companies in to complete an investment training programme on joining 3i which it invests, it does have the opportunity to influence and all staff are encouraged to attend external courses on the behaviour of these businesses and encourages the subjects relevant to their roles within 3i.
During the year, development and adoption of good corporate governance.
in addition to these external courses, approximately 300 This is achieved through the training of investment staff and employees attended training and development courses.
non-executive directors who are appointed to the boards It is a legal and regulatory requirement that all of investee companies and the raising of awareness executives involved in making or managing investment within investee companies of social, environmental and transactions receive anti-money laundering training and ethical issues.
refresher training on a rolling two year basis.
All relevant 3i has clear procedures to reduce the risks of 3i executives have received anti-money laundering training investing in businesses which operate in an environmentally, and, during the year, 3i delivered a refresher training ethically or socially unacceptable manner.
When reviewing presentation to all relevant executives.
businesses for potential investment, investment executives A programme of role-play-based workshops across are required to consider whether any corporate the business and regular articles in 3is staff magazine are responsibility risks arise and, if any risks are identified, to being used to raise awareness of corporate responsibility follow 3is corporate responsibility investment procedures.
issues, to stimulate debate and provide employee training.
Depending on the nature of the risk identified and its During the year, nine workshops, covering 336 employees, seriousness, a condition precedent or post completion were held in the UK.
Workshops will be held in continental undertaking requiring that the situation be remedied may Europe, Asia Pacific and the US in the coming year.
be required from the investee company or its management.
Following feedback from these workshops, a fact sheet, Alternatively, it may be decided not to proceed with explaining 3is approach to corporate responsibility and the investment.
providing further information for staff, is being circulated.
Training for Directors on corporate responsibility issues is achieved through a system of regular Board reporting and by Board presentations on relevant corporate responsibility issues.
27 3i Report and accounts 2004 Corporate responsibility report Charity and community 3is charitable policy 3is charitable policy aims to support: causes based in the communities in which 3i has offices: charitable activities of staff.
3i matches donations made by UK staff under the Give as You Earn scheme GAYE and the proceeds of staff fundraising efforts.
In the year to 31 March 2004, approximately 32% of 3is charitable donations were matching GAYE donations: charities relevant to its corporate activity, for example, 3i supports businessdynamics, a charity which aims to help young people understand business.
Charitable donations made in the UK in the year to 31 March 2004 amounted to 253,419, supporting a variety of different charities with donations ranging up to 35,000.
Young Vic RAM The Young Vic theatre in London 3is support of the Royal Academy runs a scheme to enable children, of Music, sponsoring student otherwise denied the opportunity, scholarships and the Symphonia to enjoy and be inspired by Orchestra, dates back to 1991. theatre.
3i has become an active Unlike other international music participant in this scheme by schools, the academy relies on donating 10,000. voluntary funding for all student Making a difference scholarships.
We were delighted to give the students the opportunity to Staff across 3i engage in a range perform at a gala concert in Paris of community support projects.
The two examples above are of team away days in Frankfurt and London.
One involved a council house makeover in Frankfurt and the other, decorating part of the Lorrimore Drop-In Centre in London, a day centre which provides support to people with mental health needs.
28 3i Report and accounts 2004 Corporate responsibility report How are we doing?
3is performance management appraisal process reviews the performance of individual members of staff against agreed objectives and the knowledge, skills and behaviours expected by 3i.
This process includes 360 degree feedback for all employees.
All 3is offices are the subject of health and safety audits to ensure high standards are adopted on a consistent basis worldwide.
Performance and measurement Audit and verification To assist it in benchmarking 3is corporate responsibility The Committee is responsible for monitoring the operation performance, the Committee has had informal discussions of 3is corporate responsibility policies and procedures.
with other companies and specialists in this area.
The identification and management of corporate The Committee has overseen the formulation and responsibility risks is integral to the ongoing operational implementation of corporate responsibility investment processes of 3is business units and functions.
3is internal procedures, implemented appropriate risk management audit function carries out periodic independent reviews of procedures and set strategic targets and objectives for risks and related controls in this area, including compliance corporate responsibility.
with 3is corporate responsibility investment procedures.
The Committee may also supplement internal 3is performance is measured against two indices: review processes with external reviews where necessary.
the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index DJSI, a The Committee is not aware of any material breaches of global index which tracks the financial performance of 3is policies and procedures for managing risks from leading companies in terms of corporate sustainability: and corporate responsibility issues.
Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility The disclosures in this Corporate responsibility report BitC, an index which aims to benchmark environmental, are the subject of a process requiring every statement made ethical and social performance and encourage sustainable in this report to be verified.
3i has again been selected as a constituent of the DJSI during the year and was placed top in its industry group on a global basis, an improvement on last year.
The DJSI researchers commented that 3i is clearly positioned among the best in the financial services industry source: SAM Research Inc. 3i aims to continue to be included within this Index and to maintain its position in the next DJSI assessment.
3i participated in the second annual BitC Corporate Responsibility Index.
3i was included in the BitCs Top 100 Companies that Count.
3is performance score increased from 46.33% in the 2002 Index to 85.45% in the 2003 3i is clearly It is a real Index.
3i aims to continue to be included within this Index and to maintain its performance.
positioned among achievement to Each of 3is business unit and department heads is the best in the be one of the required to confirm on an annual basis that their operating financial services Companies that procedures, including investment procedures, are consistent industry.
with 3is standards and controls and that these procedures are operating in practice.
