BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Operating and financial review Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility summary 2004 in review Improved safety performance with a reduced lost time injury frequency per million man hours worked of 0.6 the lowest ever result for BG Group Signed up to the UN Global Compact Held ethics workshops for employees as part of promoting BG Groups Business Principles Ensured the lessons learned from the contractor fatality in India were disseminated across the Group Increased voluntary contributions to social and educational projects: 3.5 million Achieved 100% certification of the environmental management systems of major operations Greenhouse gas emissions per unit of throughput from operations under BG Groups control fell by 1% 31 The location of natural gas resources BG Group supports the Extractive Corporate Responsibility improvement.
means that BG Group can be working Industries Transparency Initiative EITI, Investor dialogue a UK Government sponsored initiative in, or considering working in, countries Shareholders and analysts can access at differing stages of economic, to promote transparent reporting by written reports and presentations from governments of aggregate revenues derived environmental and social development.
the BG Group website to keep up to date from mineral resource extraction.
BG Group Corporate Responsibility is core to our with business developments.
BG Group and other energy companies in Trinidad and business and is part of our business responds to selected ethical surveys from Tobago are testing EITI reporting templates.
the socially responsible investment Behaviour The BG Group Statement of Business community, and is a member of the All employees are expected to comply Principles the Groups code of ethics FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones with the Statement of Business Principles.
for all employees forms the basis for Sustainability Indexes.
our approach to Corporate Responsibility.
Guidance is provided to employees on The investment bank, Goldman Sachs, The Business Principles and supporting how to think through ethical concerns created its Energy, Environment and Social Group Policies are available on the and there are also opportunities for debate Index in February 2004 to identify specific BG Group website.
The Group Executive environmental and social issues likely to held seminars on sustainable development BG Groups commitment to high be material for company competitiveness and human rights.
In addition ethics standards of corporate governance is and reputation in the oil and gas industry.
workshops were held for employees in described on page 39 of this report.
BG Group ranked eighth out of 23 the UK, Tunisia and India.
RESPONSIBLE CONDUCT The Company investigated two cases Adding value to economies RESPONSIBLE TO OUR PEOPLE in accordance with the BG Group BG Group helps governments access Managing people Whistleblowing policy in 2004 and subsurface resources.
Value is added BG Group employs around 5 200 people, remedial action was taken where through the provision of cleaner energy over 8% of whom work away from their necessary.
Neither case was material nor and infrastructure for development, home country.
BG Group strives to keep its related to the Groups financial reporting.
payment of taxes and royalties to people healthy, safe and secure as the skills, governments, employment and training There were 85 entries for the 2005 Chairmans capability and creativity of its people are of staff and suppliers, as well as through Awards scheme which encourages at the heart of the Groups success.
The any social investment made.
innovation in the drive for continuous Company remains committed to nurturing BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Operating and financial review Corporate Responsibility continued a culture a BG Society where people take talent and develop a diverse pool of charge of creating an environment which international managers for the future.
gets the job done, is satisfying to work in Employees by location Safety through foresight not hindsight as at 31 December 2004 and develops them personally.
Creativity, BG Group achieved its lowest lost time collaborative working and performance injury frequency ever in 2004: the rate of orientation are part of this mindset.
lost time injuries fell to 0.6 per million The Group believes that people must hours worked 0.7 in 2003.
The take responsibility for their own actions implementation of new tools and 24% and personal development.
Every processes targeting specific risks and employee should feel accountable for behaviours is a major factor in this achieving high levels of performance improved performance.
76% With safety, there is no room for BG Group has developed its HR agenda complacency.
It is with deep regret that the to ensure that it continues to meet Company reports one contractor fatality the demands of the growing business.
The fatality was due to a fall from In particular, the agenda commits the height in India.
Lessons learned from the Based inside UK Group to: investigation have been disseminated Based outside UK around BG Group including joint ventures identifying the people inside and outside and associated undertakings.
the Company with the necessary capabilities to sustain delivery of the Four more assets implemented behaviourperformance and growth ambitions Nationality of country based safety processes in 2004, bringing of the business: management teams in 2004 the overall figure to eleven operated assets.
Behaviour-based safety is an ongoing improvement in employee 32 employee-driven process designed to development, investing in programmes reduce at-risk behaviours by identifying to develop the skills, experience and and reinforcing safe behaviours.
attributes necessary to sustain success: Implementation included the training of 38% continuing to develop leadership and around 1 000 employees and contractors teamworking skills at every level of the across BG Group assets to observe their Company: and 62% colleagues at work and give them developing the BG Society through feedback on their behaviours.
This process employee engagement and by fostering helped BG Group to double the number of individual responsibility to develop a near miss and hazard reports received.
satisfying working environment which BG Groups 14 point assurance tool was supports continuous learning.
Local nationals revised in 2004 and now helps measure Other nationalities BG Groups growth and success is perceptions and behaviours, as well as supported by its ability to mobilise improving the assets HSSE management employees around the world to resource system.
This approach enhanced skills where needed.
The global mobility of consistency and the focus on all three Lost time injuries frequency employees facilitates career development elements of a safety culture: organisation, per million hours worked LTIF for employees of all nationalities, people and activity.
knowledge sharing and networking There was also a focus on improving the around the business.
integrity of BG Group assets to manage In 2003, BG Group invested in a customised major hazards.
Group-wide reviews, with International Management Programme support from an external consultancy, IMP, aimed at developing local managers are currently taking place to identify and accredited by the Chartered Management any weaknesses and help share good Institute.
Building on the success of the practice amongst assets and provide IMP, 2004 saw the launch of a new Flexible external assurance.
Management Programme which is based on self-managed learning, supported by a Keeping people healthy Occupational Health covers two elements: range of core modules.
A capability 02 03 04 framework for general management skills how work can affect health e. g. noise was also produced to help individuals exposure causing hearing loss : improve their performance and realise their management potential.
Initiatives such as how health can affect work e. g. fitness these enable BG Group to harness global for air travel.
0.7 0.7 0.6 BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 The main occupational health issues for individuals and communities near its the London Benchmarking Group model the Group concern office environments operations.
Social Impact Assessments SIA www.
net, used by many FTSE correct use of display screen equipment, and dialogue help clarify likely benefits, companies to measure and report good manual handling techniques and identify potential impacts and understand community contributions, outputs and safe driving and operational concerns, so that these can be addressed.
Adding contractual contributions, environments good manual handling this figure rises to 9.2 million.
Human rights techniques and reducing exposure to BG Group has processes and guidance Employee involvement noise and external pollution.
BG Group BG Group runs a variety of employee in place to protect human rights of reported the introduction of a health employees as part of our normal business involvement programmes to support assurance framework in the 2003 Annual employees who want to give time activities.
BG Group supports the Report and Accounts.
In 2004, 80% of Voluntary Principles on Security and and or money to charities and assets used the Groups health assurance community organisations.
framework to identify health requirements and monitor compliance with Group policy.
The matched funding scheme, CareShare, Social investment BG Group believes that business growth allows employees to increase the money There were 0.2 cases of occupational they raise up to a maximum of 250 and community development can go illness per million hours worked down per employee per year: 14 000 was hand in hand.
Assets develop Community from 0.3 in 2003.
A workgroup was Investment Plans CIP to link social contributed in 2004 to the 30 000 established in 2004 to examine data raised by 78 employees for 34 charities investment to business objectives.
These reliability on general sickness absence identify social development projects that 26% increase in employee participation and occupation related illness reported on 2003. will also help maintain the licence to grow, in the 2003 Annual Report and Accounts build better relationships with stakeholders and liaise with industry organisations.
The 12 employees on the BG SPIRIT yacht and improve employee morale.
in the Global Challenge ocean race had In 2004, 0.8% of the workforce used raised 37 000 for charity by February In India, Mahanagar Gas was highly TalkDirect, the employee assistance 2005.
BG Group Energy Challenges in commended among all entries for 33 programme providing independent, Bolivia, Egypt, Trinidad and Tobago and the 2004 UK Energy Institute awards confidential counselling for all people the UK raised 296 000 for local charities.
for its pipewalker project, recruiting who work for BG Group, as well as for a team of pensioners and unemployed their partners and children up to 21 years BG Group made donations to the Asia people to provide surveillance on the Tsunami appeals.
The majority of calls 68% were 1 450 km network.
donated and their contributions were matched by the Company.
These will Egyptian LNG installed a water pipeline to Security be reported fully in the 2005 Annual supply its site and the Behera governorate, The location of natural gas resources Report and Accounts.
increasing water distribution by 50% to the combined with the continuing threats of communities around Idku.
Egyptian LNG terrorism and organised crime can pose ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE sized the pipeline capacity above its needs particular security challenges.
BG Group Strategy to enable the local water company to identifies and mitigates security risks, and BG Groups core business is the production, improve their pipeline infrastructure and supply and distribution of gas.
Gas is provides employee training: employees remedy a significant water shortage are responsible for ensuring they are up to a relatively clean fuel, capable of high problem in the Idku area.
The project cost energy conversion efficiencies and can have date with the latest guidance and aware $4.8 million: $1.5 million of this was due of how to avoid difficult situations.
a beneficial impact on the environment, to oversizing the pipeline diameter to where it is used to replace other fossil BG Group took additional steps to protect increase flow capacity.
However, BG Groups business staff and families in the face of the benefit from the project by either having activities also have the capacity to produce continuing threat of international and access to treated water for the first time or negative environmental impacts.
BG Group domestic terrorism particularly in the improved reliability of supply.
The project operates a company-wide environmental Middle East, North Africa and Asia Pacific created 200 jobs during the construction management system to minimise negative and an increased threat of violent crime stage and through ongoing maintenance.
effects and to ensure compliance with in South America and Trinidad.
Higher risk applicable environmental regulations.
Socio-economic development activities assets were identified and security focus on skills transfer: equipping people reviews completed.
Recognising the advantages of with the personal, technical, commercial independent assurance, the Group made All employees were accounted for following and environmental skills to develop a role a commitment that all major controlled the earthquake and subsequent tsunamis in their community.
This theme underpins activities will achieve external certification in the Indian Ocean in December 2004. the Groups contribution to sustainable of their environmental management One employee died whilst on holiday in Sri development without creating systems.
In 2004, Premier Power in Lanka.
Northern Ireland and Scarab Saffron in RESPONSIBLE TO SOCIETY Voluntary contributions to social and Egypt achieved certification.
With this, all Social impacts and community liaison educational projects in 2004 totalled major operations required to do so have BG Group conducts ongoing dialogue with 3.5 million 17% up on 2003 according to established and certified environmental BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 04 02 03 Operating and financial review Corporate Responsibility continued management systems to international Equity share emissions from BG Group standards ISO14001 or EMAS.
operated and non-operated activities rose by 8% to 9.1 million tonnes carbon dioxide Voluntary contributions Climate change is a major environmental equivalent.
The main reasons for the to social and educational issue.
The Kyoto Protocol came into force increases were those mentioned above, as projects m in February 2005 after Russias ratification well as increases in emissions associated of it in 2004.
The Emissions Trading with increased power generation at Scheme ETS became operational in Seabank and Genting.
With these developments emissions per unit of throughput rose will come the reality of emissions caps for slightly 1%.
signatory countries and also for industry The loss of biodiversity is an important within those countries.
In some cases issue for sustainable development and will such caps may favour conversion to gas increasingly influence access to sites and fuel as a lower carbon alternative to oil or operational practices.
BG Group has coal, resulting in business opportunities.
conducted a high level biodiversity review Operationally, BG Group has been to define biodiversity issues in relation to preparing for entry to the EU ETS, which each operational asset.
The results reveal will result in caps on its carbon dioxide that BG Groups current portfolio is emissions in EU countries.
BG Groups predominantly located in areas of relatively current analysis suggests this will have a low biodiversity sensitivity.
Initiatives to limited financial impact on the Company improve operational recognition of the during the first commitment period 2005 potential issues are being focused initially Greenhouse gas emissions to 2007.
The allocations for the second on the more sensitive environments of from BG Group operated commitment period 2008 to 2012 are those assets in the BG Group portfolio facilities still under discussion and it is too early such as Trinidad and Tobago and Bolivia.
million tonnes carbon 34 to comment on the business impact.
In addition, BG Group continues to work dioxide equivalent proactively with other companies to BG Groups environmental reporting develop and promote state of the art tools on greenhouse gas GHG emissions is to manage biodiversity issues.
consistent with international good practice.
In 2004, we updated, where appropriate, Local environmental impacts related to air data collection methodologies and and water quality, resources usage and emission factors to bring these fully in line waste management are managed within with recently released industry standard the continuous improvement philosophy guidelines from the International inherent in ISO14001 management Petroleum Industry Environmental systems and to meet local environmental Conservation Association IPIECA and 02 03 03 04 regulatory requirements.
Projects and original rebased a the American Petroleum Institute API.
operations are guided by the Groups aim of going beyond compliance to meet In 2004, operations under BG Group internationally accepted good practice.
control emitted 5.6 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent comprising carbon dioxide and methane.
This represents a rise of 12% in absolute emissions compared to 2003 and is associated with increased production volumes and drilling activity.
Increased fuel consumption and flaring during higher maintenance activities at Karachaganak, the acquisition of a new operation in Canada, inclusion of marine vessel fuel use and the first year of full operation at Scarab Saffron, as well as increased drilling activity in Egypt account for the majority of the increase.
Despite the increase in absolute emissions, total operated emissions per unit of throughput of oil and gas decreased slightly 1% between 2003 and 2004, as overall throughput increased at a higher rate than the emissions.
a 2003 emission rebased for consistency with new IPIECA API guidelines 5.6 2.3 5.4 3.0 5.0 5.6 3.5
