Corporate Social Responsibility The following report contains extracts from ensure that our practices are in line with As a result of our responsible approach our 2004 Corporate Social Responsibility industry best practice on this issue.
and rigorous underwriting processes, our CSR Report, the third annual report we book has a lower level of arrears than the Business ethics have produced outlining our CSR-related industry average for both the mortgage Our Key Business Principles can be found activities and which is published on the and personal unsecured loan sectors.
in the policies section of the Groups CSR Groups CSR website www.
It is not easy to tell customers that we leicester-csr.
These encapsulate the Groups business will not lend to them because we believe Our Marketplace ethics and have been endorsed by the they may not be able to afford to repay the Access to products and services Board and communicated to our loan.
It is, however, in the interests of our We aim to provide our customers with employees through the Groups intranet.
customers and our shareholders that we simple and straightforward access to our Our core policies are regularly reviewed take this responsible approach.
We believe products and services.
Our branches by the Directors and our Group Audit & it is better to have a difficult conversation operate across the whole of the UK, and Risk Committee has the responsibility of before advancing a loan than have to our personal current account and cardreviewing and approving them.
repossess a property at a later date.
based savings account customers, as well Responsible and ethical lending As part of our sales process we offer all our as our commercial customers, can also use Alliance & Leicester is both an ethical mortgage and unsecured loan customers around 15,000 Post Ofces across the UK and a responsible lender.
the opportunity to buy credit protection to deposit and withdraw cash.
Each of our insurance products.
These products cover core Retail Banking products can be bought When lending money to customers we a customers monthly loan repayments for or serviced over the telephone or via the aim to ensure that they understand the a specified period of time should certain internet, and we have more than 500,000 product they are buying and can afford to events occur.
We seek to fully inform our customers using our internet banking repay the amount borrowed.
Our lending customers of the terms and conditions package to service their current and savings processes comply with a wide number of relating to our payment protection accounts.
We also have over 2,500 Alliance regulatory standards and industry codes insurance to ensure that it best meets their & Leicester ATM machines across the UK of practice and we also work closely with needs.
We also offer a 30 day cooling off which provide our customers with free the police and other relevant agencies to period to enable our customers to change access to their money.
Our customers can ensure that we do not facilitate fraudulent their mind should they wish to do so.
also withdraw money at over 50,000 LINK or illegal activities.
In our Retail Banking business, there Although all lending applications are will inevitably be some customers who We take considerable care to ensure considered in their own right, there do experience difficulties in repaying good access to our products and services are some sectors in which we do not their loans.
We treat these customers for all parts of the community.
As part of our lending strategy sympathetically.
We also support a number a Customer Disability Support Unit, we do not offer self-certied mortgages, of external organisations who are able dedicated to providing customers who participate in nancing Sovereign debt to provide independent advice to these have disabilities with the support necessary to Third World countries, provide funding customers and help them resolve their for them to operate their account.
This for the tobacco manufacturing industry, repayment problems.
We support the includes aids for customers with visual or knowingly support customers whose Money Advice Trust and Citizens Advice hearing impairments and those with special business activities give rise to exploitation Bureau and also direct customers who are needs.
We are a subscriber to the national of children or minority groups, lend to experiencing difficulties towards Payplan disabled access register, DirectEnquiries, any individual or business whose activities and the Consumer Credit Counselling accessible via www.
could lead to reputational damage to Service CCCS, two organisations who All of our branches are listed on the Alliance & Leicester, lend to any individual specialise in managing debt repayment register, together with the facilities available that we know to have an unspent criminal difficulties.
The Group has supported these to customers with additional needs.
conviction, or lend to any individual latter two organisations with donations entitled to claim diplomatic immunity.
Our new and refurbished branches are of over 250,000 over the past two years, We do not invest directly in corporate designed, wherever possible, to make them and has also committed further financial bonds, emerging markets, venture capital more convenient and accessible for our support to the Citizens Advice Bureau and or hedge funds.
We have over the past year Money Advice Trust for their Towards invested over 1.5m in providing accessible All of our personal customer loan a National Support Service for Money services for our customers who have applications are credit scored, a well Advisers project.
proven method of determining an We do not manufacture life assurance individuals ability to repay.
Credit scoring Treating customers fairly or long term investment products.
These takes into account the customers details The Board has recently approved a formal are provided for our customers by Legal policy to show our commitment to the as submitted in their application forms & General, who have their own socially as well as an independent review of the principle of treating customers fairly and responsible investment guidelines.
Similarly, to taking responsibility for embedding it in customers payment behaviour from Alliance & Leicester branded credit cards credit reference agencies.
In addition, the culture of the Group.
We have reviewed are provided by MBNA who are the worlds how we interact with customers at every all applications must pass an affordability largest independent credit card provider.
stage in the product life cycle and for test which takes into account a number MBNA is an ethical company that invests each stage specified key principles for how of elements of a persons outgoings, its money responsibly.
we will deliver the concept of treating including the servicing costs of Within our Commercial Banking business, customers fairly.
We will continue to work the customers outstanding loans our lending decisions are based upon a with the Financial Services Authority to and mortgages.
24 Alliance & Leicester CSR Report thorough individual customer assessment, courses to ensure they have the knowledge when these standards are not met.
including the use of credit scoring and skills necessary to carry out their Grievance procedures techniques for smaller business banking responsibilities effectively, and to full their Alliance & Leicester has a formal grievance customers.
In reaching a decision we also career potential within the business.
policy and procedure which is in line with recognise our wider duty to act as a lender During 2004 we have spent 4m to ACAS guidelines and enables employees of integrity, having due regard to our wider to raise a grievance or a dispute either support improved staff performance.
responsibilities to society, the communities individually or collectively.
This equates to an average spend per we serve and to customers, shareholders employee of 500.
On average, staff and employees.
Use of the grievance procedure is not will complete 3 days of development recorded if it is dealt with at first line Creditor payment policy per year, 95% of which will be workshop management level.
We nd this more We continue to be a signatory of the based, the remainder on the job, informal approach works well.
During 2004 DTIs Better Payment Practice Code, including e-learning.
there have been fewer than 10 grievances details of which can be found at that have gone further than this first level.
During 2004, the Financial Services www.
Our policy is to Authority introduced new regulations agree the terms of payment at the start of Freedom of association and collective on the conduct of mortgage business.
business with a supplier, ensure suppliers bargaining A major training exercise was undertaken, are aware of the payment terms, and pay The Group recognises the Communications with the Groups staff being trained in in accordance with any contractual and Workers Union CWU, Alliance & Leicester these new rules and sales processes.
Group Union of Staff ALGUS and the deliver this amount of training in the short Public and Commercial Services Union Trade creditors of the company for the year period available without causing significant PCS for collective bargaining purposes.
ended 31 December 2004 were 29 days disruption to the business, a series of 2003: 29 days, based on the ratio of We enjoy good relations with these e-learning packages for each of the company trade creditors at the end of the recognised unions and endeavour to regulations were developed and made year to the amounts invoiced during the involve their representatives at all levels.
available to staff via the Group intranet.
For example, union representatives are Health & safety invited to attend our regular senior Our Workplace It is our policy to provide a safe and healthy management briengs.
Responsibility for all employee related working environment for our staff, our matters, including health and safety, Forced child labour customers and our contractors.
Although rests with the Groups Director of Group The Groups operations are all based in the financial sector employment is generally Human Resources, who reports to the British Isles and our products are aimed at regarded as low risk, every occupation Group Chief Executive.
We believe in UK-based customers, or expatriates.
We are involves its own hazards with the potential providing appropriate levels of reward and not involved in forced or child labour.
for injury, damage or loss.
In addition International human rights and Alliance & Leicester has a well established to basic remuneration, we also provide indigenous rights health and safety committee structure in bonus schemes and a number of schemes All of our operations are based in the place, which involves both management aimed at recognising and rewarding British Isles, and all our products are aimed and trade union representatives.
All our staff at UK-based customers or expatriates.
have the ability to share in the success Bullying and harassment In this context, human rights and of the Company through a range of share Alliance & Leicester has a robust policy indigenous rights issues are not material schemes and well over 90% of employees against bullying and harassment, developed for the Group, nor does our behaviour are shareholders in the company.
in partnership with our union colleagues.
signicantly impact on such issues.
Diversity and equal opportunities Public interest disclosures Our Community We are committed to equality of We are committed to ensuring that Our Director of Corporate opportunity for all our employees.
We any suspicion of malpractice is reported Communications, who reports directly to will not condone discrimination on the and therefore encourage all employees the Group Chief Executive, is responsible grounds of sex, race or national origin, to raise any genuine concerns about for community affairs.
colour, religious belief, disability mental potential malpractice at the earliest or physical, marital status, age or sexual During 2004 we have reviewed our practicable stage.
We have an equal opportunities community investment and charitable all such concerns very seriously.
policy, agreed with our trade unions.
donations programmes and identied five All staff initially report any concerns, key areas of focus: supporting our staffs in confidence, to the Director of Group We already operate a number of diversity efforts in raising money for charity through Human Resources, the Group Secretary forums, including a Women in Business the Groups Matched Donation Scheme, or the Head of Money Laundering.
programme, together with a joint Equal supporting initiatives aimed at improving Opportunities and Disability Forum with Disciplinary policy both local and national education, our trade unions, which provides support Alliance & Leicester has a formal supporting organisations who help those and guidance on diversity issues.
The aim of the policy who are experiencing financial difficulties, an Equal Opportunities and You booklet is to be corrective rather than punitive supporting charities and organisations was distributed to all employees, containing and it is in line with the ACAS Code of within the local communities in which information on equal opportunities issues.
Practice on discipline at work.
It sets our staff live and work, and supporting reasonable standards of performance and organisations who aim to improve the links Learning and development behaviour and aims to ensure consistency between businesses and the communities We are keen to provide our employees and fairness of treatment of all employees in which they operate.
with a range of training and development Annual Report & Accounts 2004 25 Corporate Social Responsibility continued During 2004, we again increased the an active role in the development of The Groups energy usage is reported amount of money invested in our local the school.
monthly to the Group Board and our communities.
Donations for charitable energy costs in 2004 represented less than Our Environment purposes amounted to 690,000, a 4% 0.5% of the Groups overall operating costs.
Environmental best practice is, wherever increase compared to 2003.
In addition to reasonably practicable, incorporated into During 2004, our usage of both gas and these donations our corporate community water has reduced compared to 2003. our decision making processes.
We invest investment programme has given support in environmentally friendly and sustainable Our usage of electricity has risen primarily to a number of local organisations.
In 2004 due to increased use of air conditioning in products and services where it is practical we have invested over 350,000 in local our main administration centres.
Environmental risk is part of community events and programmes, an usage has increased this is all now supplied the Groups overall Risk Management increase of 6% compared to 2003. from renewable sources and hence carbon Framework which is monitored by the Our staff play a key role in our relationships dioxide emissions have fallen.
The estimated The Groups environmental policy, which value of our staff volunteering efforts, gifts is applied consistently across the whole in kind such as the use of ofce space, Group, is the responsibility of the Managing and other non-financial gifts to our local Director, Wholesale Banking, an executive communities, amounted to a further director and member of the Board who 180,000 in 2004. is also responsible for the Groups Supply We also support our staff wishing to give Chain Management department.
donations to charities through payroll During 2004 we have developed giving.
In 2004 a total of 31,500 was and implemented an Environmental donated to various charities through this Management System EMS, providing scheme, which the Charity Aid Foundation a framework to ensure that we maintain manages on behalf of the Group.
The focus on the environmental stewardship administration costs of the scheme are of our buildings, working environment, met by the Group.
and the activities of our employees In 2004 our branches helped raise and suppliers.
around 500,000 for a variety of charities.
Alliance & Leicesters principal direct A key element of our community environmental impacts are through the investment programme is supporting buildings we operate, the staff working charities and projects involved in improving within them and the resources used by the educational standards of young people staff in their day to day work.
The Groups and their general financial literacy.
environmental activity is, therefore, focused on the key areas of energy and water, Examples during 2004 include continuing transport, waste and pollution, and the to support our staff who volunteer to working environment.
help primary children improve their reading through the Right to Read scheme, The Group complies with all legal providing support to the Leicester Learning and other environmental requirements Zone, which is working with schools across and these are monitored through the the city of Leicester to raise education appropriate responsible department.
standards, and supporting the Hamilton There has been no legal action incurred as Trust education charity by sponsoring a result of any environmental issues during their planning packs for newly qualied 2004.
We continue to be accredited under teachers.
We have also continued to the Energy efficiency Accreditation Scheme, support the National Gallerys Take run by the Institute of Energy and the One Picture educational web site National Energy Foundation.
we continued to enter Business in the Communitys annual BiE environment index Our efforts in encouraging our staff to and saw our score improve for the third volunteer to be school governors were consecutive year.
acknowledged during 2004 when we received a national award from the school The nature of the Groups business means governor recruitment campaign School that many of our environmental issues are Governors One-Stop Shop.
We employ facilities management companies to ensure During 2004 we launched a partnership that our buildings are well maintained.
with Soar Valley Community College We conduct environmental risk assessments in Leicester, donating 50,000 which at the feasibility design stage of any new enabled the school to gain Specialist School ofce development and ensure that all status in Maths and Computing, and access major projects are assessed on the Building to over 1m of Government money over Research Establishment Environmental the next 8 years.
We are currently working Assessment Method BREEAM to achieve with Soar Valley to set up a number of a very good rating as a minimum.
initiatives through which our staff can play 26 Alliance & Leicester Statutory Accounts Statutory Accounts Contents 28 Directors Remuneration Report 35 Statement of Corporate Governance 38 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 39 Auditors Report 40 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 41 Consolidated Balance Sheet 42 Company Balance Sheet 43 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds 44 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 45 Notes to the Accounts 73 Supplementary Information 75 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 5 Year Summary 76 Consolidated Balance Sheet 5 Year Summary 77 Shareholder Information Annual Report & Accounts 2004 27
