22 AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW PEOPLE MARK FARROW HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR We have made excellent progress towards our goal of becoming the place to work in the industry.
A pre-requisite to the achievement of superior The Forum has made an encouraging start, AMLIN COMPARED WITH MORI FINANCIAL NORMS Source: MORI performance is an excellent skill-base, yielding a number of useful recommendations especially in an industry where experience which have been implemented in business, 40 and high levels of technical expertise matter.
The representatives 30 also served as a focus group for several internal 46 For this reason a key component of Amlins 20 projects in 2004.
Vision and strategy over the past four years 29 27 10 24 21 has been to become the place to work in CULTURE AND VALUES Norm the London insurance market.
Successful Managers listen Have Employees are Directors have organisation to ideas confidence looked after clear direction Work began in 2004 on identifying a set of in directors core values and behaviours which employees EMPLOYEE OPINION SURVEY would like to exist within Amlin, using a series AMLIN COMPARED WITH MORI TOP 10 In 2004, Amlin asked MORI to carry out an of workshops and focus groups involving Source: MORI EMPLOYEE CONSULTATION FORUM Employee Opinion Survey to measure the extent employees from all locations and business to which the Company was meeting this areas.
Further workshops will be held during 15 objective.
The survey, conducted in May 2004, 2005 with a view to deciding on and measured seven main areas: Amlin as an 10 communicating a set of values across the 20 employer, Amlin as a business, working 15 Group.
This is intended to help further 5 relationships, leadership, communication, strengthen Amlins internal and external 6 5 5 change and personal development.
Norm relationships, to improve Amlins working Working for Line manager Amlin looks Survey results Rewards environment and to provide additional successful listens to ideas after its will bring about reflect my job organisation and suggestions employees improvements performance 74% of employees participated in the survey, a impetus to Amlins delivery of core objectives.
high proportion in MORIs experience for a first survey.
On most scores Amlin ranked very well Nonetheless, the primary purpose of conducting TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT against MORIs benchmark for companies in the survey was to highlight areas where Amlin can the financial services sector and on a number further improve its credentials as the place to Amlin Academy, now in its fourth year, provides of scores was among their top ten companies work.
Therefore in 2005 Amlin will be working training and development courses for our surveyed.
86% of respondents indicated that on areas such as: developing a more open culture, employees and selected open courses for they would recommend Amlin as a place to improving communication across the Group, others.
Courses offered include business work to a friend, and 76% were either very sharing best practice and increasing co-operation technical in the UK and US, information satisfied or satisfied with Amlin as an employer, between business areas, and taking steps to technology, management development, personal compared with a 62% benchmark encourage employees to achieve a better work-life development and professional qualifications.
for the financial services sector generally.
We intend to use the 2004 survey as a benchmark and repeat the survey in 2006.
AMLIN ACADEMY total expenditure 000 Source: Amlin The following two graphs show that Amlin rates 160 highly in comparison with MORIs benchmarks EMPLOYEE CONSULATION FORUM 140 in both the financial services sector and in 120 relation to the top 10 UK companies surveyed Another new initiative for 2004 was the launch of 100 80 on each question.
an employee forum, chaired by the Chief 60 Executive, which meets on a quarterly basis to 40 examine a wide range of issues from across the 20 0 business.
14 employee representatives were Business Information Management Personal Professional Misc elected by their peers to serve for two years on the Technical Technology Development Development Qualification 2003 2004 forum.
Questions raised are debated with a panel comprising the HR Director, Operations Director, and other senior management as required.
AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 23 In 2004 the emphasis continued on training In other areas turnover was higher, in part Lloyds or Lloyds Market Association and development of technical business skills resulting from reorganisation of the finance LMA role and management development.
We are function and a planned reduction of claims Simon Beale LMA Marine Committee presently assessing the skills required to personnel in the UK Commercial division, Brian Carpenter Lloyds Motor Underwriters Association deliver Amlins new Vision and consequential which has a much larger claims team than Rod Dampier LMA Board LMA Aviation Committee enhancements which may need to be made to our London market operations.
Both resulted David Harris LMA Market Processes Committee our training and development programmes.
Also, 27 leavers Richard Hextall Lloyds Investment Committee were on fixed term contracts which expired.
LMA Finance Committee Chairman In recognition of the importance of professional Amlins senior underwriters have an average Tony Holt Lloyds Underwriting Advisory Committee standards and qualifications, Amlin has 22 years experience in the insurance industry James Illingworth LMA Risk Committee extended its sponsorship of the Chartered and an average of 11 years with Amlin.
Julie Northfield LMA Professional Standards Committee Insurance Institutes examinations to prizes for Charles Philipps Council of Lloyds both underwriting and claims management.
AMLIN INFLUENCE Compliance Committee of Lloyds Council LMA Board Amlins size in Lloyds provides an opportunity Ian Shackell LMA Regulatory Committee RETENTION for it to influence positive change in the Retention among our senior underwriters, where market.
Its senior employees hold positions continuity is considered most important, was in key groups and contribute to raising again high, the only leavers being two standards, improving processes and the retirements in our UK commercial division.
general governance of Lloyds and its market.
04 Joiners Redundancies Leavers Retirements 31.12.04 ratio ratio Senior underwriters 46 0 0 0 2 44 0.0% 0.0% Other underwriters 44 3 0 4 0 43 9.0% 11.4% Claims 144 10 10 12 2 130 8.3% 9.1% Other 372 83 9 81 2 363 21.8% 14.1% Total 606 96 19 97 6 580 16.0% 11.5% excluding retirements and redundancies AMLIN IN THE COMMUNITY AS A COMPANY, AMLIN IS COMMITTED TO Two Amlin group directors act as business SERVING BOTH THE LOCAL COMMUNITY AND TO mentors to senior managers in the RAISING FUNDS FOR CHARITIES RELATED TO Metropolitan Police as part of a scheme set CHILDREN AND HEALTH IN THE LONDON AREA.
up by the Lloyds Community Programme in 2004.
Amlin people can be found at lunchtimes helping primary school children at Sir William This scheme has proved very successful Burrough School with their reading.
In 2004 and won Corporate Community Involvement we received a Tower Hamlets Education Newcomer in the Lord Mayors Dragon Awards Business Partnership Award in recognition in October 2004. of our support of the Reading Partners Scheme since 1999.
AMLINS PARTNERSHIP CHARITY FOR 2004 5 IS MACMILLAN CANCER RELIEF.
We are part funding one palliative care radiographer post at Guys and St. Thomas Hospital for two years, on the understanding that the post will be funded in the future by the NHS Trust.
Fund raising for Macmillan in 2004 took many forms, including a sponsored hike across the Atlas mountains and our non-marine underwriters fining brokers 1 if their mobile phone rang during a meeting.
Amlin, Marsh and Lloyds together organised the Worlds Biggest Coffee Morning event in the Lloyds building in September.
This featured a guest appearance by the worlds most capped rugby player, Jason Leonard, and raised some 5,000 for Macmillan.
