Corporate governance For the 53 weeks ended 2 April 2004 The Boards primary function is to set the Companys strategic The Board has undertaken a formal and rigorous evaluation of its Board meeting.
The Board approved the budget for 2004 05, the system of internal control.
The Board has an ongoing process aims and business plans so as to generate sustainable wealth own performance and effectiveness and that of its committees which was constructed from the plans of each profit and cost of review of the key risks facing the businesses, covering all for shareholders as the pre-eminent stakeholders in the business.
for the year, including consideration of the balance of skills and centre including all outlets of the Group.
All members of the functions of the Groups activities and including, but not limited It further believes that a strong control environment is both experience of the Board and a review of Board committee Group Executive Board were present at the Board meeting which to, financial risk.
compatible with, and necessary for, the achievement of this membership.
The outcome of the evaluation was considered by considered the budget for 2004 05.
All members of the Board overriding objective.
The Senior Independent Director dealt attended one of the Companys annual managers conferences The framework of the Groups system of internal control includes: with the performance evaluation of the non-executive Chairman.
during the year, which provides an additional opportunity for nonThis statement by the Board covers the key elements regarding The evaluation will be repeated annually.
executive directors to meet senior managers.
Whenever possiblean organisation structure with clearly defined lines of the application by the Company of the principles of corporate Board meetings are held at operating sites to allow the nonresponsibility and which distinguishes the activities of the governance.
These elements are considered under the first four The Board has a formal written schedule of matters reserved executive directors to visit the various locations and meet with business units and the central functions: areas contained in the Code of Best Practice of the Combined for its decision.
Board committees exist for Audit, Remuneration, local management.
documented policies, procedures and authorisation limits: Code issued June 1998 the Combined Code and refer to specific Nomination and Corporate Social Responsibility.
Each Boarda review of strategy to which all activities are aligned: principles where these are necessary to understand the position committee has written terms of reference, copies of which are Directors remuneration and service agreementsan annual budgeting process and four-weekly management of the Company.
Reference is made to information contained available on our website www.
co. uk, setting out The principles and details of directors remuneration and service reports which compare actual with budgeted performance: elsewhere in the annual report as appropriate.
Each Board committee reports to the agreements are contained in the report on directors remunerationan internal audit function: Board.
During the year the Board and each committee reviewed on pages 31 to 34. an annual insurance programme which is reviewed as to its The Board operation and membership its terms of reference and governance and made the appropriate scope of cover and cost effectiveness: and The Board comprises five non-executive and four executive directors adjustments to accord with the new Combined Code 2003.
Relations with shareholdersa risk management forum for the Group and each business unit.
and biographical details of each director are shown on pages 26 The Company encourages dialogue with current and prospective and 27.
During the year, one non-executive director, Alan Smith, retired institutional investors, and carries out a programme of presentations The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than from, and one non-executive director, Alan McWalter, was following the preliminary announcement and interim results.
eliminate risk and no system of control can provide absolute The Board considers that each director is able to bring objective appointed to, the Board.
Following the end of the year one Stockbroking analysts are also briefed following important protection against material misstatement or loss.
independent judgement to the Companys affairs on all matters.
executive director, Mike Coupe, will retire from, and one executive announcements.
Company announcements are posted on our In particular, the Board believes that each non-executive director director, Andrew Clarke, was appointed to, the Board.
co. uk, as soon as they are released.
Audit Committee is independent under generally available guidelines.
The roles of The website includes a dedicated investor relations section with The Audit Committee comprises three non-executive directors, non-executive Chairman and Chief Executive were split All directors have access to the advice and the services of the details of past announcements, share price information, historical details of whom are shown on page 27, Mr John Maxwell throughout the year.
The division of responsibilities between the Company Secretary.
The appointment and removal of the financial information and a calendar of events.
Chairman, Mr David Price and Mr Kevin Loosemore.
The non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive is clearly defined Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
All committee is required to meet not less than twice a year.
The in writing and agreed by the Board.
David Price is designated the directors receive regular tailored legal and governance updates.
All Board directors receive an independent feedback report by our committee met on three occasions during the year.
All members Senior Independent Director.
No one individual or group The content of director training is continually assessed by the financial advisers and stockbrokers following the preliminary and of the committee attended each meeting.
Meetings were also dominates the Boards decision taking.
There is a procedure for directors to seek independent interim results meetings with institutional investors.
In addition, attended, on invitation, by senior representatives of the Groups professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense to all Board directors also receive an independent feedback report external auditors and appropriate members of senior management.
Appointments to the Board are approved by the Board as a whole.
All new directors receive a full, formal and from our financial PR advisers on the presentations to analysts The committee met once in the year with the external auditors However, it is the role of the Nomination Committee to make tailored induction on joining the Board.
following the preliminary and interim results meetings.
All Board without executive Board members present.
recommendations to the Board in respect of the appointment members receive a monthly stock market activity report which is of new executive or non-executive directors for which it has a The Board is responsible for overseeing strategic, financial, reviewed at each Board meeting.
Board members also receive The role of the committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its succession planning process.
The Board has delegated dayanalysts and brokers reports.
obligations in relation to the integrity of financial statements, to-day running of the Group to the Group Executive Board, under external auditors appointment and performance, non-audit Non-executive directors are appointed initially for three-year clearly defined levels of authority, which is the pivotal executive With the exception of Baugur Group hf, the Companys share services by the external auditors, risk management and internal terms.
Their re-appointment is not automatic and all directors are decision-making forum within the Group.
The Group Executive register is heavily weighted towards institutional shareholders and control, to approve the appointment or dismissal of the Head of required to submit themselves for election at the Annual General Board meets weekly.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive.
It currently the Company does not make a formal presentation at its Internal Audit, and to review the whistleblowers process.
During Meeting AGM immediately after their appointment and for comprises the Board executive directors, the Group HR Director, AGM.
Nevertheless, all Board directors attend the AGM and are the year ended 2 April 2004 the principal activities of the re-election at the AGM at least every three years thereafter.
the Group IS Director, the Group Strategy Director, the Group available for questions, both before and after the AGM, raised by committee were as follows: Logistics Director, the Managing Director of Woodward and the private and institutional investors, who are encouraged to attend Full Board meetings were held on eight occasions during the year Company Secretary.
It considers current trading, business strategy and participate.
Notice of the 2003 AGM was issued 22 workingfinancial statements the committee considered reports on on dates scheduled with the agreement of directors, who normally and plan implementation and investment decisions between days before the meeting, together with documentation relating to the interim and annual financial statements: attend all meetings.
Two non-executive directors, Alan Smith and 250,000 and 5m.
Trading boards exist for the operating resolutions.
Proxy votes for and against each resolution were giveninternal financial control, internal audit and risk management David Price, could not attend one meeting each in the year.
subsidiaries and the logistics function.
after a show of hands at the meeting.
systems the committee considered quarterly internal audit However, both non-executive directors were provided with full reviews, half-yearly risk management reports and approved the Board packs in a timely manner and gave their input to the nonThe Board receives information about the progress of the Group Internal control internal audit plan for the year: and executive Chairman in advance of the relevant meetings.
On two and its financial position on a four-weekly basis.
This information, The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal controlexternal auditors  LLP PwC report occasions during the year the non-executive Chairman held together with papers required for each Board and Board and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has conducted its to the committee on the annual audit and managements meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive committee meeting, is circulated in a timely manner before each annual assessment of the effectiveness of the system of internal response.
Their report includes governance, control and directors present.
In addition, the non-executive control during the period, and is satisfied that it is in compliance accounting matters.
The committee monitors the independence Chairman receives a copy of the minutes of each Group Executive with the guidance issued by the Turnbull Committee in relation to of the auditors and the level of non-audit services carried out 28 The Big Food Group plc The Big Food Group plc 29 Corporate governance Report on directors remuneration For the 53 weeks ended 2 April 2004 For the 53 weeks ended 2 April 2004 by PwC including receipt of a report from PwC confirming its on five occasions during the year.
Alan Smith did not attend one The Remuneration Committee is responsible for recommending Annual salaries for executive directors in 2004 05 with independence and objectivity.
The Chairman of the committee meeting but was provided with the committee pack in a timely the Companys framework of executive remuneration packages, 2003 04 equivalents in brackets are: held a meeting with a partner of PwC who is independent of manner and was able to give his input to the non-executive determining the remuneration and benefits of all executive the audit process.
Chairman of the committee in advance of the relevant meeting.
directors and Group Executive Board members and for all longMr W Grimsey 600,000 03 04: 600,000 Details of the committees report on remuneration are set out term incentive scheme grants.
The full terms of reference of the Mr W J Hoskins 360,000 03 04: 360,000 The committee keeps under review the independence and on pages 31 to 34. committee are available on the Companys website.
Mr G T Johnson 300,000 03 04: 300,000 objectivity of the external auditors.
The committee has a policy Mr M Coupe 360,000 03 04: 360,000 in writing which has been agreed by the Board on the carrying Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Mr David Price Chairman since September 2003, Mr Kevin Mr A J Clarke 360,000 03 04: n a out of non-audit services by the external auditors to ensure The Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee comprises Loosemore, Mr Alan McWalter since September 2003 and independence and objectivity.
The committee reviews the two non-executive and one executive director, details of whom Mr Alan Smith Chairman until September 2003, all independent Benefits normally car, pension, life, disability and health nature and amount of non-audit work undertaken by PwC are shown on page 27, Dr George Greener Chairman, Mr David non-executive directors, were the members of the committee insurance are set at a level comparable with those granted each year to satisfy itself that there is no effect on their Price and Mr Mike Coupe.
The committee is required to meet during the year.
The Chairman of the Board, the Group Chief to executives at a similar level in comparable companies.
independence: details of the non-audit work undertaken in the no less than twice a year.
The committee met on three occasions Executive, the Finance Director, the Group HR Director and the year is set out in note 3 to the accounts on page 45.
All members of the committee attended each Company Secretary attend meetings at the committees request.
ii Annual bonus cases the nature of the advice may make it more timely and costmeeting.
Amongst other matters the committee is responsible No executive is present at any part of a meeting of the committee The size of the annual bonus pool is determined by Company effective to select PwC who already have a good understanding for monitoring and making recommendations to the Board in when his or her own remuneration or contractual terms are being performance against a range of pre-set profit targets.
The division of the Group.
PwC may also be appointed for consultancy work relation to all corporate social responsibility matters, particularly discussed.
of this pool amongst all employees, including executive directors, but only after rigorous checks to confirm they are the best environmental, social, ethical and sustainable development.
is based on an individuals performance relative to their provider, including competitive tender.
PwC are also subject A full report of CSR activities is shown on pages 22 and 23.
During the financial year, the committee received external advice colleagues judged against Group, business unit and individual to professional standards which safeguard the integrity of the from its appointed independent external adviser on remuneration measures, subject to a maximum.
For executive directors, there auditing role they perform on behalf of our shareholders.
Statement by the directors on compliance with the matters, New Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC.
Advice was is a range of targets up to a maximum of 100% of basic salary.
provisions of the Combined Code also received from Inbucon-Meis in relation to the structure of the Nomination Committee Throughout the period ended 2 April 2004 the Company has annual bonus scheme.
Neither adviser provides any other services iii Share options The Nomination Committee comprises two non-executive and complied with the provisions set out in the Combined Code with to the Company.
Any external legal advice required by the Executive directors are eligible to join the savings related share one executive director, details of whom are shown on page 27, Dr the exception of B.
1.7 notice periods in excess of one year for committee is obtained and communicated to the committee option scheme on the same terms as other employees.
George Greener Chairman, Mr Bill Grimsey, Mr Alan Smith until the period 29 March 2003 to 4 November 2003. by the Company Secretary.
Participants must have been employed for 12 months at the September 2003 and Mr John Maxwell since September 2003. date of invitation.
The committee meets as required but not less than once a year.
Remuneration policy The committee met on four occasions during the year.
Alan Smith The Companys policy is that total remuneration packages should iv Long-term incentives did not attend one meeting but was provided with the committee be competitive and at a sufficient level to attract, retain and A long-term incentive scheme operates under which it is the pack in a timely manner and gave his input to the non-executive motivate management of the highest calibre to continue the committees current policy to award executive directors and senior Chairman of the committee in advance of the relevant meeting.
To achieve this, total remuneration is set by executives share grants of up to 100% of basic salary each year.
Amongst other matters, its responsibilities include reviewing reference to remuneration in retailers and other organisations of Details of previous awards are shown on page 33.
Board structure, size and composition, identifying and nominating a similar size.
Bonuses and incentives, which together comprise a candidates for Board vacancies and succession planning.
significant proportion of the remuneration package, are designed Awards are released to participants dependent on the to align the interests of executives and shareholders and to achievement of pre-set performance targets.
The targets for The committee considers detailed succession planning for the reward only when justified by performance.
Remuneration awards made in 2004 will be 50% based on share price growth Board and the Group Executive Board to maintain an appropriate packages for executive directors comprise: and 50% based on earnings per share growth as set out below: balance of skills and experience within the Company.
The Share price growth Compounded adjusted committee makes recommendations to the Board on merit having i basic salary and benefits: over three-year earnings per share growth period pa above RPI regard to the desired mix of skills and experience required for the ii annual bonus linked to Company performance and targets: Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum Board as a whole and the time requirements for the non-executive and target target target target directors.
The committee led the process for the appointment of iii longer-term incentives linked to Company growth.
25% 100% 25% 100% receivable receivable receivable receivable one non-executive director, Alan McWalter, in the year and following the end of the year, the appointment of one executive A summary of each element of the remuneration package is set 50% growth 100% growth 3% 7% director, Andrew Clarke, with effect from 26 April 2004.
This is the adjusted earnings per share figure disclosed in the financial statements and advisers were utilised for both appointments.
Prior to their subject to independent audit.
nomination each appointee had a meeting with the other Board i Basic salary and benefits directors as well as the committee.
Both new Board appointees Basic salaries are determined, in accordance with the In the light of the Companys current business outlook, the underwent a full, formal and tailored induction.
remuneration policy, after taking account of each directors committee considers these targets to be appropriately challenging responsibilities and seniority and are reviewed each year.
as they require executives to provide substantial returns to Remuneration Committee shareholders and to improve underlying financial performance The Remuneration Committee comprises three non-executive significantly.
Targets are set by the committee annually to ensure directors, details of whom are shown on page 27.
The committee they remain sufficiently stretching given the Companys forecast is required to meet not less than twice a year.
30 The Big Food Group plc The Big Food Group plc 31
