Aviva plc 2004 Employees Aviva Diversity Vision Diversity is about everyone.
We believe in a working culture that respects, celebrates and harnesses difference to the benefit of customers, employees, shareholders, business partners and the wider communities.
Our competitive advantage depends on business teams that include people with different backgrounds, experiences and perspectives, who feel valued for the positive contribution they can make to Avivas success.
Together We Are Stronger Our people The majority of our employees views are canvassed through local Aviva aspires to be worlds most trusted financial services provider.
monthly and annual opinion surveys.
In 2004 we have been working on To full this aspiration, we need customer focused, high performing, a groupwide opinion survey for introduction in 2005.
This survey will diverse and committed employees living Avivas values performance, enable us to benchmark employee responses, to draw upon good integrity, progressiveness and teamwork.
practice across the group and to focus future strategies accordingly.
Employee morale will become a key performance indicator in the We operate in over 25 countries worldwide.
In each, our strategy is to: groups performance management framework and a factor in Attract and retain top talent while embodying corporate governance management reward.
best practice: Norwich Union Life has been working with its leadership team to Foster morale in times of radical change: develop a vision to lead it through the next three years.
Consultation and engagement has been a key part of this process with over 1,000 Deliver excellent customer service while exploring and implementing managers taking part in discussions about the vision and its implications new customer service models: and for how we work together to achieve our aspirations.
The vision work Invest in the development of our employees while controlling costs.
has produced a real emphasis on enhancing the customer experience.
Examples of the progress we made during 2004 are Aviva Indias Norwich Union Life entered into an innovative partnership with IBM ranking as the best insurer to work for in the countrys Great Places to consulting to transform the Business Services function.
Experienced IBM Work survey, and Hibernian Life and Pensions recent top 50 ranking in staff work alongside our own people with a brief to transfer skills and the EU-sponsored list of Companies to Work for in Ireland.
develop capability so that at the end of the contract we will have transformed our skill base.
Our commitment to our employees The morale of our employees is key to the success of our business.
Working for our customers Involved and motivated employees deliver higher standards of service Great customer service and operational efficiency are central to our to their customers.
To build this involvement and motivation, we are success.
We are delivering value to our customers by building the providing increased opportunities for exible working, improving capabilities of our employees, using incentive plans to reward the management working styles and behaviours, and enhancing achievement of customer satisfaction, and by employing people and communication through staff consultative forums.
In 2004, the resources in the most cost-effective way.
establishment of consultative employee forums in our major UK business Pursuing its core purpose as A service provider with insurance at its units and the continued strengthening of our European Consultative core and care at its heart, Norwich Union Insurance has developed a Forum has helped further our dialogue with employees on topics Leadership and Care programme putting customers and staff rmly at ranging from new working methods to offshoring.
The aim is to maximise performance through changing the culture.
2004 surveys show a 9% reduction in customer service blockages with staff turnover in call centres dropping from 25% to 15% on average.
20 Aviva plc 2004 Our new offshore operations provide the capacity for around-the-clock Leadership claims processing and enable us to meet the rigorous demands of our Identifying and developing tomorrows leaders is a key activity for customers at lower cost.
By the end of 2004, we had created 3,700 management in all our businesses.
Annual organisation and jobs in India, with plans to increase our offshoring capacity by a further development reviews are used as the basis for assessing organisational 1,200 jobs in 2005, reaching a total of 7,000 by the end of 2007. and individual effectiveness and the potential and development needs These changes are essential to the delivery of high quality service and of the groups managers.
The need to broaden or deepen experience, value-for-money to our customers.
The impact of this continual or readiness to move into a new role, is assessed and development change puts added demands on leadership to maintain the morale of plans built accordingly.
We do as much as possible to support leavers and Complementing this process, the Aviva leadership academy is a minimise compulsory redundancies through natural staff turnover and groupwide suite of development programmes that, along with learning redeployment, relocation and retraining further detail is available in our and development initiatives within our business units, supports the 2005 Corporate Social Responsibility report.
The Academy and its partners London Business School, INSEAD CEDEP and Wharton and Columbia Diversity business schools have worked with over 700 high-potential and senior We actively seek diversity in our workforce because to understand and Aviva employees, from new managers to the senior leadership, enabling respond to our customers, we need to reect their diverse origins, their personal development and increasing their ability to address our lifestyles and cultures.
A diverse workforce provides an enriched pool of key business challenges.
talent and ideas for us to draw upon.
In 2004 we appointed a group diversity director and established the groups diversity steering group of This section on Our people is a new entry in the Annual Report and senior executives from around the world.
Its inclusion reects the recognition of the contribution of all our employees towards the success and competitive advantage of Aviva.
We drew up a diversity vision and the steering group has created a strategy and action plans to embed diversity in Aviva.
Our UK investment arm Morley Fund Management, successfully developed a Respect at Work programme aimed at fostering teamwork and ensuring that we embody integrity at all times.
So far, all Morley Managers and more than half of Morleys UK-based staff have participated in the workshops.
Morley designed the programme to promote the ethos of a positive working environment, by addressing issues such as organisational culture and climate, working relationships and embracing difference.
