Aviva plc 2004 Corporate social responsibility In 2004, Aviva was ranked first in its sector in Business in the Community's CR Index.
UK-managed properties now use 100% carbon neutral electricity.
Aviva is included in the annual Corporate Knights Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations list.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR focuses on the management of We continue to review and manage the key CSR issues impacting our good corporate performance in respect of standards of business business and the industry as a whole.
These are climate change, conduct, the environment, human rights and health and safety as well offshoring and the promotion of trust and integrity.
Fuller coverage of as the promotion of good and fair relations with our employees, our these issues and how they are managed can be found in our CSR suppliers, our customers and the community.
Aviva believes that the practice of CSR contributes strongly to both the CSR in practice short and long-term value of our business.
We are now in the seventh In January 2005, the directors of Aviva approved the revised CSR policy, year of reporting on this subject and our CSR programme, which has which now requires a regular review of programme and progress by the both an internal and an external focus, grows incrementally stronger chief executives in each of our businesses.
Internally, we aim to improve progressively our performance across the CSR spectrum.
Externally, we are keen participants in ventures Our internal CSR programme has witnessed significant progress across which seek to explore and illuminate the practice of good CSR.
our businesses worldwide over the year.
Some key achievements are shown below.
A central focus for our future progress can be found in the direction given by the United Nations Global Compact.
We chair the UK Forum of Standards of business conduct and human rights the Global Compact and devote significant effort to developing this In January 2004, the Aviva board approved the revised policies of important new mechanism to engage the global corporate world in Standards of Business Conduct and Human Rights, following internal meeting the challenges of sustainability, while interacting with European and external consultation.
The revisions were made to enhance partners to help develop a joint approach.
We also participate in a joint understanding and in the case of human rights, the revision took venture between the European Foundation for Management account of the International Labour Organisations core labour Development and the Global Compact the Global Responsibility standards.
We continue to work to further integrate the provision of Initiative which seeks to develop and disseminate learning, which will these policies into our operational practice.
help enhance global responsibility among future business leaders.
Customers We continue to chair the UK Forge group of banks and insurers.
Fair treatment of customers is, fundamentally, good business practice This is a financial focus group, which works with stakeholders to and is key to securing customer confidence in financial services.
explore, define and apply better CSR practices within financial services.
All our businesses are focused on that goal.
It is currently focusing on producing practical performance indicators By way of example, Norwich Union Life in the UK has revised its for financial services.
marketing processes to ensure consumer needs are at the heart of The United Nations Environment Programmes Finance Initiative product development and customer communication.
In addition, UNEP FI continues to be a key grouping for Aviva.
We are represented it has formed a board-level committee responsible for overseeing how on its climate change and asset management working groups and are it meets the needs of existing customers.
The company was also one helping to establish a new group on general insurance.
of the first Raising Standards accredited brands in the UK and fully supports the aims of the Financial Services Authoritys Treating Our most significant CSR investment in 2004, has been the Customers Fairly initiative.
establishment of the Aviva Chair in Leadership and Responsibility at INSEAD, a leading international business school.
This has both external Suppliers and internal benets.
The chair will generate learning, which will be In the UK, Norwich Union Central Services began to include questions shared within Aviva, particularly in the development of our senior on a companys CSR performance in the supplier tendering process, managers, as well as produce research, which will seek to raise the having previously only sought information on environmental external understanding and appreciation of the practice of CSR.
Most of our other large businesses also include elements of CSR performance in their supplier tendering process.
22 Aviva plc 2004 Community Norwich Unions Pay As You Drive and Autograph in Aviva Canada In 2004, we donated over 4.6 million to various community initiatives reward not only safer, but more environmentally responsible driving and charitable causes worldwide.
This gure includes not only cash practices.
Further, the highly regarded digital ood mapping initiative in support, but also strong elements of staff volunteering, gifts in kind and the UK gives a more accurate assessment of exposure to ood than was management time.
We have freely shared elements of this research with the Environment Agency.
In addition, Morley Fund Management Additionally, businesses around the group reacted swiftly to the continues to play its part as a responsible investor by encouraging worldwide call for aid to help those affected by the tsunami in Asia.
By the end of February, the group had committed more than 500,000, some of which represented matched funding for donations by staff.
In November 2004, the Aviva executive agreed the establishment of a Many employees further supported the appeal through collections of Climate Change Forum, which will review the separate responses our blankets, clothing and other essential supplies.
businesses make to the climate change challenge and seek to promote synergies.
Staff involvement in company-supported initiatives continues to grow, with some 19,000 hours of volunteering taking place in 2004.
Besides Health and safety volunteering opportunities, the company supports schemes such as Avivas Group Health and Safety policy commits all Aviva business units payroll giving, whereby staff can donate directly to charities through to providing a working environment that is both safe and t for the their salary, and also matched funding by the company of staff intended business purpose.
In doing so it ensures that health and safety supported initiatives.
issues are a matter of priority for all business operations.
In 2004, a review was conducted of health and safety activities across the groups All of our businesses enthusiastically engage in community programmes.
operating units to ensure compliance with the policy and to begin In India, for example, we have linked up with charities supporting the developing a platform for good practice sharing and continuous elderly and underprivileged children.
In the UK, the successful partnership between Norwich Union and NCH, The preceding report on employees provides extensive coverage of the UKs leading childrens charity, has enabled some 630 employees to our performance in that important element of CSR.
help make a difference to the lives of vulnerable young people.
How others view Aviva Environment Aviva continues to be seen as one of the CSR leaders within the In 2004, the environmental management programme continued to be industry.
In 2004 we were ranked top of our sector and overall fifth further embedded throughout all our businesses worldwide.
Innovative in Business in the Communitys CR Index results.
We continue to be environmental initiatives, sharing of best practice and increased staff included in Business in the Environment's Index of Corporate awareness in the businesses helped to facilitate such development.
Environmental Engagement and were placed first in our sector and In the UK, our managed properties reached their target consumption 29th overall in 2004. of 100% carbon neutral electricity the equivalent of removing We continue to be the only UK insurer included in both the Dow Jones 46,273 tonnes of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.
Also, Hibernian Sustainability World and STOXX Indexes and are a member of the in Ireland obtained 28% of its electricity from renewable sources.
In addition, many businesses have focused on reducing consumption of one or more energy sources and in some cases have achieved a We are committed to the ongoing embedding of CSR across all our reduction of 10% or more.
businesses in 2005 and will strive to maintain our leading position in the financial services community.
Further details of our programme activities Climate change directly affects the whole spectrum of our business both in 2004 and commitments for 2005 can be found in the 2005 CSR in life and general insurance.
Taking account of that fact, some of our Report, available at www.
Alternatively, a printed summary products and services have beneficial environmental impacts.
In the UK, copy can be obtained from the group company secretary.
