Corporate responsibility Corporate Responsibility The Community and Social Affairs Committee, the Global Diversity Following the 2003 review conducted by the Board into Barclays Council and the Environmental Steering Group are sub-committees approach to corporate responsibility, we made good progress against of the committee and submit a report to the Brand and Reputation our objectives in 2004.
Committee after their regular meetings, as does the Public Policy Forum.
As a UK based company, currently we are furthest advanced in a number of fields in the UK.
While we have a thriving community Board Governance Standard programme in Africa, and our Environmental Management System As described in the Risk Management section of this report, Board is in operation in many countries in which we operate, one of our Governance Standards are a key component of good governance and priorities for 2005 is to extend the reach of our overall approach business practice across Barclays.
They form the foundation of our to corporate responsibility to other regions around the world.
system of internal control and governance, consistent with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors on Internal Control.
During the year we: In 2004, we developed a Board Governance Standard on corporate committed 32m in support of the community in the UK and responsibility.
This was agreed by the Board Risk Committee in May, internationally, including 11.2m of UK charitable donations: and is currently being embedded into our operations worldwide.
launched Barclays Spaces for Sports, a three-year 30m investment The Corporate Responsibility Director is accountable to the Board for in community sports facilities: the operation of the standard, and the standard is subject to annual continued and upgraded our investment in established review by the Board Risk Committee.
programmes for the community, equality and diversity, and the environment: The standard sets out our definition of corporate responsibility built on our reputation as a pioneer and leader in the field of business behaviour that is likely to engender the trust and financial inclusion: commitment of stakeholders towards the company and highlights delivered a ground-breaking deal with Amicus UNIFI, providing our need to ensure that: excellent terms and conditions for colleagues impacted by customers are treated fairly: offshore outsourcing: suppliers adhere to the moral and ethical standards required by developed a clear statement on human rights, and continued our the Group: participation in the Business Leaders Initiative on Human we consider the impact of business decisions or activity on the Rights: and communities in which the Group operates: made good progress in adapting our branches and offices to be we identify and manage reduce the environmental impact of the fully accessible to customers with disabilities.
Groups activities: and Governance we create an inclusive environment for employees.
Good governance is the basis from which we manage our approach Recognition to corporate responsibility.
We were the proud recipients of the 2004 National Business Award Brand and Reputation Committee for Corporate Social Responsibility.
The judges were looking for the At the beginning of 2004, we established a Brand and Reputation organisation that could best demonstrate a company-wide Committee the committee as a sub-committee of Group Executive commitment to corporate responsibility and that had a strategy Committee.
The committee exists to protect and enhance the Barclays embedded in the business, together with examples of policies or brand by considering issues that could affect the Groups reputation, to projects that benefited the local community.
The award was collected act as a think-tank for the development of our corporate responsibility by the Chairman at a ceremony in November 2004. agenda and to assess our progress as a responsible organisation.
We were ranked in the top ten of 100 companies by Business in The committee includes divisional Chief Executives, heads of key the Community in this area.
Additionally, we retained membership central support areas and those Directors with responsibilities of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices and the FTSE4Good ethical for specific aspects of the corporate responsibility agenda.
Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 available from 28th April 2005 at www.
com or e-mail 12 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Other highlights were that we: Supporting credit unions pledged 5m to support the work of the Mandela Trust and We provide funding for the Association of British Credit Unions Legacy Organisations: Limited to pilot the PEARLS system with selected UK credit completed the rollout of our HIV Aids Health and Wellbeing unions.
PEARLS is a financial monitoring and business-planning tool developed by the World Council of Credit Unions.
In 2004 programme for employees and their families across our African we published a report on the trial.
It concluded that PEARLS operations including in South Africa, Botswana, Zambia, Zimbabwe, was invaluable in helping credit unions grow, serve their Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda and Ghana: customers better and therefore play a key role in tackling provided basic banking through our Cash Card account to over financial exclusion.
As a direct result of the success of the pilot, 300,000 UK customers under our programme to tackle Barclays agreed to fund the rollout of PEARLS to a further financial inclusion: 11 credit unions.
made more than 1bn of new loan commitments to Housing Associations for the regeneration of social housing: extended our application of the Equator Principles to project Tackling HIV Aids in Africa and the Middle East finance transactions below US$50m as part of our commitment In Africa and the Middle East, we have developed a pioneering to the environment and responsible lending: Health and Wellbeing programme to help prevent the spread of saw over 25,000 employees and pensioners worldwide take part HIV Aids and to give employees who have the disease the option in Barclays-supported fundraising and volunteering activities: of receiving first-class treatment.
received ISO 14001 certification for Barclays in Spain.
Through the programme, in 2004 we funded the provision of Accountability anti-retroviral drugs to all HIV-positive employees and up to We report our progress on corporate responsibility issues in a variety three registered dependants per employee in all countries in of ways: through meetings with shareholders, politicians and NGOs: Africa and the Middle East in which we operate.
To help educate through ethical index and corporate governance questionnaires: employees, we produced an online HIV Aids training course.
through presentations at conferences and, primarily, through our And in the community, we funded projects including the first annual Corporate Responsibility Report available in print and online.
after-school centre for Aids orphans in South Africa, and supported non-governmental organisations such as Voluntary Services Overseas in their work with those impacted by HIV Aids.
Managing the impact of our lending Some of our most significant social influences come through the provision of finance to businesses or development projects.
We work with our larger corporate clients worldwide, alongside external specialists, to ensure projects we finance meet international environmental and social standards including the Equator Principles, which provide a framework for financial institutions to manage environmental and social dimensions of project financing.
The Principles were drafted by four banks, including Barclays, and launched in 2003.
At the end of 2004, 27 financial institutions had adopted the Principles, accounting for over 80% of cross-border project finance.
co. uk to request a copy 13 Corporate responsibility 1.
The September launch of Barclays Spaces for Sports, a three-year 30m investment in community sports facilities that made Barclays the biggest corporate investor in grassroots sport in the UK.
Richard Hamilton, Barclays Assistant Corporate Responsibility Director, in Katlehong Township in Johannesburg, at a crche for orphaned children linked to the Heartbeat Centre for Community Development, which Barclays supports.
Under the Barclays Earthwatch Fellowship programme, 10 employees from the UK and Africa joined twoweek environmental research projects in Tanzania, Kenya and South Africa.
Pictured is Phil Burfield working on a project in Robben Island in South Africa to document the distribution of penguins at sea and identify areas where they are at risk from oil spills and competition from commercial fisheries.
Barclays has established a contract with 3 4 Green-Works to distribute its redundant office furniture and equipment to schools, charities and start-up businesses.
Employees from the Barclays Birmingham Loan Servicing Centre during a cultural celebration day held during 2004.
In 2005, around 5,000 employees in 12 London offices will move to Barclays new global headquarters in Londons Canary Wharf.
The building was 5 6 designed to meet high environmental standards, and has been rated excellent in an independent assessment using the Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method.
Winner of the 2004 National Business Award for Corporate Social Responsibility 14 Section 2 Impact 16 Directors and Officers of Risk management Barclays PLC and Barclays 42 Risk factors 44 Risk management and control Bank PLC overview 49 Credit risk management 19 Directors report 52 Loans and advances 53 Loans and advances to customers on the banking book 21 Corporate governance report 55 Other credit risks 56 Loan impairment: potential 27 Barclays report on remuneration credit risk loans 57 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 61 Market risk management 40 Accountability and audit 65 Capital and liquidity risk management 68 Management of operational risk 41 Presentation of information and business risk 69 Disclosures about certain trading activities including non-exchange traded contracts 71 Derivatives 72 Statistical information 15 Directors and Officers 1 2 34 5 6 7 89 a Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC 3 Sir Richard Broadbent, Senior Independent Director age 51 and Barclays Bank PLC joined the Board in September 2003.
He was appointed Senior Independent Director on 1st September 2004.
He is Chairman of 1 Matthew William Barrett, Chairman age 60 was appointed as Arriva plc and was previously the Executive Chairman of HM Customs Chairman on 1st September 2004.
He had been Group Chief Executive and Excise from 2000 to 2003.
He was formerly a member of the since October 1999, when he joined the Board.
He joined Barclays Group Executive Committee of Schroders plc and a non-executive from Bank of Montreal where he was Chairman and Chief Executive Director of the Securities Institute.
He is a member of the Board HR Officer.
He joined the Bank of Montreal in 1962.
In 1994, he became and Remuneration Committee, the Board Corporate Governance and an Officer of the Order of Canada, the countrys highest civilian Nominations Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
honour, and in 1995, he was awarded the title of Canadas Outstanding a CEO of the Year.
He is a Member of the International Advisory Board of 4 Richard Leigh Clifford age 57 joined the Board on 1st October British American Business Inc. the Federal Reserve Bank of New Yorks 2004.
He is Chief Executive of Rio Tinto, having worked for the International Advisory Committee, Institut International DEtudes Rio Tinto Group since 1970.
He has extensive experience of managing Bancaires, the Chartered Management Institute, and the European a business that operates in a number of global regions.
He was Financial Services Round Table.
He chairs the Board Corporate previously Chairman of the Coal Industry Advisory Board of the Governance and Nominations Committee.
International Energy Agency and until May 2004, a Director of Freeport-McMoran Copper & Gold Inc. a 2 Thomas David Guy Arculus age 58 joined the Board in February a 1997.
He is Chairman of O plc and the UK Governments Better 5 Professor Dame Sandra June Noble Dawson age 58 joined the 2 Regulation Task Force.
He is also a member of the Finance Committee Board in March 2003.
She is currently KPMG Professor of Management of Oxford University Press.
His previous positions include Chairman Studies at the University of Cambridge, and has been Director of the of Severn Trent plc, Earls Court and Olympia Group Limited and IPC Judge Institute at Cambridge since 1995, and Master of Sidney Sussex Group Limited, and Group Managing Director of EMAP plc.
He is a College, Cambridge since 1999.
Professor Dawson has held a range of member of the Board HR and Remuneration Committee and the Board non-executive posts in organisations including Rand Europe UK, the Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee.
Society for the Advancement of Management Studies, JP Morgan Fleming Claverhouse Investment Trust, and Riverside Mental Health Trust.
She was also a member of the Senior Salaries Review Board.
She is a member of the Board Audit Committee.
a 6 Sir Andrew Likierman age 61 joined the Board on 1st September 2004.
He was previously Managing Director, Financial Management, Reporting and Audit and Head of the Government Accountancy Service at HM Treasury.
He is Professor of Management Practice in Accounting at the London Business School and a non-executive Director of the Bank of England and MORI Group Limited.
He is a member of the Board Audit and Board Risk Committees.
16 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 10 11 12 13 14 a Independent non-executive Director b Executive Director c Group Executive Committee member 15 16 a b c 7 Sir Nigel Rudd, DL, Deputy Chairman age 58 joined the Board 11 Roger William John Davis, Chief Executive, UK Banking in February 1996.
He is non-executive Chairman of Pilkington PLC, age 48 was appointed as Chief Executive of UK Banking on Pendragon PLC and Boots Group PLC.
He was formerly Chairman 1st January 2004 and joined the Board on the same date.
He is Chairman of the Board HR and Remuneration Barclays in February 1997 and his previous roles for the Group include Committee and a member of the Board Corporate Governance and Chief Executive of Business Banking and Chairman and Chief Executive Nominations Committee.
of Barclays Capital, Asia Pacific.
He joined the Group Executive Committee in February 2003.
Before joining Barclays, he spent a 8 Stephen George Russell age 59 joined the Board in October 12 years in the British Army and began his City career at Robert 2000 on completion of the acquisition of Woolwich plc.
He joined Fleming & Co where he was a member of the Board of Jardine Fleming Woolwich plcs Board as a non-executive Director in 1998.
He was Holdings and Managing Director of Jardine Fleming India.
Chief Executive of Boots Group PLC from 2000 until 2003.
He is c Chairman of the Board Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee 12 Robert Edward Diamond Jr, Chief Executive, Barclays Capital, and is a member of the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Chairman, Barclays Global Investors, and Chief Executive, Private Committee.
Clients age 53 was appointed as Chief Executive, Barclays Capital in October 1997 and Chairman, Barclays Global Investors in August a 9 Dr Jrgen Zech age 65 joined the Board in July 2002.
From 1st January 2005 he also assumed responsibility for the is Chairman of Denkwerk GmbH.
He retired as Chief Executive of Barclays Private Clients business.
He joined Barclays in July 1996 from Gerling-Konzern, the general insurance arm of Gerling, at the end CSFB where he was Vice-Chairman and Head of Global Fixed Income of 2001.
He is a non-executive Director of Misys PLC and Partner, and Foreign Exchange.
He was appointed to the Group Executive Re Limited.
He is a member of the Board Audit Committee.
Committee in September 1997. b c 10 John Silvester Varley, Group Chief Executive age 48 was b c 13 Gary Andrew Hoffman, Chief Executive, Barclaycard age 44 appointed as Group Chief Executive on 1st September 2004, prior to was appointed as Chief Executive of Barclaycard in September 2001 which he had been Group Deputy Chief Executive from 1st January 2004. and joined the Board on 1st January 2004.
He joined the Group in He held the position of Group Finance Director from 2000 until the end 1982 and has held a variety of management positions, as well as of 2003.
He joined the Group Executive Committee in September 1996 sitting on the Executive Committee of Retail Financial Services and and was appointed to the Board in June 1998.
He was Chief Executive being a member of the Group Operating Committee.
He joined the of Retail Financial Services from 1998 to 2000 and was Chairman of the Group Executive Committee in 2001.
Asset Management Division from 1995 to 1998.
17 Directors and Officers c 14 Paul Thomas Idzik, Chief Operating Officer age 44 joined Current Group Executive Committee members Appointed to Group the Executive Committee and became Chief Operating Officer Executive Committee in November 2004.
He is also Chairman of the Group Operating John Varley Group Chief Executive 1996 Committee.
He was formerly Chief Operating Officer of Barclays Capital.
He joined Barclays Capital in August 1999 following a career Roger Davis Chief Executive, UK Banking 2003 with Booz Allen & Hamilton where he was a Partner and senior Robert Diamond Chief Executive, Barclays Capital member of the Financial Institutions Practice.
Chairman, Barclays Global Investors b c 15 Naguib Kheraj, Group Finance Director age 40 was appointed Chief Executive, Private Clients 1997 as Group Finance Director and joined the Board on 1st January 2004.
Gary Hoffman Chief Executive, Barclaycard 2001 He had previously held the positions of Chief Executive of Barclays Private Clients, Deputy Chairman of Barclays Global Investors, Global Paul Idzik Chief Operating Officer 2004 Head of Investment Banking and Global Chief Operating Officer at Naguib Kheraj Group Finance Director 2003 Barclays Capital.
He joined the Group Executive Committee in March 2003.
Before joining Barclays, he was a Managing Director and held David Roberts Chief Executive, the position of Chief Financial Officer for Europe at Salomon Brothers.
International Retail and Commercial Banking 2001 b c 16 David Lawton Roberts, Chief Executive, International Retail and Commercial Banking age 42 was appointed as Chief Executive, International Retail and Commercial Banking on 1st January 2005.
Other officers Appointed to position He was formerly Chief Executive of Private Clients & International from 1st January 2004 and joined the Board on the same date.
He joined the Lawrence Dickinson Company Secretary 2002 Group in 1983 and has held various management positions, including Patrick Gonsalves Joint Secretary, Chief Executive of Personal Financial Services and Chief Executive of Barclays Bank PLC 2002 Business Banking.
He joined the Group Executive Committee in 2001.
Mark Harding General Counsel 2003 Robert Le Blanc Risk Director 2004 Colin Walklin Director of Finance 2002 18
