26 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 Corporate social responsibility report organisations which provide homes for those We are committed to conducting our business in housing need.
We have provided loans to over 135 housing associations and now in a socially responsible manner.
finance approaching 100,000 social rented homes throughout the UK 2003: 130 housing associations, 90,000 social rented homes.
Bradford & Bingley produce a Corporate We have undergone a strategic refocus Social Responsibility CSR Report which is towards our core businesses of specialist Doing the right thing in the workplace available by request to csr@bbg.
co. uk or from lending and branch-based provision of financial Our employment practices continue to reflect our www.
Bradford & Bingleys Retail business the human rights standards enshrined in the please write to the CSR Department, now offers one of the widest ranges of both United Nations Universal Declaration of Bradford & Bingley, 134b New Street, financial services products and providers on Human Rights and the International Labour Birmingham B2 4NP for a printed copy.
We are committed to Organisation Conventions, and cover such is a summary of the full CSR Report.
For providing good value, competitively items as minimum working age, working more details please refer to the full report.
priced products for our customers.
hours, health and safety and discrimination.
Bradford & Bingleys approach to CSR involves In last years CSR report, we stated the goal We believe it is important to promote diversity conducting business in a socially responsible of increasing access to Socially Responsible and equality across all aspects of working life manner in respect of the environment, our staff, Investment SRI products.
With the and we support the sharing of best practice customers, shareholders and local communities.
announcement of our partnership with and success.
We are members of Employers Legal & General, Bradford & Bingley and its Forum on Disability, Employers Forum on Age, This summary follows the four major themes customers are able to access the SRI funds Race for Opportunity and Opportunity Now.
identified by FORGE as being those most offered by Legal & General.
We were awarded the two ticks symbol by the relevant to financial services organisations Employment Service in June 1995.
This Marketplace, Workplace, Community and Mortgage Express is the specialist lending arm publicises our commitment to people with Environment.
The FORGE Group is a of Bradford & Bingley.
It provides a range of disabilities.
Using the two ticks symbol means consortium of financial institutions and specialist mortgages including buy-to-let, lifetime we are working towards the guidelines in the involves the British Bankers Association and and self-certified.
It has the largest buy-to-let Employment Service Code of Good Practice the Association of British Insurers.
customer base in the UK and a strong position on the Employment of Disabled People.
in the lifetime mortgage market.
This is a Bradford & Bingley is a national member of solution for homeowners over the age of 60 Women now occupy 44% of management roles Business in the Community, and the London who want to release some of the equity they 2003: 36% and 23% of senior management Benchmarking Group.
have built up in their properties to enhance roles 2003: 19% within the Group.
Women their lifestyle in retirement.
Bradford & Bingley continues to be a member of the FTSE4Good Index of socially responsible Mortgage Express is a member of Safe Home Ethnic minorities make up 11% of our companies, and participates in the Business in Income Plans SHIP.
SHIP is the UKs leading workforce 2003: 13% and occupy 7% of the Community Corporate Responsibility Index.
professional body for equity release providers, management roles 2003: 9%.
Bradford launched in 1991 and dedicated entirely to & Bingley continues to support and work Mark Stevens, Managing Director Group the protection of planholders and promotion with Quest for Economic Development Strategy, became responsible for the Groups of safe home income and equity release plans.
QED, an organisation supporting the South CSR programme in August 2004.
Mortgage Express observes the SHIP Code Asian community within the UK.
We provide of Practice which has been welcomed by prayer rooms at our main operational sites for Doing the right thing in the marketplace Age Concern.
More details about SHIP are all our employees and information on different Our philosophy for doing business in 2004 available on its www.
religions and cultures with dates of religious remained constant finding what is best for festivals and events has been published on our the customer.
Our Housing Finance business has continued intranet site to help in raising awareness and lending to housing associations, not-for-profit 27 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 understanding amongst all our employees.
feedback scheme which guarantees a reply to Bradford & Bingley also match employee We ensured that we addressed the impact of staff within two working days.
We also promote donations through our payroll-giving the Disability Discrimination Act in time for its the feedback scheme through our internal programme, Give As You Earn.
We continued to implementation in October 2004.
Employees magazine, Frontline, which is distributed to staff.
promote the scheme to new and existing completed a national programme of training employees via online and internal promotions.
to ensure they were aware of the implications Doing the right thing in the community We have seen an increase both in take up and of the Act and could offer the highest level of This year, Bradford & Bingley saw an increase amount donated and we now have 8.8% of our service to all our customers.
in the investment in the community workforce donating via Give As You Earn 2003: programme of 27% to 1.3 million: 2003: 8.5% and we matched 65,900 of employee We now have induction loops in all branches, 1.0 million and it was the fifth consecutive donations 2003: 49,335.
We also expanded and have improved wheelchair access and year that we invested over 1 million into the our reading volunteer scheme to cover introduced power assisted doors across the communities in which we live and work.
We now support three branch network.
We continue to provide have continued to focus on two main areas of primary schools across the UK by sending customers with literature in different formats, support: preventing and alleviating the causes of volunteers into the schools to spend time such as Braille, audio and large print.
In homelessness and employee involvement.
reading on a one-to-one basis with pupils over a conjunction with the Royal National Institute ten week period, during which time we have for the Deaf RNID we provide sign Preventing and alleviating the causes of homelessness seen reading ages improve dramatically.
language and a manual interpreting service Bradford & Bingley has continued to work and offer RNIDs Typetalk service.
closely with Shelter, the UK campaigning Doing the right thing in the environment charity for homeless and badly housed people.
During 2004, Bradford & Bingley commissioned In 2004, we re-launched our Flexible Working We were delighted this year to receive its first external environmental audit, which Policy.
Although the legal right to request recognition for our partnership with Shelter was carried out by Casella Stanger and was flexible working applies to eligible employees when Business in the Community awarded us a conducted against the requirements of ISO with children under six or disabled children Big Tick in their Awards for Excellence under the 14001, the international standard for under eighteen, Bradford & Bingley has category of the Healthy Communities Award for environmental management.
extended the policy to allow all employees to building dynamic inclusive communities.
The audit recognised that Bradford & Bingleys In addition to working with Shelter, Bradford business activities have a relatively low The health and safety of all Bradford & Bingley & Bingley became a national partner of environmental risk, and indicated the scope for employees is very important to the Group.
Business Action on Homelessness BAOH, future objectives and targets.
We are committed to being proactive in the an action group of Business in the Community.
prevention of work related ill health and Steven Crawshaw, Group Chief Executive, is In 2004 Bradford & Bingley decided to reduce its injuries and to fostering a positive culture of the Groups representative on the executive environmental impact by starting a process of wellbeing.
Robert Dickie, Group Operations board of BAOH.
making certain departments Carbon Neutral.
Director, is the Board Director responsible for Four departments carried out extensive health and safety.
Employee involvement information gathering to assess the environmental Bradford & Bingley has seen a large increase in footprint of their departments and, following this We continue to encourage employees to employee involvement in 2004.
All employees collation of information, we worked with Future benefit from the Groups success through are able to apply for funds to match their own Forests to offset the carbon emissions of these share schemes.
Currently, 52% of employees fundraising efforts.
In 2004 we increased the departments by a programme of tree planting.
hold at least one Sharesave account 2003: amount that would be matched to the first CSR, Investor Relations, Public Relations and 52%, enabling employees to save to buy 250 of funds raised per employee 2003: Housing Finance departments thus all became Bradford & Bingley shares.
200 and 147 employees received matching Carbon Neutral departments in 2004.
It is the totalling 26,908, an increase of 8.6% on 2003 intention of Bradford & Bingley to increase the In addition to carrying out our annual survey of 2003: 24,770. number of departments who are Carbon all staff, we encourage and value feedback from Neutral in 2005. staff and have continued to develop our online
