12 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Report on Corporate Social Responsibility For the year ended 31 December 2004 Cattles provides a personal and flexible identifies and assesses significant risks Sen Mahon, for his leadership and service to over 650,000 customers in to the business, including reputational action in the area of CSR, and local communities throughout the and financial risks arising from CSR particularly his work with Leeds Cares.
We are committed to matters.
Day to day CSR activities are The first of its kind, Leeds Cares has the principles of Corporate Social co-ordinated by the Cattles CSR become a model for 25 other Cares Responsibility CSR and these are Committee, headed by Greg Stevens, partnerships now established in cities integral to our business and reflected in and towns in the UK.
In 2004 Sen Director of Corporate Affairs, and our Mission and Goals.
stepped up to the role of chairman of the supported by Jayne Johnson, National Cares Leadership Team and CSR Manager.
Yorkshire Cares, bringing to an end his As responsible lenders, we aim to create five-year chairmanship of Leeds Cares.
our products in line with the needs of our Throughout 2004, we have implemented customers, whilst achieving open and a number of initiatives to address the key I am extremely honoured to receive this honest relationships with our risks and opportunities for our business.
Over the coming year I am stakeholders.
We seek to create a We have continued to develop our looking forward to continuing to play a motivating and supportive culture for our partnerships with Credit Action and role in leading and publicising the cause employees and take an active role in the DebtCred to support financial literacy of corporate responsibility, and communities in which we live and work, programmes across the UK.
Our engaging more businesses to become whilst minimising our impact on the community projects have been committed to working closely with their environment.
enhanced and this has assisted in local communities through strengthening our links with Business in Leeds Cares.
We have also formalised We reflect these principles through our our approach to environmental CSR programme and a family of policies Sen Mahon, Cattles CEO management and are actively targeting relating to our business activities, our our key impact areas.
Since its inception, workplace, our interactions with the Responsible Lending and Borrowing Cattles has remained a member of community and environmental FTSE4Good, and we continue to management.
At Cattles, we are committed to engage with its shareholders and key responsible business practices and in research agencies on CSR issues.
The Cattles Board recognises the particular to responsible lending and benefits that a sound CSR programme borrowing.
In recent years, increased During the year we have received a can bring to the business and has credit card debt and mortgage number of awards, including the appointed Mark Collins, Director of borrowing have dominated growth in Treasury and Risk, with overall CSR presentation of the HRH The Prince of consumer credit.
Through its twice-yearly Wales Ambassador Award for Yorkshire does not target these areas, it is focused risk management reviews the Board and Humber to our Chief Executive, on a few key markets, for which we have Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 13 adopted appropriate, bespoke so we will ensure that our customers surrounding sub-prime lending.
They are screening and lending criteria.
receive the key information they need in active participants on government order to make an informed choice.
Last committees and during 2004 Cattles year we committed to providing financial has shared several platforms with Contributing to the work of our trade Credit Action to encourage a greater support for Credit Action and DebtCred, associations FLA, CCA and CCTA and understanding of our sector and the two national money education charities responding to governmental importance of improving financial working to improve financial literacy consultations means that we are literacy.
Our financial instrumental in shaping future policy on commitment in support of these two responsible lending.
We welcome DebtCred is the High Sheriffs financial organisations continues and during government collaboration on the DTIs literacy project, which offers support 2004 we have provided a further 2004 Tackling over-indebtedness action and teaching aids for schoolteachers.
plan and support the work of the The Pfeg accredited student book and We remain a Fair Share partner of the recently formed Financial Inclusion teacher resource pack Serious Money Consumer Credit Counselling Service Task Force.
and Using Serious Money look at the CCCS who provide free independent skills of dealing with money in a modern advice on debt management to We are proud of our approved FSA society, aimed at young people about to consumers.
status and are committed to maintaining leave school and who have a range of the standards required and expected of decisions to make about their future.
us by the FSA and the Code of Practice Our relationship with Credit Action has The teachers resource pack contains of our trade associations.
To help in this strengthened throughout the year and lesson plans, activity sheets and aspect, we have developed our own our commitment goes beyond financial information about understanding the operating procedures which outline support.
Our collaborative relationship proper and responsible use of money minimum standards for customer has brought Credit Action market and credit.
DebtCred currently operate service, employee behaviour, growth and allowed them to extend their in nine counties and are actively recruitment and sales and marketing reach to those areas where it is needed pursuing opportunities to engage practice.
We also measure the ongoing most.
Using and building upon the schools throughout the UK.
effectiveness of our performance range of Money Management through independently obtained publications, they provide valuable Our People customer and employee feedback.
In particular this year, their focus has been The dedication, skills and on students, school leavers, single Cattles believes in raising standards in professionalism of our employees are a mothers and new recruits to the armed financial education.
We support new considerable factor in the success of our regulations for the provision of forces.
They work tirelessly to raise business.
It is important that we provide pre-contractual information and in doing awareness nationally of the issues our employees with a positive and 14 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Report on Corporate Social Responsibility continued supportive environment in which to year almost 80% of employees Standard Operation Procedures SOPS develop their careers with us, and that responded to the survey with the Accreditation training course to ensure we encourage and support them to majority indicating high levels of their understanding of our working reach their full potential with Cattles.
To supplement this we have practices and external regulations.
In also seek to provide opportunities for held a series of Director Roadshows, addition to this every Customer Account our staff to develop their longer-term which enabled employees to put their Manager CAM has been required to careers with the group.
questions about the business to attend a dynamic technical workshop directors and senior managers and to specific to their role.
raise any issues or views they have.
To facilitate this we have developed a comprehensive suite of policies, We are proactive in adhering to current including those relating to equal Using the Aspire programme, we have and future legislation and we continually opportunities, flexible working, health continued to implement our approach to focus on achieving consistently excellent and safety, whistle-blowing and training and development and career levels of customer service.
This provides Cattles with have continued to develop our Working an ongoing comprehensive and robust Ensuring the health and safety of our Together concept, which clearly defines process, ensuring that quality training employees, contractors, customers and our corporate values and objectives for and career development opportunities the general public is of utmost importance all our employees.
are available to all our employees.
to Cattles and our commitment is set out in our Health and Safety Policy.
This Cattles currently employs 5,000 people, Throughout 2004 we have provided year we have introduced the Cattles an increase of around 6% in the year.
induction training to all new employees health and safety intranet site, which is The gender of our staff is almost equally and in total have facilitated over 10,000 available to all employees and provides balanced between male and female training days across the group utilising guidance and training on relevant employees, 91% of whom work on a our seven new regional training centres issues, such as computer safety, fire full-time basis.
During the year we have and branch offices.
Comprehensive safety and manual handling.
seen the number of female members of regulatory training has taken place with staff operating in senior management over 4,000 employees now being FSA With a fleet in excess of 1,700 vehicles, positions increase to 36 and we look accredited.
fleet risk management is of paramount forward to further progress in this area importance.
This management process as we continue to encourage more of We also strive to improve and further has been developed in collaboration our employees to seek these roles.
For with the RAC and our fleet partner, ALD example, 326 of our branch and area Automotive, and together we will Once again, we have undertaken a managers from Welcome Financial address issues, such as risk survey of employee satisfaction.
This Services participated in a four day assessment, driver training, accident Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 15 investigation and the delivery of robust totalling 273,000 and other costs of financial stability.
Since this project has management information to maximise community programmes, including ended Nigel has been invited to join the improvement in driver safety.
We will management time totalling 115,000.
extend our Health and Safety programme during 2005 to include a During the year we have seen employee E-skills4industry project: Staff from revised and more comprehensive enthusiasm for volunteering grow.
We Cattles IT team offered their experience approach to personal safety.
have added to our membership of and expertise to students at Park Lane Leeds Cares by becoming Gold College in Leeds, including a successful Working with Local Communities Supporters of Nottingham Cares during work placement for two students which 2004 with plans to join Hull Cares in resulted in their full-time permanent Cattles is committed to working with 2005.
We have launched our employeerecruitment.
and supporting the communities that it driven Hands Up initiative in key serves by addressing issues of social locations.
We have also formalised a Fieldhead Junior and Infant School: disadvantage, encouraging the policy for volunteering and developed a Cattles has continued to develop its improvement of financial literacy and more robust process to measure our relationship with this school.
Throughout improving the welfare of young people.
the year volunteers have assisted with Hands Up will promote employee childrens literacy, provided and installed We are an active member of Business in volunteering and encourage employees kit to create a new IT Suite, and the Community BITC and continue to to develop their skills and experience, collaborated with the school by running play a prominent role in BITCs Cares whilst building better links on behalf of a Design a Christmas Card programme.
This initiative encourages the business.
The winning designs were businesses to develop partnerships with then adopted by Cattles as its corporate the local community and to enable We are determined to grow our activity Christmas card and used extensively by employees to volunteer their expertise in the community in the years ahead and group businesses.
and skills to community projects and build upon the 500 hours of community initiatives.
work our employees have undertaken Other community activities include: this year through the Cares partnership.
Cattles contributes to the community in Cattles 50:50 A give as you earn three main ways: employee scheme in which employee volunteering, provision of gifts in kind Some examples of volunteering include: contributions are matched by company and through donations.
In 2004, Cattles Development of a strategic business contributions.
The scheme, which is donated 388,000 to community plan for Action for Gipton Elderly AGE : incentivised, supports five charities activities and initiatives.
This comprised Nigel Hinze, a member of our strategic chosen through an annual employee the value of our financial donations, project team, helped AGE to develop a ballot.
In 2004, this initiative alone volunteering activity and gifts in kind five-year business plan and secure their donated more than 60,000 to charities.
16 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Report on Corporate Social Responsibility continued CashMatch An initiative that offers Environmental Team has also been brokers we have carried out a supplier employees the opportunity to increase established to review progress, develop review and been able to identify ways to their fundraising for charitable and objectives and targets, and facilitate improve the provision of data, allowing community activities by obtaining an performance improvement.
This us to measure and monitor our energy equal contribution from Cattles, subject steering group also ensures that use.
During the second half of 2004 we to certain criteria being met.
CashMatch environmental activities are integrated used 5.4 million KWh of energy, supported personal employee with Cattles approach to CSR and other equating to 1.7 thousand tonnes of contributions to the Tsunami Appeal, business initiatives.
carbon dioxide emissions, which are resulting in a donation of 50,000. known to contribute to climate change.
Once again we participated in the We are committed to setting Financial Literacy Cattles has BiE Yorkshire and Humber Index of improvement targets in this area and continued to provide long-term support Environmental Engagement to assess hope to report in greater detail next year.
to Credit Action and DebtCred to our environmental impact.
We achieved promote improvements in financial a score of 52% compared with the 55% Transport literacy.
We are taking action The majority of business travel at Cattles to pursue improvement and move is undertaken by car and as such we forward and will build on our ability to Outward Bound Leeds Project Cattles have a substantial company fleet of measure and monitor environmental is a major supporter of this initiative, 1,789 vehicles.
The fuel consumed by data.
committing 13,000 pa for a three-year these vehicles has an impact on the period.
The project invites young people environment as it is converted to carbon from schools in some of the most For example during 2004 we have dioxide emissions.
disadvantaged wards in Leeds to take undertaken a baseline review to quantify Increase part in a residential course designed to our impacts and have developed a decrease 2004 2003 % develop their confidence and series of environmental indicators to self-esteem.
The sections Fuel used below summarise our activities in our 000 litres 3,400 2,968 14.6 key impact areas.
Managing our environmental CO emissions t 8,830 7,681 15.0 2 impacts Energy Consumption CO emissions 2 In 2004, we have strengthened our turnover m 12.0 12.7 5.5 approach to environmental We use energy and light to heat our management and have recruited a CSR buildings and to power our computers, assistant from the operational side of our and we have committed to maximise As the business has grown over the past business to co-ordinate our activities efficiencies in doing so.
Working with our year then so has the amount of business and drive improvement in this area.
An procurement team and our energy travel undertaken.
Consequently, the Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 17 Increase amount of fuel used and the associated issues.
We will continue to develop our decrease emissions have also increased albeit at a initiatives over the coming year and look 2004 2003 % slower rate than the growth of the forward to reporting greater success Reams of paper business.
Therefore we are delighted to in 2006. used 000 90.4 87.7 3.1 report a 5.5% reduction in our CO 2 emissions per unit of turnover.
Reams per FTE 18.6 18.8 1.1 Waste Management We are pleased to see a 1% reduction in Historically, we have used a large this area and will continue to seek further Sen Mahon number of different waste management savings in the future.
Chief Executive contractors to remove waste from our 18 March 2005 sites.
This made the collection of Suppliers and Partners meaningful data and the implementation We acknowledge that our environmental of reduction programmes difficult.
We impact extends further than just from recognise the importance of measuring our activities and that our suppliers have and improving our performance in this a role to play too.
To encourage them to area and as a consequence we have consider their environmental now rationalised our waste performance, we have incorporated management arrangements and a single environmental criteria into our supplier provider has been appointed.
We are evaluation process on an equal basis to now able to collect waste management other factors, such as quality or cost.
data which will enable us to set reasonable reduction targets for the future.
We shall report on our progress in CSR Progress at Cattles this area next year.
We have worked hard this year to expand our CSR programme and have Consumable Use progressed several key initiatives across As Cattles is essentially an office-based the business.
I am particularly proud of business, we use a substantial amount our commitment to CSR, not least of of paper each year.
In 2004, we used which through the Aspire programme to over 90,000 reams, which equates to train and develop our people and the almost 19 reams used by each full time work with Credit Action and DebtCred to employee per year, as follows: address national financial education
