SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND ETHICAL PERFORMANCE Exercising sound corporate responsibility is fundamental to the way BOC operates.
The Group aims always to behave ethically and to manage risk strategically.
It has a process for identifying, evaluating and managing all risks in accordance with best practice.
This section outlines the Groups systems for managing its social, environmental and ethical SEE risks and opportunities in line with guidelines set out by the Global Reporting Initiative, the Association of British Insurers, the UKs Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 as it applies to foreign private issuers.
More details about BOCs risks and corporate responsibility performance can be found in the sections on risk factors on pages 32 and 33 and corporate governance on pages 56 to 63 and on the companys website, boc.
The Group works actively with its stakeholders shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, local communities and governments.
Underlining the Groups adherence to best practice, BOC engages with a wide variety of employee, safety, environmental and community bodies.
BOC is a signatory to the UN Global Compact.
This year BOC participated in the Global Compacts review and implementation of a tenth principle against corruption.
All Global Compact principles are integrated into BOCs Code of Conduct.
BOC continues to review and adapt its business practices to achieve the Groups SEE objectives and activities.
Executive responsibility BOC has an integrated approach to SEE risks, managing them in the same way as all other business considerations through business unit and Group risk management programmes.
These processes are applied to major business decisions such as acquisitions, disposals, new ventures and major supplier contracts.
BOC business dealings are guided by a global Code of Conduct.
The code sets out the safety, environmental, social, legal and ethical parameters that Group businesses and employees are expected to follow.
The code is the responsibility of the executive management board EMB, whilst BOCs businesses are responsible for day-to-day implementation.
EMB members are responsible for each of the codes standards, supported by the appropriate business and functional structures.
The Group chief executive has ultimate responsibility for the code programme.
He delegates oversight to an EMB sponsor board and day-to-day management to a code advisory group.
The code advisory group is chaired by the general counsel, global compliance.
Safety, health and environmental management systems are the responsibility of the Group chief executive and implemented by the Group director for safety, health, environment and quality SHEQ.
Workplace issues, including labour relations, diversity, equal opportunities and human rights, are managed by the Group director, human resources HR.
Marketplace issues, including customer relations and ethical trading practices, are managed by the line of business chief executives.
The director of supply management oversees BOCs supply chain and ethical purchasing policy and reports to the Group chief executive.
The Group director, corporate relations, manages community relations, including sponsorships and charitable support.
The EMB regularly reviews Group systems for managing risks and opportunities, including business assurance audits, legal, SHEQ and HR reviews, appropriate training and communications, and performance management and remuneration incentives through the Groups performance contract process.
Directors are provided with appropriate SEE training and communications.
For example, they are given regular safety briefings and Code of Conduct progress reviews.
Training on defensive driving and other SHEQ priorities is provided.
The EMB sets a strategic direction with regards to all business issues including SEE matters.
Business units implement and develop the EMBs strategy through their own management teams.
The Code of Conduct BOC has spent two years developing and rolling out a global Code of Conduct.
It covers SEE risks and expectations.
This year the code programme consisted of: setting minimum and consistent standards around the world: communicating Group priorities, principles and standards to all employees: stakeholder engagement to identify, prioritise and respond to key issues: training for employees: setting standards for agents, consultants, distributors and suppliers through the Groups ethical purchasing policy: managing Group performance in line with the code: assurance, using the Groups business assurance audit risk management, SHEQ and HR functions as well as external auditors where appropriate.
This year the Group moved from the codes implementation phase into its sustainability phase.
This is aimed at further embedding the code and so far as possible measuring the Groups performance against standards laid down by the code.
A global network of implementation managers drove the codes roll out in workshops across more than one thousand locations worldwide and has been superseded by a network of implementation managers.
A code sustainability strategy ensures the programme remains visible, accessible and relevant to all BOC employees.
The code is available on boc.
com and available to employees via intranet, CD or paper copy.
The code is linked to a number of other BOC systems, notably the Groups integrated management systems and standards IMSS.
BOC operates a confidential 24 hours a day seven days a week helpline to receive and answer questions and concerns about legal compliance, ethical conduct and adherence to the Code of Conduct.
It is managed by the global compliance department.
Investigations are overseen by global compliance and managed by appropriate functions, notably HR, SHEQ and business assurance audit risk management.
Code sustainability issues are reported to the EMB and appropriate managers on a monthly basis.
In its inaugural year, the helpline received 103 allegation cases from around the world.
Of these 21 per cent resulted in disciplinary action, and 50 per cent were found to be unsubstantiated or non-violations.
The remaining cases are still being investigated.
25 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Social, environmental and ethical performance BOCs global management system IMSS IMSS integrated management systems and standards is a system developed by BOC.
It has three distinct parts: the IMSS Library, Traccess and Audit Manager.
The IMSS Library houses electronic copies of BOCs reference material, instructions, procedures and standards.
Traccess is BOCs online training and testing system storing individual learning profiles and employee training histories.
Audit Manager reviews all stages of the audit cycle and tests site performance and compliance against best practice and minimum standards defined in the IMSS Library.
IMSS documents Group knowledge from high level policies to detailed work instructions, enabling employees to be trained and assessed in the skills required by their roles.
IMSS outlines the correct protocols and minimum standards and tracks the performance of actions needed to ensure the safe, environmentally sound and efficient management of BOC businesses worldwide.
IMSS and the Code of Conduct are mutually supportive.
Stakeholders BOCs code is segmented into key stakeholder groups, each of which is addressed by specific code standards and management structures and procedures.
Details are posted under the corporate responsibility section of boc.
For example, BOC works with its suppliers through its ethical purchasing policy, which is managed by the Group supply management function, underpinned by the Code of Conduct and supported by IMSS and a number of other web-based platforms.
A supplier evaluation, selection and performance appraisal SESPA system assures minimum standards of supplier performance, quality assurance and legal, ethical, social and environmental compliance.
Identifying and prioritising SEE risks BOC introduced a formal process to identify and manage its SEE risks and to identify potential opportunities.
EMB directors, business unit heads and other key managers around the world submitted potential SEE risks which were consolidated by the Group risk management function and rated using predetermined scoring criteria.
Each risk was rated according to its potential impact, the adequacy of plans to mitigate the risk, and its urgency.
The broad areas identified by the SEE risk and mitigation process are: managing the safety of people associated with BOC: managing major operational hazards: minimisation of greenhouse gases emissions: energy efficiency: water conservation: global adherence to and the effective working of the Code of Conduct: managing an ethical supply chain: and continuing enhancement of product stewardship procedures.
The Groups SEE review found that management systems and mitigations already exist for identified risks, but in some minor instances enhanced measures may be required.
Managing corporate responsibility performance This year the Group participated in the UKs Business in the Community BiTC corporate responsibility index for the first time.
The index assesses companies performance against a wide range of environmental, social and ethical measures.
BOC has participated in the indexs sister survey, the Business in the Environment BiE index since 1995.
BOC scored 91.69 per cent in BiTCs index, ranking it 25th out of 139 participating companies, including 56 from the FTSE100.
Completing the index demonstrates the Groups commitment to managing, measuring and reporting its corporate responsibility performance in an open and transparent way.
BOCs completed survey and BiTCs independent assessment of the Groups performance is published on boc.
The BiTC index is the Groups common measure and standard response to corporate responsibility and SEE enquiries.
Safety, health and the environment There are no greater priorities for BOC than the health and safety of colleagues, contractors, suppliers, customers and local communities, and the protection of the environment.
BOC is committed to excellence in managing these areas through normal business practice assisted by its safety, health, environment and quality SHEQ function.
SHEQ policies and procedures are the responsibility of the Group chief executive and implemented by BOCs businesses with the support of the SHEQ function.
The SHEQ department works within the businesses to ensure that the Group has a deliverable policy, is active in its risk assessment and professional in its mitigation.
BOC has well-established programmes to drive improvement in SHEQ performance.
Employees are required to comply with all external regulations and the Groups policy and Code of Conduct.
Suppliers are expected to meet minimum standards set by BOCs ethical purchasing policy.
Standards, procedures and tools are embedded in Group practice by the organisations integrated management systems and standards see IMSS section above.
IMSS outlines the minimum standards and actions needed to align with or conform to management systems such as ISO 9000 quality assurance, ISO 14001 environment and ISO 18001 health and safety.
BOC met its objectives in 2004 when the Group: updated its safety, health and environment policy: launched Safety in BOC focusing on key safety behaviours across the organisation: continued to conduct its audit programme of safety standards and assessment of the organisations safety culture.
Annual safety action plans are derived from these processes, and integrated into individual and business performance contracts: continued to conduct its annual environment survey.
Annual environmental action plans are derived from the surveys results, which are integrated into individual and business performance contracts: commenced the sustainability phase of its Code of Conduct programme, ensuring that SHEQ considerations continue to be reinforced and integrated into the organisations legal and ethical framework.
Along with the Code of Conduct and the Groups ACTS operating principles, Safety in BOC ensures that SHEQ issues are managed consistently across all countries and businesses.
26 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Social, environmental and ethical performance Overall safety performance Safety 1 1 Safety is BOCs highest priority.
Safety is the first agenda item at every EMB and business executive meeting.
2003 2004 Great emphasis is put on providing employees with all the necessary training, equipment and safeguards.
Business Lost workday case rate 0.45 0.41 Total recordable case rate 1.18 1.18 managers around the world, with SHEQ support, continually strive to improve safety performance concentrating Passenger car avoidable on individuals behaviour and the effect safe behaviour has on the organisation.
accident rate 1.99 2.12 Each business unit has a safety function, reporting to the business units executive and the Group SHEQ Truck avoidable accident rate 2.75 2.38 function through a global peer group.
This ensures that global best practice and the functional requirements of the Lost workday case rate business and Group are always at the forefront of management thinking.
BOC manufactures and distributes products that are potentially hazardous, some being stored at very low 0.6 temperature or under pressure, and some having toxic or flammable properties.
BOC is committed to operating safely and communicating safe working practices as an integral part of its safety and product stewardship processes.
It is important for the Group to disseminate these safe working practices to customers and suppliers and to have 0.4 clear and measurable performance standards practised by all BOC plants, depots and distributors.
Controlling process-related risks is of the utmost importance.
Any incidents that do occur are thoroughly 0.2 investigated and the lessons learned are applied throughout the organisation to minimise the likelihood of recurrence.
Safety lessons are shared throughout the gases industry and BOC continues to participate fully in the 1 1 development and application of industry-wide codes.
0 00 01 02 03 04 This year the Group implemented Safety in BOC.
It complements and strengthens the organisations existing Total recordable case rate safety systems and standards.
An independent safety audit in 2002 showed that safety performance could be improved by emphasising the behaviour of all employees.
Business unit leadership teams have conducted education, leadership and planning workshops around Safety in BOC.
These are being followed up with a focus on 1.6 leadership skills to influence peoples behaviours.
A new technique, LeadSafe, is being introduced to help drive 1.2 change.
These elements will continue to be important features of BOCs overall safety strategy.
Safety in BOC aims to prevent people getting hurt by guiding managers to effect lasting behavioural change.
0.8 Independent studies suggest that more than 90 per cent of all incidents in the workplace are the result of unsafe acts, so changing behaviour has a significant impact.
0.4 Safety in BOC draws together and strengthens the Groups safety policies, principles, standards, procedures 1 1 and tools.
It underpins the principle that safety is 100 per cent of our behaviour, 100 per cent of the time.
A safety 0 00 01 02 03 04 roadmap charts how the businesses and sites will continue to develop globally consistent strategies to move the Group towards world class safety performance.
Passenger car avoidable accidents per million miles This year BOC further developed its approach to tracking key performance indicators for safety.
The Group traditionally tracks reactive or lagging indicators, for example: lost workday cases, medical treatment cases, 3 passenger car and truck incidents.
Lagging indicators measure past events and measure business unit safety performance.
The organisation has also introduced a set of proactive or leading indicators, for example: safety meetings held, the close out of corrective actions from audits, investigation reports completed on time, and 2 training.
Leading indicators have been integrated into individual and business performance contracts and business unit reviews.
Site managers compile leading indicator statistics and report these to their business unit heads.
1 Over half of BOCs major incidents involved vehicles and the Group is focusing attention here.
Safety-related driving initiatives and programmes are in place around the world for both commercial and passenger car drivers.
1 1 0 00 01 02 03 04 These include defensive driving training, observation and feedback, vehicle design, use of on-board monitoring technology, and anti-rollover and jack-knife training.
Other areas being addressed include the embedding of safety Truck avoidable accidents criteria as part of employee recruitment, induction and ongoing training.
per million miles Developing and sharing best practice across the world helps reduce risk and the number of driving-related incidents.
The Group strengthened its major vehicle incident investigation procedures to improve consistency of 4 approach, understanding and analysis of contributing causes, assessing the trends and implementing remedial strategies to prevent recurrence.
This process has been successfully piloted and is being further integrated into 3 Group reporting systems and standards.
Every year, BOC takes steps to prevent and address the underlying causes of incidents as well as to ensure 2 employee security in the workplace.
It is a matter of great regret that four Group employees died in work-related activities in 2004.
Two employees died in road incidents, one in the Czech Republic and one in South Africa.
One 1 employee in South Africa was electrocuted at a BOC site and a driver in the US died whilst delivering product to a 1 1 0 00 01 02 03 04 customer.
The Group chief executive, SHEQ director and business unit managers review every fatality and major 1.
2003 and 2004 safety statistics include incident personally.
Investigations are only closed when the chief executive is fully satisfied that the root causes of mergers, acquisitions and all joint ventures.
the incident are understood and action has been taken to prevent future occurrences.
Previous years have not been restated.
The Group has four principal reactive indicators to provide a consistent measure of its workplace and vehicle safety performance.
These are: lost workday case rate LWCR per 200,000 hours.
This includes all accidents resulting in the loss of one complete day of work, according to best international practice.
Many companies only report cases resulting in three or more lost workdays as deemed reportable under RIDDOR regulations: total recordable case rate TRCR per 200,000 hours.
This includes all LWCRs and medical treatment cases: passenger car avoidable accident rate PCAAR per million miles: truck avoidable accident rate TAAR per million miles.
Occupational health and hygiene BOC requires its businesses to manage employee health activities in accordance with local laws and regulations and according to BOCs codes of practice, standards and procedures.
The Groups occupational health and hygiene OH function provides a global service, striving to eradicate work-related health hazards.
27 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Social, environmental and ethical performance Employees have access to guidance on OH from qualified SHEQ managers.
This is supported by a range of Non-compliances violation of laws, complaints and spillages training programmes, manuals, videos and safety data sheets, which are available through local and global SHEQ functions and on dedicated SHEQ intranet sites.
sites reporting incidents The OH function carries out reviews in all business units to provide information and guidance on the main 125 health issues that exist in BOC operations globally and how best these potential hazards may be minimised or 100 eliminated.
This is achieved by providing best practice standards and guidance to local SHEQ personnel who then implement these standards and policies as necessary.
Adverse employee health effects are monitored through local 75 occupational health checks around the world.
These vary according to risk and requirement.
Some are internal 50 and others are out-sourced to professional OH providers.
Voluntary and routine Well-person medical checks for 25 employees engaged in hazardous activities or facing other risk factors are conducted throughout the year.
The main potential health issues that exist in BOC operations differ across business units.
When dealing with 0 00 01 02 03 04 gases, the main potential health issues are: exposure to noise from gas compression activities and from cylinder handling: potential exposure to some gases filled into cylinders: Hazardous waste variability in national legal classification potential exposure to chemicals used in metal cleaning: Tonnes x 1,000 painting operations: ergonomic and manual handling risks.
15 OH programmes have been developed to deal with these issues and are applied across the Group.
BOC programmes include: a new OH service with a global provider to enhance the emergency care given to BOC 10 business travellers taken ill away from home: an AIDS HIV prevention, treatment and care programme for employees in southern Africa: an education programme to raise awareness of the effects of noise: a manual 5 handling training video: a legionella control programme for water systems such as cooling towers present on sites: a programme for the assessment of manual handling and display screen equipment to minimise ergonomic health 0 00 01 02 03 04 risks: a chemical assessment and management programme: and specific work to reduce the use of solvents.
The last includes a new training video addressing the specific hazards of using chemicals to clean plant and equipment for use with oxygen.
Ozone depleting potential OH programmes strive to reduce employee exposure to present and potential hazards, drive best practice substance release across the businesses and are part of the Groups commitment to continuous improvement.
OH programmes are solvents and refrigerants being piloted in response to occupational stress, drugs testing, and to provide fast-track physiotherapy to aid Tonnes ODP released employeesrecovery from injury.
15 One of the most visible OH programmes is the Afrox AIDS HIV programme in southern Africa.
The objectives of the programme are: to encourage prevention of HIV and AIDS infection through education 10 and awareness training: to provide treatment to prolong life expectancy to employees living with HIV through the provision of anti-retroviral therapy and a disease management programme: and to provide pastoral care, which includes counselling and other types of support for HIV-positive employees.
5 The environment 0 00 01 02 03 04 BOC is committed to sound environmental practices, implemented through a worldwide environmental management system which includes operating instructions, training, performance tracking and auditing, and the sharing of best practice through the Groups integrated management systems and standards IMSS together with General waste disposal 2004 an annual global environment survey managed by the SHEQ department.
The results of the environment survey are reviewed by the EMB, business unit management teams and the Group SHEQ director.
Annual environment Total 26,675 tonnes action plans are integrated into business unit management processes together with business and individual 1 Incinerated 412 performance contracts.
2 Landfilled BOC is classified as part of the chemicals sector, but does not have the same direct or significant 3 Recycled 4 Other environmental issues to deal with as traditional chemicals manufacturers.
The nature of BOCs activities and the waste disposal type of chemicals handled are quite different.
However, in line with other industries, BOC is committed to the contractor, disposal conscientious stewardship of its products and services.
route unspecified Management of environmental issues that are relevant to the Groups businesses is overseen by the SHEQ 3 department.
Many BOC business units have programmes to achieve ISO 14001 environmental certification.
The Indura business in Chile obtained ISO 14001 in August 2004 at its Solcon plant that manufactures MIG wire.
The St Helens site in the UK renewed its ISO 14001 certificate this year.
In 1995 St Helens was one of the first Types of general waste sites in the UK to receive ISO 14001.
In addition, BOCs hydrogen plant on Teesside in the UK obtained its certificate this year.
All BOC sites operate in accordance with ISO standards even if not specifically accredited, Total 26,675 tonnes because IMSS, containing the Groups global operating systems and standards, is aligned to ISO 14001.
1 Plastics This year BOCs global environment working group teamed up with occupational hygiene professionals to 1 6 2 Paper and card develop best practice strategies.
The Groups web-based environmental survey, which covers approximately 550 3 Glass 5 4 Metals industrial sites around the world continues to be used to develop action plans and report performance on-line.
5 General waste 3 This system reveals opportunities for the development and sharing of best environmental practice across sites and 2 6 Other businesses.
For example, Afrox hospitals at Kingsbury and Claremont installed a water recycling system for their 4 autoclave sterilisers in response to survey findings.
The water saving at one hospital on average equates to 3.5 million litres a year.
BOC has operated a comprehensive environmental survey programme of its sites for more than ten years.
The annual survey highlights issues relevant to the businesses and assesses how well they are being managed.
Objectives for improved performance remain an integral part of business performance contracts.
Disappointingly ozone depleting potential ODP substance releases have increased this year.
60 per cent of the total released was from two plants.
Plans are in place to improve performance by modifying both plants and developing action plans to improve other plants.
28 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Social, environmental and ethical performance Climate change is now recognised as a significant environmental issue.
This presents BOC with challenges and opportunities.
The most significant challenge is the fact that BOC is a major energy user and a partner and supplier of products to energy intensive industries such as iron and steel.
Opportunities lie in the development of products and services that help customers manage their own climate change issues, for example, energy efficiency improvements or cleaner production that reduces greenhouse gas emissions.
BOCs electricity consumption was approximately 11.8Terawatts and emissions for this financial year are estimated to be 7.5 million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalents of which the two gases businesses, Process Gas Solutions and Industrial and Special Products, account for 98 per cent.
They produce approximately 2,420 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents for each 1 million of turnover.
These emissions are from major combustion sources 1 and emissions associated with electricity used by all BOCs major facilities.
Whilst emissions associated with Group processes are significant they should be viewed in the context of the nature and scope of BOCs businesses.
As a matter of business and environmental necessity, the Group will continue to manage climate change issues effectively and responsibly.
BOCs methodology for emission estimation and addressing emission factors has been independently assessed and confirmed to be appropriate.
The Group uses energy data to help improve its energy efficiency with resultant improvements in carbon dioxide emissions.
Over the last four years, for example, Process Gas Solutions operations have continued to focus on plant and distribution efficiency improvements, resulting in more than one thousand projects that will deliver significant annual savings.
One project was successful in winning an application for New South Wales Greenhouse Gas Abatement Certificates as a result of the installation of a Linear Model Predictive Control LMPC system at the Port Kembla site in Australia.
This project is one of the largest to qualify under the scheme rules and demonstrates BOCs commitment to improving the energy efficiency of its production processes.
LMPC has helped the business to reduce gaseous oxygen losses at the site, which in turn means that the business consumes less electricity.
BOCs commitment to environmental stewardship and partnership is shown in its approach to new plants, facilities and services.
BOC and the Australian CSIRO entered into an agreement to commercialise fumigation technology to replace methyl bromide, a widely used fumigant that is being phased out under the International Montreal Protocol.
The fumigant ethanedinitrile EDN is considered better environmentally and more effective than methyl bromide to sterilise soils from insect pests, weeds and diseases before planting high value crops such as strawberries and carrots.
Also in 2004, BOC formed a major alliance with leading refrigerants reclaim firm Hudson Technologies.
A seven-year agreement covering 20 countries provides BOC with exclusive access to Hudsons recovery, reclaim, diagnostic, analytical and gas cleaning equipment and software technology.
The technology will improve plant efficiency, leading to energy savings and environmental benefits from reduced carbon dioxide emissions.
Selecting the right supplier for BOC is fundamental to conducting business effectively and ethically.
Throughout its businesses, BOC has adopted the SESPA process for supplier evaluation, selection and performance appraisal, together with an ethical purchasing policy implemented by the supply management function.
BOC aims to comply fully with all material environmental laws and regulations.
Four prosecutions for breaches of environmental regulations were incurred in 2004 resulting in fines totalling 3,670.
BOC has responded with measures to abate and prevent future occurrences as part of the Groups programme of continuous improvement.
The US Environmental Protection Agency has named The BOC Group Inc as a potentially responsible party for clean-up costs at a number of hazardous waste sites.
Although liability for the remediation of such sites may be legally imposed without regard to the quantity of waste contributed, based on the information available management believes that it is unlikely that any costs incurred will have a material impact on the financial position of the Group.
BOC continues to assist customers to improve their own environmental performance.
Environmental legislation also presents BOC with a number of potential business opportunities.
BOC and the Cardiff Harbour Authority in the UK won the ABB-sponsored IChemE Environment Award 2004 for the Harbour Four oxygenation vessel that replenishes oxygen into Cardiff Bay.
This is a good example of BOC technology benefiting the general public as well as industry.
BOC has also patented systems to recover carbon dioxide from other companies productive processes and put it to constructive use.
For example, reclaimed carbon dioxide is infused in drip-irrigation water or used to enrich atmospheres to enhance crop growth.
The glass and metals industries use BOCs oxy-fuel burners to increase the efficiency of combustion, using less fuel and reducing polluting emissions.
The Group continues to develop technology that is more energy efficient, which helps customers and partners meet their carbon dioxide reduction commitments under the Kyoto protocol on climate change.
As part of this commitment, BOCs Torrance and City of Industry air separation plants in the US received substantial funding from the energy efficiency programmes run by Southern California Edison.
The Group continues to work actively with its stakeholders to ensure environmental issues are approached responsibly and supported actively.
BOC is a signatory to the UNs Global Compact and in the US and Australia supports the chemical industrys Responsible Care programme.
BOC continues to participate in the UKs Business in the Environment BiE survey.
This year the Group improved its overall survey score achieving 88.59 per cent, placing BOC in the top 25 per cent of FTSE and other companies participating in the survey.
Details about the BOC Foundation for the Environment can be found on page 62.
BOCs methodology is consistent with all major point sources of carbon dioxide emissions within Scope 1 of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute March 2004 and all major sources of carbon dioxide emissions under Scope 2 of the protocol.
The figure does not include non-carbon dioxide global warming gases N2O, SF6, CH4, PFCs and HFCs, freight and logistics and minor sources such as business travel, office electricity at small sites and decomposition of wastes and carbon dioxide emissions associated with heat and steam imported to BOC plants.
29 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004
