EMPLOYEES At 30 September 2004 the Group had 43,383 employees 2003: 44,507 employees, 2002: 46,280 employees.
During the year the disposal of the US packaged gas business resulted in the successful transfer of over 1,000 employees to the new owner.
Employees of the company and its subsidiaries were located as follows: Europe 12,712 Americas 6,283 Africa 16,790 Asia Pacific 7,598 Unplanned employee turnover remains low and as a result the employee base remains stable.
BOC invests time and energy in developing the potential of its people.
Opportunities are reviewed and discussed with identified individuals to provide cross-line of business experience or to set up a range of functional and geographical assignments.
This contributes to BOCs success in retaining and developing the core skills and capabilities it needs to meet its business, customer service and health and safety targets.
BOC regularly reviews its succession planning processes and the availability of essential capabilities.
Results show it has solid capability in most areas and adequate succession depth to meet both its technical and leadership requirements.
Employee satisfaction and commitment Employee satisfaction is measured and managed both centrally and in the business units.
Levels of employee satisfaction and commitment are generally high.
A culture of accountability, collaboration, transparency and stretch, known as ACTS, has been developed throughout BOC.
The ACTS principles provide a framework that employees can use in their dealings with each other and with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The GROW programme introduced this year helps employees maximise their performance and unlock their potential.
It provides on-line facilities for employees to develop their individual development plans and to have access to all their career development information in one place.
Employment policies and Code of Conduct The BOC Group takes its responsibilities as a global organisation seriously.
It is committed to fostering a workplace that is safe and environmentally sound.
It will always act in line with all applicable laws, regulations and industry standards.
It expects people to respect confidential information and company time and assets.
It believes in open and honest communication, fair treatment and equal opportunities.
It opposes public corruption, anti-competitive behaviour and insider trading, and it supports the fundamental principles of good governance and human rights.
BOC is a signatory of the UN Global Compact.
It subscribed to its nine original principles and supported the addition of a tenth principle this year on bribery and corruption.
These principles represent minimum standards for BOC and in many areas existing standards exceed those set out in the Global Compact.
BOC launched a global Code of Conduct in 2003.
An extensive programme of communications has seen over 99 per cent of the target population of BOC trained in the substance of the code, which is a framework of legal and ethical standards for all BOC people to work and live by.
The code is supported by a number of processes.
BOC has a confidential helpline to deal with questions that is available in every country where it operates.
It has translated the standards into key languages.
In addition to the Code of Conduct, BOC provides guidance and human resources policies to support BOC people in their day-to-day activities and long-term career planning.
These are aligned to the corporate values and principles.
At the heart of this approach is the recognition that the energy and application of individuals and teams throughout the organisation will determine which companies have competitive advantage in todays complex global market.
BOCs employment policies are designed to underpin the Groups operating requirements and growth strategies.
The human resources units implementing these policies are aligned to the business units in each geography and, as far as practicable, Group policies are adapted to meet local requirements.
Communication and involvement BOC places a high priority on two-way communications with its people.
The primary communication channels are within the business units, where local managers work with their people and two-way communication is most achievable.
The Group also uses a number of formal and informal communication channels to share information and to shape behaviour.
In addition to traditional media such as videos, magazines, newsletters and briefing packs, BOC has continued to invest in e-mail and web-based communications technologies to ensure that consistent and coherent messages are conveyed speedily to its people around the world.
The Group surveyed nearly 4,000 of its employees this year to understand the issues that employees saw as being important and their satisfaction with how these issues were communicated to them.
It confirmed that the most important as viewed by employees was safety, followed by the performance and goals of their own business unit and information about customers.
This survey will be used to improve communications further over the coming year.
The Group actively searches for ways to involve employees in shaping the future.
Teams meet to review or jointly create processes, systems or strategies.
A variety of employee structures exist for these purposes, including peer groups, special interest groups, teams of excellence and quality teams.
Multi-disciplinary and cross-geographic groups of employees regularly meet, either face-to-face, or by using tele-, videoand web-based meeting technologies which have been installed for these purposes.
Resourcing, training and development Resourcing, training and development programmes are designed to ensure that the Group has a pool of wellqualified, gifted individuals able to meet day-to-day operational needs and plans for the future.
BOC conducts a robust annual process to assess the strengths and weaknesses of its units.
It is committed to providing its people with opportunities to develop and grow, but also to bring new blood into the organisation through targeted external recruitment.
A global, web-based recruiting platform is in place to supplement other recruitment channels.
23 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Employees BOC continued to place great emphasis on personal and career development over the past year.
Employees are encouraged to be proactive about their future careers and development opportunities.
The aim is for all employees to have regular discussions with their managers regarding their aspirations, prospects and development needs.
These result in the formulation of an individual development plan, which is an agreed course of action to meet employees needs as well as the needs of the organisation.
The GROW process not only aids the development of individual development plans but also performance management.
Action plans can be developed and monitored incorporating input from 360 degree appraisals.
BOC offers many opportunities for career and personal development.
Employee development takes the form of on-the-job coaching and training, development projects, secondments, e-learning, as well as more traditional classroom-based training.
In addition to the development that takes place to achieve current job effectiveness of all employees, high potential employees are identified and developed with future roles in mind.
Lead is an ambitious executive development programme for high potential senior managers, facilitated by world class external providers as well as senior BOC executives.
It is customised for BOC and is comprehensive in its scope.
The programme offers a tailored curriculum and is designed to equip the participants with the broad range of skills and experiences they will need to be successful leaders within the Group.
To date, over 130 senior managers have had the opportunity to participate in Lead programmes.
A parallel leadership development programme, iLead, has been developed for high potential middle managers and is run regionally around the world.
Lead and iLead augment many other management development initiatives, which are provided to all BOCs supervisors and managers.
International assignments are used to develop high potential executives and to create opportunities within local management teams.
The success of such programmes are reviewed regularly with business unit heads as part of their performance contracts.
BOC believes that how its employees work is as important as what they produce, which is why it has concentrated on the behaviours associated with accountability, collaboration, transparency and stretch the ACTS cultural principles.
Accountability comes through people knowing what they are accountable for and being empowered to deliver.
Collaboration is about drawing on the rich diversity of styles, talents and skills across the Group to maximise achievements.
BOC values transparency because of the belief that visible problems can be solved and that informed people make better decisions.
Finally, stretch advocates continually pushing the boundaries of performance.
BOC has created a set of leadership competency models, which are aligned to ACTS.
All recruitment, development, recognition and enhancement processes are being aligned to this comprehensive and unified BOC view of leadership and management.
Reward and recognition An organisation that aspires to excellence must recognise and reward the achievement of excellence.
The Group continues to refine the key value drivers of its business units and to ensure it can reward and recognise outstanding individual and team performance in the fulfilment of business goals.
Programmes to achieve this are cascaded throughout the organisation to heighten focus on effective performance at all levels.
The Group continues to move towards a total reward system that allows people to structure their remuneration and benefits to suit their individual needs.
Senior executives remuneration is linked to a Group-wide variable compensation plan, which is described in the report on remuneration on page 64.
Retirement benefit plans BOC considers it important that its people provide for their retirement and fully supports their efforts in this regard.
Around the world, the Group provides opportunities for people to participate in retirement programmes tailored to suit local conditions.
Just as importantly, the boards pensions committee takes prudent steps to monitor and control Group-wide retirement benefit plans with local managers being responsible for safeguarding the security of each retirement plan that they sponsor.
BOC closed its UK defined benefit pension schemes to new members in 2003 and replaced them with a defined contribution plan.
The financial position of the Groups main pension funds is detailed in note 8 to the financial statements.
Diversity BOC believes that diversity is a key driver of future organisational and operating effectiveness.
As one of the UKs few truly global companies, BOC highly values the rich diversity of its people.
While the Group consistently champions a set of unifying values and principles, they are not imposed regardless of local sensibilities.
Rather, the Group strives to build on the qualities inherent in its global environment by encouraging people with different views, styles and approaches.
Wherever in the world it operates, BOC is committed to maintaining a workplace free from discrimination for reasons of race, creed, culture, nationality, religion, gender, sexual orientation, age or marital status.
The success of its diversity programme is monitored and reported regularly.
Disability is not considered a barrier to employment and, as far as local conditions allow, employees are selected on the basis of their ability to perform the job.
Further necessary training is arranged, taking account of their particular needs and the resources required to meet them.
Employee share schemes Many BOC employees in the UK and some other countries have built up an equity interest in the Groups business through employee share schemes.
Options may be granted at a discount to the market price at the date of grant.
The term of options granted could be from three to seven years and any option is conditional on a commitment by the individual to make regular savings from pay that are then held by an independent organisation to purchase shares at the end of the option period.
The exercise of options under these schemes can be satisfied by the issue of new shares or the transfer of existing shares.
24 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004
