Corporate social responsibility In recent years, many companies have come to recognise As part of our new approach, weve grouped our activities under four headings, reflecting the main arenas where we believe that Boots is making a contribution: the importance of conducting their business in a socially community, environment, marketplace and workplace.
In the first of these, our responsible manner.
Boots has been doing that for well aim is to create a genuine sense of partnership in the communities we serve.
over a century, since the days of Jesse Boot.
Furthermore, Community Award-winning work for well-being In summer 2003, Boots was presented with two over the past year weve developed a new, more systematic awards for excellence by Business in the Community the most prestigious UK awards approach to reporting on, and measuring the results of, recognising responsible business practice.
our many and varied corporate social responsibility CSR The Healthy Communities and Innovation awards were presented in recognition of our programme of health initiatives, developed in partnership with the NHS in Nottingham, activities.
The aim has been to improve our performance, with the aim of helping hospital patients to take control of their own health and recognise and increase accountability: but a pleasing side-effect the value of taking time out for themselves.
This includes the development of Time for a Treat workshops and a volunteer massage service for patients at Nottingham City Hospital, is that our standing in external ratings, such as the as well as treat days for NHS staff.
And we are now supporting a pilot for a permanent Business in the Community Social Responsibility Survey, wellbeing service for staff at Nottingham City Hospital.
Working together for happy healthy smiles By the age of five, over 55% of all Scottish children have dental disease.
Boots has been working in partnership with Action for Sick Children in Scotland to address this startling statistic with an innovative learning-throughplay initiative.
Dental playboxes have been specially developed for use in primary and pre-schools.
They contain safe dental equipment, mini uniforms, books and toys.
Through play, children learn about how to keep their teeth healthy and become familiar with what a visit to the dentist is like helping to reduce their fear.
The project aims to reach 18,000 children in its first year.
16 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Sharing skills with the NHS Ten Boots managers have been matched with NHS We continue to implement our strategy on chemicals published in March 2003 across managers, in a new initiative to share skills and experience.
The Skills Sharing Initiative was the whole of our business, and to ensure that we maintain trust in our brand, well developed jointly by Boots and the Improvement Network, which supports the learning and continue dialogue with all our stakeholders, and our efforts to influence the legislative development of all NHS organisations and staff in the local area.
Employees were matched process of REACH.
with someone in a similar role within the NHS, in areas including business development, A new strategy for cutting CO emissions At Boots were committed to minimising the 2 marketing, training and development, and IT.
climate change impact of our business, by reducing carbon emissions principally CO. And 2 Emma Brock, an HR Manager with Boots Healthcare International and Nicola Goodwin, in 2003, we became one of the first companies in the UK to conduct a detailed study with an NHS Service Improvement Manager, were matched with each other.
Emma commented: The Carbon Trust to determine the carbon footprint of our stores, offices and As Nicola and I come from different functional and career backgrounds we have been warehouses, and also of transport used by us for delivery and for business travel.
able to contribute to and complement each others skills and knowledge from different As a result, weve been able to produce a detailed carbon management strategy, which perspectives.
The discussions have stimulated much thought and learning around possible among other things identifies potential savings of around 10,000 tonnes of CO per year 2 alternative approaches that each organisation could consider.
through energy efficiency in our buildings and transport.
Environment Built-in sustainability, by Product Bank Over the past year, weve made important Dedicated as we are to the health of our customers, we naturally feel a passionate progress in applying sustainable development principles to product design, linking up concern for the wellbeing of the environment.
And, as with our products, with external centres of excellence to bring new ideas and concepts into the business.
innovation is the hallmark of our activities in this area.
At a strategic level this included our involvement in Project Sigma: a joint initiative involving Taking a lead on chemicals These days, every manufacturing or retailing business has a Bsi, Forum for the Future and AccountAbility.
In 2003, the project culminated in the duty to consider the impact of the chemicals in the products it sells on human health and publication of a groundbreaking series of sustainable management guidelines.
But as chemists, we believe that Boots has a responsibility to lead the way both in highlighting chemicals for replacement and engaging with stakeholders For internally produced products, the innovative thinking needed about sustainability is to ensure that the position we take reflects their views.
This new team within the product and development department is dedicated to understanding new technological developments and progressing them to a Over the last 12 months, weve continued to develop our priority substances list, point where they can be used in Boots products.
The aim is to build sustainability into new which highlights chemicals Boots are currently taking action on.
Weve also carried Boots products right across our portfolio, taking into consideration such issues as the need out independent research into the use of chemicals and debated with key stakeholders to reduce packaging and increase accessibility to all sections of society including the elderly and opinion-formers across Europe on the proposed chemical legislation REACH.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 17 Corporate social responsibility Marketplace Carried out by our own team of trained social accountability assessors, this process reviews For Boots there has never been a contradiction between running a successful, suppliers labour practices and environmental performance.
profitable business and providing a socially valuable service.
Thats part of our As a result of the assessments weve carried out so far, 20 small to medium-sized Boots heritage, which is clearly reflected to this day in our stores, our products and suppliers have been put forward to take part in the Envirowise Supply Chain Partnership, even our relationships with suppliers.
a government-funded programme offering free advice on practical ways to minimise waste A better deal for disabled customers As part of our commitment to meeting the and increase profit.
To date, total savings of over 600,000 have been identified from objectives of the Disability Discrimination Act DDA, staff in all Boots stores, opticians and those Boots suppliers who took part.
healthcare services practices have completed extensive disability awareness training.
Our Working together to make a difference Thanks to the hard work of our own people, aim is not just to prepare for stage three of the DDA which comes into force in October, and the generosity of our customers, our charity partnerships raised much needed funds but to make all areas of our service provision fully accessible to all our customers.
for two very important causes last year.
Our training programme was based on typical customer interactions.
Focusing on each Our be up front campaign took us into our seventh year of support for Breast Cancer kind of disability in turn, it was designed to help our staff learn how to modify their usual Care.
New for last year, N7 teamed up with Swarovski Crystal to develop an exclusive behaviour where necessary, when dealing with disabled customers.
brooch sold in support of the charity.
Combined with make-over marathons at over 200 Setting standards for our suppliers For a major retailer, ensuring that all its many stores, this helped us to raise over 300,000 bringing the total we have donated so far suppliers treat their workers fairly and show a responsible attitude towards the to Breast Cancer Care to over 1m.
environment is an enormous challenge.
But thats the goal Boots is working towards.
With one in five households in the UK affected by asthma we were happy to join forces An important step, in May 2003, was joining the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI, an alliance with the National Asthma Campaign last year.
As well as raising awareness of asthma of companies, NGOs and trade unions, working together to promote the observance of issues among our customers, we sold specially designed pin badges at all our stores, internationally recognised labour standards in particular, fundamental human rights raising well over 400,000 for the charity.
As a demonstration of our commitment to the ETI, weve embarked on a programme of assessing all of our Boots brand product suppliers against our own Code of Conduct for Ethical Trading see Boots-plc.
We aim to complete the programme by April 2006.
18 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Workplace Listening to our people Responsible employers learn by listening to their people.
So we Corporate social responsibility begins at home.
Thats to say, responsible employers recently carried out a survey to find out what our people think about Boots, their jobs and recognise that caring for their own people is essential to the companys success, their managers.
Among the largely positive findings, we were very happy that 78% of and its ability to meet its wider obligations.
those responding agreed with the statement I am proud to work for Boots.
Getting in Shape, responsibly As youve read elsewhere in this report, we cut around To give our people an opportunity to have their say about how we run the business, we 1,000 head office jobs last year.
This was a necessary step to make Boots a leaner, fasterrelaunched the Boots Retail Forum last year.
Already, this has started to provide us with moving and more efficient business: but, of course, we were very aware of the effect that this very useful feedback about how people are feeling at grassroots level, and excellent decision would have on our people, their families and the local community in Nottingham.
suggestions about how Boots could serve customers better.
To minimise uncertainty, open and honest communication was essential.
Chief executive Exceeding our safety targets The health and safety of our people are, of course, an Richard Baker announced the changes personally to everyone affected.
And on the same absolute priority for Boots.
So were pleased to report that our drive at Boots to reduce day, each member of staff had an opportunity to discuss their own position, in a one-towork-related accidents continued to deliver results.
In fact, over the last two years, our one session.
performance in this respect has far exceeded the targets we set as part of our 10-year plan.
Theres been a major reduction in accidents across all our main operational areas, but Boots To achieve the majority of job losses through volunteers, we offered generous redundancy Manufacturing BM and Logistics have done particularly well, with improvements of 48% terms: and to help people find other opportunities, we used a professional outplacement and 56% respectively.
service, as well the local Job Centre Plus.
As a result, we succeeded in achieving virtually all the redundancies voluntarily.
Finally, our annual Health and Safety Performance Report for 2001 02, published on our website in 2002, was identified as achieving an exemplary level of reporting, in research Back to the floor, for Christmas At Boots, we strongly encourage our office people to published by the Health and Safety Executive in 2003. spend time working in our stores, to keep in touch with the retailing realities on which our success depends.
And at Christmas, with the stores stretched to their limits, we made a special effort to get as many people as possible back to the floor.
In all, around 2,000 people from head office volunteered to lend a much-needed hand.
As well as helping our stores cope with Christmas, weve found this to be an invaluable way of bringing Boots people together, giving our store people a real sense of being appreciated and supported by their office-based colleagues.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 19
