Environmental and social performance Our fundamental purpose, as defined by BPs board, is to Our policy is to ensure equal opportunity in recruitment, maximize shareholder value on a long-term basis by providing career development, promotion, training and reward for all constantly improving goods and services in a strongly employees, including those with disabilities.
All applicants and competitive way.
To be sustainably successful, we have employees are assessed against clear criteria related to job to gain and retain the support of many people, including requirements.
Where existing employees become disabled, employees, shareholders, customers and communities.
our policy is to provide continuing employment and training This report summarizes our performance.
More detail is wherever practicable.
published in BP Sustainability Report 2004.
Our People Assurance Survey PAS, completed by 74% of our employees in 2004, showed a 4% improvement in overall BP: our business employee satisfaction.
The way we work is guided by values integrity, honest dealing, BP values the diversity of its leadership.
At the end of 2004, treating everyone with respect and dignity, striving for mutual 15% of our top 610 leaders were female and 19% were of advantage, transparency and contributing to human progress.
nationalities other than the UK or US.
Our employee surveys These values are enshrined in practical policies and standards show that an inclusive culture is spreading.
In 2004, 70% that govern areas of our activity, including health, safety, of BP employees who responded to the PAS believed the security, environment, ethical conduct and business company had created an environment where people with relationships.
diverse backgrounds could succeed, up from 67% in 2003 We use a system of risk management to assess the impact and 60% in 2000.
We strive to build an environment in which of our activities on the environment, local economies and everyone can feel part of a meritocratic organization.
Where appropriate, accountability for managing During 2004, we made further progress in learning and environmental and social impacts is part of managers development opportunities for employees.
Around 5,000 people performance contracts, with specific objectives and milestones.
undertook the First Level Leaders programme, which provides Peoples safety is of the highest priority.
Managers are training for the first tier of management.
More than 1,800 of accountable for ensuring that safety risks are properly our 6,000 senior leaders took part in the Senior Level Leaders addressed, staff are trained and facilities are well maintained.
programme, designed to develop their leadership capabilities.
We closely monitor our safety performance.
BPs fourth Global Graduate Forum was attended by around In 2004, the number of injury cases resulting in our 300 graduates who joined in 2002, while around 250 people employees or contractors being away from work for a day or attended the Discover BP programme, launched to help senior more was 0.08 per 200,000 hours worked, compared with experienced recruits integrate rapidly into BP.
This performance is approaching the best in our We continue to support employee share ownership.
Through industry and also within our target set at 0.09 for 2004. our award-winning ShareMatch plan, run in 75 countries, we Despite meeting this important target and reducing overall match BP shares purchased by employees.
injury rates, we deeply regret the 11 workforce fatalities in 2004.
Communications with employees include global and local This compares with 20 in 2003 and 13 in 2002. magazines, intranet sites, DVDs, targeted e-mails and faceAs a global organization, we believe our workforce, leadership to-face communication.
Team meetings are the core of our and recruitment should reflect the diverse communities in employee consultation, complemented by formal processes which we operate.
We are continuing to focus on employing through works councils in parts of Europe.
This communication, and developing local staff and leaders in our operations along with training programmes, raises awareness of the worldwide.
Programmes in countries including China, Angola financial, economic, social and environmental factors affecting and Azerbaijan are ensuring that we continue to increase the BPs performance and contributes to employee development number of local employees.
We continue to emphasize the importance of doing business with high standards of ethical conduct.
To enhance our focus on compliance with laws, regulations and internal policies and a Long-term improvement in safety performance DAFWCF 1988-2004 standards, we developed a new centralized compliance and ethics function during 2004.
1.5 We promote our global employee concerns programme OpenTalk to give our staff the opportunity to report possible 1.0 breaches of law or company policy without fear of retaliation.
OpenTalk can be contacted via telephone, letter, e-mail or fax 0.5 and provides a translation service.
Matters raised are held in strict confidence and are referred for investigation via regional 0 ombudsmen within BP for resolution.
During 2004, 343 reports 1988 1992 1996 2000 2004 were received from 44 countries and, where appropriate, action a Days away from work case frequency DAFWCF is the annual frequency per was taken.
200,000 hours of injuries that result in a person employee or contractor being Staff in positions of responsibility review with their teams all unable to work for a day shift or more.
For a full understanding of the underlying data on DAFWCF, please refer to our website.
compliance and ethical issues arising during the year.
They then 30 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004 certify to their manager that their personal actions and those continuous performance improvement at our sites to reduce of their teams have complied with the law and with company air emissions, water discharges and accidental releases, policy, disclosing any areas of possible non-compliance.
including oil spills to sea or land.
On completion of the process, the group chief executive Our shipping fleet transports significant volumes of oil and prepares his personal certificate on behalf of BP.
In future gas around the world.
In 2004, BP continued its strategy of years, these reports will be prepared against the requirements increasing its fleet in order to control the risk of a major oil outlined in our new code of conduct.
Our owned and operated fleet has We continue to apply our strong anti-corruption policy, grown from 36 ships in 2003 to 42 ships in December 2004, including prohibiting facilitation payments and identifying and 38 of which are double-hulled.
Most of these vessels are correcting any areas of non-compliance.
We take disciplinary leased, an approach that enables the group to renew the measures where appropriate.
In 2004, this included the fleet periodically.
We also charter additional vessels, which dismissal of 252 people for unethical behaviour, including are vetted to ensure they meet our rigorous standards.
In the area of renewable and alternative energies, BPs BP does not make corporate political contributions anywhere research and development focus has been on photovoltaics in the world and specifically made no donations to UK or other and hydrogen.
We are pursuing initiatives aimed at improving EU political parties or organizations in 2004. the efficiency and cost of solar cells as well as the Promoting health awareness among our employees, development of new silicon sources and alternative wafer contractors and local communities provides long-term benefits fabrication techniques.
In hydrogen, we use our international to our people and our business.
In many areas of the world portfolio of practical demonstration projects to test new we face significant health issues, such as HIV AIDS.
During technologies and foster innovation.
2004, we increased our capability to assess health risks and implemented local initiatives.
BP in society We try to ensure that our relationships with non-governmental BP and the environment organizations NGOs, customers, suppliers, communities and BP was the first major oil company to state publicly that the governments are founded on the basis of mutual advantage.
risks of climate change were serious and that precautionary Our relationships develop over many years by seeking to action was justified.
While uncertainties remain, we believe understand the needs and aspirations of all with whom we business planning and long-term strategy should be based do business.
on the need to stabilize atmospheric concentrations of We made further progress on some concerns related greenhouse gases.
to the construction of the BTC pipeline, a project that has In 2001, BP had succeeded in lowering operational attracted some NGO opposition, particularly over human emissions by 10% from 1990 levels.
We now aim to offset rights issues.
The pipeline is being constructed to transport growth in our emissions by 2012, with reductions achieved oil from the Caspian to the Mediterranean, so avoiding partly from operational efficiency projects and partly from shipping through the Bosporus, and will help meet growing the supply of products that are cleaner or offer improved world demand.
We believe that open and thriving societies create the Our 2004 operational emissions of 81.7 million tonnes best environment for business.
During 2004, we contributed Mte were similar to those of 2003 83.4Mte.
Our emissions to international discussions on the issue of transparency.
would have been higher but for planned improvements in The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI is an operational efficiencies and divestments.
The efficiencies important programme that provides guidelines for disclosing resulted in more than 1Mte of sustainable reductions, which the amount of revenue governments receive from energy now total about 4Mte since 2001. companies, so demonstrating the scale of the funds available BP recognizes the need to protect and conserve sensitive for public spending.
Towards the end of 2004, a Memorandum areas that house the rich biodiversity of our planet.
We will of Understanding was signed in Baku, Azerbaijan, by the only work within sensitive areas if we believe we can properly government, state and foreign oil companies, setting out manage any risks to the environment.
clearly the process for implementation of the EITI in We have made a commitment to publish the results of Azerbaijan.
BP is committed to encouraging the acceleration risk assessments relating to any new activities in World of this process and will be supporting it with the publication Conservation Union IUCN designated sites.
In 2004, no of relevant data and information.
decisions were taken to go into such areas.
Our website Our business activities affect and benefit people details all known IUCN category I to VI areas where we have worldwide.
We seek to extend these benefits as broadly facilities.
During 2004, further work was undertaken to ensure as possible.
During 2004, we reviewed our strategy of that our approach when entering areas for exploration and social investment and intend to focus on education, on production is consistent and transparent.
the development of thriving local enterprise and on By the end of 2004, 100% of our major operations had providing access to energy in remote locations.
We continue been independently certified to the ISO 14001 international to support many initiatives in the communities in which standard on environmental management.
This system drives we operate.
