Corporate Responsibility Report Most recently, in 2004, Friends Provident became We encourage our a member of the Dow Jones World Sustainability Index, which represents the top 10% of companies people to think across 34 countries and 60 industries assessed for their leading position in sustainability.
All these differently so that their achievements are set against the backdrop of Friends Provident experiencing the greatest period of change in its 170-year history.
everyday decisions have Here, we summarise our approach and some regard to social and highlights from the programme.
A full report, including objectives for 2005, can be viewed on our website: environmental issues www.
The full CR Report and this summary have been written as well as, for example, with reference to the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines published by the Global Reporting Initiative.
The CR and Annual Reports together cost and quality.
provide a comprehensive review of our economic, social and environmental performance.
Vision and strategy Our Statement of Business Principles, published Following my retirement as a Director of Friends on our website, sets out our vision for corporate Provident plc, I am delighted that the Group responsibility.
Our vision is based on CR being part Chief Executive, Keith Satchell, will take over of good corporate governance in its broadest sense.
direct responsibility for the Groups Corporate Our CR programme has been integrated into routine Responsibility CR programme, reecting its business planning to ensure it is balanced with other importance in our organisation.
We encourage our people to think differently so that their everyday decisions have I have led our programme since it was refreshed regard to social and environmental issues as well as, and relaunched in 2000 and I am proud of the for example, cost and quality.
They can then pursue excellent progress that has been made these last opportunities to improve our social and environmental five years.
We have: performance at little or no extra cost.
We also been members of the FTSE4Good Index since carefully consider the relative materiality of our we listed as a plc in 2001 different social and environmental impacts, focusing achieved a top quartile placing in the Companies our efforts where they can most make a difference.
that Count list based on Business in the Communitys CR Index Our areas of inuence been voted one of the 100 Best Workplaces Friends Provident is one of the leading financial in the UK for the last four years services groups in the UK and in the FTSE100 Index cut our CO emissions by 80% of leading UK companies.
It has two core businesses, 2 won the award for written CR communications Life and Pensions, which markets a broadly based at the inaugural IVCA Clarion Awards range of life and pensions products, and Asset retained our leading position in the Socially Management, which has around 125 billion of funds Responsible Investment market under management and markets a wide range of established the Friends Provident Foundation investment products to personal and institutional to start, albeit modestly, to address some of customers.
These core businesses are both in the top the social issues facing the UK today 10 of their respective sectors in the UK.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 37 Corporate Responsibility Report continued The life assurance industry is important from both those companies meetings worldwide.
We publish an economic and social perspective, contributing to monthly reports that list the way we have voted the generation of wealth and the social wellbeing of and include a brief explanation of every vote not supporting the recommendations of the boards society.
It allows consumers, for example, to transfer risk, buy protection and save for retirement.
industry pays out 222 million each working day in pensions and life assurance benets.
Friends Governance structure and management systems Friends Provident has a well-developed and Provident was originally founded with the aim of integrated CR management system that includes alleviating the hardship of families facing misfortune.
the following features: Today, as we pay out millions of pounds every working day, improving the quality of life of our Main Board responsibility customers and their families remains our aim and A Group-wide Steering Committee which our core social responsibility.
meets quarterly A CR manager Buying long-term financial products can be a Dened roles and responsibilities across the Group complicated process and we are pleased to have Performance indicators for all main impact areas been re-accredited under the Raising Standards An objective and target-setting mechanism Quality Mark scheme, which aims to foster built into the Companys strategic and business consumer confidence through improved disclosure planning process and encourage more people to make adequate An internal communication programme provision for their long-term financial needs.
And An internal verication process the service we provide has been rated Five Star, the highest rate possible in the 2004 Financial CR risks and opportunities are routinely identied Adviser Practiv Service Awards.
We also support through the Groups risk management process.
pfeg Personal Finance Education Group, which is This process requires quarterly reports from each working to improve the financial literacy of future business unit specically covering CR-related risks generations of customers.
and opportunities, which embraces social, ethical and environmental issues.
With regard to the ABI In addition to assuming social responsibility towards Disclosure Guidelines on Socially Responsible our customers, Friends Provident has other direct and Investment, key CR-related risks that have been indirect impacts on society.
Our direct impacts are: assessed include recruitment and retention of Environmental management: key employees, reputational issues, responsible Emissions investing, community relations, human rights, Energy efficiency mis-selling issues and bribery and corruption.
We will Waste benefit, as a consequence, from the strengthening Resource use principally paper of our reputation and the growth of the responsible Labour practices investment market for both screened funds and Community Investment engagement services.
Our indirect impacts occur through: To establish our principles, policy framework and performance indicators, we liaised with various Responsible investment and engagement groups of people who have a stake in our business Supply chain management and developed a matrix that maps issues against Friends Providents most significant environmental different stakeholder groups.
We continue to talk impact is the indirect inuence it can exert through with our stakeholders and take opportunities to link responsible investing in its various forms.
The Group into existing research programmes to ensure this is a pioneer of responsible investing.
In 1984 we matrix remains up-to-date.
launched the UKs first ethical Unit Trust, the Stewardship Unit Trust.
Our Stewardship range of Environmental performance indicators products, now partly operated through our Asset Compared with some industries, the direct impact Management business, is still the market leader with on the environment from an ofce-based life and 42% of the 4.3 billion screened fund market in the UK.
pensions or asset management company is low.
However, we can exert a significant material impact In 2000, the Group launched reo, a state-of-the-art indirectly through responsible investing.
Customers management system for engaging with companies who invest in our Stewardship range of products on a range of social and environmental issues.
We can be confident their money will only be invested believe that companies that change the way they in companies that have been screened by an behave to address these issues also enhance their independent Committee of Reference to ensure the long-term shareholder value.
selected investments have positive community and Finally, Friends Provident fully discloses the way it environmental benets for the world and its people votes the shareholdings held in other companies at and minimise their negative impacts.
38 Friends Provident We promote equal opportunities more generally Motivated employees through our support for Business in the Communitys Opportunity Now, the Equal Pay Commission and are a key factor for the the Employers Forum on Disability.
We undertake regular employee surveys and overall long-term success of satisfaction remains high at 73% 2003: 76%.
We monitor employee sickness and turnover and we any business.
publicly report on our performance through our website.
We have a strong track record on health and safety, with Silver and Bronze awards from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents.
We recognise the trade union, Amicus, with whom we liaise on employee-related business issues.
Through reo we engage with companies on a range Community of social, environmental and ethical issues.
reo is Our main charitable giving is channelled through applied to Friends Providents worldwide equity the Friends Provident Foundation.
The trustees of portfolio, including its staff pension fund.
Each year, the Foundation have decided initially to focus their our twelve-strong team of specialists selects a efforts on addressing financial exclusion and the specic number of topical issues on which to engage first grants were made in October.
Full details on and target companies most exposed to the risks the Foundation can be found on its website: associated with those issues.
org covering those issues and companies, as well as We also facilitate and promote payroll giving as case studies illustrating the engagement process, are published by our Asset Management business a simple and cost-effective way in which employees can donate to their favourite charity.
To support them and can be viewed on www.
we match the first 10 per month that employees Despite their relatively low signicance, we still contribute.
As well as being able to support the have a structured programme of environmental charities of their choice, employees are also given housekeeping to manage our direct impacts.
Based the option of using payroll giving to sponsor a child on DEFRA Department for Environment, Food and in a third world country through a unique link-up with Rural Affairs guidelines, emissions from gas and the aid agency, World Vision.
Through our Volunteer electricity at our main ofce sites amounted to Reading Scheme, our staff are given time out of 1,419 tonnes CO in 2004 2003: 1,300 tonnes.
2 work to visit primary schools to help young children Emissions from company cars amounted to develop their literacy and social skills.
2 Connected with our sponsorship of Southampton We used 48 million sheets of plain paper Football Club, the Friends Provident Fair Play Awards 2003: 53 million sheets.
At main ofce sites are now in their sixth year and we have again linked we used 37 litres employee day of water up with Southampton FC and Southampton City 2003: 37 litres employee day and produced Council to tackle the challenge of keeping racism 1,121 tonnes of waste 2003: 1,070 tonnes of out of football through the Racism Just Aint Saintly which 32% was recycled 2003: 28%.
We have also established a community trust jointly with Southampton FC to develop a Our Supplier Statement outlines our progressive programme for addressing social and environmental football academy, Saints Play Soccer, for primary school children.
issues in our supply chain.
For the Board Social performance indicators Workplace Motivated employees are a key factor for the longterm success of any business and creating the right culture is crucial to recruiting and retaining the best people.
We have been accredited as an Investor In People since 1999.
While ensuring that the needs of B W Sweetland our customers come first, we try to help our people Director achieve their optimum worklife balance through 17 March 2005 homeworking, job sharing and exible working.
We are an equal opportunities employer.
Our aim is that our workforce should mirror the gender and ethnic demographics of the areas in which we operate without any form of positive discrimination.
Note: CR performance data relates to FPLP unless stated otherwise.
F&C reports their CR performance separately.
Our performance data procedures were improved last year so some 2003 data has been restated to enable a valid comparison with 2004.
