HBOS Annual Report V8 9 3 05 11:34 am Page 48 Corporate Responsibility HBOS sees its primary corporate responsibility as delivering growth in profits to its many shareholders and transparent, fair, valuefor-money products and services to its customers.
Total Reward Easycash HBOS Foundation 48 HBOS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 HBOS Annual Report V8 9 3 05 11:53 am Page 49 For the first time in 2004, HBOS has set out The HBOS Customer Contract Forum was set Our commitment to the way its statement of business principles, entitled up in 2004: James Crosby chairs this group of we do business Our Commitment to the Way We Do Business.
It includes the Heads of The statement was agreed by the Board in Group Risk, Marketing and Customer Shareholders February 2004, and communicated internally We will promote the interests of our shareholders Relations and focuses on how HBOS designs, by seeking to increase the value of their shares to all HBOS colleagues in April.
It was promotes and sells products.
The Forum will and dividends, and through sound corporate published in the HBOS Corporate contribute to the task of regaining public trust governance.
We will communicate with Responsibility Report Taking Care of in financial products and services, through a shareholders regularly and in doing so will seek Tomorrow and on the Groups website focus on our marketing activity, product to be clear, comprehensive and balanced.
Customers HBOS: our commitment to the way James Crosby also chairs the Diversity We will be honest, fair and open in our dealings we do business with our customers and endeavour to help Leadership Group, responsible for the Groups HBOS has over 2.5m shareholders, them at all times.
We are committed to Diversity policy.
CR leadership within the providing them with value for money products, 20m customers, 71,000 colleagues, and Divisions and businesses is provided through designed and promoted in a simple and many thousands of suppliers.
Our commitment new CR Forums in Corporate Division and transparent way, and made as widely available to these groups and to society in general is Group Procurement.
When things go wrong, as they that collectively and individually we aspire to act sometimes do, we will resolve problems as responsibly and to high standards at all times.
Risks and Opportunities quickly and fairly as we can.
This is set out in our statement of business Corporate responsibility for HBOS is first and principles, called The Way We Do Business.
Colleagues foremost about our products.
We believe that We will create a safe working environment The full statement is published on the right.
corporate responsibility is not something that which encourages openness, honesty and can be pursued separately from our business mutual respect, and where colleagues can The statement refers to the Groups key goals, and we have therefore built CR into the constructively challenge and ask questions.
stakeholders and sets out how we will Groups risk evaluation process.
The following We will offer equal opportunities for all.
We manage our relationships with them.
It refers examples demonstrate how we are doing this will provide the opportunity for all colleagues to transparent, value-for-money products, a across our business.
to develop their skills and knowledge, and safe working environment, developing the to enjoy fulfilling careers.
We will offer skills of our colleagues, relationships with competitive remuneration with total rewards Marketplace linked to individual and collective performance, suppliers, and to a range of social and We recognise that there are issues about and the opportunity for colleagues to environmental issues, including human rights, public trust in financial services, and participate in the success of HBOS.
bribery and corruption, charitable donations, opportunities for HBOS to differentiate our financial literacy and money advice.
products from competitors by focusing on Suppliers fairness, value-for-money and transparency.
We will deal openly, fairly and honestly with The Way We Do Business is supported by This is a significant agenda, and we have all our suppliers and business partners.
We 48 key performance indicators KPIs published will not demand of them standards that some way to go in order to achieve our in the 2004 Corporate Responsibility CR we do not apply to ourselves but we will objectives and aspirations.
seek to understand their approach before Report.
Each of our stakeholders, and the main doing business with them.
CR dimensions of marketplace, workplace, In Retail, our market leading current account, community and environment are addressed by credit card and savings products again Society these comprehensive KPIs.
Measures have been generated a significant increase in new Our main contribution to society is the value adopted for customer satisfaction, including customers joining HBOS.
In 2004, we opened we can add through our success in business.
complaint handling, tracking the number of best 1 million new bank accounts and 1.2 million We will seek to be a positive influence on buys, product quality as perceived by financial those social and environmental issues which, credit card accounts, and increased our having listened responsibly to our shareholders, journalists, and our colleagues view of their savings and banking credit balances by customers, colleagues and suppliers, we rewards and benefits.
In Insurance & Investment, our think are important, for example upholding publishing our progress on these measures level-load range of simple bancassurance human rights.
internally and externally each year.
products has produced 12% sales growth and confirmation of HBOS as the UKs We will observe the laws and regulations Governance leading bancassurer.
of all countries in which we operate, not just HBOS has extensive policy formulation, in the letter but also the spirit.
We will not governance and monitoring mechanisms countenance bribery, corruption, insider trading Responsible lending is an imperative for or the concealment of conflicts of interest.
in place for CR Corporate Governance HBOS, although we acknowledge that we is specifically dealt with on pages 54 to 58 do not always get everything right.
The We will contribute to the development of the of this report.
There is an annual review One card launched in 2004 by Halifax and community by making charitable donations to of corporate responsibility policy and Bank of Scotland is a good example of our initiatives relating to financial literacy and money performance by the Board, on which Phil focus on responsible lending.
This product advice, and by providing opportunities for Hodkinson, Chief Executive, Insurance & colleagues to support the development of the features risk-based pricing, so a customers Investment Division has overall accountability communities in which they live and work.
good credit history is rewarded with a lower for co-ordinating the HBOS response to CR interest rate.
Currently the pricing ranges from Delivering our commitment issues.
Phil chairs the Groups Corporate an APR of 9.9% through to 12.9%, 15.9% We will measure our progress against this Responsibility Forum comprised of senior and 18.9%.
Unusually in this market, the commitment and report this regularly to managers from each business division and One card is available to both new and shareholders, customers, colleagues and key business functions such as Procurement, existing customers.
Wherever possible, we will Diversity, and Community Banking.
This meets of customers are offered either the 9.9% independently benchmark or verify that it quarterly and reports to the Board annually.
continues to meet their expectations.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 HBOS plc 49 HBOS Annual Report V8 9 3 05 11:53 am Page 50 Corporate Responsibility continued Taking care of tomorrow Credit cards have recently been the focus It is essential that we engage effectively with our Our training and development activities and of Parliamentary enquiries led by the Treasury colleagues throughout HBOS so that they our succession planning process take a rounded Select Committee.
HBOS has worked closely become, and remain, advocates of HBOS and view of colleagues performance, and are with the Committee and was the first bank to our ability to promote and sell our products and designed to enable all colleagues to achieve feature summary boxes on monthly statements.
This clearly contributes to achieving our their full potential.
The summary box includes key information business goals.
Colleague advocacy is a critical such as the interest rate and fees applicable In such a large organisation it is essential that measure of performance in this area, which is to the product.
HBOS has, in keeping with the the leadership teams have absolute clarity tracked monthly across the Group by MORI.
Committees proposals, also offered to share about what is expected of them and this is with other banks experience data on credit The HBOS reward and benefits policy achieved through a range of communications card accounts.
This could help to reduce the media, both face-to-face and electronic.
There focuses on delivering outstanding rewards number of customers who may be taking are monthly business television programmes, for outstanding performance.
These rewards on more debt than they can afford to repay.
intranets, magazines and regular electronic are designed to be sufficiently local to reflect We also include clear minimum payment newsletters for all our colleagues.
A key specific business circumstances, whilst retaining advice in the summary box.
objective here is to maintain high levels of a core element of consistency across HBOS.
colleague advocacy for our strategy: we This is principally achieved through a range Responsible lending is also very much part measure this through MORI surveys.
of share schemes which allows colleagues of our mortgage business.
Halifax has always to participate in the long-term success of taken a conservative approach to mortgage Employing 71,000 people as we do and the business as a whole.
This approach to lending, with an average loan-to-value ratio operating across many business sectors Total Reward has the backing of our Unions, across the book of currently only 41%.
throughout the UK, we recognise the and our commitment to choice and share In 2004, an updated affordability model importance of embracing all aspects ownership does, we believe, distinguish us was introduced to take account of changes in of diversity amongst both our colleagues and in the marketplace.
For the first time in 2004, household finances.
It recognises customers our communities.
This is a further means of all our colleagues received a Total Reward personal income tax and national insurance building colleague commitment and advocacy statement that detailed the total value of all payments, their likely household spending and brings real business benefits.
Recognition aspects of their reward and benefits package.
patterns based on data from the Office of of our success in this field has shown through National Statistics, existing credit commitments, our achievement of the Gold Standard from HBOS works closely with, and encourages and potential disposable income.
Race for Opportunity, Platinum status from colleagues to join one of, our two recognised Opportunity Now and maintaining our standing unions, ACCORD and AMICUS.
Our relationship Workplace as an Age Positive Employer Champion.
with both unions is healthy, our joint discussions The sustained success of HBOS requires a are conducted in a spirit of mutual respect and high degree of engagement and motivation The commitment of our colleagues remains a understanding, and this helps to ensure that our amongst all our colleagues.
The HBOS People key competitive advantage for us and one which terms and conditions meet the current and Strategy, the colleague commitments within we believe cannot be replicated.
At all times, the future needs of our business.
The Way We Do Business statement, and the People Strategy is focused on engaging our supporting HR policies and practices are all colleagues so that they can deliver for the Throughout HBOS we take the view that good designed with this in mind.
In addition, HBOS business and realise their full potential.
performance is as much about the how as human capital reporting metrics are being the what.
We have clearly articulated our developed to enable the Board to track our Community expectations of colleagues and these are progress, in anticipation of the Operating and The Group has a range of policies in place to Financial Review proposals which build on the again aligned with The Way We Do Business implement its community investment strategy.
statement, and with our business objectives.
The Groups investment in the community 50 HBOS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 p51 10 3 05 7:48 am Page 2 Going for Gold Match that!
Our fundraising is on excellent form, with the Foundation We recognise the our achievement of matching pound for pound the money raised by importance of the Gold Standard colleagues in the HBOS Million Challenge.
A staggering embracing all from Race for 1.75m was given to Help the Hospices, Barnardos and aspects of diversity.
All in all a total of 3.2m was raised making us This builds colleague Platinum status from one of the biggest corporate fundraisers in the UK.
commitment and Opportunity Now brings real business and our continued benefits.
Our standing as an Age success has been Positive Employer confirmed through Champion.
New environments HBOS is participating in Silvertown Quays, part of Europes largest regeneration project.
This waterfront scheme at Londons Royal Victoria Dock will offer a mix of high quality residential, workspace, retail, leisure and entertainment facilities.
The scheme includes a world-class aquarium to be operated by the Zoological Society of London as a centre of excellence in conservation and education.
Specifically, across the biggest provider of social banking quoted housebuilders undertaken the UK, HBOS focuses on financial inclusion, accounts in the UK, with over two-thirds of in conjunction with WWF in 2004. financial literacy and developing local the market.
Our contribution to this market Elsewhere, we seek to incorporate communities.
Given its historic roots, HBOS was recognised in the 2004 Guardian Giving our understanding of environmental issues also has community programmes in both List, which highlighted the 20m cost to the in lending and investment assessment Yorkshire and Scotland, including major Group of providing social banking products.
An example is our work on sponsorships north of the border.
The HBOS Our Community Banking team, working with Europes largest regeneration project, the Foundation is one of the main vehicles through local providers across the country, including Thames Gateway initiative, where Silvertown which the Group supports both financial the award-winning Wester Hailes scheme in Quays is a major mixed-use development.
literacy and community development projects.
Edinburgh, has developed initiatives such as This waterfront scheme is creating a new It made available grants to both national and Community Banking Agreements CBAs use for Londons Royal Victoria Dock with local charities totalling 3.7m in 2004 and also which are designed to reduce the risk of a mix of high quality residential, workspace, supported fundraising and volunteering default.
Its customers are therefore able to retail, leisure and entertainment facilities.
In 2004, 1.725m move out of poverty into regular employment HBOS, working in conjunction with the project was raised in the HBOS Million Challenge and, in time, they may be eligible for the full developer, Silvertown Quays Ltd, and the for Help the Hospices, Barnardos and Mencap range of financial products and services.
The London Development Agency, has provided through the matching by the Foundation of team is actively helping to increase the development funding for the early stages funds raised by colleagues.
Our fundraising potential of social enterprise and the voluntary of the project.
activity, including the Challenge and matched sector, developing business solutions for funding of colleagues own initiatives, totalled Looking to the Future financial inclusion.
Halifax is the only bank 3.2m, making HBOS one of the UKs largest The Way We Do Business sets out our participating in the Treasurys Saving Gateway corporate fundraisers.
In addition, colleague corporate responsibility aspirations, and scheme, designed to encourage take-up of volunteering for community activities more we will be expanding our performance saving in low-income communities.
than doubled in 2004, supported by matching measurement and targeting, publishing the colleague time with the equivalent of up to one Environment results and commenting on our performance day per year of company time.
HBOS is the UKs leading mortgage lender in our next Corporate Responsibility Report.
and a major home insurer: as a result the We have made progress in recent years, Financial literacy is a natural focus for the Group is very concerned about the potential but recognise that we can do more to Group.
Financial literacy and money advice impact of climate change, and we are improve our performance.
Gaining a programmes by definition are aimed at focusing much of our environmental activity reputation for sound corporate responsibility everybody in society, irrespective of income or on the issue of sustainable housing.
One practices is the right strategy for HBOS in socio-economic group.
Higher levels of financial example of this is the increased risk of a marketplace in which the absence of trust literacy are often linked to higher educational flooding for some areas of the UK.
If an has unfortunately become a predominant achievement, and it is usually the most area becomes prone to flooding and theme in recent years.
vulnerable groups that need help.
We fund customers are unable to insure themselves organisations such as NCH, NACRO, Refuge, A full Corporate Responsibility Report is against flood risks, they could potentially Gingerbread, Centrepoint and National Debtline available on the HBOS website see the value of their property falling below to help them deliver their literacy programmes.
com community corporate the amount of their outstanding loans.
To responsibility report, or in hard copy from Closely linked to financial literacy is the help our customers HBOS has extended its @HBOSplc.
subject of financial inclusion, which is about commitment to cover 1.8 million homeowners ensuring that deprived sections of our against flood risk up to at least 2008.
Another community, or vulnerable groups, are given example of our work in this area is the access to our products and services.
HBOS is extensive sustainability survey of publicly Annual Report and Accounts 2004 HBOS plc 51
