Corporate Social Responsibility The Group continues to take an active role in Environment promoting Corporate Social Responsibility CSR, JLT considers respect for the environment to be an both when making day-to-day business decisions integral business responsibility.
and when setting long-term business strategies.
To this end, JLT has set the following guidelines within The Company has sought to follow the basic principles the Group, to: for some considerable time, not only in the workplace and in the wider community, but also in terms of the Carefully manage waste so as to minimise its potential impact the Groups activities may have on production where possible, or suitably dispose the environment.
of it through recycling schemes.
The Workplace Ensure appropriate regulatory compliance in key Our employees continue to be our most important areas including waste disposal, pollutants, energy asset and the key differentiator between our and building regulations.
JLT strives to create an environment where each employee can fulfil their Design and operate facilities taking into account potential by contributing to and sharing in the success the efficient use of energy and materials.
Our employees are encouraged to Encourage the adoption of these guidelines by take a personal stake in the Group by joining our contractors acting on behalf of the Company.
share ownership plans, such as All Employee Share Schemes, where local legislation permits.
To help encourage environmental awareness within the organisation, we have introduced in the UK 2004 was a year of considerable change for the targeting and monitoring systems for energy Group, mainly as a result of our preparation for consumption and will be introducing a similar authorisation by the Financial Services Authority in scheme for waste management.
Every employee in the UK involved in insurance mediation received training to help them prepare for these changes, further demonstrating our commitment to the development of our people.
Training and development at all levels is crucial to our continued success and the Group will continue to invest in this important area.
The Group also remains committed to championing diversity both in our recruitment policies and in all areas of employment.
We welcome the differences in our employees and recognise the contribution this makes to our success.
The Group will continue to invest heavily in attracting and retaining the very best people.
This investment will continue to focus on the right rewards and incentives, as well as encouraging all our employees to achieve the right balance between their personal and professional lives.
44 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Corporate Social Responsibility During the year various events were arranged by staff Charity and for staff, with the aim of raising monies for charities.
the community This included one event that raised 21,000 for the The Group made charitable donations totalling Anthony Nolan Trust.
This included a donation of 50,000 made Included within the UKs flexible benefits scheme Give by the Groups Charities Committee to the Disaster As You Earn continues to enable employees to make Emergency Committees Earthquake Appeal regular charitable donations in a tax efficient manner.
to meet the immediate call for funds.
Donations under this scheme raised in excess of In the UK, the Group is a Business in the 22,500 during the year.
Community partner and a member of London and Manchester Cares.
Last year we reported the launch of our JLT Making a Difference initiative in the UK.
It is very pleasing to report that this initiative had significant success in 2004.
Employees in the UK receive one paid charity day per year and 135 employees took advantage of this day, working on local community projects.
As a Lloyds Community Programme partner, members of staff from our London offices visit the English Martyr's Roman Catholic School, Aldgate in their lunch hour each week, to offer IT training and support.
Employees are encouraged to become personally involved in fundraising initiatives for charity and JLT match pound for pound funds raised up to a maximum of 5,000.
In 2004 this figure amounted to 98,000 with the biggest matching event being the London Marathon.
JLT took the lead with an internal fundraising campaign to raise funds for The Salveson Ski Group which, in turn, enabled them to gain charitable status.
15,000 was raised through various initiatives, with 6,000 being raised by employees.
As a result 14 disabled children will be skiing at the disabled skiing centre in WinterPark Colorado during the Easter holidays.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 45 Independent Auditors Report & Financial Statements 46
