CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The subject of corporate social responsibility CSR continues to attract interest.
Stakeholders are concerned to know that the Group gives proper consideration to its wider impact on society, and how these topics are identified and managed.
Burberry, for its part, believes that long term profitability depends on looking after the Groups assets and name.
There is therefore no conflict between the Shareholders interest and acting as a good corporate citizen, provided that the Group concentrates on issues that present either significant business risk or opportunity to the Group.
The principal CSR issues relating to Burberry are: providing products of the appropriate quality commensurate with the Groups position as an international supplier of luxury goods, including the responsible sourcing and marketing of products: serving customers both retail and wholesale to their complete satisfaction: providing a working environment that is conducive to the recruitment and retention of the widest possible range of talented staff, and which is a safe and healthy place to work: labour, environmental and social practices in the Groups supply chain and business partners: improving the Groups environmental performance to increase operational efficiency and to reduce environmental impact: and developing strong relationships in our chosen communities in support of our business objectives, by using the Groups unique assets to benefit society.
These issues are explored more fully in the sections below.
Management of CSR Overall responsibility for CSR matters rests with Michael Mahony, the Company Secretary.
He is responsible for ensuring that the Board is aware of the relevant CSR issues facing the Group and, together with the support of a CSR Committee, ensures that systems are in place to identify and manage risks within the CSR arena.
Responsibilities for specific CSR matters are assigned, where possible, to the appropriate functional staff.
The CSR Committee is comprised of these individuals, with responsibility for: environment, health and safety, human resources, supply chain and licensees, charitable and community activity, wholesale and retail customers and internal audit.
It met twice during the year under review with the objective of considering emerging CSR issues, proposing activity, sharing information on activity underway and co-ordinating disclosure and reporting.
The Board has approved the CSR Policy and a formal report is made on an annual basis.
Information on the Groups CSR performance is collected annually, the exercise being co-ordinated by the CSR Committee.
Much of this information e. g. environmental performance data, data on customer satisfaction, human resource data, supply chain audits etc is derived from existing management systems in the business.
Unless stated explicitly otherwise, all of the disclosures can be taken to apply to the Groups operations internationally.
Data quality is assured principally through review by internal audit, although the environmental performance data is subject to third-party review by independent consultants.
The final version of the CSR disclosures is formally approved by the relevant individuals from the CSR Committee and by the Company Secretary.
Policies and procedures The Group has developed a formal policy on CSR, extracts from which are reproduced in the relevant sections below.
A number of other specific policies exist for example on Health and Safety, Equal Opportunities, Environment, Code of Business Principles etc.
In the past year, the Group policies have been developed and reviewed.
Compliance with policy is generally tested via the work of internal audit.
1 Products and customers Policy statement: We aim to win and keep customers through the quality of our product and service.
We do not bribe to obtain or keep business.
We only pay bona fide commission.
We respect our customers requirements and keep their secrets.
Burberry is committed to high standards in products and service commensurate with our status as an international luxury goods business.
Satisfying wholesale and retail customers is a key part of our corporate responsibility.
Levels of customer support are monitored and reviewed in a number of ways including the use of mystery shoppers in certain retail premises and periodic surveys among wholesale customers.
We operate a Retail Customer Service Department in London, which handles retail customer queries and complaints from any division of Burberry Worldwide, whether it is related to service or product issues.
Data shows that customers are typically pleased with the service we provide, with complaints well below one in ten thousand.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 37 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED 2 The working environment Policy statement: We do not discriminate on grounds of race, religion, age or gender.
We reward and develop employees according to performance and skills within the context of business needs.
Equal opportunities The aim of the Equal Opportunities Policy is to ensure that the most capable job applicants are recruited and the most competent employees in the Group progress.
All employment decisions are based solely on an objective assessment of the candidates suitability for the job.
All employees will receive fair and equal treatment irrespective of sex, race, ethnic origin, nationality, marital status, age, religion, disability or sexual orientation.
The numbers of employees working flexibly and the types of flexible working patterns have increased over the last year.
Code of Business Principles The Group has adopted a Code of Business Principles covering such matters as confidentiality, conflict of interest, relationships with business partners and political donations.
All employees are expected to comply with this Code and senior employees may be required to sign an annual certificate of compliance.
Employee policies A Global Policy Statements and Ways of Working document has been produced as well as a UK Employee Handbook.
A Whistleblowing policy has been produced.
Policies on maternity and sickness have been enhanced.
The annual performance review process has been rolled out through all divisions globally to encourage communication and improved clarity of roles and focus.
3 Business partners and supply chain Policy statement: We treat our business partners according to our contractual agreements and pay when due.
We do not accept any gift or entertainment, which might or might be seen to put us under any obligation to the giver.
We expect and demand high standards from our business partners, particularly our licensees and our suppliers, requiring them to support our principles and standards of conduct, and we have developed a programme to monitor and manage standards in our own and our licensees supply chains.
The most significant developments during the year can be summarised as follows: Risk assessment Supplier and licensee risk assessment has continued with the aim of identifying those products and countries posing the greatest environmental and social concerns.
These then become the focus of assurance and audit activity.
Awareness raising We have worked with all licensees to increase awareness of CSR issues and the need for Burberry to have agreements in place with all licensee suppliers.
This year we have specifically worked to ensure that two higher-risk licensees have social compliance programmes in place.
Supplier audits All finished goods suppliers identified as being high risk have been audited during the year.
Licensee audits During the year we have visited a selection of factories which supply one of our licensees.
Non compliances have been identified and the licensee will proceed with making improvements within an agreed time frame.
4 Environmental performance Policy statement: We respect the environment and the local communities within which we do business.
Burberrys principal direct environmental impacts are its consumption of energy electricity, gas, oil and vehicle fuel in its buildings, its manufacturing and distribution operations, solid waste produced at our sites and the consumption of raw materials for the manufacture of product, and also for non-product use such as packaging.
Burberrys performance in respect of these impacts is maintained by a committee of individuals with responsibility for operations, maintenance, energy and similar issues.
The committee, with the support of external advisers, meets several times a year to review performance and agree and implement improvement actions.
Energy Energy efficiency in Burberrys UK operations continues to improve as shown in the table below.
For the first time this year we have collected energy data from our US and Spanish operations.
UK energy use UK energy use US and Spain energy use Year to 31 March Million kWh kWh 1,000 of sales Million kWh 2000 31.3 136.1 n a 2001 36.6 86.1 n a 2002 32.5 65.1 n a 2003 30.2 50.8 n a 2004 29.1 43.2 16.0 38 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED During the past year we have conducted energy reviews at all our principal UK sites, resulting in improvement plans for each, and appointed energy champions at sites with the highest consumption.
During the year we successfully concluded the negotiations to move most of the Groups UK electricity requirements to a single supplier.
As part of that negotiation we have arranged better access to immediate consumption data, and have also secured a proportion of our demand from renewable sources.
Materials and waste Burberry measures and reports its use of packaging under the Producer Responsibility Obligations shown in the table below.
We have an ongoing programme of management and reduction that concentrates primarily on transit packaging: materials used to move product internally and to our wholesale customers.
Savings in these areas can be significant, and have no impact on consumer perceptions of the brand.
We have also collected our first packaging data from our US and Spanish operations.
UK packaging use UK packaging use US and Spain packaging use Year to 31 March Tonnes Kg 1,000 of sales Tonnes 2002 635 1.3 n a 2003 718 1.2 n a 2004 703 1.0 908 UK Transit packaging use UK Transit packaging use Year to 31 March Tonnes Kg 1,000 of sales 2002 438 0.88 2003 538 0.91 2004 525 0.78 We have consolidated our waste management arrangements from our principal sites, allowing us to quantify and manage our impact in this area.
Product transportation For the first time this year we have investigated the impact of the transport of Burberry product from its point of manufacture to the retailer.
The analysis shows that UK land transportation has a minimal environmental impact, but that a bigger issue is the use of air transportation to deliver products to our wholesale customers overseas and to our own overseas operations.
This year has seen a concerted attempt to divert product away from air transport and to ship by sea wherever timescales and logistics allow resulting in over 130 tonnes being diverted from long-haul flights to the US, Korea and other Asian destinations.
We estimate that this saved over 650 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions.
5 Building relationships with the community Policy statement: We observe the laws of the countries in which we trade and act in a manner consistent with our objective of being a good corporate citizen.
During the past year, we have developed our global charitable giving policy focusing on four areas: education, with particular emphasis on fashion and textile design programmes: medical research and awareness programmes: humanitarian issues: and the arts.
We believe that it is vitally important to assist in education programmes in order to identify and nurture new talent in the fashion industry.
In 2003 04, this has been achieved by supporting establishments such as the Royal College of Art and the Central St Martins College of Art and Design and Textprint, an endeavour which links the best textiles graduates with industry.
Medical research and humanitarian projects have included our global initiative to support breast cancer awareness.
This year, Burberry developed a limited edition pink trench coat, with 30% of proceeds donated to breast cancer charities worldwide.
As a result, over 100,000 was donated in total to the UK Breakthrough Breast Cancer Charity and The Breast Cancer Research Foundation in the US.
Other activities have included donations to AIDS-related charities in the US and in Italy.
Arts projects supported have included the New York City Ballet, and work in Italy to restore museum artefacts.
During the year to 31 March 2004, the Group donated, in cash, a total of 198,000 to charitable causes charitable donations during the year to 31 March 2003: 166,000.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 39
