CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY As a leading financial services company, Legal & General recognises that its activities have an impact upon society and the environment.
We believe that these impacts need to be managed in a responsible manner.
Our full Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Report can be accessed at www.
A summary of our CSR programme Adrian Clark, Protection Services Director, with a tter from the Cardiff and the progress we have made in CSR governance and practices Senior Safety Handyvan Scheme, which Legal & General supports as part towards our stakeholders during 2004 is provided below.
of its sponsorship of Help The Aged.
CSR Governance Legal & General established a CSR Committee in 2003.
This by being named as Britains Most Admired Insurance Company Committee is responsible for developing the Groups CSR strategy by Management Today, for the sixth time in seven years.
and policies and for monitoring the companys performance against its objectives.
The work of the Committee is directed Our Employees by our CSR Guiding Principles, which reect our commitments We continue to embed our Partnership Agreement with our trade to our stakeholders and the environment.
With reference to these union, Amicus.
Approximately 585 managers attended a Partnership Principles, the CSR Committee undertakes an annual review Workshop, and Partnership in Action groups were held at each major of social, environmental and ethical risks and opportunities.
145 employees were recruited by Amicus on Partnership Additionally, Committee members and their management teams Day in November 2004 and for each new member Legal & General are responsible for identifying specic issues within their areas donated 15 to charity.
Legal & General was delighted to be the of responsibility, and for the management and monitoring of winner of Amicuss 2004 Employer of the Year Award.
Legal & General recognises the importance During 2004, Legal & General became a launch member of of Board involvement in the CSR programme.
For this reason, the Dignity at Work Steering Group, a project aimed at preventing the CSR Committee includes members of the Group Board bullying in the workplace.
and it reports regularly to the Board.
The Committee meets at Over 850 managers completed their Introductory Diploma least three times a year, and has three direct sub-committees or Certificate in Management as part of a new management relating to our activities in the areas of environment, development programme health and safety and community involvement.
aimed at increasing As a major UK provider of managers knowledge Our Customers and skills in a number pensions, investment and As a major UK provider of pensions, investment and of business areas.
protection products, meeting protection products, meeting our customers requirements Legal & General provides is fundamental to our success.
To this end, our operations a wide range of other our customers requirements are driven by three customer-focused objectives: providing training opportunities is fundamental to our success value for money products, delivering quality service and to enable employees giving a choice of ways to buy products.
With these to enhance their skills.
objectives in mind, 2004 saw a number of developments, We seek to conform with both the 1948 Universal Declaration including the establishment of The Academy of Training Excellence, of Human Rights and the 1953 European Convention on designed to provide employees with technical training to enhance Human Rights.
their customer service skills, and the completion of over 55 research projects aimed at obtaining feedback on our product Our Suppliers and service performance.
We aim to establish mutually beneficial commercial relationships In addition, we strengthened our commitment to our customers with our suppliers and we recognise our responsibility to treat our by establishing a Customer Experience Board, chaired by Kate Avery, suppliers in a fair and ethical manner.
To this end, we developed an Group Director Retail Distribution, and aimed at improving ethical purchasing policy during 2004.
This applies to all purchases the integration of customers needs into our business.
We were of goods and services in the UK and covers the behaviour required delighted to receive recognition for our customer commitment of employees engaged in purchasing activity.
28 Legal & General Annual Report 2004 We developed an ethical purchasing policy during 2004, which applies to all purchases of goods and services in the UK It is also important to us that our suppliers act in a socially 84% of our key suppliers meeting the environmental requirements responsible manner.
During 2004, we invited a number of major of our Group Purchasing Policy.
suppliers to attend a CSR Forum to discuss the implementation We were pleased to win the award of Best Private Sector of appropriate CSR evaluation methods, as a result of which we Company for participants in the Mayor of Londons Green are developing a tool to help identify CSR risks in specic supply Procurement Code.
This was awarded to the company which chains.
A method was developed to identify suppliers with high could most clearly demonstrate a strong track record in the health and safety risk exposures and these suppliers were procurement of goods containing recyclate.
evaluated in conjunction with our health and safety adviser.
In addition, as well as achieving our objective of ensuring that Socially Responsible Investment 80% of key suppliers comply with our environmental policy, we During 2004, we conducted research on companies social, reviewed the identication of environmental key suppliers and environmental and ethical SEE risks and opportunities according developed an improved denition of environmental risk based to the ABIs disclosure guidelines.
In particular, we focused on on FTSE4Good classications.
those companies in high impact sectors Our Communities The improvement in the which received a rating Legal & General contributes 0.5% of the prior years of limited disclosure from environmental management UK Modified Statutory Solvency operating profit to its the ABI.
We expanded of the property investment Community Involvement programme.
We provide support our programme of to a small number of national charities whose work is engagement, and portfolio continues aligned with our business activities: to a range of charities met with 32 FTSE 350 and community activities local to our main ofces, and to companies during the employees who commit personal time or funds to help a charity year specically to discuss SEE issues.
We also contacted a further or community group.
Employee support takes a number of forms, 26 companies to raise SEE issues of concern to us.
We have extended including a Give As You Earn Scheme, under which Legal & General our membership of a number of collaborative investor initiatives matches employee contributions up to 20 per month.
In addition, aimed at promoting best practice in a range of high-prole issues.
following the success of the first Legal & General Community Awards The improvement in the environmental management of the in 2003, a second competition was held in 2004 to recognise those property investment portfolio continues.
60% of the key directly employees who make the most positive contribution to their managed investment properties are now compliant with the communities.
The winners were presented with awards and invited Environmental Management System and, in addition, the target to attend a Gala Charity Evening.
In addition, a 1,000 donation to introduce recycling facilities at these properties has been was made to the cause they had been recognised for supporting.
Face to face discussions have taken place with a At the end of 2004, a collection was held for the victims of the sample of tenants to establish their views on sustainability and Indian Ocean disaster.
A total of 115,806 was raised and this was to explore how landlords may assist and inuence this process.
matched by Legal & General, bringing the total donation made During the year, Legal & General Ventures Limited established to the Appeal to 231,612. a set of guidelines for the standards required when making a significant investment in a company.
Our Environment An external review, undertaken during the year, confirmed that Verication it is through the purchase of goods and services that our most Our full CSR Report was subject to verication by Legal & General significant environmental impacts arise.
In contrast, those arising Internal Audit, and the verication statement can be found at the from the operation of our buildings and through our business end of that Report.
travel constitute a much smaller part of our overall impact.
Good progress was made during 2004 in achieving our environmental targets.
In total, thirteen of the seventeen targets were completed in full, one was partially completed, one was no longer applicable and two were not achieved.
Our successes included a 3% reduction in our carbon dioxide emissions, a decrease to 30% in the amount of waste sent direct to landll and a total of Legal & General Annual Report 2004 29
