health, safety and the environment During 2004, our operated businesses were As in the previous year we commissioned an We are endeavouring to mainly the upstream operations in Turkmenistan external, international organisation to conduct conduct our operations in and our shipping operations in the Caspian an independent HSE audit of our Turkmenistan and Russia, whilst our only non-operated operations, the results of which will be used a manner which protects assets were in Congo.
During 2005, our to update and improve the local HSE the environment, people portfolio of operated assets will expand to management system.
include Egypt and in India where we are in and property and which the process of becoming a major shareholder For our shipping operations, we operate under complies with applicable of an Indian listed upstream company.
the International Maritime Organisation IMO national legislation.
code that sets out internationally accepted Operating in all of these locations presents procedures related to HSE and other matters.
significant Health, Safety and Environmental All our tankers are certied annually, and are HSE challenges.
We are conscious of these in compliance with the International Safety risks and are committed at the most senior Management ISM code.
We are pleased to level to addressing them.
Cognisant of our report that during 2004 there were no fatalities, responsibilities our Executive Directors and regulatory incidents or violations associated senior management are actively involved with our shipping operations.
in the management of these issues to ensure that the highest standards are being achieved.
In Congo, the Operator Maurel & Prom has policies and procedures in place for management We are endeavouring to conduct our operations of health and safety and protection of the in a manner which protects the environment, environment.
It is sad to report that one of people and property and which complies with Maurel & Proms sub-contractors was fatally applicable national legislation.
During 2005, we intend, subject to agreement with Maurel In Turkmenistan, which during 2004 represented & Prom, to commission an independent our major operated asset, we have in place an audit of these operations.
This management system sets out our policy, standards and Looking forward to 2005 we are planning procedures through which we can and will to undertake a number of initiatives to systematically manage and ensure the health further develop our HSE systems including and safety of our employees and others, and implementing an HSE governance programme protect the environment.
Our safety performance and updating our Corporate HSE management in Turkmenistan is measured and reported system to reect the enlarged portfolio.
using various industry indices which are compared against international averages and each year revised targets set.
One important index that we track, is the number of fatalities during the year.
In respect of 2004 we are pleased to report that this gure was zero.
22 BURREN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
