corporate and social responsibility We aim to conduct all our business operations Governance to the highest standards and are committed to The Group applies the principles of good socially and ethically responsible behaviour governance set out in Section 1 of the Revised in all areas.
Combined Code the FRC Code issued in July 2003 as described on pages 27 to 29.
Social Community Burren aims to engage actively with the local Employment communities where it operates via investment Burren is an equal opportunity employer and community relations programmes.
where recruitment, remuneration and career progression are not inuenced by race or In Turkmenistan we have recruited extensively ethnic origin, sex or marital status, with full locally and seek to promote local personnel consideration being given to disabled persons.
We have funded the We encourage team performance whilst purchase of certain equipment for the local recognising individual contributions.
town council and provided training in the UK Burrens corporate and for technical staff.
We continue to provide We are committed to recruiting and retaining ongoing financial assistance to a local talented individuals and in order to promote social responsibility CSR orphanage and we sponsor and finance career development we aim to provide our principles encompass our a local youth football team.
staff with access to relevant external training schemes and courses.
We encourage relationships with all our Burren is funding three annual scholarships membership of professional bodies stakeholders, namely our open to Turkmen nationals for post-graduate where appropriate.
studies in applied economics at the University employees, shareholders, of Reading.
We recognise the need to consider continually suppliers and customers, changes in shareholder opinions and the as well as the communities Where we are not the operator but have a markets requirements in the CSR arena.
To material participating interest, as in Congo, this end we intend to commission an external and environment within we still consider it our responsibility to promote CSR review of our operations in 2005. which we operate.
community engagement via the Operator.
In Congo Maurel & Prom, the Operator, have constructed and equipped a school in Mboussi near the Kouakouala eld, drilled a water well for villagers in the MBoundi area and is working with the community on a project to provide a health care centre.
Ethical Burren aims to conduct all its business with integrity, honesty and fairness.
The paying or receipt of bribes in any form is unacceptable.
We support the aims of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI to increase transparency over payments and revenues in the extractive sector in countries which are heavily dependent on such resources.
20 20 BURREN ENER BURREN ENERG GY Y PL PLC C ANNU ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT AND A T AND AC CC COUNT OUNTS 2 S 2004 004 BURREN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 21
