Corporate & Social Responsibility As a publicly-listed company at the heart Over the past 12 months the Exchange We continue to create an environment of the most international market in the met with over 80 major UK and overseas which further develops the skills and world, integrity is central to our success investors.
As well as London-based knowledge of our employees.
To achieve and we are proud of the way in which we meetings, investor contact involved visits this, we operate an appraisal system for do business.
We know that the trust of to various financial centres, including all staff that reinforces the links between our stakeholders is critical to the New York, Boston, Paris, Frankfurt, training and development: reward and achievement of our long-term growth Amsterdam, Milan, Edinburgh and the performance.
As such, we always strive for Nordic region.
The effectiveness of the openness and honesty in all our business communication programme is monitored Our reward package for staff is designed dealings and treat our customers, directly through feedback to the to provide incentives for the delivery of shareholders and employees as valued company and indirectly through periodic both short-term goals and the achievement partners in our business.
This is performed through cash bonus eligibility for all staff We have reviewed our approach to our Our financial reporting has always sought and equity schemes for individuals wider responsibilities to ensure what we to comply with each of the requirements with the clearest line of sight to do is of real relevance to our stakeholders we are set.
Additionally, transparency in corporate performance.
and we have considered those activities the detail of what we report continues to where we have most impact.
This has be an overriding objective.
Our share schemes continue to encourage established two key priorities: employees to take an active stake in the success of our company, with a EMPLOYEES participation level of over 70 per cent.
GOVERNANCE We recognise that our competitiveness We seek to deliver the highest standards is dependent on employing and developing In addition, we give all staff access to a in boardroom practice and financial the best people.
To do this we must comprehensive range of benefits and transparency by: create the right environment for people funding to purchase those of most to do their best work by: relevance through our flexible benefits facilitating open and transparent scheme, which includes a number of health dialogue with our investor audience creating a working environment which and welfare schemes.
New for 2004 maintaining accurate financial records enables employees to develop their is an on-line charitable giving scheme, which transparently and honestly reflect skills and knowledge making it easier for staff to make the financial position of our business maintaining healthy and safe working donations to their favourite charities.
striving to meet the expectations of our conditions and to operate in an shareholders by maximising share holder  manner As well as a stimulating environment, value and providing competitive returns encouraging a working environment we maintain healthy and safe working fostering an open, co-operative in which employees feel comfortable conditions.
Our Health and Safety Policy relationship with our regulators.
about highlighting wrong-doing includes procedures for the safe handling enabling our employees to make of toxic and environmentally damaging Investor relations activity includes informed decisions about the effect materials.
Compliance is monitored by an regular presentations and meetings with of a wide range of benefits on their internal Health and Safety Group.
This key audiences, including institutional and lifestyle, wealth and financial security Group, with representation from each private shareholders and analysts.
These promoting an environment of equality business area, meets on a regular basis are conducted in a manner that ensures of opportunity which is intolerant of and considers changes in legislation and the protection of price-sensitive discrimination, harassment or related matters.
information which has not already been victimisation made available to all shareholders.
28 CORPORATE & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 There were no reportable illnesses, The Exchanges support has helped us ENVIRONMENT dangerous occurrences, or liabilities, nor to increase our service provision across We recognise that our activities inevitably were any health and safety enforcement the UK by over 25 per cent in the last have an impact on the environment.
Consequently we embrace the principles accidents to staff were reported under of sustainable development and are the health and safety reporting In 2003, we were delighted to receive committed to a process of continual regulations during the year.
external recognition of the success of environmental improvement and this partnership from Business In The pollution prevention.
We treat all relevant Two further areas relating to our Community, which awarded us with the environmental legislation and regulations wider responsibility have been identified BIG TICK in their Awards for Excellence as the minimum standard and seek to as important: 2003 in the field of corporate responsibility.
We have recently selected a new partner An Environmental Policy Statement which COMMUNITY charity for the next two years, Brainwave.
provides a framework for developing and We believe that we have a responsibility Every year in this country, 23,000 children reviewing environmental objectives and towards the wider society in which we become brain-injured or suffer from brain targets is set out on our website at conduct our business and to support our impairment, sometimes following an www.
staff in their individual and collective efforts accident, sometimes as the result We identify opportunities to reduce and to make a contribution to the community.
of a genetic condition, illness or birth recycle the resources we consume trauma.
Brainwave is one of the including energy, water and other natural 2004 was our third and last year UKs leading charities supporting resources, thereby also minimising the supporting The Trident Trust as our children who suffer developmental amount of waste we produce.
The Trident Trust aims to delay as a result of such a condition.
help young people between 14 and 25 Our relocation project to Paternoster prepare for life beyond the classroom.
We look forward to working with Square has been a unique opportunity Regardless of ability and background, the Brainwave, which was chosen as our for us to consider our environmental Trust aims to enhance the employability partner charity because of its modern, impact and make significant changes and develop the individual potential of the straightforward attitude.
It has a very through the design and fit-out stages young people it works with.
imaginative and agile outlook and we aim further details are set out in our to ensure that our partnership becomes Environmental Policy Statement.
Over the period of the partnership, a milestone in the charitys growth and our contribution has allowed Trident to development.
Each year, we continue to be awarded match-fund new developments and the Gold Award under the Corporation access funds previously out of its reach.
of London Clean City Awards Scheme, which recognises good practice to Tridents CEO, Paul Poulter, commented reduce, reuse, recycle.
We have an on the partnership with the Exchange: established Energy Management Policy The financial and professional impetus and monitor carbon dioxide emissions.
provided by the Exchange has helped Trident to achieve a step change in the range and extent of its programmes, which now involve in excess of 130,000 youngsters a year.
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 CORPORATE & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 29
