Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Corporate Social Responsibility Report Group policy starts from the premise that Adherence to high standards of ethical the primary responsibility for achieving conduct and professional business high financial performance should be conduct.
The Group attaches high accompanied by high standards of importance to its reputation for honesty, corporate social responsibility CSR.
integrity and high professional and ethical At Board level responsibility for CSR standards.
It is a condition of employment policy is taken by the Chairman.
The key that all employees sign the Groups policy areas covered by the Groups policies on statement on business principles and CSR deal primarily with the Companys ethical conduct.
An extensive compliance impact on people, communities and the programme is backed up with on-going environment corporate governance educational and training programmes.
and risk management fall within the The Group is committed to ensuring that remit of the Audit and Risk Committee employees share in the success of the and are reported on separately.
Group and have the opportunity to share their views and provide feedback on issues The nature of the Groups business is the that are important to them.
structuring, sale and distribution of alternative investment products and futures broking.
The Health and Safety Group has its head office in the UK.
Outside The Health and Safety Committee works of the UK the countries in which the Group closely with management and employees to conducts its principal operations are the ensure that the Health and Safety policy is USA, Switzerland, France, Singapore and effectively implemented and maintained.
Group policies and commitment to committee members have completed Corporate Social Responsibility are tailored to appropriate training and continue to play a fit the particular nature of a service business.
role in promoting greater safety awareness amongst employees.
The Group is a member of the FTSE4Good Index.
The policy is reviewed regularly and updated in the light of any significant changes to Employment policies legislation, standards, best practice and The Group recognises that people are its business needs.
Policies are therefore directed at creating an environment that will attract, The Group is committed to providing and develop, motivate and reward employees of maintaining: high calibre, taking into account the specific requirements of the businesses.
safe work environments: assessments and measures to eliminate or Key features of Group employment policies reduce risk a noteworthy achievement in and practices are: the past year has been the introduction of new air conditioning technology which has Equality of opportunity through application resulted in the removal of cooling towers, of a policy of non-discrimination on the thereby reducing the risk of air-borne grounds of sex, marital status, sexual infectious disease: orientation, race, colour, ethnic or national sufficient information, training and guidance origins, citizenship, disability, religious or necessary to reduce accidents and philosophical belief.
eliminate conditions which might have an Respect and support for the Human Rights adverse effect on health: Act, including an employees right to freedom compliance with legal obligations for of expression, privacy and family life.
employees and others who are affected by Flexibility in working time, wherever our operations: and practicable, to reflect changing family systems for monitoring the policy.
Support and help for employees who Environment become disabled during their working life.
The nature of the Groups business is of a Structured approach to personal and career low impact type.
Appropriate environmental development through appraisal and the policies and management systems are provision of training programmes.
therefore directed to the relevant areas of Employee participation in the performance energy consumption, waste generation and and growth of the Company through water usage within the context of building performance and profit related bonuses, and office management.
employee share schemes and long-term share-based incentive schemes.
Share save Environmental management systems are schemes are in operation for all employees based on cutting greenhouse gas emissions in in the UK and USA.
As at the date of this line with Government targets and the Kyoto report, employees, employee benefit trusts Protocol.
Energy consumption for both gas and members of the Board together hold and electricity is monitored according to the 13% of the Companys issued share capital.
governments best practice programme Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 33 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Action Energy.
The Group has been successful The policy of the UK Group Charitable Trust in reducing energy consumption to below the is to spread its donations across a range of targets set under this programme.
Of particular medical, educational, social and cultural significance is the achievement of reduced charities.
Donations to selected charities are energy consumption in the Group generally made on the basis of a three-year Headquarters building over the past three commitment.
Members of the Charitable years in spite of a 30% increase in building Trust participate in and visit each selected occupancy.
Further investments in energy charity and preference is give to charities efficient systems are expected to reduce where our contribution can make a significant energy consumption even further in 2004. difference.
In other areas, telephone and video In addition to the selected charities, the conferencing are actively encouraged in order Trustees give preference to charities where to curb emissions resulting from corporate a staff member has an involvement and they travel.
Interest-free season ticket loans are will generally match any sponsorship raised made available to all UK permanent staff to by staff members for charitable events.
promote the use of public transport.
A new innovation has been the introduction The Group has implemented systems of a specially selected Group Annual Charity.
and introduced targets for reduction of Employees vote for one of a short list of three water usage.
charities with the chosen charity receiving a special grant of 100,000.
The Evelina Extensive use is made of electronic Children's Hospital Appeal won the vote communication in place of paper usage, for the 2004 UK Selected Charity.
and at all the Groups principal offices.
The Group is committed to waste reduction and In the field of education, following the operates a recycling policy.
Waste paper, success of its initial programme, the Group batteries, lights, PC screens, cans and has pledged a further 75,000 over the next restaurant waste are all collected and three years for additional scholarships at the recycled by external contractors.
These scholarships provide for the education of two boys from The Community Year 7 for seven years and for two boys in The Group believes that being active in the the Sixth Form a total of 18 years tuition at wider community is an essential part of the the City of London School.
The scholarships way in which we run our business and regard are awarded to boys from London who have such involvement as integral to our future.
We demonstrated academic potential, especially seek to do this both through charitable giving, in mathematics and sciences and who come encouragement to staff to become involved in from some of Londons most disadvantaged their local communities and through selective boroughs.
The Group Charitable Trust donates sponsorship of the arts.
10,000 per annum to fund a scholarship and an annual drawing prize at the Royal During the year the Group made charitable Academy of Art.
donations of 506,000 and spent over 500,000 on arts sponsorship.
These In addition to charitable donations the Group figures do not include the time spent by sponsors numerous arts projects and activities, senior executives and managers on charitable the most significant of which is sponsorship activities.
All staff are encouraged to participate of the Man Booker Prize for Fiction for which in charitable activities and the lead is taken the Group has completed its second year of by the Group Chairman and Chief Executive sponsorship.
The Man Booker Prize has as who, amongst a wide range of other charity its key objective the promotion of interest in work, serve respectively as chairman of contemporary fiction to a wider community.
the East London Business Alliance and the The increased marketing budget facilitated by Appeal Committee for the Evelina Childrens our sponsorship will help reach new audiences Hospital.
and further promote quality fiction writing.
The Group is a leading member and As part of its commitment to extending the supporter of the East London Business international reach of its literary sponsorship, Alliance as well as other business led and the Group sponsored the 2004 Man Hong funded organisations which are involved Kong International Literary Festival.
The in the social and economic regeneration of Festival, now in its fourth year, is a showcase East London and in the transfer of business for English literature with Asian themes.
skills and experience through an employee volunteering network.
The Group supports staff volunteering as being good for the individual, the community and the Company.
