corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE This section contains: Social, environmental and ethical report 53 Directors report 59 Directors and senior management 57 Directors remuneration report 66 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND ETHICAL REPORT Cable & Wireless recognises the importance of building Ethics sound relationships with all of its stakeholders and is Cable & Wireless has a Group-wide Ethics Policy, which committed to approaching social, ethical and environmental was adopted by the Board to provide a set of standards and matters in the same way as it approaches core business guidelines for the way that Cable & Wireless and its activities.
The Board therefore sets standards of behaviour employees should operate.
The Ethics Policy covers a range that go beyond minimum legal standards.
of issues including employee conduct, non-discrimination, health, safety and environmental obligations.
The Company Board review of social, environmental and ethical recognises that the Corporate Responsibility Steering issues Groups work, and in particular on ethics, will evolve over time.
The Company is committed to the continuous The Board of Cable and Wireless plc takes regular account improvement of its Ethics Policy and its practical of the signicance of social, ethical and environmental implementation.
Breaches of the Ethics Policy are viewed matters to the business.
The Board identies and assesses seriously.
During the year disciplinary action has been taken whether there are any potential significant risks to the in respect of breaches of Company policy.
Companys short and long term value arising from social, environmental and ethical matters, as well as opportunities The Ethics Policy contains notication procedures setting out to enhance value that may arise from an appropriate a variety of channels through which employees can raise response.
concerns related to ethical conduct.
The intention is that issues are generally dealt with at local business unit level Specically the Board: but employees are also able to raise issues with the Chairman or Chief Executive officer of Cable and Wireless r receives a report from management on the Groups plc or through other contacts at head ofce, as named in the social, ethical and environmental performance on an Ethics Policy.
A full version of the Ethics Policy is available annual basis and more frequently if required: on www.
r appointed Lord Robertson of Port Ellen to be responsible for social, ethical and environmental matters In addition to the Groups Ethics Policy, which applies to all from March 2004: Group employees, pursuant to the requirements of the US Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, the Board has adopted a Code r arranged for the co-ordination and management of of Ethics specically applicable to the Chief Executive social, ethical and environmental matters to be carried officer, the Chief Financial officer, the heads of Group out by an internal Corporate Responsibility Steering finance functions and the finance heads of each geographic Group, to be chaired by Lord Robertson of Port Ellen division.
This Code of Ethics is available on www.
and include representation from across the Group.
The Steering Group is responsible for identifying emerging Community investment corporate responsibility issues which are material to the business, creating a system to monitor, manage and Good corporate citizenship has been part of the corporate evaluate corporate responsibility activity and for ethos of Cable & Wireless for more than a century.
As a reporting and communication on corporate major business, Cable & Wireless makes a substantial responsibility issues: and economic contribution to the many communities in which it r has ensured that the companys risk management operates.
At the same time, its own business success depends process includes an assessment of social, ethical and upon the economic and social well-being of those same environmental risk.
The Board has identied the following social, ethical and This mutual dependence is at the heart of Cable & Wireless environmental issues as being of significant importance to commitment to make a positive social contribution to the the business: communities in which it operates.
As a result, Cable & Page 53 corporate governance Wireless has developed a community investment programme A high-speed grid for learning that is designed to support local communities and respond to In conjunction with the States of Guernsey Education their needs.
Council, Cable & Wireless is creating a high-speed network for the benefit of schools and students in the Bailiwick.
Despite difficult business conditions in recent years, Cable & When Cable & Wireless took responsibility for the Islands Wireless has maintained its community activities and in telecoms in 2002 it was able to complete a wide area January 2004 published Making a Difference: Cable & network to link 27 schools and 9,000 students and teachers Wireless in the Community the Groups second community on the islands of Guernsey, Alderney and Herm.
The report providing details of community investment activity network provides fast internet access and allows schools to across the Group during 2003. share resources, helping to create an IT-literate community that is well ahead of the rest of the United Kingdom in its Community contribution use of broadband technology.
In 2004 Cable & Wireless total Group wide community contribution was valued at 5.1 million.
Of this 1.1 million Never too old to surf was spent in the United Kingdom.
In May 2003, Cable & Wireless supported UK Onlines Get In line with business activities and to help achieve the Started campaign to encourage non-users to experience the greatest impact and return from each investment the Cable internet for the first time.
As part of the campaign, Cable & Wireless teamed up with Age Concern, Microsoft and the & Wireless community investment programme focuses on Ofce of the e-Envoy to offer older people free web taster three main areas: sessions.
Age Concerns Silver Surfer Festival proved highly r addressing the digital divide: successful in encouraging over 65s, of whom 85 per cent r internet safety and security: and have never used the web, to sample the internet.
r encouraging positive use of the internet and information communications technologies.
Developing potential in Jamaica To build upon its commitment to provide free internet access Addressing the digital divide to schools in Jamaica, Cable & Wireless established the Cable & Wireless recognises that information and Cable & Wireless Jamaica Foundation in November 2003. communications technologies ICT have an immense The Foundation, which will be endowed by a J$20million impact on almost all of our lives.
The rapid development of donation from the Company, aims to create opportunities for ICT has brought significant advantage to those who have the positive development of young people in Jamaica, with a access to such technology and is playing a positive role in focus on education and sport.
Following on from the success furthering personal, social and economic development.
of the Groups first charitable foundation in Panama, the Jamaica Foundation plans to expand access to ICT by Yet those with internet access make up only 19 per cent of providing computers and internet access through schools and the worlds population, leaving the majority unable to take libraries across the island using a number of innovative advantage of ICT and at the wrong side of a growing digital programmes.
Cable & Wireless is working with governments, non-profit organisations and others to enable those from Using the internet safely and securely underprivileged communities to acquire the skills they need The internet has transformed the way that people and gain access to ICT.
With its wealth of content, it can be a positive resource, offering exciting opportunities New ways of learning for disadvantaged children at home and in the classroom.
Yet the web can also have Cable & Wireless is working with UK childrens charity, hidden dangers.
Cable & Wireless is working with industry NCH to demonstrate how ICT can help children with partners to protect children from unsuitable content and raise profound learning disabilities to communicate and learn.
As awareness and understanding of internet safety issues.
part of NCHs Access to IT initiative, Cable & Wireless has enabled specially adapted ICT equipment to be installed Promoting internet safety in schools at NCHs Warren Park childrens centre in South London.
The initiative, which has attracted support from a consortium As part of this commitment, Cable & Wireless is working of IT and telecoms companies, involves five pilot projects, with childrens internet charity, Childnet International to each of which will showcase the significant difference that help young people stay safe on-line.
With further support ICT can make to the learning and social outcomes of from the Department for Education and Skills, Childnet disadvantaged children.
International has developed Kidsmart: a school based Page 54 corporate governance internet safety programme.
As part of the initiative, Childnet produced by the BBC and incorporates Herge s famous International has developed an interactive internet safety Tintin and Snowy illustrations to guide dyslexic learners website www.
uk together with internet safety through a series of activities.
The multimedia e-learning guides for teachers, parents and pupils.
resource is helping dyslexic learners to identify their individual learning style, nd ways of coping with dyslexia and gain the skills and confidence to succeed.
Promoting internet content labelling Cable & Wireless is working in conjunction with the Bringing arts and ICT together Internet Content Rating Association ICRA and the Internet Watch Foundation IWF to help protect young Cable & Wireless is working with internet based arts people from harmful internet content.
During 2003, Cable & education initiative, WebPlay to provide an opportunity for Wireless continued to assist ICRA with the development of 3,000 pupils to communicate and learn through the creative a self-labelling system, which allows website owners to rate use of ICT.
WebPlay enables eight to twelve year olds to their own content and label their websites accordingly.
Cable work with children from other schools around the world to & Wireless is also a founder member of the IWF, an learn about theatre and produce and perform plays in industry funded body that operates a UK hotline for internet collaboration with a professional theatre company.
The users to report potentially illegal content.
IWF works closely initiative, which focuses on UK schools in areas of high with the police and internet service providers to trace and social and economic disadvantage, develops national remove illegal content from the internet.
curriculum targets in literacy, technology and citizenship.
Importantly it provides an opportunity for schools creatively Encouraging positive use of the internet and ICT to integrate ICT across classroom teaching and learning.
Cable & Wireless recognises the positive role that ICT can play in facilitating personal, social and economic Sharing eye health expertise with the developing world development.
It is working with charities and other In a new initiative, Cable & Wireless is helping Moorelds community based organisations to develop innovative Eye Hospital to use the internet to share the knowledge and internet content and encourage individuals to use ICT for advice of its consultant eye specialists with hospitals in the positive social purposes.
The two-year initiative is enabling clinicians in South Africa, Tanzania, Gambia and Ghana to Inspiring young people send digital images and case histories to the specialist team As part of this commitment, Cable & Wireless is working in at the world-renowned eye hospital via a secure internet site.
conjunction with childrens internet charity, Childnet The project will enable Moorelds to evaluate the potential International, to encourage young people to develop and cost-effectiveness of using the web to share specialist innovative on-line content and help those from medical knowledge in this eld and evaluate how secondary disadvantaged backgrounds and developing countries to consultation and knowledge sharing is enhancing local explore their ideas on the internet.
web developers from around the world to enter an annual international competition to win a place at the Cable & Employment issues Wireless Childnet Academy.
Cable & Wireless operates throughout the world and has a The first Childnet Academy, held in London in April 2004, range of employment policies that meet local conditions and brought together web creators from the United Kingdom, requirements.
There are policies that address health, safety Australia, India, Panama and Jamaica.
As part of the and environment, business ethics, diversity, disability, initiative, winners receive a share of a 30,000 web performance management, harassment and employee development fund and the opportunity to receive specialist relations issues.
web support, technical advice and training from a team of internet experts.
Both formal and informal channels for employee consultation and communication have been in place for New help for dyslexic learners many years and Cable & Wireless regularly consults Cable & Wireless is also working with Brussels based employees and their representatives on matters affecting charity, Dyslexia International Tools & Technologies them and their future interests.
The Group values the DITT to raise awareness of dyslexia and use ICT to help involvement of its employees and continues to keep them dyslexic learners.
With help from Cable & Wireless, DITT informed.
Cable & Wireless aims to pay market competitive has created an interactive self-help CD-ROM for young rates and, as a matter of policy, does not employ child dyslexic learners.
The Mystery of the Lost Letters has been labour.
Employees are free to join employee representative Page 55 corporate governance bodies or trade unions or not as they wish.
Training and covering Cable & Wireless progress in 2003 and development opportunities are open to all employees.
programme for 2004 will be published on the Cable & Wireless website in July 2004.
The Group gives particular attention to the employment of disabled people.
Applicants who are disabled and those who Cable & Wireless scored 92 per cent in the Business in the become disabled during employment are offered the widest Environment 2003 Index of Corporate Environmental range of training and opportunities appropriate to their skills.
The average overall Index score was 79 per cent.
Occupational health, safety and environment Cable & Wireless has a long history of treating occupational External involvement and recognition health, safety, re and environmental OHSE risks responsibly.
Appropriate priority is given to OHSE risks, Cable & Wireless believes that all members of the with the aim of promoting a culture of business telecommunications industry whether network service responsibility as well as enlisting the commitment of providers, suppliers or manufacturers have a responsibility employees, suppliers and business partners.
Cable & Wireless is working with its partners in the industry to identify best practice so that all Group policies on OHSE aim to establish a set of common can learn without compromising competitive advantage.
Group policies are supported by more detailed policies and procedures within the national Cable & Wireless is also involved with, or is a member of, a businesses.
range of external leading organisations.
These include: the Institution of Occupational Safety and Health: the Faculty of OHSE management system Occupational Medicine: Mobile Operators Association: the In 2003, Cable & Wireless embarked on implementing an Institute of Fire Prevention Ofcers: the Institute of Fire improved, integrated OHSE management system across the Engineers: the European Telecommunications Network Groups national businesses, with the management team of Operators Sustainability Group and the Royal Society for the each business responsible for its implementation and Prevention of Accidents.
This system is based on the international health In the United Kingdom, Cable & Wireless was awarded its and management system specication OHSAS 18001 and environmental standard ISO 14001. sixth consecutive Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents Gold Award for 2003 in recognition of continuous Within the management system, national businesses adopt a improvement in performance.
continual risk assessment approach, ensuring that potential hazards arising from work activities are identied, assessed Cable & Wireless was also a key participant in the Global eand managed in proportion to the risks that they present.
To Sustainability Initiative to produce a set of sustainability underpin this approach, the Group is committed to reporting guidelines for the telecommunications industry maintaining legal compliance and continual performance based on guidelines developed under the Global Reporting improvement.
Cable & Wireless has set targets for all majority-owned operations relating to the implementation of the management Mobile phone safety system and the improvement of performance in key OHSE risk areas.
In addition, Cable & Wireless encourages its As a provider of mobile phone services, Cable & Wireless businesses to set their own improvement targets and requires has pro-actively monitored and managed issues related to the them to report their progress centrally at the end of each alleged effects of mobile phones for many years.
Cable & Wireless believes that the safety of customers, OHSE reporting employees and the general public is of paramount importance.
The Group continues to track scientific and Cable & Wireless believes in making information on OHSE medical research, media, legal, regulatory and other performance available to our stakeholders.
developments as well as the public perception of risk arising To date, we have published five Annual Environmental from the use of mobile phones.
The scientific research on Reports, documenting our targets and performance and mobile phones and health has been reviewed by a number of providing details of progress and new commitments for the independent expert scientific panels.
None of these panels coming year.
Last year, the content was extended to include has concluded that the use of mobile phones is harmful to an Occupational Health and Safety Report.
