Corporate Citizenship | 21 REDI Corporate Citizenship: REDI had a very active year in 2004, the highlight being a celebratory event in Johannesburg attended by a variety of representatives of During 2004 we continued our Government and the business sector at which the REDI champions mounted a display of their regional products.
This event and the annual social investment programme by conference held before it were the first time all the REDI champions had gathered together.
REDI continues to make a profound impact on the supporting selected charities and communities within its network and in 2004 it supported 58 different carrying out other significant projects with total funding of R4.1 million.
community activities in countries The community development component of REDI funding was allocated primarily to AIDS and food security projects.
A total of 50 individual where our businesses operate projects received funding this year.
In total some 140 food security and AIDS projects have been established over the past four years.
The Groups social investment programmes continued to concentrate There was a significant shift in focus in Local Economic Development on education, health and welfare, local economic development, activities, with funding being allocated during 2004 to fewer, but larger, the environment and the arts during 2004.
In South Africa particular initiatives with the potential to impact on a greater number of people, attention was given to Black Economic Empowerment and HIV AIDS.
such as the establishment of a soya processing plant.
In total 18 new businesses were established under this aspect of the REDI programme SOUTH AFRICA during 2004.
This brings the total over the four years to 211, 123 of which are owned or managed by women, with the creation of 2,000 jobs.
OLD MUTUAL SOUTH AFRICA OMSA OMSA is committed to growing and investing in socially responsible In the area of educational projects REDI supported the Out of the Box business activities, employment equity and diversity, skills development Environmental Education Programme.
A total of R500,000 was provided and affirmative procurement, as well as sustainable social investment in the first half of the year towards the development of materials and projects and the active involvement of employees in social and community teacher workshops for this programme, which aims, among other things, affairs.
Its Corporate Citizenship programme recognises the value of to encourage environmental awareness among teachers and pupils.
non-financial performance and social accountability.
AIDS Orphans Programme The Old Mutual South Africa Foundation the OMSA Foundation Old Mutual has adopted a four-pronged strategy to address the is the primary source of funds for OMSAs social investment programme.
socially and economically crippling challenges caused by the HIV AIDS At the year end, the assets of the OMSA Foundation comprised 14.4 epidemic in South Africa.
This covers the workplace employees, million shares in Old Mutual plc.
The Group has also committed as part the broader community, financial services and advice customers, of the arrangements for the extension, in modified form, of its unclaimed and business impacts.
shares trusts, to make a donation of the net amount released on expiry of the original unclaimed shares trusts to its Foundations or another In 2004 OMSAs AIDS Orphans Programme provided R1.8 million public benefit or similar organisation in the five territories where to support around 2,000 orphans and vulnerable children via Heartbeat, these operate.
For South Africa, this will result in OMSA committing Noah, Living Hope Hospice and SOS Childrens Village.
It is clear from an additional R190 million of endowment to the OMSA Foundation or feedback received that this programme has had a positive impact on other public benefit causes.
the children of orphan-headed households during the three years it has been in operation.
In 2004 some R15.5 million was expended by the OMSA Foundation, of which R8.7 million was devoted to its flagship projects, namely the Staff Volunteer Programme Rural Economic Development Initiative REDI, the AIDS Orphans The Staff Volunteer Programme consists of the Staff Community Builder Programme, which has entered its third year and supports the children Programme, Adopt an Orphan and the Staff Charity Fund.
of orphan-headed households, and the Staff Community Volunteer Programme.
This last programme comprises both the Community Builder In its tenth year the Staff Community Builder Programme supported Programme, through which staff volunteers support a range of 101 projects in seven provinces, giving a total of R2 million.
community-based projects, and initiatives to encourage and support staff involvement in charities through payroll giving.
OMSA also has a general donations programme.
During the year R4.2 million was distributed by way of general donations among 31 education programmes, 42 community development projects and 12 ad hoc projects.
22 | Corporate Citizenship During 2004, 543 staff members committed funds on a regular basis While the Foundation is primarily responsible for the Nedcor groups through the Staff Charity Fund.
On average R100,000 was paid external CSI, its Roots Programme involves Foundation support for to various charities and adopted orphans on a monthly basis from employees or the families of employees with relevant, unusual and this fund.
Donations were also made to animal welfare, the elderly, urgent needs for relief aid, as well as for helping to support objectives abused women and children and HIV AIDS prevention and treatment.
under the Financial Sector Charter and the banks HIV AIDS programmes.
A total of 375 members of staff have adopted 650 orphans to date.
Of these, 156 receive additional tertiary educational support.
The National Economic Development Incubator Programme provides infrastructure for small business development and partners with Black Economic Empowerment BEE skills development centres to increase their reach among the poorest The Old Mutual Group remains committed to achieving the targets to communities.
Focus is placed on developing artisan, building, ensure it is considered an A performer for the purposes of the Financial mechanical, catering, garment industry-related and agricultural and Sector Charter Scorecard.
To this end, initiatives continue to be related skills.
It also facilitates relevant community-wide development implemented to develop black management, make sound infrastructural that assists general upliftment.
investments, facilitate the entry of black entrepreneurs into corporate South Africa through structuring and investing in BEE deals, and make In addition to continuing collaborations between the Foundation and direct investments into communities and society at large.
the public sector, in 2004 it enjoyed the involvement of prominent politicians at a variety of functions.
President Thabo Mbeki presented OMSA is well on track to achieve its BEE objectives.
The company is the first Nedbank Digital Hope IT training container to the community already a leader in empowerment financing through various structured of Makopane.
This was a corporate collaborative project involving financing transactions and partnerships with Wiphold, J & J, Aka Capital Hewlett Packard and Nedbank, among others.
OMSA plays a leading role in social investing and Membathisi Mdladlana and Deputy Correctional Services Minister Cheryl infrastructural investment and asset management, and the companys Gillwald opened the Qalabotjha Multi-Purpose Community Centre at robust employment equity programme positions it well to exceed the Villiers and Education Minister Naledi Pandor launched the national Charter targets.
Readathon campaign in Cape Town and the National Business Initiative Adult Learners Week Campaign at Nedbank.
In addition, the Group is committed to completing the empowerment ownership transaction required under the Financial Sector Charter.
A national tour by Josh Groban was the latest in a series of collaborative partnership efforts undertaken by the Foundation and Tiger Brands to OMSA will be publishing a more detailed report on its corporate support the Unite Against Hunger campaign.
Beneficiary organisations citizenship activities in April 2005, which will be available on the of this campaign include the O R Tambo Foundation, Heartbeat and Companys website www.
It will African Childrens Feeding Scheme.
The Foundation, in conjunction also be obtainable upon request from the Public Affairs Manager, with the O R Tambo Foundation, has undertaken the feeding of Old Mutual South Africa, PO Box 66, Cape Town 8000 and from the approximately 10,000 destitute elderly people on the East Rand for the Director of Corporate Affairs, Old Mutual plc, 5th Floor, Old Mutual Place, past nine years.
Beneficiaries receive bulk packs of food, designed to last 2 Lambeth Hill, London EC4V 4GG.
The success of the Josh Groban tour enabled the Foundation to increase the reach and impact of this feeding scheme NEDCOR substantially.
As a result, trucks carrying food aid to the destitute on The Nedcor group focused its corporate social investment CSI work the East Rand, in parts of greater Soweto and in Sharpeville were in 2004 mainly through the Nedbank Foundation, which funded over despatched, with almost 24,000 disadvantaged families being fed.
450 projects an increase of almost 100 on the previous year in the fields of welfare, community development and sustainable development.
Non-profit organisations NPOs comprise the core of the Foundations client base.
NPOs rated Nedbank in 2004 as third-highest placed Projects were supported throughout South Africa and were grouped among 70 companies in the category Good Corporate Grantmaker, through a programmatic approach to ensure higher impact for third among 48 companies as Most Widely Recognised Corporate beneficiaries and optimal use of resources.
Grantmakers, and as having the third biggest CSI budget out of 39 identified companies.
The Community Support Programme was launched in 2004 to broaden staff involvement in Nedbanks CSI work.
The programme encourages staff In 2004 Nedbank sponsored the South African Paralympic team, members around the country to act as the Foundations eyes and ears, which won 35 medals in total, 15 of them gold, at the Athens Paralympic so as to align CSI activities more closely to the business of the bank and Games.
A Nedbank employee, who was a member of the Paralympic identify worthy and relevant projects needing its support, and increase swimming team, won four medals.
cooperation between Nedbanks staff, clients and the broader community.
The Nedbank Green, Sport and Arts Affinities continued to grow during The largest Foundation Programme is the Corporate Collaborative 2004.
Together these have donated over R83 million to environmental, Programme.
This involves the raising of capital for larger projects sports and art projects since they began.
by engaging Nedbanks corporate and other business clients.
The Foundation partners these clients in support of projects that involve In 2004 the Green Trust supported a variety of projects including tree relief aid on a larger scale, the building of schools, roll-out of IT planting, food gardens and species-based projects.
More than 30 projects infrastructure in disadvantaged areas, and similar ventures.
An example were supported and almost R4 million was given through this trust.
is the funding of the Western Cape Red Cross Childrens Hospital.
Nedbank again supported the Nedbank Golf Challenge and the day The Nedbank Heritage Programme supports projects that leave after this prestigious event the Sports Trust held its annual golf challenge, a legacy footprint.
These include funding the regeneration of which raised over R1 million for a variety of projects to support golf at Clarkebury Educational Institute in the rural Eastern Cape.
Corporate Citizenship | 23 Donations from Nedbanks Arts affinity bank accounts grew by 27% in The Namibia Foundation also supported four other major school 2004, which increased the amount available for use by the Arts and education projects, the Cancer Association and the Genadegawe Culture Trust.
R1.2 million was split between nine disciplines and 30 feeding scheme during 2004. projects.
An open-air music and arts and crafts festival received funding, as well as the Jazzart Dance Theatre and the Zanendaba Storytellers.
Old Mutual Namibias staff participated actively in various community initiatives, including the Mariental Day of the Homeless, clean-up During 2004, Nedcor revised its environmental policy as part of operations in Opuwo and Rundu Town Councils, the Erongo House of its commitment to environmental responsibility, also evidenced by Safety for orphans in Swakopmund, the Cancer Association, Childline involvement with its conservation partner WWF-SA, and its membership Namibia, and SOS Children Villages Christmas Card initiative.
of the United National Environment Programme Finance Initiative.
At the end of the year, the Namibia Foundation had assets of Nedcor is publishing a Sustainability Report in April 2005, which will N$6.2 million, comprising 300,000 shares in Old Mutual plc and cash be available on its website www.
It will also be obtainable and other assets of N$2 million.
In addition to these, the Namibia upon request from the Senior Manager, Corporate Governance and Foundation has received a donation of N$4,354,235 from the Namibian Sustainability, Nedcor Limited, PO Box 1144, Sandton 2196.
Unclaimed Shares Trust under the proposals approved by the Groups shareholders in May 2004 relating to the extension of the arrangements MUTUAL & FEDERAL for claiming entitlements under the original demutualisation of the Mutual & Federal supports community-based projects that contribute Group.
towards the creation of a stable and prosperous society.
Funding is directed to projects that are non-profit making in nature.
Support is Old Mutual Zimbabwe has a structured social responsibility programme, generally given to the same projects each year to establish long-standing which is actively involved in the sponsorship of sport, education and relationships.
In 2004, R1.6 million of investment was directed to 25 health projects.
organisations in five areas: education, health and welfare, road traffic safety, crime prevention and conservation environment.
Road traffic Old Mutual continued to sponsor the Zimbabwe cricket team in 2004, safety and crime prevention have a direct relevance to Mutual & covering home and away test matches, one-day internationals and Federals business, as high accident rates and car hijacking translate overseas tours.
The Group continues to believe it is important to support into higher insurance costs.
Mutual & Federal also supports national the development of cricket in Zimbabwe.
initiatives aimed at improving road safety, including the Drive Alive Trust, which promotes safe and responsible driving.
Its safety campaigns are In 2004 Old Mutual Zimbabwe pledged to support the Jairos Jiri particularly visible during the holiday seasons and have resulted in the Association, which cares for disabled and blind children from pre-school steady reduction of road accidents and fatality rates.
Jairos Jiri is an indigenous association established over 50 years ago and now has centres in every major urban Six educational projects received funding in 2004, including Thusenang area in Zimbabwe.
As part of its support, Old Mutual has adopted Training and Development, a community project which supports illiterate pre-school centres for the blind and disabled in Harare.
The project supplies basic courses such as knitting, needlework, embroidery, cooking and nutrition.
It also offers Old Mutual Zimbabwe continued to run the Mathematics Olympiad in advanced courses in business skills, life guidance and AIDS guidance conjunction with the University of Zimbabwe.
This programme is designed and supplements these courses with job creation projects including to promote mathematics at high school level and to identify outstanding bakeries, vegetable gardens and sewing groups.
In 2004 Old Mutual sponsored two students to the Pan-African Mathematics Olympiad, one of whom won a bronze medal.
The National Institute for Crime Prevention and the Reintegration of Offenders Nicro was one of the crime prevention projects that At the end of the year, the Zimbabwe Foundation had assets of received support.
Nicro offers help to young offenders and communities Z$67,521,018,956, comprising 2,680,000 shares in Old Mutual plc and to rise above the effects of crime.
Its Diversion Programme diverts youth cash and other assets of Z$531,018.
In addition to these, the Zimbabwe in conflict with the law from the criminal justice system by providing Foundation has received a donation of Z$91,452,000 from the Zimbabwe courses on drug abuse prevention, anger management, parenting skills Unclaimed Shares Trust under the proposals approved by the Groups and life skills.
shareholders in May 2004 relating to the extension of the arrangements for claiming entitlements under the original demutualisation of the REST OF AFRICA Group.
The Old Mutual Namibia Foundation strives to develop and maintain an effective social empowerment programme, which will have a Old Mutual Malawi supported a number of projects in the areas of health beneficial impact on health and welfare and education and community and education during 2004, giving a total of MK1.3 million.
Its approach to social investment is to support was offered to medical students through a prize for the top medical activities that are linked to its national agenda and in communities that student of each class, with financial prizes being awarded to five of are close to its business operations.
In 2004 Old Mutual Malawi registered as a member of the Coalition against AIDS.
Donations were also given in support In 2004 significant donations were made by the Namibia Foundation to of the Red Cross for its work on HIV AIDS, the Kamuzu College of national AIDS programmes, Rehoboth Primary and Secondary Schools Nursing and the Kachere Rehabilitation Centre.
and the Onamulele Primary School.
The Mathematics Teachers Support System project, which is aimed at improving examination results in At the end of the year, the Malawi Foundation had assets of mathematics, was successfully launched in partnership with Nedbank MK38,523,976, comprising 190,000 shares in Old Mutual plc Namibias Social Investment Fund.
and cash and other assets of MK2,423,976.
In addition to these, the Malawi Foundation has received a donation of MK13,913,369 from the Malawi Unclaimed Shares Trust under the proposals approved by the Groups shareholders in May 2004 relating to the extension of the arrangements for claiming entitlements under the original demutualisation of the Group.
24 | Corporate Citizenship USA UK Old Mutual Asset Management OMAM s Charitable Foundation The UK SA schools twinning project, a partnership between Old Mutual plc supports local communities in need around its Boston headquarters and the British Council involving six schools from the London Borough and wherever OMAM has a presence through member firms.
The of Southwark and six schools in the Cape Town area, began in earnest OMAM Foundation continued to focus its efforts during 2004 on making in 2004.
Most of the schools made reciprocal visits during the year and meaningful contributions to its partner organisations in four target areas: a number of new curricular activities have been developed as a result.
community, healthcare, homelessness and emergency crisis Highlights of the first year included the writing of plays, participation in intervention.
In 2004, it made 19 direct gifts totalling $278,000, a video-conference link to mark South Africa Freedom Day on 16 June including $25,000 in staff matching.
2004 and a series of special Drum Caf workshops in all the schools to celebrate the tenth anniversary of democratic government in South Africa.
Grants were made to national organisations such as The Rose Fund, Boys and Girls Club of America and Health Care for All, as well as local The relationships within the twinned schools have been extended, organisations including Pine Street Inn, Home for Little Wanderers and at the instigation of the head teachers, to include all the pupils far Rosies Place.
beyond the individual classes and teachers originally allocated to the project, clear evidence of the enthusiasm with which the partnerships OMAMs member firms also made a wide range of charitable gifts.
Additional funding has also been provided to Support was provided to healthcare organisations, such as American assist the schools with the development of the programme in 2005.
Cancer Society, St. Judes Childrens Hospital, and the Heart Association: cultural organisations, including schools, museums and libraries: and Old Mutual staff from all its London-based businesses were invited to community causes, including The Family Place, Bottom Line and the volunteer as stewards for the Drum Caf workshops.
programme centred on numeracy partnering, using a Maths games kit developed by the Group in Cape Town, is now being developed for In addition to making monetary grants through its Foundation, OMAM 2005 and beyond.
Staff are allowed two hours a month to spend in the seeks to promote employee involvement by encouraging employees schools if they wish to participate.
Additional Maths kits have also been to take advantage of paid volunteer days, sponsoring company-wide provided to the participating Cape Town schools.
charitable events and matching personal charitable gifts from Foundation assets.
To mark the celebrations in the UK of the tenth anniversary of South African democracy, Old Mutual sponsored the 2004 City of London In 2004, more than 65% of OMAMs employees volunteered in five or Festival South Africa series, supporting a number of South African more service projects or events.
In June, employees joined the JP Morgan musicians and artists in activities in the UK.
The highlight of the festival Corporate Challenge to benefit the Bay State Games, which provide was a concert in St Pauls Cathedral where Lady Blacksmith Mambazo Olympic-style athletic competitions and developmental programmes performed in front of a full house.
A programme of team-building for Massachusetts amateur athletes of all ages and abilities.
In October, activities was developed for the Companys UK staff around the festival OMAM served another year as a Neighbourhood Sponsor for City Years including arts workshops, Drum Cafs, access to the concerts and other Serve-a-Thon event, at which a team of OMAM employees, family volunteering activities.
The Company was delighted to receive a grant members and friends banded together and worked to restore a local of 35,000 from Arts in Business in support of this programme.
Additionally, throughout the calendar year, OMAM This funding also helped the Company to run the Drum Caf activities employees lent their support to Daffodil Day, benefiting the American in the London schools involved in the twinning project described above.
Cancer Society, Lee Denim Day benefiting the Susan G. Komen Old Mutual has been nominated for an award for its programme Foundation, and the Winter Clothing Drive benefiting the Salvation Army.
of external and internal events associated with the Festival activities.
Old Mutual US Life OMUSL focused its support in 2004 on the The Company operates a staff matching scheme, which supports community, arts and education.
Old Mutual employees in their own activities to raise money for a wide range of charities.
In 2004, these included The Tusk Trust, the Race for Employee gifts to charitable organisations were matched by OMUSL Life, a 5km walk which was supported by a group of women from head through its matching programme on a dollar-for-dollar basis up to an office, Jeans for Genes Day and Children in Need.
During 2004 the projects supported in this way included several cancer foundations, the Baltimore School for the Arts, Ad hoc donations were made throughout the year and Old Mutual plc the Baltimore Shakespeare Festival and several universities.
began a three-year supporting role with the South African High Commissions aim of building a cinema in the High Commission.
OMUSL also continued to support employee involvement in charitable Old Mutual has committed funds towards the cinemas running costs.
organisations such as the Baltimore Child Abuse Centre and Rebuilding At the beginning of 2005 Old Mutual gave 20,000 to the Disasters Baltimore Together, a community project that repairs and rehabilitates Emergency Commissions appeal for victims of the Tsunami in East Asia.
the homes of low-income, elderly or disabled homeowners in Baltimore, where OMUSLs headquarters are based.
Other good causes supported by the Bermuda Foundation at the request of the Groups UK businesses were the Shooting Star Trust and the Other organisations supported by OMUSL during 2004 were the Living Friends of the Citizens, a charity which promotes quality education to Classrooms Foundation, an organisation focused on teaching academic primary and secondary school age children in an environment that and social skills by using community work sites and other real-world encourages not only intellectual growth, but also spiritual and moral environments, and the Salem Childrens Trust, a school with both growth.
residential and non-residential programmes that help facilitate a successful transition to public schools and society for emotionally At the end of the year, the Bermuda Foundation had assets of 4,487,000, disturbed and abused children.
comprising 3,650,000 shares in Old Mutual plc and cash and other assets of 107,000.
In addition to these, the Bermuda Foundation has received a donation of 25,170 from the Bermuda Unclaimed Shares Trust under the proposals approved by the Groups shareholders in May 2004 relating to the extension of the arrangements for claiming entitlements under the original demutualisation of the Group.
Corporate Citizenship | 25 Old Mutual International continued to support the Guernsey Maths Old Mutual was looking to finalise its commitment to the UK government Challenge during 2004.
Staff from Fairbairn Private Bank IoM Limited, scheme Making a Corporate Commitment MACC2 in 2004, but this in Douglas, raised money for three Manx registered charities, the Manx programme ceased before it could do so.
Cancer Help Association Lisa Lowe Centre, The Isle of Man Childrens Society and The Koru Hospital Fund, which provides support for the Old Mutual participated in Business in the Communitys Corporate construction and operation of a hospital in Koru, Kenya, raising a total Environmental Engagement Index for the third time in 2004 and of over 3,000. submitted data for The Giving List, published by The Guardian and co-ordinated by Business in the Community.
Participation in these systems ENVIRONMENT and indices allows the Group to benchmark itself against other members As a financial services provider, the Groups primary aim is to meet of the financial services industry in the countries where it operates.
the financial needs of its clients.
In doing so, the Group recognises that it has an impact on the environment, both directly through the running In 2004 the Group joined the London Stock Exchanges Corporate of its offices and indirectly through meeting the investment needs of Responsibility Exchange system, allowing it to input information on its clients.
to a database system to enable interested parties to review information on its environmental and CSR activities without having to contact the The Group introduced its environmental policy three years ago and Company directly.
This tool covers many of the issues previously raised designated Julian Roberts, the Group Finance Director, as the member through questionnaires and allows the Group to input data to one of the Board responsible for the Groups environmental performance.
Objectives were set and individuals named at business unit level to oversee environmental issues.
Monitoring and reporting against Key HEALTH AND SAFETY Performance Indicators KPIs fall under these individuals control The Group recognises its obligation to supply its employees with a safe and this discipline is, where possible, being applied across the Group.
Data on health and safety compliance The Groups KPIs and environmental targets are reviewed annually are collated and reported to the Board twice yearly via Julian Roberts, to ensure their continuing appropriateness.
The Groups environmental objectives are: Nedcor is aware of the risk of robberies and attacks at its banking business and works continually to improve its systems to minimise to ensure compliance at local, national and international levels: the risk to its employees.
to minimise the consumption of energy, water and materials across operations: During 2004 there were no significant accidents, and no material to minimise solid waste generation by waste re-use and recycling health or safety issues at work were reported from around the Group.
wherever possible: to avoid the use of materials that may cause harm to the FTSE4GOOD JSE SRI INDICES environment: Old Mutual plc is a member of the FTSE4Good Index, the selection to promote internal awareness of environmental issues with staff: and criteria for which include working towards environmental sustainability, to support  initiatives by employees and developing positive relationships with stakeholders, and upholding and relevant external groups.
These objectives are applied across the Group at the business unit level, Old Mutual and Nedcor both qualified for inclusion in the JSE Securities using best practice in environmental management.
Where appropriate, Exchange South Africas Socially Responsible Investment Index launched business units have introduced policies more specific to their operations.
The JSE SRI Index will measure participant companies commitment and performance against a triple bottom line Raising environmental awareness continued throughout 2004 and, with of sustainability in terms of environmental, economic and social impacts.
the introduction of Environmental Management Systems EMSs at many key sites across the Group, specific targets and management plans were CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS put in place to deal with any impact considered significant.
The EMSs The Old Mutual Group has adopted and aims to abide by a Code in place all follow ISO14001 guidelines.
Certification is achieved on a site of Business Conduct and Ethics.
This Code is provided to staff, is basis and therefore the number of certified sites is increasing as roll-out accessible on the Companys website and may also be obtained free of continues across the Group.
EMSs establish guidelines and procedures charge upon request from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
that, when followed, aid site-specific objectives, target-setting and monitoring.
EMSs require regular reviews and this in turn requires the Martin C Murray Group to revisit its impacts frequently.
The systems in place speed up Group Company Secretary data collection and enable the Group to track improvements and issues 28 February 2005 more easily.
Data is gathered centrally at least twice a year and reported to the Board.
The roll-out of EMSs and raising of employee awareness will continue during 2005.
Data disclosure occurs through both Old Mutual South Africa and Nedcor, which each report separately on resource use in their Corporate Citizenship and Sustainability Reports.
The Group has little contact with materials that could do great damage to the environment.
It has ensured, where relevant, that it has avoided using materials that may cause harm.
