Corporate responsibility Community Our continuing commitment to manage the Our community programmes are also managed on a local business in a socially and environmentally basis.
For instance, in 2004, the UK embarked on a three year responsible manner is reinforced by increasing partnership with the Samaritans, in Ireland we supported the Simon Community of Dublin and Junior Achievement Ireland, interest in Corporate Responsibility CR as a and Canada continued to provide practical support to the Red risk and compliance issue.
In addition to matching employees donations to tsunami seek to embed CR within existing processes as related relief, Canada responded to a request from the local Red Cross for members of the claims call centre team to help far as possible.
For example, we introduced a range of new Group Risk policies in 2004 ensuring that associated CR risks were addressed.
This Investment complements earlier work in areas such as emerging risks.
We F&C Asset Management previously ISIS apply their Responsible also aim to offer products that can yield social and environmental Engagement Overlay investment process whereby specialists benets, for example, in the UK we have a scheme to provide engage with companies to ensure they operate to good standards customised insurance cover for social housing through local in managing their social, ethical and environmental risks to authorities and housing associations.
the Royal & SunAlliance investment portfolio.
During 2004 they engaged with around 900 companies on issues including: CR management roles and responsibilities at Group level have corporate governance, bribery and corruption, climate change, been claried during the year and will be rolled out in 2005, human rights and labour standards.
supported by new policies for CR and reputation management.
Group Communications will oversee the provision of clear and Environment accurate information to all interested parties while Group Risk Our environmental impacts as an organisation fall into two will coordinate internal and external challenge processes.
Details categories, the resources we use and our risk reducing inuence of the Group Risk Management Framework can be found in our on insureds.
For example, our publicly reported total CO Corporate Governance section on pages 41 to 43.
2 emissions have been showing year on year reduction since CR activities will be subject to challenging improvement targets 2001.
Our work with Envirowise a UK Government funded and reviewed via external performance benchmarks and the programme to provide free information to small and medium views of external interested parties.
sized business clients on resource efficiency and risk reduction demonstrates our role as an inuencer.
Our detailed CR report, which is subject to external assurance, will be available from our website, www.
com, External benchmarking at the end of May.
Royal & SunAlliance is a constituent of the FTSE4Good UK Index, which assesses companies against globally recognised Workplace CR standards, and a member of the FORGE group of insurers Our first web based global employee survey was conducted in and banks, who undertook work in 2004 on key performance 2004 with a participation rate of over 85%.
The results will be used indicators for CR.
We are also founding corporate partners of as a starting point for measuring views on the organisation and Forum for the Future.
In 2004 we were recognised as an ethical individual roles within it, as well as implementing action plans for choice company by the Good Shopping Guide.
Our health and safety programmes are delivered on a regional basis, reecting local regulation and culture.
Supporting Envirowise enables us to help our customers to reduce their waste and costs and, by contributing to environmental sustainability, must be of benefit to insurers in the longer term.
28 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004
