24 Schroders Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Governance Corporate and social responsibility Schroders, its Board and senior management recognise the inducements which are likely to conflict with their duties to clients.
importance of corporate and social responsibility to its employees, Training is provided in relation to these issues and in relation to investors, the community at large and those in whom it invests.
money laundering, terrorist finance and data protection.
The Group has put in place policies to ensure that it acts in a responsible way and to encourage employees to do the same.
The performance management process comprises an annual o Schroders policies and activities in relation to corporate and social performance appraisal and 360 assessment of senior responsibility are covered in more detail in the Corporate employees against the Groups core values: integrity: passion: Responsibility Report, which can be found at www.
The Group has taken An overview of the policies and some of the activities undertaken steps to ensure that the output from the performance in 2004 is included in the following review.
management process is used to inform decisions on promotion and reward.
Employees Schroders has recently begun to run a new series of learning Schroders recognises the importance of making Schroders an and development management programmes.
employer of choice, ensuring that its employees understand the strategic aims and objectives of the Group and are clear about Schroders is committed to equal opportunities for both existing what is expected of them, and having policies and practices that employees and applicants seeking employment.
It is the Groups make Schroders a desirable place to work and encourage policy to give appropriate consideration to applications for employees to act ethically and be aware of the wider community.
employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
For the purposes of training, The Group has developed a process for communicating with career development and promotion, disabled employees, including employees worldwide, on a day-to-day basis, via email and the any who become disabled in the course of their employment, are Groups intranet site.
The Group also ensures that what is treated on equal terms with other employees.
The Group operates explained to the market is disseminated internally.
a zero tolerance policy to harassment and bullying.
There has been an increased use of employee meetings Schroders promotes high standards of health and safety at work designed to facilitate the exchange of views with senior for all employees and has rolled out globally its Health and management and discussion of the progress made by the Group.
Safety policy, which contains policies and procedures which are An employee opinion survey was undertaken in Spring 2004 and expected to be followed by all employees and highlights senior management worked with focus groups to address some Schroders commitment to ensuring employees are provided of the issues expressed in the responses to the survey.
An with a safe and healthy working environment.
Training on these Employee Consultation Forum has been established in the UK issues is also given to employees.
Further details on the policy consisting of employees elected by the workforce.
Members of are to be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
the Forum will meet regularly with management as part of a Joint Consultative Group to discuss employee-related matters.
Environment and corporate responsibility Schroders promotes the importance of high ethical standards to Although Schroders activities as part of the financial services employees.
Opportunities for employees to voice concerns sector have minimal direct environmental impact, the Group about behaviours or decisions that they perceive to be unethical promotes energy efficiency and avoidance of waste throughout its are in place through our internal whistleblowing process.
operations, including appropriate conservation measures in the Personal securities trading by employees is regulated and design and use of buildings and equipment, recycling of materials monitored to ensure this does not lead to conflicts of interest and reduction in use of paper through office automation.
In 2004, and employees are not permitted to solicit or accept any 89 per cent.
of waste was recycled or reused.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 25 Targets for the recycling of waste, CO2 output, energy Schroders charitable giving is focused on employee choice.
consumption and the adoption of sustainable environmental UK employees are encouraged to make charitable donations measures were set and met in 2004.
Further targets have been through the payroll system and at the end of the year 23 per set for 2005 and are to be found in the Corporate Responsibility cent.
of staff were participating in this scheme.
Since 2000 the Group has participated in the annual matches employee contributions up to certain limits.
Employees Business in the Environment survey, the results of which have also arrange fund raising events in support of charitable causes.
been used to help assess the Groups own performance with a In celebration of Schroders 200th anniversary in 2004, after view to making improvements wherever practicable.
consultation with employees, Schroders decided to support cancer and childrens charities around the world.
In the UK the Schroders has recently been awarded the energy efficiency chosen charity was Macmillan Cancer Relief.
A sum of 835,879 accreditation from the National Energy Foundation.
This award was raised globally for the 200th anniversary charities through a recognises efforts made to reduce and or make more efficient combination of employee fundraising and matched giving by the our energy consumption.
The Corporation of London has Company.
In addition to financial donations a number of recognised Schroders efforts in effective waste management by volunteer projects were undertaken by employees ranging from giving Schroders a gold rating in its Clean City Awards scheme.
gardening and decorating to web design.
Additionally, the Group, through the investment management A more detailed report on the Groups community involvements process, advises companies in which it invests of its socially is contained in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
responsible investment policy, the details of which are contained in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
Responsibility Board responsibility for corporate and social responsibility issues The investment process incorporates research into the is divided between Jonathan Asquith, the Chief Financial Officer environmental, social and ethical stance of companies and and Richard Horlick, Head of Investment.
Jonathan Asquith has Schroders will engage with companies where the scope of responsibility for all employee, environmental and community environmental, social and ethical codes falls short of acceptable involvement issues and Richard Horlick has responsibility for the standards.
During the year Schroders has worked with the investment process, socially responsible investment and Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change and the corporate governance issues relating to the companies in which Pharmaceuticals Shareowners Group to consider how the Schroders invests.
pharmaceuticals sector is addressing the public health crisis in emerging markets.
The Board receives an annual report on social, environmental and ethical issues and in addition, any matters of material Schroders is included in the FTSE4Good Index, which is concern are reported to the Board Audit Committee.
designed to identify companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
In addition, Schroders is rated above average in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, which rates index members according to their corporate responsibility activities.
Community involvement and charitable giving Employees are encouraged to participate in community and in Photographs of charitable activities involving employees left to right : Creating a garden for a Macmillan Cancer Relief centre civic and charitable causes.
Such involvement is seen not only to Peak District Challenge in aid of Macmillan Cancer Relief be of use to the community, but also as a means of increasing Schroders raised 568,000 for Macmillan Cancer Relief in 2004 employee awareness and assisting in their development.
Land's End to John O'Groats cycle ride in aid of Macmillan Cancer Relief.
