Corporate Social Responsibility Singer & Friedlander is a specialist banking and Clients investment management group with a tradition of We are committed to providing all our clients with a innovation in financial services.
The strategy is to superior banking and investment management strive to increase the total return to shareholders by service.
All our dealings with our clients are made in a building and strengthening the businesses organically, regulated environment.
We aim to embrace all the and through appropriate acquisition and other regulations and all interpretations of best practice.
In opportunities, and by optimising the use of the order to meet our commitment to maintaining a high Groups capital.
level of service to our clients, we seek to ensure that dealings are made by appropriately trained and Whilst we acknowledge that ultimately we are competent staff.
accountable to our shareholders, we believe that in order to achieve our corporate objectives, the Group We aim to provide our clients with a high level of must take into account the interests of all flexibility and personal involvement, above all we treat stakeholders including our employees and our clients, our clients as individuals, we aim not to be prescriptive, as well as the community and environment in which and our service is flexible, accommodating our client we operate.
We have adopted policies that support requests at all levels.
We have short communication our commitment to our social responsibilities.
lines that enable us to be efficient when dealing with clients requests.
We believe in our ability to forge Business Ethics strong business relationships with our clients.
The Group operates within a complex legal and We aim to produce communications with our clients regulatory environment in which it seeks to adhere to that are clear, accurate and comply with all regulations.
best practice at all times.
We seek to maintain the highest business and ethical standards, and to The Environment mitigate any risks to our shareholders or stakeholders.
In order to assist in the execution of this policy we We consider environmental issues in the business have in place a framework to monitor and report risk areas throughout the Group.
In recognition of the importance of environmental The Board meets regularly throughout the year, and management, we have a policy of using professional deals with important aspects of the Groups affairs: consultants to advise on, and implement, procedures including, but not limited to, setting and monitoring to ensure that all services and plant are managed in an strategy, reviewing performance, ensuring the environmentally friendly manner so far as is adequacy of financial resources available within the reasonably practical.
The Company is midway through Group, regulatory issues and reporting to a three year programme to change and upgrade the shareholders.
major Mechanical and Electrical plant within its Head Office.
The completion of these works will be In addition, the directors and senior management of beneficial to the Company, its employees and the each of the operating divisions accept that they are environment, in terms of cost and energy efficiency responsible for promoting the highest level of and utilisation of environmentally friendly equipment.
business ethics and integrity, and they aim to create and foster a culture throughout the organisation that emphasises and demonstrates the importance of maintaining strong business ethics.
36 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Social Responsibility Charitable Donations and Investments Employees in the Community Our most important assets are our employees.
We actively contribute to the wellbeing of the Policies and procedures exist which govern the community by seeking to cater for the needs of all professional relationship with them, which are all in groups.
We support social, medical, cultural and accordance with current best practice.
educational projects that place particular emphasis on We are committed to developing policies that supporting the under-privileged within society.
encourage all employees to achieve their greatest We have set up a Charities Committee whose potential and to contribute to the success of the membership is representative of all parts of the Group Group.
Employees are encouraged to develop their and employees are encouraged to submit requests to professional skills and competencies above those the Committee.
During the year the Committee required by regulation.
We operate equal opportunities in recruitment, Following the Tsunami disaster the Charities training and promotion of all employees, regardless of Committee have identified a project in Southern gender, ethnic origin, nationality, disability or age.
It is Thailand that it has decided to support and initially a our policy to treat applicants and employees with donation of 10,000 has been given to the project.
disabilities equally and fairly, and not to discriminate The project is being run by the International Business against the disabled in recruitment, training, career Leaders Forum part of The Princes Trust.
donation will be utilised to purchase two fishing boats The interest of staff in the Groups performance is for local fishermen.
Each boat can hold 15 fishermen.
achieved in a variety of ways, including profit sharing In addition our donation will also be used to establish schemes, option schemes and sharesave schemes in a Child Safe Zone to protect local children.
This is an which staff at all levels participate.
ongoing project aiming to help the Thai people rebuild their lives following the Tsunami disaster.
We endeavour to keep employees informed about the progress of the business.
The text to public We are a patron member of The Outward Bound announcements is made available to employees Charitable Trust.
As part of our commitment to this simultaneously with its public release.
Information on charity, each year we finance the placing of a number the Groups strategy and our results are of school classes on Outward Bound Courses.
In communicated to all staff at regular intervals.
We accordance with our policy of supporting the underencourage the development of employee involvement privileged within society, the schools chosen have in our operating companies through both formal and pupils who come from areas of deprivation and where informal meetings.
high levels of unemployment exist.
We are also members of Business in the Community.
While financing is a key factor in helping By order of the Board many organisations, we acknowledge that there is Stephen Doherty Company Secretary also a real need for the allocation of time, experience, 11 March 2005 mentoring and moral support.
The Company assists pupils from a school in East London with a reading and mentoring scheme for pupils together with a mentoring scheme for head teachers.
Some of our senior employees are actively engaged in school governing bodies.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report and Accounts 2004 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC 37
