One of our award objectives.
Engaging with Corporate Social winning Health and Safety local communities to posters that is helping to understand their needs Responsibility drive our radical new and interests is therefore initiative, Target Zero, with an important part of the aim of reducing how we operate.
The reportable accidents at all photograph shows our places of work to zero.
Carillion Chief Executive, By adopting a sustainable John McDonough, leading approach to the way we do 2.
We believe that high a visit to the All Saints standards of corporate Action Network in business, we believe we can social responsibility not only Wolverhampton as part of create positive benefits for HRH The Prince of Wales deliver not only social and the communities in which Seeing is Believing environmental benefits, but also we operate, but also help programme, run by us to deliver our business Business in the Community.
business benefits for Carillion and all our stakeholders.
Applying the principles of sustainable development is a key differentiator for Carillion, helping us to win more work and deliver better services to our customers.
We still have a long way to go to integrate developed in 2003.
To meet our objectives Carillion workplace.
This high-profile the principles of sustainable development we set 11 specific and measurable targets.
campaign aims to drive home the message into everything we do, but our achievements Our average score against these targets that there is no such thing as an acceptable have made Carillion a recognised leader in was 90 per cent.
Details of our sustainability accident and seeks to create a culture of zero developing and adopting socially responsible programme, targets and performance, which tolerance in all our places of work.
is externally verified, will be published in our 2004 Sustainability Report on our website, Target Zero has a simple vision: Through the Our commitment to developing a more www.
com sustainability, in April way we work and behave, all our people and sustainable business is driven by the Carillion 2005.
It will also contain details of how stakeholders will be protected from the risks Board, which sets our sustainability policies Carillion engages with communities and of occupational injury or ill-health.
and targets as an integral part of the Groups addresses its environmental impacts together overall policies, strategy and objectives.
with a number of case studies and feedback We have established safety action groups The Board is supported by a Sustainability from our stakeholders.
throughout Carillion to support Target Zero Committee and a Group Safety Committee.
and deliver local action and improvement Our Sustainability Committee is chaired by Social, Environmental and plans for Health and Safety and to exchange our Group Chairman, Sir Neville Simms, and Ethical SEE Risks and review best practice.
In addition, we its membership includes senior executives and Adopting a sustainable approach to the have a programme of site visits by senior managers from across the Group.
It also has way we do business also helps us to address executives and Health and Safety managers two independent members, Jonathon Porritt and manage our SEE risks.
These risks are to review safety, including the systems Programme Director of Forum for the Future identified at Group level and for individual and controls in place for the work being and Chairman of the UK Governments contracts through our risk management undertaken.
If these systems and controls do Sustainable Development Commission and processes.
Corporate risks and contract risk not meet the highest standards, all activities David Cowans Chief Executive of the housing registers are reviewed regularly and reported cease until corrective action has been taken.
association, Places for People who provide at the appropriate levels up to and including valuable advice and an external perspective the Carillion Board.
A top award on the development of our sustainability We were delighted to receive Business in the strategy and programme.
Having a separate Health and Safety Communitys BITC top award for Corporate Group Safety Committee chaired by Executive In 2004, there were 348 injuries reportable Social Responsibility in July 2003 and to be its Director Roger Robinson, reflects the priority under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases Company of the Year.
This award recognised we give to Health and Safety, which is an and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations, Carillions commitment to responsible integral part of sustainability.
for a population of 40,000 people, including business practice and our achievements in direct employees and subcontractors.
After developing a more sustainable business, In 2004, we continued to develop the successive decreases over the past two years, which has promoted innovation, enhanced strategy model we first published in 2001, our Accident Frequency Rate AFR increased individual and corporate responsibility and to help us understand how improving our to 0.37 per 100,000 hours in 2004 2003: helped to improve service quality across all impacts on the environment and on the 0.34.
Tragically, there were nine fatalities our businesses.
communities in which we operate can assist in 2004 and 69 major injuries.
us in delivering our business objectives.
We Winning this prestigious award had a major selected a number of key areas on which to Although our 2004 AFR compared influence on our sustainability agenda in focus particular attention in 2004, including favourably with those of our peers, it was 2004.
Working in partnership with BITC, we Health and Safety, certain environmental nonetheless disappointing.
Our response developed and implemented a programme to impacts, the management of cost and risk has been to embark on a radical new promote corporate social responsibility and to and the implementation of the new initiative, Target Zero, designed to eliminate demonstrate how this can help business to community engagement strategy we reportable accidents throughout the succeed.
We took part in 37 different events 20 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and Financial Review 03 1.
2. involving a wide variety of activities to share In 2004, we engagement with the communities in which our experience with others and to learn from we operate must be linked to our business them.
These included workshops with other incurred no environmental prosecutions objectives.
In 2003, we formed a working companies and organisations and two reduced the CO emissions from our car group with the objective of deepening our 2 Seeing is Believing visits.
fleet by 25 per cent understanding of community engagement.
continued to reduce the energy Its membership was drawn from across HRH the Prince of Wales Seeing is Believing consumption of the buildings we design Carillion and it was supported by The Natural programme invites business leaders to see for became a signatory of the WWF-UK Forest Step and Business in the Community.
The themselves how business can play a role in & Trade Network, and, with other Network result was a new Community Policy and tackling the most pressing social issues in the members, will be publishing a report on Community Engagement Strategy, which we UKs most deprived inner city and rural areas.
use of sustainable timber in March 2005 implemented in 2004, complementing the Carillion Chief Executive, John McDonough successfully developed and trialled Stakeholder Dialogue process that we led visits to Bradford and the Black Country, Biodiversity Action Plans on two major introduced in 2002. attended by a total of over 25 business leaders projects and will be extending their use who saw first hand the opportunities that are in 2005 We continue to be members of BITCs available to support the communities in which continued our design out waste initiative PerCent Club, demonstrating that we their businesses operate.
Seeing the work and delivered further improvements in the contribute in excess of one per cent of our being done by schools, charities and local recycling of waste on our projects, diverting profits in cash or kind to community activities.
action groups as well as government funded it from landfill.
For example, on ten trial sites organisations to tackle a wide range of social the amount of waste diverted from landfill In 2004, we produced a Sustainability Toolkit, issues concerning education, skills training, ranged from 20 per cent to 77 per cent, which brings together all our policies, our homelessness, unemployment and health, resulting in an average reduction of community and environmental tools and over was both moving and inspiring.
50 case records to help us share best practice.
who attended these visits resolved to form new This is fundamental to building a positive links between their businesses and their local Our sponsorship of the Wildlife Trusts is now in business case for sustainable development communities to provide help and support.
Through the Carillion Natural and to demonstrating this to our customers Habitats Fund, many of our people have and suppliers.
We also published 33 new Our time as Company of the Year concluded volunteered to work with the Trusts local to our case records in 2004 that show how positive with Carillion hosting BITCs 2004 Gala projects to create positive impacts.
Carillion community engagement can benefit Dinner and Awards ceremony at the Royal also participated in the Environment Agencys Carillion and its customers as well as our Albert Hall in July 2004.
This was attended Make a Pledge initiative, which encouraged local communities and how it helps us to by BITCs patron HRH the Prince of Wales individuals to make small but significant develop our own people and build the value and many of the UKs leading companies environmental pledges.
It was estimated that of the Carillion brand.
and provided a high-profile opportunity to Carillions 800 pledges would save 30,000 promote the importance of corporate social tonnes of CO and four million litres of water.
We held our second Sustainability Week 2 responsibility to business success.
To put this into perspective, 10,000 trees in 2004 to coincide with World Environment would be needed to remove this quantity of Day under the headline Lets Make a Environment CO from the atmosphere and a typical family Difference.
We sought to increase awareness 2 We have continued to develop the business of five in some of the poorer African countries and understanding of sustainability across the case for improving our environmental uses 18,000 litres of water in one year.
Group and to encourage employees and their performance, in terms of our ability to deliver families to become involved in activities that better products and services, while reducing Communities promote a more sustainable lifestyle.
our consumption of resources and protecting Our strategy model for delivering sustainable the environment.
profitable growth clearly indicates that 21 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and Financial Review 03
