CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT St. Jamess Place fully supports all the initiatives aimed at Our Employees ensuring companies adopt a responsible attitude towards We firmly believe that our employees give us a sustainable their stakeholders and in particular to clients, staff, competitive advantage in a marketplace where high quality suppliers and the community.
The attitude, knowledge, skills and commitment of our people is a strong differentiator and Our Clients we continue to invest in training and development Our mission statement is To be regarded as the most programmes so that they are able to meet the needs of our professional and trusted provider of advice on wealth business and customers.
Our values of integrity, openness management.
The provision of high quality advice comes and fairness are the foundations for the way we deal with via members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership who our people.
build strong relationships with their clients.
Our Partners strategy is focused on being able to offer clients a Our staff retention rate is 90% and attracting new comprehensive range of products and services and employees has rarely posed an issue for us.
Days lost we consult regularly with them so that the needs and through sickness stands at 3.1 days per employee per year, expectations of clients are clearly understood.
In an which is significantly below the national average.
We environment where trust is paramount, all clients have remain committed to our equal opportunities policy for peace of mind with the St. Jamess Place guarantee which potential and existing employees, recognising peoples states that the St. Jamess Place Group stands behind and individual ability and merit, free from any form of guarantees the advice given by members of the discrimination.
Partnership when recommending any of the products and services provided by companies in the St. Jamess The performance and development of our people is Place Group.
encouraged and supported with a formalised and standard appraisal system.
Our reward package is competitive with In view of the fact that high quality advice is at the heart a comprehensive range of benefits being given to all of our proposition, we place great emphasis on clearly employees.
Employee bonuses are carefully constructed communicating the characteristics of our products and to align with the Companys objectives and the services to clients.
When it comes to settling life and performance of the individual.
Senior managers are also health claims we take a positive approach recognising given the opportunity to participate in share incentive the fact that at such times clients need support and schemes, which are again dependent upon the Companys reassurance.
Inherent within everything we do is our performance and whether personal objectives have been desire to be fair and reasonable to clients and all met.
Recognising the benefit of all employees having an our stakeholders.
We fully support the new guidelines equity interest in the Company, everyone is given the from the Financial Services Authority for treating opportunity to join the Share Save scheme and acquire customers fairly.
75% of all employees are now members of this scheme.
18 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued We remain committed to an open style of communication Each of the Companys regional offices and departments and actively encourage feedback from our people.
within head office organise fundraising events.
These range Managers are encouraged to run regular one-to-one from raffles bringing in a few hundred pounds, to auctions discussions and team meetings with staff.
Directors and of promises and other social events, which often raise senior managers also regularly visit all the St. Jamess several thousand pounds.
Every social event is looked Place office locations in order to disseminate key upon as an opportunity to raise funds for the Foundation.
corporate messages and obtain valuable feedback.
We Many of the Companys local and national suppliers are utilise our own intranet and e-mail systems to provide happy to support the Foundation and regularly donate information quickly but still feel there is no substitute for cash or goods to aid our fundraising efforts.
face-to-face communications so we actively encourage and train our managers in this skill.
Our working In addition to group events, individuals also push environments are created to satisfy Health and Safety themselves to the limit in an effort to raise as much Regulations and in 2006 work is planned to commence sponsorship as possible from their contacts and clients.
the construction of a new Head Office in the historic The challenges taken up include: the Sahara Marathon, a Cotswold town of Cirencester.
This will be a purpose built 12-team all day Triathlon, a 5-Peaks Mountaineering office facility creating 45,000 square feet of space.
Challenge, 3 Marathons in 3 different countries in 3 weeks and many more.
Underpinning all of the Groups personnel policies is a well-established awareness of statutory and social In 2004, more than 150 people descended on a Zip Slide responsibilities with regard to the employment of disabled from the top of Guys Tower, Warwick Castle.
As well as staff, whether it be their recruitment or subsequent being great fun, the day raised over 100,000.
The Groups approach ensures that every in January 2005 staff and partners raised a further effort is made to achieve continuity of employment in the 90,000 for the Tsunami Appeal.
event of an employee becoming disabled.
Similarly, best practice principles ensure that the Groups responsibilities Alongside these ad hoc fundraising initiatives, the are met as an equal opportunity employer.
Foundation has consistently promoted the benefits of Gift Aid and supported these by deductions from payroll and, The St. Jamess Place Foundation in the case of Partners, deductions from their gross The ethos of raising money within the working earnings.
This has had two major benefits.
Firstly, it environment, for the benefit of the less fortunate provides regular monthly income to the Foundation members of society, plays an important role in the lives of and secondly, the Foundation can reclaim the tax relief those associated with St. Jamess Place.
provided under the Gift Aid regime.
Forming a charitable trust was included in the original business plan for J. Rothschild Assurance later renamed St. Jamess Place.
In 1999 the St. Jamess Place Capital and the J. Rothschild Assurance Charitable Trusts were merged and renamed The St. Jamess Place Foundation the Foundation.
19 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued The Company is very proud of the fact that 85% of the the Foundation has been able to enter into a seven year St. Jamess Place community of 1,500 people are making commitment to Hope & Homes for Children, a UK based regular monthly donations to the Foundation through Gift charity which provides family homes and other support Aid.
This demonstrates the commitment to the for children orphaned by war or disaster.
More than Foundation throughout the Company at every level.
Over 1 million in total has been paid over to Hope & Homes 338,000 of the money raised in 2004 was as a result of for Children in the last 5 years.
In 2001 the Foundation entered into an arrangement with Every pound raised by members of the SJPC community the Variety Club of Great Britain to fund 21 Sunshine is matched by the Company and 2004 was another record Coaches for children with disabilities at special schools breaking year, with funds raised exceeding 750,000 organisations located near to each of the Companys which when matched by the Companys contribution offices.
This entailed a commitment approaching generated 1.5 million of new funds for the Foundation.
As at 31 December 2004, commitments have been entered into for the purchase of 18 coaches, the Supporting the Foundations fundraising activities is a key majority of which are in use already.
It is hoped that a corporate objective.
The management team, from the top close and lasting relationship will be formed between the down, focuses on this aspect of the Companys business, in school organisation and the members of the local offices.
much the same way as it does on other key objectives.
In total, over 4,450,000 has been given in grants to all The Foundations management committee, in consultation causes since the Foundation was established just over with the rest of the community, establish a theme 13 years ago and the Foundation has approximately framework for awarding grants.
For 2004 there have been 1.6 million available for future distribution.
two themes, the first being Cherishing the Children, whereby any charity that has a project in the UK that is for The Foundation is proud of what has been achieved over the direct benefit of physically disabled children or those the past 13 years and we look forward to the challenge of suffering from a mental condition or those suffering from sustaining and increasing its growth so that even more a life threatening or degenerative illness, can apply for a people may benefit from its success.
The Environment The second theme is the Hospice Movement, whereby The Companys Corporate Environmental Policy can be the Foundation makes grants to hospices in the UK for found on its website www.
co. uk, and continues to items such as equipment, the cost of therapy and form the basis of the groups approach to reducing other treatments.
The policy objectives are used to drive the changes in processes and procedures in In addition to the grants awarded under the themes, and order to work towards reducing CO emission levels 2 largely as a result of the additional monies available to the wherever possible.
Foundation from the Companys matching policy, 20 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued In 2002 the Action Energy programme, working in Company documentation through the internet rather than conjunction with the Carbon Trust, undertook several site by post, which reduces printing and distribution costs and surveys making recommendations to enable improvements aids the environment by saving paper.
Details on how to to be made.
As a consequence of this, St. Jamess Place has register for electronic communications can be found on adopted several of these suggestions and has implemented page 99. these adjustments through its maintenance company, with the objective of improving working practices and moving The Group uses the services of a firm of energy consultants towards reducing CO emissions from heating and who check, monitor and produce our annual usage figures 2 cooling systems.
for energy consumption, while our Fleet Management Company supplies mileage and fuel usage figures.
These A recycling of paper programme was initiated in 2002 and are all included along with paper usage in an internal is now well established with 2004 showing a significant report which compares CO emission rates and measures 2 increase of 48% on 2003 tonnage recycled.
The Companys environmental performance recycling programmes exist for PCs, mobile phones and is measured and reported by the Environmental Officer to toner cartridges, with any monies returned from this the Operations Director, who in turn reports any recycling being passed to the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
significant issues to the Managing Director.
The Companys investment in technology is expected to Following establishment of adequate baseline date give rise to significant benefits of electronic processing for 2003 4, the Group will this year seek to establish and should be substantially implemented by the end of appropriate environmental targets for its most significant 2005.
This should result in less paper being processed and environmental impacts.
our usage of paper is expected to decrease on a proportionate basis.
Other benefits will be a reduction For those investors particularly interested in investing in in the need to photocopy as much information and the environmentally friendly companies and to comply with electricity used for this activity should also reduce.
the policy on socially responsible investment by Trustees of Occupational Pension Schemes, the Group offers In 2004 we also introduced a new strategy for many of our ethical funds.
These funds invest in companies internal communications which has resulted in the vast demonstrating sound environmental and social policies.
majority of information now being disseminated to our The Investment Committee of the Board meets regularly community via both e-mail and our own intranet systems.
to monitor and review the performance of all the funds We have also held our print spend on brochures and other under management against a series of defined criteria.
marketing literature in 2004 to the same level as our spend in 2003.
The Group will continue its focus on the various initiatives described in this update in 2005 and beyond and The Company has also introduced electronic communication ensure that Corporate and Social Responsibility remains at for shareholders.
Shareholders can now elect to receive the forefront of its business.
