Our People We are committed to attracting and developing talented people, providing the skills and resources necessary to succeed across our diverse markets, and rewarding them with competitive incentives and opportunities to maximise their potential within the Bank.
Three principles underpin our approach to managing people: A focus on talent management to identify, reward and retain talented employees.
Building a strengths-based focus, providing the skills to develop individuals and teams.
Driving employee engagement through the development of exceptional managers to identify and build talent.
Human Capital Roadmap Our approach to people management is reflected in our Human Capital Roadmap.
There are five areas of focus, each supported by key people processes, which provide a consistent framework Outserving our competitors for management practices and policies.
Outserve represents Standard Chartereds commitment to service excellence as a key competitive differentiator.
The above image is taken from one of our Outserve posters featuring two of our Zimbabwean colleagues, in recognition of their innovative approach to delighting customers.
How do we attract and retain the best talent?
Harnessing our diversity mentoring, structured learning and Identifying future leaders through inclusion Our global graduate recruitment website career development moves.
For example, Standard Chartered employs over provides a leading edge method of in 2004, Wholesale Banking moved 33,000 people across 56 countries and 70 talented junior individuals into new attracting and recruiting talented territories.
The workforce comprises roles, either internationally or across graduates.
Successful applicants join 80 nationalities and close to half are business units.
We want to lead by example in Programme, which stretches them How are we expected to do building a multi-talented, diverse and through on-the-job learning, in-depth things here?
business training, ongoing performance Creating winning teams We recognise there is more we can do coaching, and three international through engagement to harness the differences individuals residential workshops.
We believe that providing employees bring, enabling them to realise their full Helping our people to make with the right working environment potential to deliver high performance encourages the application of their a difference and true competitive advantage.
In We work alongside our employees to individual talents and discretionary 2004, a Diversity Council was established help plan their careers through our effort.
Investing in employee engagement to provide a strategic, global focus to talent development programme, which is a key element of building the diversity and inclusion in the Bank.
includes personal development plans, high-performance culture to drive our business forward.
Human Capital Programme Care HOW DO WE HOW AM I ATTRACT AND RECOGNISED Launched in Hong Kong in 1997, RETAIN THE Roadmap AND REWARDED?
Programme Care leads the way in caring for our colleagues, families, DRIVING communities and ourselves.
Partnered BUSINESS PERFORMANCE HOW ARE WE with our Corporate Responsibility HOW AM EXPECTED TO I DOING?
initiatives, Programme Care involves DO THINGS HERE?
healthcare seminars, charity events in the local community and HOW DO I DEVELOP MY lifestyle shopping discounts to STRENGTHS?
promote work-life balance and community spirit.
18 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Business value Hong Business value Ghana, 60 per cent Kong, Consumer Banking Consumer Banking more likely to 10% Branches with higher employee Branches with higher employee deliver above higher engagement were 60 per cent engagement delivered 10 per cent average service more likely to deliver above higher transactions per teller per day.
Branches with lower engagement Branches with lower engagement Branches with higher engagement Branches with higher engagement In 2000, we introduced Q12 an annual developing strengths, identifying How am I recognised tool to measure employee and team learning opportunities and mentoring.
Teams use the results to Differentiating high performance Standard Chartered also sponsors discuss and develop action plans, whilst We are committed to providing executive development programmes continually monitoring the follow-through.
compensation and benefits competitively with leading academic institutions.
In 2004, across all 56 countries and positioned to attract, retain and motivate territories, 97 per cent of employees Nurturing our talent talented individuals.
Consistent with our completed the survey voluntarily Our Organisation Learning function and values, base salaries, bonus and share a clear indication of employee One Bank curriculum help employees awards are benchmarked against our commitment to improving individual take responsibility for their own personal key competitors, focusing on high and team performance.
This focus has and professional development and learn performing employees.
Almost 40 per seen the number of engaged teams consistently across our markets.
The cent of our global workforce participate treble since 2001, rising 14 per cent number of learning days has almost in our all-employee sharesave scheme.
Core benefits such as annual leave, life cover, saving for retirement, sickness Internal research conducted in Hong and medical benefits are provided Kong, India, Kenya and Ghana across our businesses and geographies.
demonstrates the impact of higher engagement on business performance, Service delivery with Consumer Banking reporting: Effective service delivery is the backbone of the Human Resources HR function, Greater profit margin growth which aims to deliver efficient, Higher customer satisfaction ratings value-added service throughout the Bank.
Increased productivity The Human Resources Shared Service Greater employee loyalty Graduate Associates Centre HR SSC, based in Chennai, During the International Career Development Lower employee turnover India, became operational in 2002.
Programme in Malaysia, the Graduate Associates dressed as inspirational people who have led the It maintains a centralised employee How do I develop my strengths?
database and administers a range of Playing to our strengths services including payroll, retirement How am I doing?
A strengths-based approach lies at the benefits and share schemes across core of Standard Chartereds people Raising the performance bar the Bank.
The HR SSC serves over development philosophy.
We encourage Our performance management system 27,000 staff in 29 countries, 42 per managers to identify and develop provides an objective view of employee cent more than in 2003.
Year-on-year, individuals strengths, to help performance.
This includes not only an the HR SSC delivers higher value themselves and their teams to deliver assessment of performance against services, freeing local HR to provide objectives but also how they were sustainable performance.
greater strategic support to the accomplished.
The Banks values form Leadership and executive business.
For example, our payroll team part of the annual objective setting development now process almost 39 per cent of the and appraisal process.
Half-yearly Our leadership model for senior employees Banks employees, a 30 per cent appraisals and a strong emphasis on involves a range of development and increase from 2003.
Considered an managerial coaching skills help maintain assessment programmes.
These include industry benchmark, the HR SSC is focus, expectations and clarity whilst individual leadership plans focusing on continually improving and growing.
supporting and encouraging personal contributions to our business, development.
The right fit Creating a healthy and safe To further consolidate our strengthsplace to work based approach, Consumer Banking Our approach to ensuring a healthy and safe has adopted a structured selection environment for our employees and customers is tool methodology.
For example, pilot about creating the right culture.
We focus on research in Thailand in 2004 showed providing appropriate training and establishing risk that sales staff recruited using the assessment capability for our employees to manage tools typically exceeded sales targets health and safety.
The launch of a specially by 32 per cent.
developed system in 2005 will be the cornerstone for supporting superior health and safety performance across the Bank.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Standard Chartered 19 Number of branches scoring above mean average service quality Number of transactions per teller per day
