qxd 13 3 05 12:09 pm Page 18 Operating and financial review continued with ongoing activities, major gas storage facility has Wind farm developments such employees throughout Centrica signicantly shaped our as these will create greater invested 13,000 volunteering environmental impact.
We are diversity of power production hours during 2004, which introducing an environmental and help to improve future equates to around 375,000 management system EMS security of supply.
designed to meet the We continued our Natural Every year our employees requirements of ISO 14001 Capital campaign in 2004 nominate a charity partner across our established to raise employee awareness as the principal focus of their upstream operation and of and participation in fundraising activities.
In 2004, British Gas Home Services.
our partnership with Cancer Currently, about 5% of Engagement initiatives in Research UK raised 690,000. the electricity we supply comes 2004 included a drive to reduce Our charity partner for 2005 from renewable sources and the numbers of PC monitors left is NCH formerly National we plan to increase this on out of hours, a challenge Childrens Home.
percentage every year, in order to reduce paper consumption In addition to the provision to meet our target of 15% and improve recycling, group of practical measures and by 2015 16. support for National Recycling advice on energy efficiency, Expenditure on our energy and Energy efficiency weeks the British Gas here to HELP efficiency commitment EEC and a challenge issued to all programme also offers advice increased to over 88 million Centrica people to green the on claiming benets and in 2004 61 million in 2003. way we work.
a range of services from During the year, more than eight our charity partners.
As at million energy efficiency Key priorities for 2005 31 December 2004, the products were subsidised from In addition to managing programme had generated EEC expenditure, benefiting our ongoing corporate nearly 29,000 referrals to around two million households.
responsibilities, our priorities charities and identied 5.6 In a new partnership with for 2005 include: million of unclaimed benets.
Currys, we are providing developing innovative and Other major community subsidies on energy-efficient impactful initiatives to tackle initiatives in the year included retail products.
Cavity wall and fuel poverty and support One.
Tels cause-related loft insulation sales reached vulnerable customers: marketing partnership with record levels, with over 250,000 enhancing our quantitative the autism charity TreeHouse, households receiving free or reporting of our people and Direct Energys involvement subsidised products.
And management activities in with Raising the Roof in Canada 340,000 households received line with the DTI-endorsed and Star of Hope in Texas, to a range of energy efficiency recommendations in the combat homelessness.
products and other services Kingsmill Accounting through our here to HELP for People report on Environment programme during 2004. the management of We have a responsibility to We also introduced online, human capital: manage the impact of our paperless billing for British Gas focusing on corporate activities on the environment residential customers.
For every responsibility issues in and to help our customers use 100 customers who sign up, our international upstream our products and services in a we contribute to the planting activities and in our way that reduces their impact and management of a tree.
commercial supply chain: on the environment.
As a result, more than 6,000 continuing to reduce our Our priorities for managing trees were planted in 2004 carbon prole by meeting our environmental impact are: which will absorb more than our five-year environmental lowering our carbon prole 1,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide targets and publishing an by reducing our emissions: during their lifespan.
environmental strategy for continuing to implement In our business-to-business the next five years: and and develop our renewable markets in Britain and North extending our employee energy strategy: America, we have a number of volunteering activities to helping our customers products to help our customers all Centrica employees.
reduce their impact on the monitor and run their buildings Further information environment: and more efficiently.
Additionally, in More detailed information involving employees in Britain we are able to provide on the development and championing environmental energy from renewable implementation of our improvements.
resources to our business corporate responsibility In 2004, we made significant customers at no extra cost.
strategy can be found in improvements in energy Centrica Energy is investing our independently assured management, waste reduction, 750 million, alongside joint corporate responsibility recycling and involving our venture partners, to develop report 2004 or on employees in helping to manage renewable electricity generation our website: our environmental impact.
assets in the next five years.
com The acquisition of gas-red This will make us one of the responsibility power stations in 2004 and largest investors in wind farms the continued operation of a in Britain.
