qxd 13 3 05 12:08 pm Page 15 the basic commodity its first full-year results since is supported by energy the market opened in the Corporate responsibility management technology and middle of 2003 and made At the heart of our corporate responsibility strategy our maintenance and repair an operating profit of 7 business.
We grew our energy is the recognition that meeting and exceeding our million 2003: 3 million demand with the signing of although, as anticipated, responsibilities to society as a whole contributes some high prole contracts customer numbers declined to long-term, sustainable commercial success in all of the markets which in the year with new entrants complement our current retail beginning to compete in the positions.
In Spain, Luseo now by 62% to 204 million 2003: has more than 4,000 sites on Centricas operations manner throughout 126 million, driven by supply, of which around 2,000 touch millions of lives and the group: continued growth in Ontario were added in the second half we are an integral part of identifying, consulting with and the North Eastern US of the year, and is now running the communities in which and responding to the views and the start-up of operations at breakeven.
Understanding of stakeholders: in Texas and Alberta.
The our impact on society, the gaining an objective and acquisition costs here are Discontinued business wider economy and the balanced view of our written off immediately, whereas The AA environment and building performance by participating the average contract length is We completed the sale of relationships with all key in independent in excess of two years.
These the AA on 30 September to stakeholder groups is, benchmarking: and acquisition costs meant that a company formed by CVC therefore, important to our measuring and publishing operating profit rose by only Capital Partners Ltd and business success.
information about 1 million to 4 million.
This resulted in A well-managed and our performance.
an exceptional profit in the innovative approach to The development, management Energy trading year of 740 million, after tax.
corporate responsibility is and implementation of our and wholesale We have made good progress key to delivering Centricas corporate responsibility Operating profit fell by 67% in separating the AA from strategy, and we aim to create strategy is led by the corporate to 3 million 2003: 9 million existing shared services and an environment in which responsibility committee CRC, owing to the reduced level of expect this to be complete our corporate responsibility comprising senior executives our limited proprietary trading by the end of the third quarter principles guide the way from throughout the group.
activity in Calgary as of 2005. we operate.
The CRC, which also demonstrated by the 51% Our corporate responsibility has responsibility for ensuring reduction in turnover.
Our strategy is underpinned by that social, ethical and strategy remains to undertake our vision and values and environmental risks are limited trading only where it ts aligns with our business identied and managed, is with our procurement operations principles and our commitment chaired by our general counsel in Calgary and Houston.
We believe that the successful It meets quarterly and is a implementation of this strategy sub-committee of the Centrica Europe will help to build customer executive committee CEC.
loyalty, encourage investors Each of our operating Seeking opportunities to put their trust in us, motivate businesses is responsible to grow in advance of suppliers and business for integrating corporate market opening partners to work with us and responsibility into its business help us become an employer strategy and is accountable of choice.
to the CRC for its performance.
There are four key principles Regular presentations are to our approach to corporate made to the CEC and at least We continued to develop our responsibility: annually to the Centrica board two retail positions in Belgium identifying key impact areas of directors.
and Spain while seeking and addressing these External benchmarking opportunities to build out from challenges and issues in an enables us to monitor our this base.
Luminus produced effective and consistent corporate responsibility Securing cost-effective supplies of energy to By choosing Direct support our customer businesses is as important Energy as my supplier, in North America as it is in Britain.
The acquisition of power generation in Texas is helping support Im getting a great the large customer base we have in the state, value deal.
where electricity consumption per head is signicantly higher than in Britain.
Roxanne, Direct Energy Business Services customer Annual report 2004 Centrica plc 15
