AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review 34 Form 20-F Information 2004 Corporate Responsibility CR The trust and confidence of all our We have also begun to integrate CR into our Product donations and patient stakeholders, together with our reputation, leadership development programmes and assistance programmes are among our most valuable assets.
during the year we launched an intranet site Our product donations and patient Along with our commitment to dedicated to providing managers with the assistance programmes make products competitiveness and performance, we tools and guidance they need to put CR into available free of charge or at reduced will continue to be led by our core values practice at a local level.
In 2004, our commitment in this to achieve sustainable success.
area totalled $870 million valued at average Evaluating performance wholesale price.
Management We have for some time had processes Good corporate responsibility depends in place for monitoring our economic, Community support on the right level of commitment from all environmental, safety and health We aim to make a positive contribution to employees, led by the AstraZeneca Board performance.
More recently, we have been our local communities through charitable and Senior Executive Team, who approve focusing on developing key performance donations and sponsorships that help to the strategic direction, and our senior indicators KPIs in other areas of social make a difference.
In particular, we make management, who are accountable for responsibility.
During 2004, we established contributions that are consistent with our the development and implementation of new KPIs for animal use and welfare, and business of improving health and quality of appropriate programmes in their areas for marketing and sales practices, which life and which promote the value of science of responsibility.
Based on the global CR will be introduced in 2005 to promote a among young people.
In 2004, our spend policy, local implementation programmes consistent approach to monitoring on community support totalled $20.7 are required to take account of regional, performance globally.
We continue to million, including charitable donations of site or functional priorities and objectives.
explore the ways in which we can over $5 million excluding the $2.1 million Individually, everyone at AstraZeneca has a meaningfully benchmark our performance tsunami disaster relief support.
responsibility to integrate CR considerations in the area of social responsibility.
into their day-to-day decision-making, More information about our commitment to actions and behaviours.
Corporate governance CR, our priority action areas and our 2004 An essential part of our corporate performance in these areas is available in The common platform that supports this responsibility is to continue to operate to the separate Corporate Responsibility effort worldwide includes our Group CR high standards of corporate governance.
Summary Report 2004 and on our website: Policy, Group CR Standards and Global CR Auditing compliance is a fundamental part astrazeneca.
Priority Action Plan, which together provide of this.
Our Group Internal Audit function the framework for understanding and GIA works to review, among other things, managing the challenges and opportunities compliance with laws, regulations and associated with our responsibility.
During 2004, 42 of our GIA audits focused on marketing and We are making progress, but there is more sales practice.
Such audits are an effective work to do to ensure that CR is consistently tool in helping to drive consistent standards embedded throughout the organisation and of practice worldwide.
actively interpreted and managed at a local level.
An important step forward has been Alongside the work of GIA, we continue to the creation of national CR committees in the build on the experience of our long-standing US, the UK and Sweden where more than SHE audit programme to include aspects 60% of our employees are located.
National of CR not previously covered elsewhere.
CR action plans, including local priorities Our rolling programme of site audits and objectives are now in place in these included 24 in 2004, all of which covered CR.
three cornerstones of our global presence.
Priority action planning Another significant move was our decision Stakeholder expectations are constantly in 2004 to formally integrate CR into the evolving and we review annually our personal targets and performance reviews Global Priority Action Plan to ensure that it of all employees, including AstraZenecas continues to address the issues relating to Senior Executive Team and senior our business that affect or concern society.
This will further support We use internal risk assessment, external the integration of CR considerations into benchmarking and stakeholder dialogue business strategy development and to inform our thinking on what needs to be everyday business thinking.
In 2004, we added Clinical Trials and Pharmaceuticals in the Environment to the Plan.
