com People We have initiated a step change in the way we work at AstraZeneca to achieve the levels of performance we need for future success.
Tony Bloxham, Executive VicePresident, Human Resources The wellbeing of our people continues We are very proud of our 64,200 Life inspiring ideas employees in 45 countries and value the to be a fundamental consideration and The success of our business is based on diversity of skills and abilities that a global we have a broad range of initiatives aimed our commitment to innovation.
Our future success will at promoting the health, safety and welfare by our strong science base and extensive be built on their efforts.
of all our employees worldwide.
manufacturing and commercial skills, we turn good ideas into effective medicines To achieve the levels of performance We use a range of communications designed to improve the health and quality we need to succeed in a changing media to ensure that employees are of life of patients around the world.
and increasingly challenging business kept informed and are clear about their environment, during 2004 we initiated individual and team roles and targets.
In recent years, we have launched a step change in the way we work Opportunities to provide feedback are a range of important new medicines, at AstraZeneca how people are built into all our communications.
including high potential therapies for managed, our behaviours, performance, In addition, every two years we carry out treating cancer Casodex, Arimidex measurement, development and reward.
a global employee survey to identify areas and Faslodex, gastrointestinal disease of satisfaction and concern and priority Nexium, asthma Symbicort, Our priority has been to ensure we have attention is given to areas for improvement hypertension Atacand, high cholesterol a performance-driven culture throughout highlighted by these surveys.
Crestor, migraine Zomig and the Company, concentrating on optimising schizophrenia Seroquel.
individual and team performance, A responsible approach improving our leadership capability and Alongside our commitment to We are committed to driving continued effectively managing and developing all competitiveness and performance, we achievement in all our activities to ensure a our talent.
We have also introduced a continue to be led by our core values healthy future for our business and added common set of critical behaviours to be to achieve sustainable success.
value for all those who benefit from it.
Wherever we have a presence or an impact, We want everyone at AstraZeneca to we aim to live up to these core values and have clear, measurable and prioritised deliver standards of ethical behaviour that objectives aligned with the current are consistent with our publicly declared business priorities and to have managers codes of corporate responsibility.
with the skills to coach continually for superior performance, and who We know that a responsible approach demonstrate high quality performance to business is essential to maintaining management and leadership by example.
the trust and confidence of society and Good performance will be rewarded.
ensuring that AstraZeneca continues Under performance will be addressed.
to be a company that is welcomed by society and for which our employees We are also strengthening and enhancing are proud to work.
the capabilities of our leaders through tailored assignments and individual The separate Corporate Responsibility coaching, complemented by high quality, CR Summary Report 2004 captures business-relevant leadership development the main points of our approach to programmes.
managing this challenge and provides a brief overview of our 2004 CR To deliver a flow of world class leaders performance, including more about in the future, we are adopting a consistent our commitment to employees in this approach to identifying and developing respect.
Detailed statistics and further people with leadership potential across information about our performance, the Company, backed by strong support policies and principles are available on our from our senior management team.
