47 Operating and financial review BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 Our commitment to society Corporate social responsibility CSR opportunities.
A report is then compiled, including Our challenge is to manage social, ethical and recommended actions.
environmental issues in ways that grow shareholder We have important relationships with a wide range value and help make sustainable development happen.
of stakeholders, including employees, customers and The Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes rank suppliers.
We engage with these stakeholders in a companies for their success in meeting this challenge.
number of ways, including consumer liaison panels, an During the 2004 financial year, BT was ranked as the annual employee survey and a supplier relationship top telecommunications company in the Dow Jones management programme.
Sustainability Index for the third year running.
We also employ a number of CSR experts who We also hold the Queens Award for Enterprise in investigate long-term societal trends, identify potential recognition of our contribution to sustainable issues that might affect the business and support BTs development.
This section of the report, together with the broad We have identied 11 non-financial KPIs key statement on social, environmental and ethical matters performance indicators in this context to provide a included in the section on Corporate governance, quick overview of BTs social and environmental provides information in response to the Association of performance.
British Insurers disclosure guidelines on social These KPIs have also been used to establish ten responsibility.
strategic social and environmental targets and are More detailed disclosures on BTs implementation published in our social and environmental report.
of social, ethical and environmental policies and procedures are available online in our independentlySocial, environmental and ethical risks veried social and environmental report, which has During the 2004 financial year, we developed a been prepared in accordance with the 2002 Global separate CSR risk register that sets out our important Reporting Initiative GRI sustainability reporting social, ethical and environmental risks.
following risks as the most significant in the context of CSR: & CSR governance supply chain working conditions & The Board is kept informed of BTs main CSR risks and health and safety & opportunities and any new developments which may climate change impact on its duties and reviews annually our CSR & diversity strategy.
In addition, social, ethical and environmental & geography of jobs offshoring matters have been incorporated into the directors & breach of the code of business ethics.
Each of these CSR risks has a risk owner and A Board committee the Community Support mitigation strategy in place more detail can be found Committee oversees community, charitable and arts in our social and environmental report.
expenditure and establishes the strategy for maximising our contribution to society.
The CSR business opportunities committee, chaired by Sir Christopher Bland, consists Following a detailed statistical analysis of customer of representatives from BT businesses, two nonopinion data going back up to 80 months and based executive directors and two external independent on tens of thousands of interviews, we have been able members, who have a reputation for excellence in this to show that a 1% improvement in the publics eld.
perception of our CSR activities results in a 0.1% An executive committee, the Corporate Social increase in our retail customer satisfaction gures.
Responsibility Steering Group CSRSG, oversees the This is a critical correlation and shows how implementation of our CSR programme.
This includes important it is not only to protect our reputation risk assessment, target and objective setting, through appropriate risk management activities, but ISO14001 certication the international standard for also to enhance it through our community activities.
environmental management systems and public Long-term sustainability trends are creating accountability.
market opportunities for us, such as the use of The CSRSG consists of CSR champions nominated teleconferencing and exible working to reduce the by the lines of business and six support functions need to travel and provide more exible lifestyles.
human resources, corporate governance, health and Increasingly, BT has to address social and safety, finance, communications and procurement.
environmental matters when bidding for business.
In The CSRSG is chaired by BTs overall CSR the 2004 financial year, bids to the value of almost champion, Alison Ritchie, Chief Broadband officer and 900 million required us to demonstrate expertise in a member of the Operating Committee.
It is supported managing these issues.
by advice from an independent panel of CSR experts.
To ensure that CSR is embedded into BTs Environment commercial operations, we undertake CSR health BT is one of the largest consumers of industrial and checks of our main commercial initiatives.
commercial electricity in the UK, and the growth of These health checks identify specic social, broadband is likely to increase our electricity use.
economic and environmental impacts both positive However, during the 2004 financial year, a 675,000 and negative and particular CSR risks and investment in our energy conservation programme 48 Operating and financial review BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 enabled us to reduce our electricity consumption by Disability services 1.5%.
Our Age and Disability Action team promotes equal The use of renewable energy and combined heat access to a wide range of products and services.
We and power together with energy and transport work directly with older and disabled people and their efficiency measures has enabled us to reduce our representatives to raise awareness of BTs inclusive global-warming CO emissions by 42% since 1996.
2 have set a target to cap our 2010 CO emissions at For people with hearing or speech impairments, for 2 25% below those of 1996. example, our textphone offers easy access to BT TextDirect the service that enables users to dial CO emissions direct to other text or voice users.
Customers with 2 Financial year 2004 2003 2002 visual or mobility impairments benefit from products Total UK only: million tonnes 0.92 0.96 1.03 with large clear keypads and cordless or hands-free options.
A variety of new products and network % below 1996 42% 40% 36% services with mixed-ability appeal will be launched Tonnes per 1m turnover 50 51 56 during the 2005 financial year.
We continue to offer services to protect the During the 2004 financial year, we received an income telephone lines of people who need support.
This of 4 million from our recycling activities, offset includes free directory enquiries for those unable to against the 10 million we spent managing our waste use the printed directory and billing, service and contracts, recycling our waste and sending waste to product information in a variety of formats, such as landll.
Waste We are committed to increasing the accessibility of Financial year 2004 2003 2002 our internet pages.
In the 2004 financial year, our Age Total waste tonnes 107,303 117,688 114,999 and Disability Action website www.
com age disability was awarded the RNIB See it Right logo.
Total waste recycled tonnes 27,626 27,809 24,099 % Recycled 26% 24% 21% Community Also during the 2004 financial year we reduced both We commit a minimum of 0.5% of our UK pre-tax our commercial eet still one of the largest in the UK profits to direct activities in support of society.
This has ranged from 10 million in 1987, peaking at and our fuel consumption by 4%.
16 million in 2001 and was 5.6 million including 1.2 million to charities in the 2004 financial year.
BT Transport Financial year 2004 2003 2002 operations also provided a further 12.4 million in funding and support in kind over the past financial Number of vehicles UK only 32,663 33,979 37,509 year.
Fuel consumption million litres 53.85 56.12 62.76 The focus of our community programmes is on big issues where better communication can make a real Digital inclusion difference to society.
Digital inclusion is a key public policy issue and we are For example, more than 9,500 schools and over working with the UK Government and the voluntary two million young people have taken part in the BT sector to nd effective ways to use communications Education Programme a drama-based campaign technology to tackle social exclusion.
helping children to improve their communication skills.
In particular, we launched a digital inclusion This activity is supported by our volunteering campaign to support the Governments aim to give all programme which, at 31 March 2004, had 3,000 citizens online access within the next few years and registered volunteers working with schools.
demonstrate how communications can help improve We are working with ChildLine on a major new society.
campaign to raise funds to ensure that every one of A key element of the campaign is the the 4,000 children who call ChildLine every day has Everybodyonline programme, established in his her call answered.
partnership with charity campaign group, Citizens In addition, BT people gave 2 million directly to Online.
The campaign is currently focused on eight charities during the 2004 financial year through Give deprived communities and aims to increase skills and as you Earn, to which BT added a direct contribution of access to communications technology in 1 million.
underprivileged areas and to deepen the understanding of the causes and effects of the digital divide and how they may be addressed nationally.
