Corporate responsibility Aggregates and building products are a central part of our lives, providing the basis for housing, employment, transportation and leisure.
We are committed to improving our environmental, health and safety in the workplace and community programmes.
We are also committed to ensuring we recognise and manage the impact of our operations on the communities in which we operate and on the environment.
We believe our approach will make a positive contribution to Hansons economic performance in the future.
30 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued Corporate responsibility The environment We recognise the need to act in a responsible manner Hanson understands that its reputation for managing and to demonstrate our corporate responsibility in many environmental issues carefully and limiting the impact of ways: the way in which we trade, develop new products our activities on the environment is a valuable asset.
and manage and restore our sites and in the way we treat As such, it is an integral part of our business strategy.
and respect our employees, neighbours and customers.
We seek continued improvement in environmental Corporate responsibility is integral to good business performance and endeavour to make a positive contribution management.
to society through our products and our land management and marine programmes.
significant environmental issues More detailed information on our corporate policies and legislative, risk, performance, product development and practices are available within the corporate responsibility opportunities are reported quarterly to the Board.
publications produced in 2003: an overview for the group and reports for our two largest markets, North America Our environmental policy provides the framework for and the UK.
Updated information has been posted on our setting and reviewing environmental objectives and targets.
In future, our website will be the principal vehicle It is applied as the minimum standard across our business.
Where businesses identify a need for additional, more stretching requirements, they are encouraged to build Health and safety upon this policy.
We continue to consider health and safety to be one of our highest priorities and a fundamental element of being Community relations a successful business.
We are committed to achieving the Hanson operates internationally but is focused locally.
highest reasonably practicable standards of health, safety Our products, because of a high weight to value ratio, do and welfare for our employees, contractors, customers not travel far, so our businesses are closely connected with and visitors.
Hanson companies around the world actively the communities in which they are located.
Many of our engage with government agencies, trade associations and sites are in rural areas where, often as the largest commercial other similar bodies to promote the benets of a safe and enterprise within the area, we contribute to the local healthy working environment and develop best practice.
economy, through the goods and services we purchase and the people we employ.
Our divisional Chief Executives Managing Directors are responsible for establishing formal policies, for ensuring Local management teams have overall responsibility for that arrangements are made for the fullment of those engagement with the communities in which we are located.
policies and for monitoring their implementation and This ensures that we respond appropriately to the differing effectiveness.
They are supported by a network of safety needs and interests of communities.
professionals, who share information and best practice to ensure that lessons learnt from accident investigations are We closely identify with our neighbourhoods and our staff applied across the group.
We collect data, which is reported often initiate regular meetings with local people.
These quarterly to the Board, on the number, type and frequency meetings provide a forum for discussing and resolving any of accidents and of the amount of time which is lost as a issues and concerns at an early stage.
We analyse this information to help us to identify where we need to focus particular We encourage organised school groups to visit our sites attention and to assess the effectiveness of our initiatives.
and also hold open days for members of the community, including the families of our employees.
To prevent injuries and other incidents from occurring we: train our employees to work safely and to eliminate Charitable donations and sponsorship the causes of unsafe behaviour We get involved in fundraising and sponsorship and make seek to provide safe systems of work and encourage donations and gifts in kind to the communities in which a safe production culture we operate.
Our products are such an essential part of our continually strive for improved safety performance modern lives that we are often asked to support charities look to adopt best practice and to commit to industry by donating materials for a wide variety of projects.
We have improvement initiatives and targets a general policy of supporting community projects in this way, particularly close to our operations.
In 2004 we saw continued improvement in our overall safety statistics for the fifth consecutive year.
Regrettably Along with many people around the world, we were this record was marred by an employee work related fatality.
shocked and dismayed by the Asian tsunami on December The Report of the Directors on page 34 of the Annual 26, 2004.
In addition to employee-organised fundraising Report and Form 20-F has further information on Hansons events and individual donations made by Hanson employees safety performance for 2004. throughout the world, Hanson donated 50,000 to help support those affected by the catastrophe.
