C11742 Unlvr AR eng 001-023. qxd 9 3 05 4:40 AM Page 13 About Unilever continued Setting targets and monitoring our progress against them are an rinsing by up to two buckets a wash.
The launch was combined important part of our systematic approach to reduce our impact with a consumer education programme in areas with water on the environment.
Detailed performance information is shortages.
published in our summary environment report and on our website.
For more information about Unilevers environmental and social activities, visit More than two-thirds of the raw materials used in our products www.
This led us to develop our Sustainable Agriculture Programme, which, together with our partners, we Corporate responsibility are implementing across our supply chain.
We believe by doing business in a responsible way we have a positive social impact.
We invest in local economies, develop In 2004, the roll-out of our Good Agricultural Practice guidelines peoples skills and create and share wealth, working in GAP for our crops gained momentum.
We published guidelines partnership both locally and internationally.
in local languages for sustainable tea production in India, Kenya and Tanzania.
Bringing our values to life and backing up our commitments with actions is achieved by engaging with our stakeholders and We are a founding member of the Roundtable on Sustainable building relationships with organisations that share our goals.
One Palm Oil RSPO, a multi-stakeholder initiative set up in 2003 with example is our work with the UN Global Compact, a multi-sector the WWF formerly the Worldwide Fund for Nature.
The RSPO forum that brings together business, international and civil society now has 55 members and 17 afliate members, and has organisations to tackle poverty and help build sustainability.
produced a draft framework document on the criteria for palm oil sustainability.
We work directly with the Compact at local and international levels and in January 2004 hosted a workshop to share learning The first steps have been taken to extend our agricultural on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises.
These initiatives to all major vegetable oils, including olive, rape, businesses are a key contributor to economic development by soya and sunower.
providing employment, developing skills and generating prosperity.
In Europe, we now buy more than half our sh from sustainable sheries and expect this gure to rise to around 60% in 2005.
There are many other examples where we share our business Although this falls short of the 100% target we set ourselves in expertise and knowledge to benefit the communities in which we 1996, substantial improvements have been made in difficult operate.
In Africa our operating companies have been managing circumstances, such as the unforeseen length of the certication issues caused by the HIV AIDS epidemic since the 1980s.
We continue to engage with sheries that have not yet developed education and prevention programmes for our people fully adopted the disciplines of sustainable production and will and have made them freely available to local communities and on continue to work with them on improvement programmes.
The Marine Stewardship Council MSC, which we co-founded Another example is our Lifebuoy Swasthya Chetna programme, with the WWF in 1996 and have supported since it became which is the biggest rural health and hygiene educational independent in 1999, has established a global standard for programme ever undertaken in India.
Our goal is to help educate sustainable sheries.
As one of the worlds largest buyers of people about basic hygiene habits, including washing their hands frozen sh, we encourage all our suppliers to work towards the with soap.
We work with parents, health educators, teachers, MSC Standard.
We currently sell Alaskan pollock, South African community leaders and government agencies to spread the hake and New Zealand hoki sourced from sheries certied to the message.
In 2004 the programme covered 18 000 villages and MSC Standard.
Ensuring clean water supplies is fundamental to our business.
In 2004, we continued our active engagement in voluntary As part of our Sustainable Water Initiative, we have looked at initiatives, spending 65 million on community projects.
The our water use through the full life cycle of our products from tsunami disaster in South East Asia evoked an immediate sourcing raw materials to consumer use.
This has given us a response from our companies in the region.
We lent manpower global picture our imprint of the way we impact on water and time, threw open our distribution networks and donated resources.
It tells us water use is concentrated in the growing appropriate products and money where they were needed most of raw materials and in the use of our products by consumers.
on the ground in the affected areas.
Contributions by employees Our latest gures show that we have more than halved water to the Unilever Disaster Relief Fund were matched by Unilever, to consumption in our factories since 1995.
In Latin America, give a total of 1.4 million.
for example, the Medusa project to improve water efficiency has saved in excess of 700 000 cubic metres of water since Our oral care brands have signed a partnership with the World June 2003.
Dental Federation that will focus on promoting improved oral health for people around the world.
Becel Flora continues In India, Hindustan Lever Limited has launched a handwash to work with the World Heart Federation.
laundry product, Surf Excel Quick Wash, with a low-foaming formulation, which reduces the amount of water needed for Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 13
