C11742 Unlvr AR eng 001-023. qxd 9 3 05 4:40 AM Page 12 About Unilever continued In spreads and cooking products, we extended pro activ from In Asia a demand and supply network planning tool is now live in cholesterol-lowering spreads into milk, yoghurts and mini yoghurt eleven countries, the Unilever standard data warehouse is drinks.
Like the original pro activ spread, these new products are available in nine countries with twelve countries using the all enriched with plant sterols.
In beverages, Lipton entered the healthy functional water Our sales force strategic automation technology Siebel segment in Europe with Aquae.
In leaf tea, avoured and herbal continues to be deployed across the business.
Good progress has tea extensions are being built on the pyramid bag innovation, been achieved in Asia and Latin America, using low-cost hand and a campaign on tea antioxidants in the US is promoting the held devices, sharing learning and best practice across regions.
Asian trade funds management system has been implemented in two units, with the rest of the region to follow in 2005 2006.
In response to the rising consumer trend in healthier eating, ice cream has launched a wide range of healthier options in all In North America we are participating in RFID radio frequency regions.
Our technology for the molecular control of ice cream identication pilots with Wal-Mart working as one of their lead ingredients, which allows us to control ice cream characteristics suppliers linked to our broader data synchronisation efforts to by controlling ice particles, gained regulatory approval in a further improve the quality and speed of information sharing between us six countries in 2004, enabling it to be launched in Asia and the and our customers.
Our global roll-out of the technology continues.
We made further progress in the area of information Under the Hellmanns, Wishbone, Calv and Amora brands we standardisation and management in support of global and launched a series of innovations around Vitality, including regional business processes.
We remain committed to the active cholesterol-free mayonnaise in Mexico and extra light mayonnaise support for industry data standardisation with strong involvement in the UK.
We also started a market test for chilled ready-to-eat in key initiatives, which include chairing the Global Data salads under the Hellmann's brand in the US.
Standards Network organisation, GDSN Inc. We have responded to the emerging popularity of low-carb diets Our outsourced voice, data and mobile communications in the US.
We launched Carb Smart low-carb ice creams under agreement with BT has been successfully implemented across the the Breyers, Klondike and Popsicle brands.
A range of foods, globe, delivering both cost and service improvements.
This has including dressings, peanut butter and snacks, were launched proved to be a ground breaking and innovative partnership.
under the Carb Options platform.
A range of Carb Options products were also launched in Australia, Canada and the UK.
The Unilever Portal, a common entry and navigation software We also launched the Optima range of bars and shakes under the technology, has been deployed to over 40 000 users in Europe Slim Fast brand.
and 6 000 users in North America.
In Europe this has enabled a reduction of over 50 traditional intranet sites.
We have agreed Bertolli innovations included the relaunched pasta sauce range upon a global licensing of this technology and will continue and we also introduced a range of premium quality pasta sauces.
deployment to establish one environment for information and This is part of the transformation of Bertolli from an olive oil access within Unilever.
brand to a world-leading Italian food brand.
Environment Unilever led a total of 370 new patent applications in 2004, We improved our performance in managing the impact of our which will lead to innovations during 2005 and beyond.
manufacturing activities on the environment, and our three sustainability initiatives agriculture, sh and water continue Information technology to make good progress.
In 2004, there has been a continued drive towards a more simplied business by standardising processes within our Our manufacturing operations use seven parameters to measure transaction systems.
Initiatives in Europe, Latin America, subthe emissions from our factories and set targets for eco-efficiency.
Saharan Africa and North America are progressing well.
In 2003 latest available gures we continued to improve on our 2002 performance, meeting four of our targets.
We failed to hit The Latin American information, process and system our targets for hazardous and non-hazardous waste and CO 2 harmonisation and simplication programme - Orchestra, from energy emissions.
This has been deployed to over 110 sites and 9 400 users in Brazil, Greater Andina, Chile, We have reduced the unit load of sulphur oxides emitted from River Plate and Mexico to cover 60% of the Latin American our factories by 64% since 1995.
We have also made significant business.
The information management component of this reductions in energy and water consumption and reduced the programme has won external recognition for excellence.
levels of waste generated by our operations.
12 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
