Annual Report 2004 Vodafone Group Plc 65 Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Issues details of the Vodafone Group Foundations activities are available in the CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Report and on www.
Vodafone believes that mobile telecommunications has the potential to deliver wide The Company has retained its position in both the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones social, economic and environmental benefits.
It also recognises that there are some Sustainability Indices.
sensitive issues that need to be managed.
Addressing these risks and opportunities is This year has seen an increase in the level of independent assessment and assurance at the heart of the Groups CSR programme and fundamental to achieving Vodafones of the CSR programme and performance data.
The scope of work for Deloitte & strategic goal of being a responsible business.
A key focus of the last year has been Touche LLP has been extended to cover certain performance data procedures at the continued integration of CSR into core business processes.
The assurance statement is published in the standThe Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, receives reports on progress alone CSR report.
An independent review and benchmark of the CSR management against the goal.
Priority environmental and CSR-related initiatives are sponsored by system and processes for stakeholder engagement has also been completed and is an operating company chief executive officer or senior Group executive and the Group reported in the CSR report.
Operational Review Committee monitors progress on these initiatives on a regular basis.
CSR has also been included in the global development programme for directors In addition to the Group report, operating companies in Italy, Greece, the Netherlands and senior managers.
and Ireland have produced their own CSR publications tailored to specific audiences in those markets.
Understanding and responding to stakeholder views on relevant social and environmental issues is central to the Groups CSR programme.
The Group engages on this subject directly with key stakeholders, including investors.
This year, Environmental Issues quantitative research on public and customer views as well as those of NGOs was The Group continues to monitor and manage the impact of its activities on the completed across approximately 75% of the customer base, helping to ensure the environment and is committed to minimising these impacts in an appropriate manner.
focus remains on priority issues and providing a basis for tracking perceptions of our Over the last twelve months, progress has been made across a series of projects that performance over time.
These include addressing the concerns Progress continues to be made on key initiatives.
For example: related to the perceived link between radio frequencies and health, the use of energy, the reuse and recycling of handsets and accessories, the management of waste and Operating company performance across the full range of CSR related activities, the use of ozone depleting substances.
from management integration to specific progress on managing issues, is now reported quarterly alongside other business performance metrics to the Group Progress includes: Operational Review Committee.
This ensures that progress is reviewed at the Over the last 12 months, Vodafone has continued to promote best practice in highest level and it also facilitates benchmarking and exchange of good practice relation to communication about radio frequency levels and all operating across the operating companies.
companies provide information on request.
The focus for this year has been on a A CSR section has been built into the Groups long range planning process.
Key review and restructure of the governance regime for this issue.
A greater level of CSR risks are considered alongside other business risks.
representation from across the Group helps deliver consistency in approach.
Two important initiatives that have moved forward significantly this year relate to There has been an increase in the number of handset recycling schemes in the development of products and services that deliver specific place.
These now cover 97% of the customer base.
social environmental benefit and the responsible marketing of products and Operating companies serving more than 90% of the Groups customer base have services.
Both initiatives have moved through pilot stages and are now being developed formal energy efficiency strategies.
An assessment of waste management practices in 12 operating companies is Vodafone aims to help its customers make informed choices about their access to well advanced and is due for completion by June 2004. content and services and to support them in accessing the service environments The Group continues to monitor any scientific developments on radio frequency issues they wish to have.
This includes supporting parents in defining appropriate access and supports independent research in this area at both international and national for younger users.
A dedicated Content Standards team has developed policies levels.
and guidelines on adult content, instant messenger, video and audio messaging, games and chat rooms.
The Group commits to disclosing any information that comes to its knowledge that clearly demonstrates that any of its products and services breach internationally This year, the Group Policy Committee approved Vodafones Code of Ethical accepted safety standards or guidelines.
The Code is being integrated into the commercial arrangements with the Groups major global suppliers by the Supply Chain Management function.
Further details of these initiatives, and progress against environment-related commitments made last year, are provided in the Companys 2003 04 CSR Report Unfortunately, the Group did not fully meet its commitment to develop CSR and on www.
Guidelines for Network Deployment by March 2004.
The wide range of planning and regulatory requirements across all of the Groups markets has made this a particularly complex task.
However, this remains an important subject and will continue to be developed at the Group and operating company level.
The Vodafone Group Foundation has implemented a programme of grant making activity in accordance with its mission statement.
This year, seven new local foundations have been set up across the Group, including associate companies, making a total of 19 foundations, supporting local communities at country level.
An increased emphasis by the Foundation on partnerships with major NGOs and charities has resulted in more than 26 projects that address global issues.
