Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2004 64 Employees Vodafone is committed to investing in world class people development to build a employee representatives meet annually with representatives of the central unified global team working efficiently across boundaries.
management team in the Vodafone European Employee Consultative Council to discuss the progress of the Group and transnational issues.
Employee involvement The Board of directors aim is that employees understand the Companys strategy and Employee education, training and development are committed to the Vodafone Vision and Values.
Employee development has been established as one of Vodafones key business goals.
The Vodafone Global Campus provides the focus for employee learning and The Values are: development by supporting operating companies around the world to share best Passion for customers.
Vodafones customers have chosen to trust the Group.
In practice, collaborate and develop world-class development opportunities.
return, the Group must strive to anticipate and understand their needs and delight Employment policies them with the Groups service.
The Groups employment policies are consistent with the principles of the United Passion for Vodafone people.
Outstanding people working together make Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Vodafone exceptionally successful.
Organisation Core Conventions and are developed to reflect local legal, cultural and Passion for results.
The Group is action-oriented and driven by a desire to be the employment requirements.
High standards are maintained wherever the Group best.
operates as Vodafone aims to ensure that the Group is recognised as an employer of choice.
Employees at all levels and in all companies are encouraged to make the Passion for the world around us.
Vodafone will help the people of the world to greatest possible contribution to the Groups success.
have fuller lives both through the services Vodafone provides and through the impact the Group has on the world around us.
The Group considers its relations with its employees to be good.
Together, the Vision and Values provide a common understanding of where the Group Equal opportunities is going and a common way of doing things.
The Company is determined that they will Vodafone does not condone unfair treatment of any kind and operates an equal flourish across every operating company, challenging everyone to understand them, opportunities policy for all aspects of employment and advancement, regardless of own them and contribute to their delivery and a range of initiatives have been race, nationality, sex, marital status, disability or religious or political belief.
In practice, introduced to ensure this.
this means that the Group will select the best people available for positions on the The Board of directors places a high priority on effective employee communications to basis of merit and capability, making the most effective use of the talents and promote the Values and other important messages and a wide range of mechanisms experience of people in the business, providing them with the opportunity to develop is used to achieve this.
These include roadshows, management presentations, inand realise their potential.
house publications, team briefings, e-mail, Intranet sites, employee focus groups and The disabled conferences.
The directors are conscious of the special difficulties experienced by the disabled and During 2003, Vodafone conducted its first Group wide Employee Survey in order to a range of products has been developed for people with special needs.
In addition, measure the effectiveness of its communications initiatives and its standing as an disabled people are assured of full and fair consideration for all vacancies for which employer.
84% of employees shared their views with the Company and, as a result, they offer themselves as suitable candidates and efforts are made to meet their the Board has initiated a Group level action plan with the following themes: special needs, particularly in relation to access and mobility.
Where possible, to communicate and bring the Vodafone strategy to life: modifications to workplaces have been made to provide access and, therefore, job opportunities for the disabled.
Every effort is made to continue the employment of to ensure the world class development of Vodafone people: and people who become disabled, not only by the provision of additional facilities but also to consider how the Group might anticipate and better respond to the needs of its training where appropriate.
Health, safety and wellbeing The survey will be conducted every two years to measure the Groups progress.
The directors remain committed to ensuring the health, safety and wellbeing of Chief Executive, Arun Sarin, and Group Chief Operating Officer, Julian Horn-Smith, employees at work and apply high standards throughout the organisation in the continued to host Your Call sessions at operating companies throughout the Group.
management and control of operations.
These standards are designed to ensure that These sessions were designed to demonstrate how the Vodafone Values are being the Group properly safeguards those who work for it and those who may be affected lived across the business.
Building on the success of Your Call, the next stage of the by the Groups business including customers, contractors and local communities.
global roadshow programme is known as Talkabout and will visit every operating Annually, each operating company reports health and safety performance to the company during 2004.
Talkabout will directly address two of the priorities for action Board.
identified by the Employee Survey.
In Talkabout Vodafone Mr Sarin will discuss the A Group Health and Safety Council has been inaugurated under the leadership of the shared vision for Vodafones future, meeting as wide an audience of Vodafone people Group Health and Safety Director, and this is steering a coordinated, global strategy.
as possible, listening to their views and talking about the issues that matter most to The team of Health and Safety professionals working within the Group has been them.
In the second strand, Talkabout Business, Mr Horn-Smith will address the further strengthened and better coordinated, sharing knowledge more efficiently.
business issues affecting each company with a smaller audience drawn from the senior management team.
The Talkabout programme provides the perfect A Group-wide health and safety audit in December 2003 showed improved scores opportunity to communicate strategic goals and priorities, discuss progress and overall compared with 2002, and particularly with reference to Operating Company exchange ideas about how Vodafone can serve its customers as a single, global team.
emergency planning procedures and their regimes for working safely at height.
The results reflect implementation of the Groups new global standards and the increase in The Group has implemented a global team briefing process for effectively sharing best practice sharing around the Group.
information with employees on key performance indicators for the business and progress towards achieving its strategic objectives.
