Corporate Responsibility The Report details British Lands performance on the targets set 60 in 2003 and has a comprehensive section on the targets for 2004, which were developed following extensive discussions with a range of stakeholders.
Further progress British Lands latest review of performance in 2003 focuses on its key properties.
These include Regents Place and Broadgate in London and Meadowhall Shopping Centre in Sheffield.
At Regents Place, we continued to work on a range of initiatives with representatives of the local community through the West Euston Partnership.
The regeneration of Regents Place has seen the completion of a new public square, the addition of a fine collection of public artworks and the introduction of a public events programme.
At Meadowhall Shopping Centre, the opening of The Source, a dedicated training and learning centre, underlined the companys commitment to helping the local community by providing opportunities for individuals to learn, train and work.
New training opportunities for shopping centre staff were also introduced, as was a range of successful British Lands second Corporate Responsibility Report, which has full waste management initiatives.
details of British Lands corporate responsibility activities in 2003, has At Broadgate in the heart of the City of London, the 35 million been widely circulated.
Copies are available from: Building on Success programme continued to enhance the public spaces, with the completion of Finsbury Avenue Square and improved Claudine Blamey entrances, signage and lighting.
The Broadgate Live programme of Corporate Responsibility Executive cultural and sporting events, and the Vicinitee website help to ensure Tel: 44 0 207 467 3455 that tenants and public alike enjoy these public spaces to the full.
Fax: 44 0 207 467 2869 British Land shopping centres, located in Basildon, Cambridge, East claudine.
com Kilbride, Woking, Stockton-on-Tees and elsewhere, introduced a wide range of corporate responsibility initiatives.
These included new learning The Corporate Responsibility Report is also available on the British Land centres and environmental management systems.
Since the publication of the Report we have made good progress with our 2004 targets.
Our focus has been on managing environmental The business benefits of managing corporate responsibility effectively are and social impacts throughout the lifetime of the property, from now well understood.
By building good relationships we gain the trust master-planning, design, detailed planning and construction through of tenants, suppliers and opinion formers, as well as local communities to day-to-day management.
This impacts positively on development plans and makes properties more attractive to existing and potential tenants and Building lifecycle management their employees.
It helps to increase rental income and capital value and For design and construction we are developing the Sustainability Brief.
enhances the companys reputation and reduces risk, demonstrating that The brief will define the required process, specifications, guidance and the range of issues associated with the development and managementof responsibilities for each development stage.
We have consulted with property are understood properly and managed.
construction experts, architects, engineers and British Land staff at two Board responsibility for the management of corporate responsibility workshops.
The brief will be published later in 2004. issues lies with John Weston Smith, Chief Operating Officer and Director who is chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Adrian Working with customers, partners and suppliers Penfold, Head of Planning and Environment and Claudine Blamey, To manage supply chain issues effectively within the development Corporate Responsibility Executive manage British Lands Corporate process British Land has been working with other property and Responsibility.
The Committee sets policy and oversees the companys construction companies to establish guidelines for supply chain managecorporate responsibility strategy.
Two Review Panels, one for environment and apply them to procurement practices on development projects.
mental issues and the other for workplace, community and marketplace issues, are composed of representatives from business units within Effective energy management the company.
These include Meadowhall, Broadgate Estates, Eastgate British Land has been awarded funding by the Carbon Trusts Carbon Shopping Centre, Blythe Valley Park and Peacocks Shopping Centre.
Management Programme to develop benchmarks of energy perforThey are responsible for implementing the objectives and targets set by mance for the property portfolio using the Resources Portal.
The Portal is the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
a part of the companys extranet which is available to authorised users, Corporate Responsibility The British Land Company PLC primarily managing agents who record resource use data for all multi-let 61 properties.
The project has enabled us to create a map of carbon use, to highlight the level of control the company has, and to demonstrate how the British Land resource monitoring and targeting system can be used to reduce CO emissions.
2 Benchmarking surveys Dow Jones Sustainability Index Dow Jones Sustainability Indices listed British Land as the world Financial Services Sector Leader.
Property Environment Group PEG British Land was ranked in joint first place, among the four highest performing companies in the 2004 PEG Survey.
BiE British Land moved up from fourth position in the 2002 BiE Index to third position in the 2003 BiE Index.
FTSE4Good Following the September 2003 Index Review, British Land has once again successfully met the required FTSE4Good global corporate responsibility criteria and has been awarded membership of the FTSE4Good Index Series by the FTSE4Good Policy Committee.
Recent Corporate Responsibility Awards British Land was the winner of the Energy Management and Conservation category of the Liveable City Awards 2004.
The new Triton Square at Regents Place, Euston Road, London won a Civic Trust Award in March 2004.
These awards are given to projects that reach the highest standards in terms of their design and their contribution to their environment or community.
The Source at Meadowhall in Sheffield was the winner of the International Council of Shopping Centres Marketing Awards 2004 in the Community category.
British Lands in-house Awards In 2003 British Land launched a Corporate Responsibility Awards Scheme for all Company staff.
The awards scheme encourages staff to become involved in local activities, projects and events such as sports for children and local wildlife projects.
The winners of the awards received a certificate acknowledging their work at a lunch with Chairman John Ritblat.
British Lands Corporate Responsibility Policy is available at www.
com The British Land Company PLC Corporate Responsibility
