Corporate Social Responsibility Report British Vitas values are straightforward: Executive directors reported at each Fig.
1 Major Injury Accidents we respect our colleagues and operof the eight Board Meetings during ate a safe and healthy workplace, 2004 on health and safety, the envir- 35 while managing our activities with onment, supply chain and customer 30 consideration for the environment and consumer issues, corporate governour neighbours.
We believe in devel- 25 ance and employee issues.
Risks oping strong partnerships with our associated with these issues are 20 stakeholders to the benefit of all parconsidered for both their short and 15 ties: these relationships are grounded long-term impact.
on fair play and ethical conduct.
10 The Board has identified the social, 5 Structure and integration environmental and ethical matters During the year Corporate Social Resthat present the most significant risks 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 ponsibility CSR principles have been to be within the areas of health and further integrated into our business safety, the Companys impact on the practice.
The Group has 112 operating environment and the Companys sites in 22 countries and, to ensure approach to employee development consistent behaviour at all locations, Fig.
Further detail on these Number of 3 day accidents per 1,000 employees UK the Company maintains its Business risks and how they are managed by 35 Model.
This provides guidance on the Company is shown below.
30 values and practices with the aim of ensuring operational excellence Health and safety 25 everywhere within the Group.
Each Our approach for managing health 20 executive director, Executive Control and safety H&S risks in British Vita is Group ECG member, business guided by our Responsible Care 15 manager and plant manager has a Programme contained in the 10 printed copy of the Model, which is Business Model and our Vita Values, reviewed and updated annually.
The covering amongst other things part- 5 Governance Report describes in detail nering, empowerment, cooperation, 0 the structure of the Group, which innovation and continuous improve- 2001 2002 2003 2004 ensures integration of CSR issues: it also ment.
With continuous improvement in describes the operational controls that mind, this year we appointed a Group ensure we maintain the standards we H&S Executive reporting to the Chief expect of ourselves.
The Business Executive, who will be responsible for Fig.
3 Accident Severity Model contains reference to the Number of days lost per 10,000 hours worked refreshing our efforts and more effect- 6 Code of Conduct for Marketing ively coordinating H&S across all our and Purchasing as well as the whistlebusinesses.
As a result of our H&S zero tolerance 4 During 2004, the Company facilitated to underperformance, we closely 3 the development of Vita Values - monitor our H&S performance and value statements that define what are pleased that the total number of 2 it means to be a Vita company and major injury accidents this year across a Vita employee.
Through a consultthe Group has almost halved from 1 ation process these were defined, 32 in 2003 to 17, as can be seen in 0 adopted and communicated within Figure 1.
There will be further communication supporting Vita Values Likewise the number of over three during 2005. day accidents in the UK per 1,000 Annual Report 2004 15 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued personal responsibility.
Changing the culture in this way builds on the Examples of some notable H&S Companys systems, plant and initiatives this year from across equipment integrity that is already the Group include: well established, giving everyone a greater degree of safety, not just at The research and subsequent work but beyond.
development of a glove for use by band saw operators Whilst our performance is improving, that is made of woven steel our commitment and resolve to further wool and offers added profitprogress in performance in 2005 ection to fingers when operremains strong.
ators are engaged in shaping product whilst at the same Environment time maintaining good The key CSR drivers for the environdexterity: ment are corporate reputation, climate change and resources managePartnership programmes devment.
British Vita is unlike many other eloped and rolled out across companies in the Chemical sector many of the businesses: because in general we manufacture recyclable products and have low The introduction of robot emissions to the environment.
Mantechnology to manage the agement focus is therefore directed risks associated with manual towards reducing energy consumption handling and upper limb and waste.
Systems are in place to disorders: minimise waste produced and recycle almost all scrap production material.
H&S management training Many Group businesses also operate accredited by the Institute of arrangements to recycle customer Occupational Safety and waste.
Health IOSH for senior executives & managers Performance indicators and targets spanning three continents.
for energy consumption are agreed for businesses annually.
These indicatemployees has improved from 32 to 23 ors include energy consumption by over the last three years, as can be energy source, water consumption seen in Figure 2, and the number of by source, waste sent for disposal, days lost per 10,000 hours worked has waste recycled and emissions to air.
seen sustained improvement over the The key target for 2004 was a reductlast three years, as can be seen in ion of 3% in CO2 per tonne of prodFigure 3. uction and we are pleased to report that the Group achieved a further H&S programmes continue to emphreduction of 4.33% 3.95% on top of asise the importance of improving reductions made in 2002 and 2003, as behaviour and of individuals taking can be seen in Figure 4.
16 For more information on British Vita visit www.
com of residual heat from manufacturing which includes, where appropriate, Fig.
4 Percentage year on year to warm the factory, offices and further audits taking place at similar reduction in CO2 per tonne canteen: a diagram of the heat operations within the Group to extend of production transfer process at VTC Elastoteknik the benefit of the original findings.
Development and training 0 British Vita companies comply with Vita is fully committed to the continall local, national and international ued development of its people.
The -1 legislation with respect to the transBusiness Model offers best practice for -2 port, storage and use of hazardous developing our employees, taking chemicals.
British Vitas approach has into account the importance of local Target -3% -3 always been that hazardous chemicemployment law and cultural diversity.
-3.5% als should be replaced by less hazardVita operates a totally non-discrimin- -4 -3.95% ous alternatives wherever possible.
atory employment policy, part of -4.33% -5 Some operations do make small which is the proper consideration of amounts of emissions and continued all applications for employment from Annual reduction in excess of target efforts are made to reduce and elimethnic minority communities and from inate any environmental impact.
Each business We are encouraged by the efforts many years we have worked with the strives to develop its people in order to made by our businesses to further authorities and our chemical suppliers achieve its aims and objectives.
Some to identify and, if possible, reduce or businesses such as Metzeler Schaum, eliminate any residual chemicals in our Summary Vita Nonwovens and VTS Doeflex products when in use, or when recycThe main CSR drivers for the Company have contributed to the overall result led or otherwise disposed of.
This diagram by making significant improvements defines the relationships between in each of the last three years.
One At present polymers are not included the Group, its environment and stakecompany in particluar, VTC Elastoin the European Commissions propholders.
teknik in Sweden, reduced energy osed REACH Directive: therefore the consumption by 13% during 2004: this direct impact of this proposal is likely was on top of a reduction of 12% in to be minimal on the Group.
One of the initiatly, the REACH initiative may impact ives used at a number of businesses, via increased raw material costs including VTC Elastoteknik, is the use and reduced innovation activity.
5 inator was involved at 24 sites during 2004, assisting with energy improveLake Water Fresh Water Extruder ment opportunities and auditing the safe storage of chemicals.
After each Heat Pump site visit a report was submitted to the business manager, the ECG member Heating Ventilation and executive director with responsibility for the site.
A proactive appHeat generated during the manufacturing roach has been adopted to managprocess at VTC Elastoteknik is used to warm the factory, offices and canteen.
ing the Groups environmental impact Annual Report 2004 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Fig.
6 CSR Drivers Business Impact CSR Solutions Customer retention Business Model Employee retention Corporate reputation Internal control systems Financial audits Risk management H&S audits Environmental audits Risk Quality audits Employee retention Vita Values Employee behaviour and motivation Cost control Targets for energy reduction Reputation enhancement Climate change and responsible care Cost control Monitoring of waste Innovative product reduction and recycling development Resources management 18 For more information on British Vita visit www.
