Corporate social responsibility volume of non-audit services provided to the Group.
The Introduction Company does not impose an automatic ban on the Groups Capital & Regional plc recognises and acknowledges the external auditors undertaking non-audit work, and details conduct of its business has an impact on its employees, of fees paid to the Groups external auditors are detailed its partners, its tenants and suppliers and the community on page 47 in note 7 to the accounts.
The Groups aim is and environment of the property portfolio it manages.
always to have any non-audit work involving accountancy The Companys corporate governance report is set out firms carried out in a manner that affords value for money.
The Companys relationship with its key The Companys policy is that the accounting firm must not stakeholders, its shareholders, is noted on page 34. be in a position of conflict in respect of the work in question and must have the skill, competence and integrity Employees to carry out the work in the best interests of the Group.
The The Company values the contribution of all its staff and Audit Committee reviews and makes recommendations to is committed to a policy of equal opportunities for all its the Board for the re-appointment of the Groups external employees, regardless of sex, race or disability.
This was considered during the period.
Meetings are encouraged to develop within the Company and, to of the Audit Committee are held prior to Board meetings facilitate this, training is encouraged and each employee to consider the interim and annual results and on an ad hoc is regularly appraised with a view to maximising their basis at other times during the period.
During 2004, the potential and contribution.
The Company places considerable value on involving and Going concern consulting its employees, at all levels, in its affairs and In compliance with the Listing Rules of the Financial has continued to keep them regularly and systematically Services Authority the directors can report that, based on informed on matters of concern that may affect them as the Groups budgets and financial projections, they have employees, and on the financial and economic factors satisfied themselves that the business is a going concern.
Consultations with The Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company employees or employee representatives are conducted on and Group have adequate resources and facilities to a regular basis so that their views can be considered when continue in operational existence for the foreseeable decisions are made which may affect their interests.
The future and therefore the accounts are prepared on a consultations are undertaken through regular meetings going concern basis.
between management and employees at all levels.
Health and safety in the Group The Companys aim is to develop a culture throughout its F Desai organisation that is committed to the prevention of injuries Company Secretary to, and ill health of, its employees or others that may be 28 April 2005 affected by its activities.
Each division has a nationally co-ordinated health and safety initiative that is contracted out and monitored by the facilities management team.
Procedures are reviewed at monthly management meetings with centre management by the National Operations Team.
All properties are adequately insured to cover potential risks and annual risk assessments are carried out by the Group in consultation with the Group contractor and insurers.
During 2005, The Mall will be employing a national compliance manager to match growth requirements and to reflect the importance placed on health and safety by the Group.
Within the X-Leisure division, a national facilities manager and centre manager are responsible for the implementation and monitoring of the health and safety programme on a daily basis and maintain a manual, made available to all employees, which is reviewed and updated regularly.
In respect of the Junction division, responsibility for health and safety is undertaken by the occupiers and tenants.
