Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate social responsibility 71 The Group continues to recognise the importance of its This code is currently being implemented by Chrysalis Books and responsibility to the environment, the community, its employees its suppliers, and is expected to receive formal endorsement by and shareholders.
all the participating members of the PRELIMS organisation by the end of 2004.
This report sets out how the Group deals with its environmental, social and corporate responsibilities.
The Groups CSR Committee Chrysalis Books impacts upon the environment through its made up of senior executives from various areas within the Group relationships with its printers and their paper suppliers.
Chrysalis has met throughout the year to oversee the evolution and Books undertakes to minimise any adverse impact on the implementation of the Groups CSR policy.
During the year under environment and, wherever possible, to purchase materials from review, the Group attained the standards required and was sustainable sources and to dispose of waste products responsibly.
Chrysalis Books only uses suppliers who are environmentally Environment aware, preferably with ISO 14001 accreditation.
In terms of book The Board believes that the Groups businesses have little impact manufacturing, this global standard defines working practices on the environment but, where they do, the Group ensures that related to waste disposal, the chemical content of inks and paper, a responsible approach to their obligations is taken at all times.
Where suppliers have not yet Some of the Groups suppliers, particularly in the Books and Music achieved this accreditation, Chrysalis Books encourages them to Divisions, do have an environmental impact and, therefore, reflect these standards by implementing appropriate working wherever possible, these divisions ensure that their suppliers practices of their own.
maintain a high standard of environmental responsibility.
In selecting and purchasing paper stocks, Chrysalis Books is Chrysalis Group supports the standards set out in the UN Global working with its suppliers to ensure that all materials used are fully Compact on the Responsibilities of Business, and endorses the identifiable, and can thus be traced back to their particular source.
principles that no under-age, forced, or prison labour should be In this way, Chrysalis Books can be satisfied that the wood pulp employed: that no one is denied a job because of gender, ethnic used in the paper it purchases originates from responsibly origin, religion, affiliation or association, and that factories comply managed forests, and that the paper mills involved have stringent with laws protecting the environment.
environmental policies of their own.
Chrysalis Books works with suppliers all over the world, including The Echo Label impacts on the environment primarily through the the USA, Europe and Asia: and is mindful of its responsibility production of CDs.
It chooses manufacturers for its CDs who are to ensure these suppliers are also meeting their obligations to environmentally aware and have their own environmental policies.
their staff and stakeholders in this regard.
Chrysalis Books only The Group is now closely monitoring energy consumption and is in contracts with suppliers who share their concerns and standards discussions with Future Forests in this regard.
The Group plans to in these areas, and ensures this is the case through annual have its energy consumption and CO emissions independently 2 inspections of all their suppliers facilities by senior members verified with a view to reducing these wherever practicable.
The of the management team.
Group encourages recycling of waste products wherever possible Chrysalis Books continues to work closely with other leading and has continued throughout the year to work closely with UK and international book publishers to define an industry wide recycling companies to ensure the recycling of as much waste code of conduct.
This group of publishing companies is known as practicable.
collectively as PRELIMS Publishers Resolution on Ethical The Group has wherever economically feasible introduced fair International Manufacturing Standards and has decided to trade products and is carrying out a feasibility study to assess adopt a formal social accountability standard as defined by the the practicality of using recycled paper products throughout International Council of Toy Industries ICTI.
It is fully auditable the business.
and enforceable on all suppliers to Chrysalis Books wherever they are in the world, yet takes a pragmatic and progressive approach Community Charity that is sensitive to the local laws and customs of a particular During the year, the Group has introduced a Work in the suppliers situation.
Community policy enabling staff to take paid time off to work in the community.
A number of community projects have been The ICTI Code of Conduct defines standards and audit procedures undertaken by our staff and, in our London offices, we have in the areas of working hours, remuneration, child labour, forced established links with local state schools enabling staff to and prison labour, disciplinary practices, discrimination, employee undertake certain voluntary work helping local children with representation, facilities, fire protection, health and safety, staff their reading and numeracy.
As well as providing for audits to assess compliance, the implementation of the code provides for Once again, all of the Chrysalis Radio stations have carried out Corrective Action Plans to promote appropriate and lasting many community-focused activities over the year and have improvements across all these areas.
contributed to many charitable causes assisting them in raising considerable sums of money.
Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2004 72 Corporate social responsibility Some highlights of the charitable activity undertaken by the Group via the re-launched Group Intranet site, Chrysalis Source.
In includes Phil Rileys Radio Riders.
This event, to celebrate Chrysalis addition, a monthly newsletter from the Group Chief Executive Radios 10th anniversary, raised over 60,000 for five charities is sent to all staff.
chosen by the staff at each of our radio stations locations.
Phil, A competitive remuneration package is vital in order to attract, together with members of staff from each radio station cycled over retain and motivate our employees.
As part of the ongoing 365 miles from London to Newcastle via Birmingham, Manchester development of our Remuneration Strategy, in January 2005 the and Leeds over a five day period.
Group will launch an industry-leading Flexible Benefits Scheme.
Once again, 100.7 Heart FM organised its annual Run for Home Flex, as it will be known, has been designed to allow our fundraising event.
Now in its eighth successive year, the station employees a greater degree of flexibility and choice over the raised over 120,000 for its own First Steps appeal.
Since the benefits offered as well as maximising the financial value of First Steps appeal began in 1995, it has raised over 1.1 million these benefits.
for charities across the West Midlands and Warwickshire.
We recognise that a diverse workforce can bring significant The Galaxy Network has engaged its audience throughout the added value to our business and the Group encourages year with campaigns focusing on important social, community and applications from all sectors of the communities in which we cultural issues.
The brand commitment to the personal development operate.
Formal policies are in place in the areas of equality and education of its listeners was executed through Experience of opportunity, bullying and harassment and whistle blowing.
Galaxy Day where a team of Galaxy staff held a series of workshops These policies clearly communicate the Groups intent in providing on aspects of radio, ranging from marketing to programming.
equality of opportunity for all employees.
It is the Groups policy to give every consideration to applications for employment from LBC organised many events, both on air and off air, to raise disabled persons and to afford them full opportunity for awareness and funding for good causes.
An outside broadcast appointment to, and training for, positions within their capabilities.
hosted by Sandi Toksvig raised 4,000 for Childline.
Should an employee become disabled during their employment In September 2003, 30 members of the Chrysalis Books staff ran with the Group, every effort will be made for them to continue in the Windsor Half Marathon to raise money for The Free Spirit employment within their existing capacity where practical or, Trust, a charity which helps teenagers with cancer.
failing that, in some suitable alternative capacity.
Air Studios donated its facilities and staff for the recording and In 2004, the Group embarked on an exercise to measure ethnicity filming of the Band Aid 20 single Do They Know its Christmas.
Measures are being put into place to further encourage ethnicity in our workforce and to reinforce Employees our standards as set out in the policies detailed above.
The key to the Groups success is its people and the Groups people strategy seeks to attract, retain, reward and develop the The Group recognises that its competitive advantage is in part best creative talent across our businesses.
Chrysalis Groups Human sustained by the quality of training it offers to its employees and Resources Department has the responsibility of putting in place it provides significant investment in this area.
Working closely with real value-adding policies, practices and initiatives which support the business to maximise this investment, the Groups HR team this strategy and drive the Group forward towards its goal of continue to develop leading edge bespoke training solutions across employer of first choice status.
such key areas as management and leadership development.
Now in its third year, the Groups employee survey continues to Health and safety provide an invaluable insight into what our employees really think The Group meets its health and safety responsibilities by ensuring about the business and its management.
Employees were asked that each business complies with the health and safety policy set to comment on our performance under the headings of by the Group.
The Group takes all practical measures possible to Management, Communication, Recognition & Morale, Learning ensure the health and safety of its employees, contractors and & Development and Environment, Resources & Culture.
the members of public with whom it interacts.
The 2004 survey saw our highest ever response rate 76% The Radio Division in particular prides itself on its health and safety compared to 65% in 2003, with 85% of employees who took policies when organising events at which members of the public part feeling proud to work for their Company, a sentiment attend and the staff who are responsible for organising such reinforced when in early 2004, the Group reached a top 50 events regularly undertake specific health and safety training.
placing in the prestigious Sunday Times 100 Best Companies The Divisions health and safety policy contains a direct chain of To Work For 2004 competition.
responsibilities so that all staff who are involved in organising events are aware of their own and their colleagues responsibilities.
Internal communications is considered a vital part of good management practice and the Group has a dedicated Corporate Communications Director with responsibility for both external and internal communications.
It is the Groups policy to ensure that employees are made aware of significant matters affecting the performance of the Group in writing or by informal briefings
