Corporate Responsibility Hammerson has recently published a Corporate Responsibility Employees report outlining its approach and commitment to continuous Hammerson provides its employees with clean, healthy and safe improvement in this area.
The Companys policies and procedures are working conditions and respects their human rights.
It recognises supported by appropriate targets and performance measures, which the need to attract and retain employees of a high calibre and is are reported on the Companys website www.
committed to the principle of equal opportunity, within a framework of clear terms of employment.
The Company invests in its employees, Hammerson recognises that it has responsibilities towards all those offering training and development to help them maximise their with whom it has dealings, including investors, employees, occupiers, potential and contribute fully to the Companys business objectives.
The Company is also aware of Individual performance is regularly appraised.
In the United Kingdom, its responsibilities towards the environment.
Hammerson has had an accreditation from Investors in People The Corporate Responsibility Committee, which comprises senior since 1997. employees from different disciplines and is chaired by J A Bywater, The Company believes in a fair remuneration policy and that is responsible for formulating and monitoring Corporate employees should have an interest in the Companys financial Responsibility policies.
Subject to length of service, employees are eligible Within the Companys risk management programme, the Board for grants of options.
Details of the Companys share option approves all policies relating to ethical, social, environmental, health scheme and deferred share plan are set out in the Remuneration and safety issues and receives regular reports on these matters.
Report which follows on pages 12 to 18.
In addition, employees This ensures that internal standards are met and legislation are able to participate in a savings related share option scheme.
Health and Safety The Company undertakes regular independent research to ascertain Hammerson operates and continually reviews its health and safety and monitor the perceptions of its stakeholders.
Such research policies and practices, monitoring current and proposed legislation enables Hammerson to enhance the quality of its working to ensure appropriate safety standards are maintained.
All its practices and relationships.
properties are subject to an external health and safety audit programme.
Employees receive appropriate training and are Business Ethics made aware of health and safety policy and their responsibilities Hammerson has made a public commitment, through the for its implementation.
Hammerson Charter, to all its business partners and advisers over the way in which it deals with them.
In particular, it aims Local Communities to be honest, professional and fair and it encourages suppliers The support of local communities is crucial to the success of and sub-contractors to operate according to similar principles.
Hammersons developments, particularly its city centre, retail-led regeneration schemes.
Attention is paid to ensuring that interested All employees receive a copy of the Hammerson Code of Conduct.
parties have an opportunity to understand the development This makes clear the standard of behaviour expected from them proposals and voice their opinions.
and their responsibility for maintaining and enhancing the Companys reputation.
Property Industry Directors and senior management are encouraged to represent Investors the Companys views and contribute towards the development The Board believes in the importance of effective communication.
of the property industry by serving on the boards of industry All investor relations activities are undertaken within the guidelines bodies such as the British Property Federation, the British Council and regulations set by the UK Listing Authority, the London Stock of Shopping Centres, the City Property Association, the European Exchange and Euronext Paris.
Public Real Estate Association, the National Council of Shopping Hammerson seeks to improve investors understanding of its Centres in France and the Fdration des Socits Immobilires objectives and strategy and its progress in meeting these.
The Company implements a comprehensive investor relations Environment programme, making available the Chief Executive, Finance Director The Companys environment policy, which may be viewed on the and other senior directors, to meet with investors in order Companys website, www.
co. uk, sets out the procedures to explain Hammersons business and financial performance concerning environmental management that Hammerson follows and to answer questions.
to ensure compliance with environmental legislation in those The Companys approach to corporate governance is set out countries in which it operates.
The policy, which is regularly reviewed, on pages 4 to 6. covers environmental matters relating to the management of its investment and development properties and the conduct of its business.
10 The Company carries out regular maintenance and, where practicable, improvement programmes to ensure the efficient operation of its buildings and to reduce energy consumption having regard to tenants needs and the age of buildings.
In addition Hammerson encourages tenants to follow environmental procedures compatible with its own.
The environmental impact of developments and building works is managed through careful consideration of design, selection of materials and construction techniques.
Consultants and contractors are required to adhere to the Companys policy and encouraged to suggest improvements.
Prior to any property acquisition, an environmental assessment is undertaken to identify possible contamination or the presence of materials considered environmentally harmful.
Remedial action is taken where appropriate.
In its day to day business, Hammerson follows guidelines aimed at reducing energy consumption, uses appropriate materials and encourages recycling.
It recycles paper, toner cartridges and glass at its own offices.
Employees are aware of the Companys responsibilities and their duties in implementing environmental management procedures.
The Company has set itself a number of environmental targets and management tasks with clearly allocated responsibilities.
Progress against these targets is certified and reported on Hammersons website www.
A founding member of the Property Environment Group PEG www.
net, Hammerson was ranked amongst the best performing companies in the March 2005 PEG benchmarking survey of environmental engagement in the property industry.
The Company also participates in the Business in the Environment annual index of the FTSE 350.
