Corporate Social Responsibility People are at the core of everything we do employees views, ranging from informal at Aegis.
We employ exceptionally talented monthly meetings to the more formal people around the world who provide performance appraisal system.
Aegis strives clients with services that help them to to provide a satisfying and challenging understand consumers and how to connect environment where talented people can with them.
excel and where creativity, integrity, teamwork and community responsibility For the first time this year weve included are greatly valued.
a special section on Corporate Social Responsibility CSR in our annual report.
Supporting Charities CSR is about aligning our business goals Much of the strength of the Group springs with our social values, taking into account from its significant local presence around the interests of all our stakeholders: the world.
By far the largest component of employees, clients, suppliers and the Groups support for charities and local shareholders.
communities is determined and contributed by our operating companies at local level.
We strive to set the highest possible At the parent company level, Aegis standards in the way we treat our people, supports a number of local and national our customers and the wider world in charities with particular emphasis on which we operate.
Theres no doubt that charities supporting needy children.
Our our people are our Groups greatest asset operating companies are responsible for and more than 10,400 people now work for their own charitable policies which enable Aegis in over 60 countries.
them to support local projects though charitable contributions or pro bono work Supporting and developing our workforce according to circumstances and employee The welfare and interests of our employees views.
In total the Group donated 0.2 are a high priority and Group-wide health million 2003: 0.2 million to charities in and safety principles are in place to ensure 2004.
There were no political donations or a safe working environment.
We recognise expenditures during the year 2003: nil.
the importance of a balance between work and family life and have established family Providing an exceptional service to clients policies, which include adoptive, maternity We understand the needs of our clients and paternity leave.
and give our total and absolute commitment to their business.
We think We are an equal opportunities employer of our clients as our business partners and and do not discriminate on the grounds of our goals are mutual goals: to understand sex, colour, race, ethnic or national consumers and how to connect with them.
background, sexual orientation, marital Transparency, integrity, accountability and status, age, disability, political or religious creativity are the key values that we strive beliefs.
We also embrace a culture where to deliver to clients.
employees can voice their opinions and are heard.
We welcome their comments and Maintaining a good supplier relationships operate a number of initiatives that We recognise the importance of strong, encourage teamwork and collaboration long-term relationships with our suppliers across divisions.
to the stability of our business and are committed to fostering and maintaining Various activities are conducted to gauge these relationships 22 People are at the core of everything we do at Aegis.
We strive to set the highest possible standards in the way we treat our employees, our customers and all of our stakeholders.
Engaging with our shareholders with their requirements.
All of our waste is environmental impact and ensure that social We are committed to clearly disposed of in accordance with the responsibility remains at the core of our communicating Group strategy and Environmental Protection Act 1990.
We are in the process of activities to our shareholders and have in to reduce this impact and in order to setting out our objectives to ensure place an ongoing Investor Relations IR control waste, energy-saving initiatives are continuous improvement, and measures will programme.
We endeavour to maintain a encouraged and recycling is actively be introduced to monitor our progress.
high standard of transparency of financial promoted across the Group.
Examples of reporting and encourage the free flow of energy savings include use of low energy Communicating our CSR aims clearly information to the investment community.
bulbs and the turning off of computers and We endeavour to be a socially responsible We have regular contact with analysts and photocopiers at the end of each day.
company and our achievements have been fund managers to ensure that they are Throughout the Group, where possible, air recognised by our continued inclusion updated on any Company and industry conditioning and refrigeration systems run in the Dow Jones Sustainabilty Indexes.
An example of our on CFC free gases.
Our Annual Report and We remain committed to communicating proactivity in this area is the Future of Accounts is printed on paper meeting our progress openly and will report our Media seminar in November 2004 that environmental accreditation ISO 14001 findings publicly in both the Annual Report we held for buy and sell-side analysts.
and Group-wide recycling schemes target and on our website.
We will also continue The seminar consisted of presentations by paper and toner cartridges.
In addition, to encourage greater awareness and the senior Aegis management from around we encourage the use of video involvement from our employees with the world.
conferencing between our international wider internal communication of CSR locations and discourage flying unless issues and strategy.
Currently, we actively Our private investors are also a valuable absolutely necessary.
consult key shareholders to ensure their part of our shareholder base and we concerns and ideas are taken into account communicate with them through the Our plans for the future in our decision-making process.
Your mediums of our Company website, Annual Over the last year we have developed our feedback is also encouraged and Report and AGM.
We provide full CSR policies that have both extended our comments on our environmental practices shareholder information and Company local level initiatives and created specific and suggestions for the future are contact details on our website as well as Group-wide targets to reduce our welcomed at csr@aegisplc.
access to our house e-zine, Globe, which provides an overview of current initiatives and trends.
We recognise the importance of high standards of corporate governance and follow the principles as set out in the Combined Code details of which can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 29 to 33.
Minimising our effect on the environment Although our media and research businesses have little direct impact on the environment, we recognise that as a Group we do have some limited effects.
We are focusing on those activities with the most significant impacts.
Our main concerns are waste disposal computer equipment, toners and paper and management of our energy consumption, notably electricity.
Aegis adheres to current guidelines and supports the relevant government and industry regulatory bodies complying fully 23
