London Merchant Securities plc 56 Environmental Statement We, the Board and employees of London Merchant Securities plc understand that our various activities can have an impact on the natural environment, and on the people who live and work in the areas in which we operate.
Impacts can arise from the development of land, from the operation of buildings which we own and from the activities of companies in which we invest.
We also understand that the way in which we conduct these activities can make a substantial difference to the extent of the environmental impact: sensitive building design and management can minimise ecological impacts, transport use, the use of energy, and of water: waste minimisation and recycling can be facilitated, and resource inputs minimised and controlled.
Where we invest in other companies, by asking the right questions we can have an influence on the environmental performance of our investees.
We are aware that we are working within a society which is becoming increasingly concerned about environmental issues, and we wish to assure all those who have an interest in our environmental performance our investors, industry regulators, local communities, and society at large that we appreciate their views, and are committed to addressing these issues within our business operations.
In particular, having considered the scope and nature of our activities and, our current approach to environmental issues, we believe that there are certain key areas on which we should initially concentrate our efforts.
Therefore, we are currently committed to the following: To continue to ensure that environmental issues are considered for property development projects.
To consider environmental impact of property management procedures to identify opportunities to improve the environmental standards of building use.
Periodically to revisit our risk assessment and management processes and our due diligence process for acquisitions, divestment and venture capital investment to ensure that due account is taken of environmental issues.
To make associated organisations and tenants, where possible, aware of our environmental requirements and review external communication.
Furthermore, we also commit to report our progress in these initiatives in due course, and to review the policy as appropriate.
Health and Safety Statement The Groups Health and Safety policy has been actively managed through the year not only with a view to minimising and controlling risks but also as a means of improving efficiencies.
Staff involvement has been encouraged and various strategies for compliance with current legislation, which have been developed, are under constant review in order to achieve continuous improvement in Health & Safety performance.
A Health and Safety team has been formed which meets quarterly and reports to the Board.
Our statement of general policy is: To provide adequate control of the health and safety risks arising from our work activities.
To consult with our employees on matters affecting their health and safety.
To provide and maintain safe plant and equipment.
To ensure safe handling and use of substances.
To provide information, instruction and supervision for employees.
To ensure all employees are competent to do their tasks, and to give them adequate training.
To prevent accidents and cases of work-related ill health.
To maintain safe and healthy working conditions.
To review and revise this policy as necessary at regular intervals.
To ensure the safety of visitors to our buildings: and To undertake our responsibilities as landlords for communal areas under our control in buildings forming part of the Groups property portfolio.
