Corporate Social Responsibility At the heart of our vision and values is a belief that through teamwork and a can-do attitude we can play a positive and important role in society that can give us competitive advantage, enhance our reputation and contribute to our future growth and success.
Behaving responsibly is part of our corporate DNA, its what we do day in, day out.
We are already doing a great deal but we aspire to be recognised as an organisation that raises awareness of and influences behaviours on issues where we can make a real difference.
Clive Grundy Group Human Resources Director 38 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 39 Acting responsibly We know that as a global foodservice Our approach to corporate social company we have an enormous influence responsibility is to focus on those areas on what our 20 million customers a day that are most relevant to our business choose to eat and drink.
The purchasing and our people and where we can have decisions we make have implications for a measurable impact.
Issues that are of food production sustainability and the particular importance to us include wellness environment and we have obligations to and nutrition for all the worlds citizens, our 400,000 people and to the communities tackling social exclusion, employability in which they live and work.
We take amongst young people, building these responsibilities very seriously and sustainable and healthy communities believe that we have the commitment and and sustainable farming and fishing.
capabilities to make a difference to the lives of our people and to society in general.
We have made significant progress in the last The Principles were developed following The two Merit Award winners were Scolarest year towards shaping our corporate social consultation with the business and key in the UK for their work with ChildLine, the responsibility strategy so as to improve our stakeholders such as the Compass Group UKs 24-hour free and confidential help line performance and better report the good European Council CEC and in association for children and young people, and Compass things we are already doing.
We continue with the Institute of Business Ethics.
During North America at Sikorsky Aircraft for its to be included in the DJSI and FTSE4Good 2005 we will begin to put in place the training Complete the Sky project.
indices and our participation in these and the and communication materials and compliance Business in the Community BiTC Corporate systems required to support these Principles.
In addition to the Compass in the Community Responsibility Index has provided us with Awards, our operations across the world an invaluable tool for identifying our key Community We have a strong track record support a range of activities through financial priorities and benchmarking our progress.
The Compass support, employee volunteering, gifts in kind Participating in these indices has confirmed in the Community Awards, established in and partnerships with clients, community that we are already doing a great deal.
1996, recognise the best community-based groups and charities.
But we need to focus on implementing a initiatives across the world that tackle social framework and supporting systems to exclusion, improve employability and promote In the UK, working with the charity Training collect, measure and communicate our sustainability and diversity, and reward for Life which helps people from a socially activity to our stakeholders.
To help us successful teams with a donation to support excluded or long term unemployed background achieve this, in July 2004 we appointed a their project.
to re-establish their self-esteem, we are a key Corporate Social Responsibility Director sponsor of the Hoxton Apprentice in Londons whose role is to embed CSR into our day-toIn 2004 the worldwide Compass in the Shoreditch.
The 100-seater Restaurant for day operations and implement mechanisms Community Gold Award went to Eurest Life is partly staffed and catered for by a across all of our operations enabling us to Turkey for its 1 Book Today, 1000 Ideas team of apprentices, who were previously assess, improve and communicate our Tomorrow project which has established unemployed or homeless.
They are trained and CSR performance.
a pioneering infrastructure for distributing mentored by a complement of professionally products to needy communities in Eastern qualified and experienced personnel over a sixAn important first step in shaping our Turkey.
The first years objective was to support month period in an environment where they can strategy will be the production of an advocacy the enlightenment of school children in poor flourish before moving into work placements document that enables our managers and villages.
In 10 months 20,000 books have been or full-time employment with companies such key stakeholders to understand our approach recycled and distributed to 45 village schools, as Whitbread or Compass.
All profits from the to CSR.
The document will identify our key 13 new school libraries were set up and books Hoxton Apprentice are used to support future impact areas, highlight some of the things were also delivered to three prisons and four developments and contribute to a sustainable we are already doing and lay out what we local libraries.
The first twelve apprentices intend to do next.
graduated in October 2004 and four of them The Silver Award went to Eurest Czech have been appointed by Restaurant Associates In July 2004 we decided to demonstrate our Republic for its We Dont Know Indifference where they will receive continuing training belief in acting responsibly by becoming project in India which in partnership with the and development to enable them to complete a signatory of the United Nations Global archdiocese charity in Prague, supports a the City and Guilds NVQ Level 2 course in Compact.
This is a signal of our commitment to group of 30 orphans in a centre in Honavar, Food Preparation and Cooking.
We expect 50 the ten principles enshrined in the Compact in south-west India.
The children are supported apprentices to graduate each year.
The project relation to human rights, labour standards, the in two ways a much-improved diet and the was recognised with an award at the recent environment and anti-corruption.
We will report provision of basic education.
An amazing 71% Springboard Awards for Excellence 2004. in 2005 on what we have done to embed these of Eurests employees in the Czech Republic principles in our day-to-day operations.
have financed the project through voluntary Our CEO, Michael Bailey, has taken over the deductions from their pay.
chairmanship of Business in the Communitys In September 2004 the Board ratified our Rural Action Leadership Team which Business Principles, setting out the relationship encourages business engagement with we have with key stakeholders and reflecting rural communities.
the commitments in the UN Global Compact.
38 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 39 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Great people are at the heart of our success and our aim is to be the preferred employer in our industry.
We are well on the way to achieving this.
In North America, Levy Cares reaches out to In Italy, Onama has joined SITICIBO the Food Our Compass Managers Environmental support causes and organisations dedicated Bank Foundation project created to implement Handbook continues to be implemented to children, those infected and affected by the Buon Samaratino or Good Samaritan across the Compass Group and has acted as HIV AIDS and the homeless.
For instance in law which makes it legal to distribute unused a catalyst for many local examples of proactive Chicago, Bistro 110 works with Pathways to food to voluntary organisations which offer environmental management and awareness Development which helps children in foster free meals to people in difficulty.
In the UK, Compass Group has care in Cook County develop their talents in developed a no more waste in school kitchens been instrumental in developing the UKs first music, painting and the performing arts.
Bistro initiative to help children understand how formally accredited environmental external 110 regularly holds classes in the restaurant, important it is not to waste food.
qualification, the BTEC Advanced Award in providing a delicious meal, a place to learn Environmental Management.
Compass UK and volunteers to work with the children.
In South Africa our team supported World Aids has also been awarded a renewable energy Day by raising thousands of rand to support certificate by npower in recognition of the Also in North America, 150 employees, friends two charities, Acres of Love and Hearts of companys transfer to 100% renewable and family members of Morrison Management Hope.
These charities provide homes, love energy sources for electricity at all offices Specialists volunteered over 1,000 hours on and hope for abandoned and HIV positive and units supplied by the utilities company.
eight Saturdays to hammer nails, swipe paint babies and children who are found sometimes Approximately 326 GWhs of green energy brushes and climb ladders for The Home discarded on the roadside, in rubbish bins or were used by Compass UK a year, which Morrison Built the 706th Habitat for Humanity simply left behind in hospitals.
On World Aids means about 200,000 tonnes of CO2 were home in Atlanta.
Morrisons support doesnt Day we also provided a meal for all the children saved from being released into the atmosphere.
stop there, three members of the team will act and volunteers, and ice cream and lucky bags Since 1 November 2004, every vehicle leaving as mentors to the new owner to help educate as well.
the central distribution depot in Royton has and empower them to make the most of been running on a 5% biodiesel mix.
Bon Apptit has also For the last three years, ESS Servicos fide planned to extend this initiative to more of our sponsored a Habitat for Humanity home Supporte, in East Timor has supported the distribution depots over the next year which in Portland, Oregon.
Charity HOPE through the provision of food, will mean that over 50% of our deliveries will cooked meals and a range of other donations be made in an eco friendly way.
A food bank inundated with food donations to help refugees and orphans.
seems like a good thing, but not if there arent In France, Scolarest, in partnership with enough people to sort the food and get it where Over the past two years, SSP UK Rail has the French power supplier EDF and Renault it needs to go.
Contemplating this dilemma in raised over 200,000 for the charity Railway is delivering school meals in electrically New Jersey several years ago, Mark Maloney, Children, through a series of fund-raising powered vehicles.
Not only are such vehicles Eurests senior vice president of dining services initiatives: the latest involved staff conquering significantly more environmentally friendly, the in North America came up with a novel solution the three highest mountain peaks in the UK running costs are five times lower than that of as to how to get the food sorted and have fun on foot as part of the Three Peaks Race.
Over the next year, while doing it.
He arranged volunteers, brought Railway Children charity supports runaway and Scolarest plans to roll this programme out to in a DJ to liven up the depot with upbeat music abandoned children who live in and around the further sites in France.
and a new tradition, Sort by the Tunes was worlds railway stations.
It was so successful that he introduced In North America, Chartwells has been it into food banks in San Antonio and Phoenix, Environment We take our environmental experimenting with recycling, waste reduction and in September 2004 Compass teams from responsibilities very seriously and the and pulping programmes.
Where possible, all over North America spent four hours sorting Compass Group Safety, Health and Chartwells will integrate food pulpers in food at local food banks.
Environment Forum SHEF exists to set their kitchens to increase the amount of prestandards and promote policy and best consumer waste that is hauled to local farmers practice across the Compass Group.
to be used as soil improvers.
It also works to find economical biodegradable products, including disposable plates, cups and flatware.
In some districts Chartwells serves meals on pulp trays made from recycled paper and works to encourage its customers to recycle styroforam serving trays, which are processed into other products.
40 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 41 People are at the heart of our vision and values.
By behaving responsibly towards them and society in general we believe that people will want to work for us and with us because of the opportunities we create for them to contribute to and share in our future success.
Tracy Robbins Group Human Resources Director, Leadership and Development Following on from the global success of the To ensure that we continue to recruit, Across the company are amazing people Compass Managers Environment Handbook, develop and retain the very best people, who already do great things to improve the our Safety, Health and Environment Forum has last year, we launched our employment communities in which they live and work.
developed Food Safety and Health & Safety brand, which commits to giving our people My board colleagues and I are excited about handbooks for our unit managers.
Based on real opportunities and aims to promote the opportunities we have to build on what existing best practice initiatives from around employment opportunities within Compass we already do to define ourselves as a truly the Group, the handbooks incorporate a simple Group.
Consistent communication and responsible company.
but effective measurement process which advertising, which features our own people, will ensure that our businesses can achieve is now used across the world.
the desired Compass standard for health and food safety management.
The handbooks Sharing success is one of our key values and underpin our commitment to ensuring that our a great way of doing this is through our 100 unit managers understand and then implement Great Ideas programme.
Employees are invited Clive Grundy their responsibilities for ensuring not only to submit ideas around business improvement, Group Human Resources Director employee and customer satisfaction but also service and teamwork to be considered by a safe working environment.
our CEO, Michael J Bailey, for recognition.
Over 26 countries participated in the ESS held an intensive five-day workshop, programme this year and the 100 employees ESSential Safety, with employees, clients submitting the ideas considered to be the and suppliers to highlight health and safety most impressive are rewarded with 100 policies and develop consistent best practice Compass shares.
Ideas we received range approaches for their operations around the from tips on how to know your customers world.
Radhakrishna Hospitality Services LTD, better, how to improve health and safety a leader in hospitality and catering services in performance through the creation of client India, received a Health, Safety, Security and partnerships, to product promotion ideas.
Environment Performance award from British Gas India.
The award, based on international In recognition of our achievements in driving judging criteria, measures safety performance, forward our vision of Great People, Great competency and a proactive approach to Service, Great Results, we were declared Health, Safety and Security initiatives.
the winners of three awards at the 2004 HR Excellence Awards: Best HR contribution Our People Our 2003 global employee to business strategy, Excellence in change survey told us half our workforce agree that management and the Overall HR Compass Group is their preferred employer Excellence Award.
and, overall, there is a high level of pride in and goodwill towards the company.
The research also informed us that our values are mostly lived across the company: being passionate about quality and teamwork resonated across all our sectors.
Our key opportunities lie in developing our value of sharing success, and in particular developing people for long-term careers, and improving public recognition and fair pay policies.
Action plans for improvement in these areas are being implemented across the Group and the employee survey is being conducted once again this year to enable us to benchmark our progress.
40 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 41
