qxd 13 12 04 9:59 am Page 12 Corporate social responsibility The Board recognises the importance of social, Environmental Strategy - Refurbishments Environmental Strategy Property environmental and ethical matters in the conduct management Shaftesburys business involves the reconfiguration of the Companys business.
The Chief Executive and refurbishment of existing buildings with the In the day-to-day management of the Companys is responsible for the development of policies aim of providing a good standard of efficient portfolio, energy consumption and waste and practices in matters relating to Corporate accommodation to meet the needs of modern management are the key environmental issues.
Our approach is to conserve and The Company now monitors energy consumption receives regular reports on CSR matters.
extend the useful lives of existing buildings in the common parts of its portfolio where it has The Companys Environmental, Social and thereby avoiding the environmental impacts of direct responsibility.
Statistics being collected Community Policy is reviewed annually to assess demolition and development of new buildings, indicate relatively low energy usage.
There is a whether it continues to reflect the CSR risks and which are often prone to greater obsolescence.
rolling programme of replacing light fittings opportunities relevant to Shaftesbury.
A revised with long life low energy fittings, use of timer For refurbishment projects it is recognised that Statement of Policies was approved by the Board controls on lights, thermostats on boilers and the principal issues that require management in July 2004.
The policy document and regular maximising use of insulation and secondary are minimising local environmental impacts, progress reports are available on the Companys glazing where appropriate within the portfolio.
particularly noise and dust, managing construction web site.
An external audit was undertaken by waste and sourcing materials.
During the year: There have been a number of initiatives to our advisers, RPS Consultants, in August 2004 improve waste management for the benefit of - Ten refurbishment schemes with a capital in order to verify working practices against Policy the environment, tenants and the local community.
value above 50,000 approximately 70% of the Goals and achievement of objectives and targets In August 2003 an investigation of the waste Companys schemes above this value were in the Action Plan.
management issues at Chinatown was undertaken registered with the relevant Local Authoritys The Company has achieved a ranking of 78 in by a specialist consultant.
The key findings of Considerate Constructors scheme which this years Business in the Community Corporate the report have been implemented on site by provides external audit of the management of Responsibility Index.
The Index, which is open to Westminster City Council and have led to more construction projects.
Satisfactory scores 500 companies in the FTSE 100, FTSE 250 and efficient and effective waste collection procedures were achieved in 80% of registered schemes.
Dow Jones Sustainability Index, provides an with less leaching and uncontrolled spillage and - Shaftesburys Environmental, Social and annual benchmark measuring companies improvements in health and safety and the Community Policy, which is included within management, measurement and reporting of general ambiance of the local environment.
tender documentation for subcontractors, has corporate responsibility issues.
The recycling scheme at Kingly Court, instituted been extended to provide guidance on the The Company is a constituent of the FTSE 4 Good last year, has proved sufficiently successful that specification of materials, waste management Index, which is intended as a guide for socially recycling and cardboard compacting schemes and checklists for legal compliance.
responsible investment, and has been awarded for use by tenants have been extended to other - An induction leaflet, outlining the key aspects membership of Business in the Communitys parts of Carnaby.
of the Companys Environmental, Social and PerCent Club, recognising the Companys Water use is currently not monitored in the Community Policy has been produced and is community investment in excess of 1% of pre-tax portfolio, but water meters have now been now provided to all contractors working in the profits.
installed throughout Carnaby and Seven Dials, Companys portfolio.
which will allow baseline data to be collected for During 2004 waste management activities were next year.
monitored but it proved impossible to collect data in a form to compare against a recognisable performance indicator.
As a result of the small scale of most of Shaftesburys refurbishment projects, volumes of waste are relatively small and there is often insufficient space to segregate waste for individual projects.
This is a continuing problem, which is unlikely to be resolved given the unusual nature of Shafteburys portfolio.
In view of this Shaftesbury will continue to monitor waste production, but considers that an appropriate performance indicator is unlikely to be identified in the short term.
qxd 13 12 04 9:59 am Page 13 Environmental Strategy Companys office Shaftesbury in the Community Employees In the Companys office, environmental impacts The Companys policy is to align its charitable Shaftesbury employs 16 staff including executive relate principally to energy consumption, resource support and community involvement to its areas Directors.
The Environmental, Social and use and waste production.
Energy consumption of investment in Londons West End.
Support is Community Policy contains policy statements with is low and a paper recycling scheme is now in provided to a number of organisations involved respect to equal opportunities in employment operation.
in the arts, theatre and music together with and procedures for reporting concerns regarding support and involvement with community non-adherence to the Companys ethical standards.
groups and charities which are addressing The welfare, safety and training of employees is Current Year CSR Objectives important local issues.
In addition we are a key priority.
Staff turnover is low and there have working closely with the local statutory bodies For 2004-05 the following key objectives have been no reported staff grievances or any reportable to maintain and improve the local environment.
been set to add to the achievements to date: health and safety incidents in the year ended The Company provides financial support to the 30th September 2004.
A full risk assessment of - Continue to invest in only brownfield sites: National Campaign for the Arts, the Association Health & Safety issues was undertaken in October - Track the sourcing of materials, particularly of British Orchestras and the Donmar Theatre.
2003 by the Companys specialist advisors.
A timber: Active help, advice and financial assistance are small number of issues were identified which - Ensure all refurbishment schemes above provided to a number of non-political local were resolved by November 2003 and a further 50,000 are signed to the Considerate groups including the Hungerford Drugs Project, review is programmed in November 2004.
Constructors Scheme and aim to achieve the Soho Green Project, the Soho Family Centre, The Company actively encourages staff training a satisfactory score: the Covent Garden Community Association, the and skills development and involvement in the Phoenix Garden project, the Seven Dials Monument - Draft and issue information leaflets specific to development of the Companys business, CSR Charity and the Chinatown Working Party.
policies and targets and community activities.
each of the Companys villages to raise awareness amongst tenants regarding Shaftesbury recognises the importance to the continuing appeal of its villages to tenants, their environmental issues, specifically relating to waste management, recycling and energy use: staff and customers, and local residents of ensuring public areas are well-maintained and Jonathan S Lane - Monitor costs of green tariff electricity in provide safe, welcoming environments.
We continue Chief Executive Carnaby and Covent Garden and consider to work closely with Westminster City Council 1st December 2004 extending it to other parts of the managed and Camden Council to identify local problems portfolio: that arise particularly from high visitor numbers - Monitor water use in Carnaby and Covent Garden: and long hours of trading and develop practical solutions where possible.
- Identify new areas for community support and involvement: and We have been actively involved in assisting Westminster City Council to implement their - Further investment in staff skills and development.
published Action Plans for the improvement of Chinatown and parts of Covent Garden.
We have offered to fund additional services or initiatives that will benefit the local environment in our locations such as CCTV, lighting, cleaning and improvements to street environments.
The Company is actively supporting an initiative led by the Seven Dials Monument Charity to improve streets, pavements and lighting around Seven Dials in Covent Garden during 2005.
