46 Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 Corporate Responsibility Our second Corporate CR report scope Strategy and governance The information contained in this report Our CR strategy focuses on our most Responsibility CR Report relates to the financial year ending relevant financial, economic, social and which has full details of Slough 31 December 2004. environmental risks and opportunities.
Estates Corporate responsibility These have been identified through an activities in 2004 can be The performance data is representative ongoing process of internal consultation, of our global activity managed portfolio, stakeholder dialogue, advice from downloaded from our website including our own occupied premises, but independent experts and comparison on www.
excluding the retail properties which were with our peers.
Alternatively, copies are available disposed of in the final quarter of 2004. from the Company Secretary.
Governance and CR Responsibilities It should be noted that our overseas The CR management system continues This is a resum of the full report.
business do comply in general with Group to be governed by the Group Risk CR policies but, in some instances, formal Committee and the terms of reference reporting procedures have not yet been for this Committee can be found on the fully developed.
Over time we hope to Company website.
We have allocated improve complete coverage of our senior management to each one of our international operations through our annual key stakeholder groups.
We have also sought to bring our reporting practice closer in line with best practice in sustainability reporting, i. e. Global Reporting Initiative GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
Our vision is to be highly regarded with the sector which means we must strive towards a position where investors understand us, and are keen to invest, customers recommend us and expand with us, financiers, commentators and government prefer us, employees are proud to work for the company and are actively encouraged to develop their skill set, competitors respect us and suppliers want to work with us.
Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 47 External Benchmarking Social Performance Employees We continue to participate in external Health & Safety 2004 has seen a number of changes to benchmarking exercises so as to further Health & Safety is a critical business issue our employment policies and practices as validate our approach.
for all of Slough Estates activities including we have sought to step up to our full development, construction, investment, potential and build on our existing strengths.
During 2004, we: management and own occupation.
We We encourage and value open, two-way Came 5th amongst participating view it as a key priority amongst our communication with our employees.
We companies in the BiE Index of corporate responsibilities to cultivate a have articulated our way of working in a Corporate Environmental Engagement.
culture of health and safety.
Details of our specific set of values, which include: health and safety record can be found in Respect Came joint 1st in the Property the full report.
Partnership Environment Group Survey with Energy a score of 79 per cent.
Suppliers Responsibility We maintain strong long-term relationships Continued to be listed in both the with many different types of suppliers and Dow Jones Sustainability Index and contractors.
We seek to ensure that they the FTSE4Good Index.
are treated with respect and integrity and that they should feel valued for their Were awarded Best in Class status contribution to our business.
by Storebrand for our leading environmental and social performance.
Key Risks CR Policy Headline CR and Objectives Opportunities 8.
Reporting CR Targets Vision & values 4 Stakeholder dialogue 7.
External Monitoring Performance Assurance and Progress Indicators Review Cyclical model of Slough Estates CR Management Strategy.
48 Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 Corporate Responsibility continued Customers Environmental performance Our reputation as an expert in property We have a long-standing commitment solutions is dependent upon a careful to environmental good practice and understanding of customer needs, seek to continuously improve our focusing on results and building strong performance.
During 2004 this was business relationships.
illustrated by the development of a Groupwide energy management system which Community includes target-setting and monitoring.
The Groups involvement in the community Similarly, we recognise the scarcity value is integral to its core business and therefore of water, and consumption in our actively tends to be focussed on those locations managed multi-let offices continues its where were have a significant presence.
We work closely with organisations fostering business support, charity, Whilst there is much more to do, we are education, the arts, recreation and welfare encouraged by the Groups environmental both nationally and locally.
performance across a wide range of issues from waste management to transport and from pollution prevention to bio-diversity.
Full details are available in our CR report.
0255075 100 Achieved % % % % % N A Total 39 1142 331 % of total 100 3 3 10 5 77 3 Progress against 2004 Targets Priorities for 2005 include Target 1: To identify, measure, record and publicly report individual waste streams from each business area.
Target 2: To integrate the ex-Land Securities Industrial portfolio into the environmental management system and address issues identified on acquisition.
Target 3: To audit the EMS in accordance with Charitable giving cash only agreed methodologies.
in 2002, 2003 and 2004 Target 4: Build increased awareness of the value of diversity through the creation of a specialist learning programme.
Target 5: Ensure all office-based employees have undertaken online Health & Safety training.
Target 6: Further increase the renewable generation at the power station from the already high figure of 71 per cent.
290,000 310,000 525,000 A more comprehensive list of our targets is listed in our 2002 2003 2004 separate stand-alone CR report.
