UK Retail Other profit items Financial Review The results for the UK Retail business comprise: Centrally controlled support costs increased to 15m 2003: 14m.
Internal rents on freehold property owned by the Group, which are charged to the 2003 LFL As Growth sales businesses, were 1m, a 2m decrease on last year, due to the sale of freehold John Warren m 2004 restated % growth % property in the last two years.
Sales High Street Retail 1,145 1,164 2% 2% USA Travel Retail Travel Retail 301 291 3% 3% USA Travel Retail incurred divisional trading losses of 5m 2003: loss of WHSmith Online 7 8 16m prior to the exit from both the Hotel and Airport Retail businesses.
Total sales 1,453 1,463 1% 1% Aspac Retail Divisional profit High Street Retail 25 73 66% Prior to the completion of the sale at the end of May, the Aspac Retail Travel Retail 21 19 11% business continued to trade well with like for like sales for the nine month WHSmith Online 2 2 trading period up 3 per cent.
Total divisional profit 44 90 51% Publishing UK Retail sales fell by 1 per cent to 1,453m 2003: 1,463m.
In the High Total Publishing sales increased by 8 per cent to 155m 2003: 143m, driven Street Retail business, sales fell by 2 per cent to 1,145m.
Sales in Travel by a particularly strong release programme in the first half of the year.
Notable Retail grew by 3 per cent to 301m.
Divisional profit fell 51 per cent to releases included Martin Johnsons and Paul Gascoignes autobiographies, 44m 2003: 90m.
Pamela Stephensons Bravemouth and the latest Martina Cole title, The Know.
Gross margin fell 1.4 percentage points on the Book sales fell by 2 per cent, with second half sales down 6 per cent after a at first half.
The key drivers of the sales decline were the release of prior year, as the additional contribution generated by the strong sales growth Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix last year and our decision not was offset by an increase in the level of provisioning for unearned authors to repeat promotions that had been unprofitable.
Stationery sales were up advances.
Divisional profit, excluding this charge, grew faster than sales.
2 per cent in the year with sales of our core stationery ranges of fashion, lifestyle and essentials trading well.
News and Express sales were up 2 per Operating costs increased by 3m but reduced by 1.0 percentage point as a percentage of sales.
With this tight cost management signicantly offsetting cent on last year, driven by new weekly mens magazine titles, newspaper the fall in gross margin, the overall net margin only fell by 0.4 percentage price discounting in the prior period and improvements in our snacking points to 12.9 per cent 2003: 13.3 per cent and divisional profit increased offer.
Excluding the decline in sales of phonecards, sales grew 4 per cent.
Entertainment sales fell by 7 per cent, with the continued decline in music, to 20m 2003: 19m.
VHS and multimedia sales only partially offset by another strong year for Exceptional items DVDs, up 20 per cent.
The Group has booked pre-tax exceptional charges in the year of 200m.
Of these, 101m are classied as operating exceptional items, charged Gross profit for the full year decreased by 19m to 554m with the decline in against operating profit, but treated as exceptional due to their size and sales being exacerbated by increased pressure on gross margin.
Operating exceptional items totalling 75m were booked gross margin rate decreased by a full percentage point compared to last year.
in the first half of the year, following a full operational and financial review of our UK businesses.
The largest item related to the write down of the carrying Costs grew ahead of ination, reecting, for the first time, the 5m value of stock in UK Retail 45m.
In UK Retail, we also wrote down certain depreciation impact of our investment in the integrated Retek stock fixed assets by 17m, and booked 4m of other exceptional charges.
In respect management and merchandising system.
In addition, Christmas marketing of Publishing, we provided 9m to ensure that the balance sheet reected an spend increased by 3m on the previous year.
These cost increases were up-to-date view on the backlist sales prospects of titles published in previous years.
offset to a small degree by initial cost savings from the organisation review towards the end of the year.
Overall, costs grew as a percentage of sales by In the second half, we incurred further operating exceptional charges of 2.1 percentage points.
Consequently, overall net margin for the UK Retail 26m.
We announced at the interim stage the results of an organisation business decreased by 3.1 percentage points to 3.0 per cent.
review at our Swindon and London head ofces.
The total costs related to this review in the second half amounted to 10m and a further 2m has been The UK Retail business now operates from 673 stores, which occupy provided which relates to the integration of WHSmith Onlines operations 3.3 million square feet.
Ten new stores were opened in the year, including into the High Street business.
The net savings from the organisation review seven edge of town stores, in line with plan.
Fourteen stores were also are anticipated to be 8.5m in the next financial year 2004 05 and 10m closed in the year, the majority of which were small loss-makers.
We have also taken a further impairment charge against xed assets in the UK Retail business of 3m.
Costs incurred News Distribution responding to Permiras approach, implementing the changes to the Groups Total sales increased by 6 per cent to 1,182m 2003: 1,115m.
Magazine structure and the return of capital to shareholders amounted to 11m.
sales increased by 2 per cent, driven by celebrity titles and a number of new launches, including Star, Total TV Guide, Nuts and Zoo.
Newspapers sales The majority of the operating exceptional charges are non-cash asset writewere up 8 per cent buoyed by price increases and book promotions in the offs.
The total cash costs will amount to 30m, against which we expect tax first half of the year.
Excluding the impact of tabloid price discounting in relief of 10m.
the prior year, like for like newspaper sales were up 5 per cent.
In addition to the operating exceptional items, we booked an exceptional Partworks were one of the key drivers of growth, with annual sales charge of 61m arising from the disposal of our US operations in the first increasing by 39 per cent.
This market strengthened in 2004 as it moved half, including 39m of goodwill previously written off to reserves.
In the from a seasonal post-Christmas market to a year-round industry.
Key second half, we have increased this charge by 1m.
titles included Radio Control, Make It Groovy and the Carry On series DVDs.
Sales of one-shot titles were up by 23 per cent, driven by strong Euro 2004 The disposal of our Aspac Retail businesses generated an exceptional merchandise sales.
Gross profit increased by 5m to 132m, driven by increased sales volumes Although the sale of Hodder Headline completed after the balance and improved product mix.
Overall costs grew by 2 per cent, including the sheet date, we have recorded a provision for loss on disposal of 48m.
closure costs of the Croydon warehouse, but reduced as a percentage of In addition, the Group made a 2m profit on the sale and leaseback sales by 0.3 percentage points as a result of tight cost control in the news of freehold properties in the second half of the year and charged warehouses and at head ofce.
As a result, net margin improved slightly to 1m related to other Group properties.
3.0 per cent 2003: 2.9 per cent as divisional profit grew to 35m 2003: 32m.
20 WH Smith PLC 21 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Net finance charges The movement in working capital is 19m worse than the previous year, Financial Review largely due to investment in increasing stock density in the UK Retail business The results include net finance charges of 5m 2003: 4m, of which 4m towards the end of the financial year.
The movement in creditors relates is the net finance cost of the pension fund under FRS 17.
This represents predominantly to discontinued operations: the difference between interest earned on pension scheme assets and John Warren interest charged on pension scheme liabilities.
m 2004 2003 Stock 17 3 Taxation Debtors 1 17 The tax charge for the year is 13m, including 3m of foreign tax.
The Creditors 9 6 effective tax rate on continuing activities, excluding exceptional items Working capital movement 27 8 and goodwill amortisation, was 30 per cent 2003: 30 per cent.
The effective tax rate on discontinued activities, excluding exceptional items We have continued to invest in the physical and systems infrastructure and goodwill amortisation, was 43 per cent, reecting losses in the US of the business as this analysis of capital expenditure shows: and a higher tax rate in Aspac Retail.
As a result, the Groups effective rate m 2004 2003 excluding exceptional items and goodwill amortisation was 34 per cent.
New stores 11 6 Refurbished stores 16 19 Over the next year it is hoped that the Group will make progress on settling Systems 15 20 prior year corporation tax liabilities with the Inland Revenue.
As a result, Other 7 2 we expect that our effective tax rate will be lower than the continuing Total 49 47 operations prevailing 30 per cent tax rate in future years.
The movement in the net cash position is as follows: Operating leases m The Groups stores are held mainly under operating leases, which are not Opening net cash 68 regarded as debt for accounting purposes.
The UK High Street leases are Free cash ow 12 on standard institutional lease terms, typically with a 15 year term subject Dividends 42 to five year upwards-only rent reviews.
The Travel Retail stores operate Pension deficit funding 25 mainly through turnover-related leases, usually with minimum rent Proceeds from sale and leaseback 5 guarantees, and generally varying in length from five to ten years.
Net proceeds on disposal of businesses 42 Cash ow relating to exceptional items net of tax 2 The business has an annual minimum net rental commitment of 142m net Cash in subsidiaries disposed 11 of 9m of external rent receivable.
The total future rental commitment at Currency translation differences 2 the balance sheet date amounted to 1.0bn with the leases having an average Closing net cash 45 life of seven years.
The net present value of these commitments is approximately 0.7bn.
Although large, these commitments are characteristic of the retail sector The amount shown for pension deficit funding of 25m represents the and the risks associated with them depend on their liquidity, inuenced mainly difference between the cash contributions to the dened benefit pension by the quality and location of the sites.
These are considered to be satisfactory.
schemes of 44m and the associated profit and loss charge, which comprised 15m for operating costs and 4m for nancing.
Fixed charges cover A key measure of financial strength for the businesses is xed charges cover.
With the planned recovery in the profitability of the High Street Retail business, The xed charges comprise operating lease rentals, property taxes, other the reduction in on-going contributions to the WHSmith Pension Trust, the lower on-going dividend payments, tighter control of working capital property costs and interest.
These were covered 1.3 times by profit before and the elimination of exceptional one-off cash charges, we anticipate xed charges excluding exceptional items and goodwill amortisation that the Group will be cash generative in future years.
For the continuing businesses, xed charges cover is 1.2 times 2003: 1.5 times.
Balance sheet The net assets comprise: Loss earnings per share After the substantial exceptional charges in the year, the Group generated m m a loss per share of 60.7p 2003: earnings per share of 9.4p whilst adjusted Goodwill 164 earnings per share before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation Tangible xed assets 237 were 18.0p 2003: 29.1p.
401 Stock 184 Dividends Creditors less debtors 143 In view of the substantial reduction in the Groups profitability, the Board Working capital 41 is proposing a final dividend of 8p 2003: 13p.
The final dividend will be Provisions 38 paid on 28 January 2005 to shareholders registered at the close of business Dividends 14 on 31 December 2004.
This will give a dividend for the full year of 12p.
Corporation tax 30 The total cost of the dividend will be 24m.
Excluding exceptional items Operating assets 360 and goodwill amortisation, the dividend is covered 1.5 times by earnings.
Net cash 45 Free cash ow and cash balances Net assets excluding pension liabilities 405 The operating free cash ow before acquisitions and nancing items Pension liabilities 149 amounted to 12m compared with 61m in the previous year.
Total net assets 256 m 2004 2003 profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 67 102 Depreciation 46 49 Cash profit 113 151 Working capital 27 8 Capital expenditure 49 47 Disposal of assets 1 Tax paid 21 32 Net provision movement 4 4 Free cash ow 12 61 Before receipt of tax refund relating to exceptional items.
22 WH Smith PLC 23 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 The Groups net assets declined substantially over the year from 409m Pensions Financial Review at the end of 2003 to 256m this year.
The decline is accounted for by The financial position of the Group is sensitive to the financial position the exceptional charges taken in the year as shown below: of its two main dened benefit schemes WHSmith Pension Trust and Hodder Headline Staff Retirement Benets Plan which, together with John Warren m m retained liabilities under the US Travel Retail Pension scheme, had a gross Opening net assets 409 deficit of 205m as at 31 August 2004 and a net deficit of 144m, after Pre-tax profit before exceptional items and deducting the related deferred tax asset.
An additional net 5m liability goodwill amortisation 67 relates to retirement medical benets for certain pensioners.
Tax on above 23 44 The pension scheme assets are held in separate Trustee-administered funds Dividends 24 to meet long term pension liabilities to past and some present employees.
Net gains and losses relating to pension schemes 11 The Group has undertaken to meet any shortfalls against the liabilities in Currency translation differences 7 Other movements 2 the WHSmith Pension Trust scheme should they arise.
The Group closed its main dened benefit scheme to new members in 1995 but continues Net assets before exceptional items 409 to fund the benets accruing in respect of the remaining 3,542 active Operating exceptional items 101 Tax relief on the above 10 members.
Employees who have joined the Group since 1995 are able to benefit from a dened contribution pension arrangement.
91 Net loss on sale of discontinued operations 101 Following the disposal of Hodder Headline, the Group will make a Goodwill previously written off 39 contribution of 120m to the WHSmith Pension Trust, which will be 62 nanced from the Groups own resources and new banking facilities.
Closing net assets 256 The Group expects a reduction in pension service costs going forward.
The Groups balance sheet structure and net assets will be substantially altered This is as a result of contributions being made by our employees for the by the disposal of our publishing operations, the return of cash to shareholders and the payment to the pension fund.
On a proforma basis, the impact is first time: a prospective reduction in some of the scheme benets such as follows: as early retirement terms: and an overall reduction in pensionable salaries following the organisation review.
As Sale of Return at 31 Hodder to Pension ContinAugust Headline sharecontriuing Financing 2004 Group holders bution Group A three year 270m facility agreement was signed on 26 July 2004 between m m m m m the Group, Lloyds TSB Bank plc, HSBC Bank plc and The Royal Bank of Goodwill 164 149 15 Scotland plc under which up to 120m is available by way of a term loan Tangible xed assets 237 7 230 facility, of which amounts repaid may not be reborrowed, and 150m is 401 156 245 available by way of a multicurrency revolving credit facility.
Lloyds TSB Bank Working capital 41 65 24 plc, HSBC Bank plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc are joint mandated Provisions 38 15 23 lead arrangers under this facility agreement.
The agreement contains Dividends 14 14 provisions, obligations and certain financial covenants, which are customary Corporation tax 30 21 9 in such an agreement.
The Group intends to draw down 90m of the Operating assets 360 221 36 175 term loan facility.
Net cash 45 207 207 120 75 Net assets excluding Currency pension liabilities 405 14 207 84 100 Approximately 7 per cent of the Groups turnover was earned in foreign Pension liabilities 149 14 84 51 currencies.
The effect of uctuations in exchange rates was to decrease Total net assets 256 207 49 total sales by 1m, and increase operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation of 2m.
Return on capital employed Total capital employed and returns thereon were as follows: Currency exposures mainly relate to the translation of foreign income ROCE and the supply of products from outside the UK.
On a continuing basis, Operating % with the exposure to foreign income will be reduced to an immaterial level.
capital operating employed ROCE leases m %capitalised Accounting for goodwill High Street Retail 189 13% 10% The goodwill of the publishing operations has been impaired by 45m Travel Retail 25 83% 24% following the announcement of the sale of the business to Hachette Livre S. A.. WHSmith Online 2 Following the disposal of Publishing, the remaining goodwill will be 15m, UK Retail 212 21% 12% which relates to the acquisitions of the John Menzies Retail chain in 1998 News Distribution 18 and eight stores from TM Retail in 2002, both of which are being amortised Central items and property 55 over 20 years.
Total continuing operations 139 37% 14% John Warren International Retail 11 Publishing 210 Group Finance Director 14 October 2004 Total discontinued operations 221 Total 360 In the prior year, comparable returns for the continuing operations were 55 per cent 20 per cent with operating leases capitalised.
24 WH Smith PLC 25 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors Report The directors of WH Smith PLC the Company present Dividends Corporate responsibility Walker Boyd, who is a non-executive director, was appointed their annual report to shareholders together with the audited The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend The Board recognises the importance of the social, ethical on 3 March 2004. consolidated accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries for for the year of 8p per ordinary share on 28 January 2005 and environmental issues facing the Companys businesses to members on the Register at the close of business on and is committed to achieving a high standard of corporate the year ended 31 August 2004.
Tim Hely Hutchinson, who served as a director since 1999, 31 December 2004. responsibility.
Further details can be found in the section resigned on 25 September 2004.
Principal activities on corporate responsibility on pages 12 to 17 and on the The principal activities and future prospects of the Company This final dividend, together with the interim dividend of 4p Companys website www.
com The Companys Articles of Association require that at least oneper ordinary share paid on 24 June 2004, makes a total dividend are set out in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3, in third of the directors retire by rotation each year and that new the Group Chief Executives Review on pages 4 to 9 and in the of 12p per ordinary share for the year ended 31 August 2004.
Political and charitable donations directors appointed by the Board are required to offer themselves Financial Review on pages 18 to 25.
Charitable donations during the year ended 31 August 2004 for election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting Subsidiaries and businesses totalled 12,000 2003: 96,000. following their appointment.
On 17 September 2003, the Company sold its US Airport Retail Company results The Group profit and loss account for the year ended 31 August business to the Hudson Group for 34m, comprising 20m in It is the Companys policy not to make political donations and John Barton, who has served as a director since November 1999, 2004 is shown on page 40. cash and 14m of deferred consideration net present value 12m no political donations were made in the year 2003: nil.
retires by rotation pursuant to the Companys Articles of payable by way of an interest-bearing loan note with a 5 per cent Association and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election at coupon.
On 16 January 2004, the Company sold its US Hotel Payment policy for suppliers Analyses of turnover and operating profit or loss by activity are the Annual General Meeting.
John Barton has been appointed shown in Note 1 to the accounts.
Retail business to former management for 7m, satisfied by way The Companys policy for the payment of suppliers, which for a xed term and does not have a contract of service.
of an interest-bearing loan note with a 5 per cent coupon.
complies with the CBI Code of Practice for Buyers, is to agree Share capital the terms of payment in advance in line with normal trade MT Rainey, who has served as a director since March 2002, retires On 31 May 2004, the Company sold its Asia Pacic Aspac practice and, provided a supplier performs in accordance The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together by rotation pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association and, with details of shares issued during the year, are shown in Note 24 Retail businesses to Pacic Equity Partners for a cash with the agreement, to abide by such terms.
The Groups trade being eligible, offers herself for re-election at the Annual General to the accounts.
creditors gure as at the balance sheet date was equivalent Meeting.
MT Rainey has been appointed for a xed term and to 38 days 2003: 44 days based on average daily amounts does not have a contract of service.
On 25 September 2004, the Company sold its publishing business invoiced by suppliers during the year.
On 27 September 2004, to facilitate the return of cash to shareholders, there was a capital reorganisation.
Details of the Hodder Headline to Hachette Livre S. A. for 210m in cash and Kate Swann, who has served as a director since November 2003, return of cash and capital reorganisation are set out below.
the assumption of the Hodder Headline net pension deficit Directors retires by rotation pursuant to the Companys Articles of estimated at 14m.
The names of the directors as at the date of this report, together Association and, being eligible, offers herself for re-election with biographical details, are set out on pages 10 and 11.
All the Return of cash at the Annual General Meeting.
Kate Swann has a contract At an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 23 September 2004, Further details of these disposals can be found in Note 4 directors served throughout the period except as noted below.
of service which may be terminated by giving one years notice.
shareholders approved the disposal of Hodder Headline and the to the Accounts.
return of 207m to shareholders by way of a C share scheme.
In Details of the interests of the directors and their families in the Walker Boyd was appointed to the Board as a non-executive Employees share capital of the Company at 31 August 2004 are shown on order to provide maximum exibility in terms of tax treatment, director in March 2004 and pursuant to the Companys Articles the C share scheme allows shareholders to choose whether to The Company employs approximately 24,000 people throughout page 37. of Association retires and, being eligible, offers himself for receive the return as income by way of the Initial C Share Dividend the United Kingdom and overseas and we are proud of our long election at the Annual General Meeting.
Walker Boyd has or capital by way of the Repurchase Offer.
history of being regarded as a responsible and respected employer.
Andrew Rolfe, who is a non-executive director, was appointed been appointed for a xed term and does not have a contract on 2 September 2003. of service.
The C share scheme was implemented on 27 September 2004 by Employees are kept well informed of the performance and way of a capital reorganisation under which ordinary shareholders objectives of the Group through personal briengs and email Martin Taylor, who rejoined the Board in September 1999 Annual General Meeting received one non-cumulative preference share of 85p C share and the Companys open management style encourages and became Chairman in November 1999, resigned on The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Lincoln Centre, 5 employees to contribute to the development of the business.
4 November 2003. for each ordinary share of 55 9p and 18 new ordinary shares of 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED on 27 January 2005 13 5 2 81p each for every 25 ordinary shares of 55 9p each held on at 11.30am.
The Company operates a long established Inland Revenue Kate Swann, formerly the Managing Director of Argos, Approved Save-As-You-Earn share option scheme Sharesave was appointed Chief Executive on 4 November 2003.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is set out on pages 76 to Scheme which provides employees with the opportunity Major shareholders 80 and contains six items of special business.
Explanatory notes At 14 October 2004, the Companys share register of substantial to acquire shares in the Company.
As at 31 August 2004 Beverley Hodson, who served as a director since 1997, relating to the special business are set out on pages 79 to 80. shareholdings showed the following interests in 3 per cent or approximately 4,000 employees were participating in resigned on 2 January 2004. more of the Companys ordinary shares: this Scheme.
Auditors Michael Orr, who served as a non-executive director since 1993, A resolution to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to Holder Number % The Board believes in creating throughout the Company a retired on 29 January 2004. the Company and to authorise the directors to determine their Silchester International Investors Limited 28,173,192 15.62 culture that is free from discrimination and harassment and remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Fidelity International Limited 12,094,089 6.70 will not permit or tolerate discrimination in any form.
The Patrick Lupo, who served as a non-executive director since 1994, The Trustees of BT Pension Scheme 8,617,421 4.78 Company gives proper consideration to applications for resigned on 3 March 2004.
This Report was approved by the Board on 14 October 2004.
Devon County Council 6,095,726 3.38 employment when these are received from disabled people Orbis Investment Management Limited 6,014,892 3.33 and employs them whenever suitable vacancies arise.
Should By Order of the Board an employee become disabled when working for the Company, Ian Houghton Legal & General Group Plc 5,929,549 3.29 efforts are made to continue their employment and retraining Company Secretary is provided if necessary.
14 October 2004 26 WH Smith PLC 27 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance The Board recognises the importance of, and is committed to, All directors have access to the advice and services of the Nominations Committee Directors remuneration high standards of corporate governance.
It is a requirement of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional The Nominations Committee comprises three independent Full details of the Companys remuneration policy and individual Listing Rules that the Company discloses in its annual report and advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their non-executive directors John Barton Chairman, MT Rainey directors remuneration are contained in the Remuneration and Andrew Rolfe and meets as required.
The Committees terms Report on pages 32 to 37. accounts how it has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of duties.
The Board receives appropriate and timely information, the Combined Code: Principles of Good Governance and Code Board and Committee papers being sent out several days before of reference set out the responsibilities of the Committee which of Best Practice the Combined Code and whether or not it has meetings take place.
include reviewing regularly the structure, size and composition Risk and internal control complied with its detailed provisions throughout the financial year.
of the Board and making recommendations with regard to The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system any changes: giving full consideration to succession planning: of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the All newly appointed directors receive induction on joining On 23 July 2003, the Financial Reporting Council issued the new the Board which is tailored to meet the needs of the individual.
evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of role of management is to implement the Boards policies on risk Combined Code on Corporate Governance the new Code As reported in last years annual report, a formal process for the Board: preparing a description of the role and capabilities and control and present assurance on compliance with these which takes effect for WHSmith from 1 September 2004.
The evaluating the performance of the Board has been introduced.
required for any particular Board appointment: and, identifying policies.
Such a system is, however, designed to manage rather and nominating for approval by the Board candidates to ll than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, Board has carried out a full review of the requirements of the This years evaluation was carried out in September 2004 through Combined Code and the new Code and save as described below a questionnaire and discussion with directors.
The results of that Board vacancies as they arise.
The Committee does not make and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance is in compliance with its provisions.
The following statement sets exercise were considered by the Board in October 2004 and recommendations to the Board concerning the positions of against material misstatement or loss.
out how the Company has applied the principles and complied a number of actions agreed.
The non-executive directors meet Chairman and Chief Executive, since these are matters reserved for the consideration of the full Board.
i Risk with the best practice provisions of the Combined Code and the without the Chairman present to appraise the performance new Code.
Following publication of the Turnbull Guidance Internal The appointments of Kate Swann, Andrew Rolfe and Walker Boyd Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code The Board At least one-third of the directors retire by rotation each year were made following searches conducted by external consultants and in September 1999, the Board enhanced its risk management recommendations made by the Committee.
On 29 January 2004, procedures including establishing a Business Risk Steering At 14 October 2004, the Board comprised the Chairman, in accordance with the Articles of Association.
The executive two executive directors and four independent non-executive directors have contracts of service with one years notice whilst the Company announced its intention to appoint a new Committee BRSC to co-ordinate risk assessment throughout directors.
Short biographies of each of the directors, which non-executive directors are appointed for periods of three years.
Chairman to succeed Richard Handover.
Following a search the Group and a Group internal audit function.
It can confirm illustrate their range of experience, are set out on pages 10 The contracts of service of the executive directors and letters carried out by external consultants, the Board have considered a that for the year under review and up to the date of approval number of candidates and are confident that they will be able to of the annual report and accounts there has been an ongoing and 11.
There is a clear division of responsibility at the head of of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for the Company: Richard Handover Chairman being responsible inspection at the registered ofce of the Company during normal announce the appointment of their preferred candidate shortly.
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant for running the Board and Kate Swann Chief Executive being business hours on any weekday, except Saturdays and public risks faced by the Group, that is regularly reviewed by the Board responsible for implementing Group strategy.
John Barton holidays, until 27 January 2005 and at the place of the Annual Remuneration Committee and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
Details of the composition and terms of reference of the has been nominated by the Board as the Senior Independent General Meeting on 27 January 2005 for 15 minutes prior to Director.
The Board structure ensures that no individual or and during the meeting.
Remuneration Committee are contained in the Remuneration The key features of the risk management process are as follows: group dominates the decision-making process.
Report on pages 32 to 37. each business carries out an annual risk assessment based Board Committees upon identied business objectives which is reviewed and Attendance at Board Committee meetings agreed by its management board.
The assessment identies On 4 November 2003, Richard Handover, formerly Chief Executive, Audit Committee replaced Martin Taylor as Chairman, and Kate Swann, formerly The Audit Committee comprises three independent nonThe following table shows the number of Board and Committee key risks to business objectives categorised into strategic, Managing Director of Argos, succeeded Richard Handover as executive directors, Walker Boyd Chairman, John Barton meetings held during the year ended 31 August 2004 and the operational, financial and information.
Each risk is scored Chief Executive.
Although Richard Handover does not meet the and Andrew Rolfe and meets at least three times a year.
The attendance record of individual directors.
for probability and impact and a control strategy is agreed to mitigate the risk: independence criteria set out in the new Code, the Board believes Committees terms of reference set out the responsibilities Board that it is in the best interests of the Company and shareholders of the Committee which include monitoring the integrity and a register of key risks and controls is compiled for each meetings Committee meetings for there to be continuity in Board leadership during this period clarity of the financial statements and any formal announcements NominRemunbusiness and generic risks are identied.
Key management Audit ations eration of management transition and, after consulting with major relating to the Companys financial performance and reviewing are nominated in each business to monitor these risks.
of meetings 14 4 2 9 Monthly reports are included in the management accounts shareholders, concluded that he should be appointed Chairman any significant financial reporting issues and judgements which for a limited period, anticipated to be until 31 January 2005. they contain: reviewing the consistency of, and any changes to, Martin Taylor 3 for each business and quarterly reports are prepared for resigned 04.11.03 accounting policies, the application of appropriate accounting the BRSC identifying significant changes that affect the Richard Handover 14 The Board normally meets ten times a year and manages standards and the methods used to account for significant risks, control failings or weaknesses and new risks which Tim Hely Hutchinson 13 require evaluation: the Company through a formal schedule of matters reserved or unusual transactions: reviewing the effectiveness of the for its decision.
These include overall management of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems: resigned 25.09.04 the BRSC, chaired by the Finance Director and including the Beverley Hodson 4 Group: approval of strategic plans including acquisitions and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit Group Internal Audit Director and the Group Risk Director, resigned 02.01.04 disposals: approval of the Groups commercial strategy and function and approving the internal audit plan: making meets quarterly to review the key risks to each business and John Warren 14 to assess the effectiveness of the control strategies in place operating and capital expenditure budgets: approval of the recommendations as to the appointment, terms of engagement financial statements, material agreements and non-recurring and remuneration of the external auditors: assessing the external Kate Swann 12 to manage those risks: and appointed 04.11.03 projects: treasury policy: control, audit and risk management: auditors independence and objectivity: approving the annual significant control failings or risk occurrences are reported John Barton 14 4 2 9 remuneration: and, corporate responsibility.
It also delegates external audit plan and reviewing with the external auditors the to the Executive Committee comprising the executive Walker Boyd 6 2 4 directors, Group Strategy Director, Managing Director of specic responsibilities to the Board Committees detailed below, nature, scope and results of their audit and any issues raised by the role and responsibilities of each Committee being set out in them: developing and implementing the Companys policy on the appointed 03.03.04 WHSmith News and Group Human Resources Director.
The Patrick Lupo 7215 formal terms of reference which are available from the Company engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services: BRSC regularly reports to the Board on the significant risks resigned 03.03.04 Secretary on request.
and, reviewing the Companys arrangements for its employees facing the Company and the effectiveness of the system of Michael Orr 4113 internal control.
The Board carried out its annual review of to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters whistleblowing.
retired 29.01.04 the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control MT Rainey 13 2 8 in October 2004.
Andrew Rolfe 9 28 WH Smith PLC 29 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Governance continued ii Internal control b Non-financial controls Relations with shareholders a Financial controls The Company has established a wide range of non-financial The Company recognises the importance of communicating The Company has an established framework of internal financial controls covering areas such as health and safety, environment, with its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance control, the effectiveness of which is regularly reviewed by the ethical trading, employment and business continuity.
This is achieved principally through the annual executive management and the Board.
The key elements of this elements are as follows: report and accounts and the Annual General Meeting AGM.
are as follows: a Corporate Responsibility Focus Group has been established In addition, a range of corporate information is available to the Board is responsible for overall Company strategy, to consider the impact our activities have on the environment, investors on the Companys website www.
com for approving revenue and capital budgets and plans, workplace, marketplace and community at large, to share for approving major acquisitions and disposals and for knowledge and identify opportunities to improve performance: Formal presentations are made to institutional shareholders determining the financial structure of the Company the Board is committed to maintaining high standards following the announcement of the Companys full year and including treasury and dividend policy.
Monthly results, of health and safety in all its business activities.
The Board recognises that the AGM is the variances from plan and forecasts are reported to the Board: standards are set out in the Companys Health and Safety principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders.
All the Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge Policy which is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Group directors normally attend the AGM and are available to answer of its duties regarding the Companys financial statements, Risk Management team works with the businesses to assess any questions that shareholders may wish to raise.
The Notice accounting policies and the maintenance of proper internal health and safety risks and introduce systems to mitigate them.
of Meeting is contained in the annual report which is sent financial controls.
The Committee provides a direct link All notied accidents are investigated and targets are set to to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
between the Board and the external auditors through reduce the level of incidence: Shareholders vote on a show of hands, unless a poll is validly regular meetings: the Board has approved an Environmental Policy which sets called, and after each such vote the number of proxy votes the internal audit function advises and assists business out the Companys objectives and specic targets which are received for and against the resolution is announced.
management to establish and maintain adequate financial reviewed annually.
An Environmental Action Group has controls and reports to the Board and Audit Committee been established to monitor progress against targets, keep The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of the views and on the effectiveness of those controls: businesses up to date with latest developments and develop concerns of major shareholders.
The Chief Executive and routine financial reviews are held between the Chief Executive the communication process: Finance Director update the Board following meetings with and Finance Director and their staff and business managing the Board is committed to ensuring reasonable standards major shareholders and analysts briengs are circulated with directors, finance directors and other executives.
These are among its suppliers and has approved an Ethical Trading the Board papers.
When requested to do so, non-executive held regularly for all businesses: Code of Conduct setting out the standards it expects its directors attend meetings with major shareholders.
the Board has established an organisation structure with suppliers to adopt.
This policy covers health and safety, child clearly dened lines of responsibility and approval controls labour, working hours, discrimination and the environment: Compliance with the Combined Code and the new Code identifying transactions requiring approval by the Board the Company is committed to ensuring that its personnel Throughout the year ended 31 August 2004 the Company or by the Approvals Committee.
The Finance Director is meet good standards of integrity and competence.
The complied with the provisions set out in the Combined and responsible for the functional leadership and development Companys systems cover the recruitment, training and new Codes other than as follows: of the Companys finance activities: development of personnel, an appropriate division of there is a comprehensive system for budgeting and planning responsibilities and the communication of Company policies Combined and new Codes and for monitoring and reporting the performance of the and procedures throughout the organisation: and Richard Handover was employed under a contract of service Companys businesses to the directors.
Monthly results are Business Recovery Plans exist to enable businesses to continue with a two-year notice period prior to his appointment as reported against budget and prior year, and forecasts for the in the event of a disaster with minimum disruption to customers.
His appointment as current financial year are regularly revised in the light of Chairman is for a xed term until 31 January 2005. actual performance.
These cover profits, cash ows, capital Auditor independence expenditure and balance sheets: The Board is satisfied that Deloitte & Touche LLP has adequate New Code the Company has established a uniform system of policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity Richard Handover does not meet the independence criteria investment appraisal: and independence is maintained.
as set out in the new Code as he was formerly Chief Executive executive management has dened the financial controls of the Group.
and procedures with which each business is required to Going concern comply.
Key controls over major business risks include reviews The directors consider that the Company has adequate resources against performance indicators and exception reporting and to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, each business is required to prepare monthly management they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing accounts: and the accounts.
routine reports are prepared to cover treasury activities and risks for review by senior executives and annual reports are prepared for the Board covering treasury policies, insurance and pensions.
30 WH Smith PLC 31 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Annual Report and Accounts 2004
