com 23 Sustainable Development Our ambition is to become a leader in an urban regeneration market that is raising ethical, social, environmental and building standards.
We seek to play a leading role in the creation of well-balanced and economically viable communities containing a mix of residential, retail, commercial and leisure uses.
Through a combination of flexible structures and long term stewardship these communities will have the ability to change and adapt in perpetuity.
In this way, Crest Nicholson believes it can increase the quality of urban life whilst making a significant contribution to global sustainability.
Sustainable Development Strategy To achieve this vision Crest Nicholsons strategy is to: seek to deliver ever higher environmental standards: invest in high quality social infrastructure and public spaces: optimise returns, sustainable design excellence and quality concepts: partner with innovative suppliers contractors for cost certainty, quality and skill transfer: react to market changes with product spread, affordable homes and a quality service: and become the partner of choice to the public and private sectors through product differentiation.
Corporate Resources Crest Nicholsons response to global and more local social and environmental issues has been to set up a Board level Committee for Social Responsibility.
A Group Environmental Manager co-ordinates collection and co-ordination of data on current performance and new initiatives feeding back data into improved management systems and better reporting standards.
In 2004 we conducted a web site stakeholder feedback analysis from our Group web site and a Group sustainable development management system was launched on the Company intranet.
Sustainability consultation, training and action plans have been established for most work place activities and on our two major city centre regeneration sites.
com Sustainable development continued Challenges and Opportunities Crest Nicholson plans to increase shareholder value through becoming the market leader in achieving ever higher environmental standards in its planning, construction and community management activities.
The Board believes that we have started to demonstrate that we have the expertise needed to make sustainable development cost effective.
Continued progress in innovative partnering within the public, private and not for profit sectors will help us to share project risks and increase productivity.
Achieving higher productivity whilst reducing environmental impacts will demand much higher standards in planning, design, procurement and construction innovation.
Progress has already been made in the areas of renewable energy, waste management and modern methods of production.
This will enable us to increase the speed and efficiency of our production whilst protecting the environment and reducing over dependency on scarce resources.
Headline Performance Indicators Crest Nicholsons social and environmental performance during 2004 is shown by the use of key performance indicators.
In many areas, from land resource planning to meeting community needs, we have met and exceeded key targets, in some cases well beyond compliance requirements.
In 2004 we maintained our position on the FTSE4 Good index series for socially responsible companies.
Crest Nicholson aspires to increase shareholder value whilst meeting the challenges of becoming a sustainable development leader in the arena of rising planning and building regulations.
com 25 Work Place We have established an annual staff appraisal system and standard training and health and safety performance measurement systems.
Achievements 2003 2004 Net employment creation 5% 5% Permanent staff turnover 21% 21% Community and Marketplace Needs Investment in communities through the increased number of affordable houses we build and the value of Section 106 commitments is increasing significantly.
Our affordable housing supply and National Customer Satisfaction Survey feedback indicates we are meeting the need for quality housing for a wider section of society.
Achievements 2003 2004 Social housing 308 712 Number of houses sold 1,936 2,524 Average house sale price 239,300 210,000 Environment We have addressed our stakeholder feedback issues on construction impacts and surveyed our supply chain for policy compatibility.
Over 50% of our contractors have environmental policies.
We have increased the number of our homes independently certified by EcoHomes.
We have also, on average, maintained our Good ratings, scoring most highly in the areas of energy conservation, transport planning and building material selection.
Achievements 2003 2004 Home Energy efficiency rating up 5% 95.0 99.8 More comprehensive social and environmental performance data is available in our 2004 Corporate Responsibility Report.
com Region: South East I Development: Ingress Park - Greenhithe, Kent I Category: Waterside www.
