Safety, Health and the Environment SHE Croda International Safety, Health and Environment policy Croda International Plc is a manufacturer of speciality chemicals for the cosmetics, toiletries, homecare, plastics, pharmaceutical, healthcare, food and industrial speciality markets employing approximately 1,600 people worldwide.
The Company operates its business in a manner which actively seeks to prevent or minimise the possibility of its operations causing harm to people, plants or animals.
We strive to provide the material and resources to educate and involve every individual in the Company in achieving this objective.
It is my belief that aspiring to excellence in the management of Safety, Health and the Environment is vital to ensuring the long term future and profitability of the Company.
We believe that all accidents, incidents and work related ill health are preventable and we will manage our business with this aim, including the provision of adequate resources for the prevention and control of major accidents.
Because we are human, mistakes will be made: but because we are committed, intelligent human beings we will investigate to identify the basic causes and take action to prevent these mistakes being repeated.
As an absolute minimum we will comply with all national regulations but in addition will set our own demanding internal corporate standards on matters relating to safety, health and the environment and endeavour to comply with them throughout our international operations.
Divisional management teams within the Company will be measured for their contribution to the continuous improvement of safety, health and environmental performance in their area of responsibility.
We will continue to search out new ways of conserving all the natural resources used in our processes.
We will continue to innovate in order to improve our products and processes so that their effect on safety, health and the environment is reduced.
We will continue to improve communication and the exchange of views with employees, employee representatives, customers, contractors, suppliers, neighbours and any other individual or organisation affected by our business.
We have assessed the significant safety, health and environmental hazards posed by the Companys activities and an appropriate set of arrangements has been implemented to control these hazards.
The effectiveness of these arrangements is monitored and reviewed on a regular basis with action taken to redress any deficiencies and ensure continuous improvement.
M Humphrey Group Chief Executive Director responsible for SHE Safety, Health and the Environment SHE 17 Safety, Health and the Environment SHE The Group controls its business by the delegation of much of its management responsibility, including SHE matters, to its divisional managing directors and general managers.
The overall strategy and review of SHE performance within the Group is controlled by the Group SHE Steering Committee and is assisted in this by the Group SHE department in setting standards, providing guidance, brokering best practice and auditing the sites against national standards as well as our own internal standards.
A Group Environmental Management System GEMS was implemented in 1995 to provide sites with a framework upon which their individual environmental management systems could be developed.
Sites have been regularly audited for compliance with GEMS and all established manufacturing sites have now been accredited to ISO 14001.
Similarly a Health and Safety audit based upon Heath and Safety Executive HSE guidelines has been performed regularly by Group SHE on all manufacturing sites.
The results of these audits are used to focus the Group SHE initiatives and the annual Group SHE objectives.
The audit process, used by the Group SHE department to audit the manufacturing sites, has been externally validated by BSI in 2004 as being in accordance with ISO 19011 auditing standards.
Indicators of SHE performance The Group SHE department has issued a number of internal Group SHE objectives since 2000 against which the manufacturing sites have been required to produce targets and to report progress at regular intervals.
In 2001 the Group published several safety, health and environmental targets.
Progress against these targets was discussed in detail in the 2003 annual report and in view of the progress made, the opportunity was taken to withdraw targets achieved or restate original targets with stretch targets and initiate new ones where appropriate.
In doing so reference was made to the HSE targets as stated in Revitalising Health and Safety and to the Chemical Industries Association Responsible Care targets.
The newly stated targets use the performance in 2003 as the baseline for improvement.
Where necessary the objectives and targets have been re-based on current operations manufacturing at the end of 2004.
In the situation of one site being assimilated into another, the statistics of both sites combined have been retained.
18 Safety, Health and the Environment SHE SHE management Objective: Target: To continually improve the effectiveness of our All manufacturing sites to be accredited to OHSAS SHE management systems.
This target is 12 months old and although many sites have set a target date for gaining accreditation to OHSAS 18001, no site has yet been accredited.
It is anticipated that at least one site will gain accreditation during 2005.
Energy consumption Objective: Target: To continually improve the energy efficiency of our To improve energy efficiency GJ tonne at all manufacturing processes.
manufacturing sites by 2% each year until 2010.
Our initial target of 18% improvement in energy used per tonne of manufactured product between 2000 and 2010 was achieved in 2003 with an overall reduction of 23.9%.
In 2004 this reduction was further improved to 33.6%.
Contributions to this improvement in energy efficiency have taken place at all our sites, although changes in product mix have imposed both negative and positive influences on the overall performance.
This includes a one off contribution associated with the withdrawal from the manufacture of gelatin in 2003 which is estimated to have added an improvement of approximately 5 percentage points to this performance.
Air emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds VOCs Objective: Target: To minimise the mass of VOCs released to air from All manufacturing sites to reduce VOC emissions our processes.
The initial objective to reduce the amount of VOCs released by 20% between 2000 and 2003 was achieved with a reduction of 25.8%.
In 2004 this was rebased on 2003 data and restated to reduce the amount of VOCs released per tonne by 40% in the five years to 2009.
In 2004 the amount of VOCs released per tonne reduced by 2.1%.
Safety, Health and the Environment SHE 19 Safety, Health and the Environment SHE Waste disposal Objective: Target: To minimise the quantities of waste disposed All manufacturing sites to halve the amount of waste to landfill.
kg tonne disposed to landfill in 2003 by 2009.
The initial objective to reduce the amount of waste disposal to landfill by 20% between 2000 and 2003 was achieved with a reduction of 67.1%.
In 2004 this was rebased on 2003 and restated to halve the amount of waste per tonne disposed to landfill in the five years to 2009.
The waste data relates to waste generated by the manufacturing operations.
One off disposals of waste not directly associated with the manufacturing process, for example, construction excavations or contaminated land remediation, are excluded.
In 2004 the amount of waste per tonne sent to landfill by all manufacturing sites reduced by 51.3%.
The withdrawal from the manufacture of gelatin in 2003 contributed approximately 19 percentage points to this improvement.
Waste water discharges Objective: Target: To reduce the environmental impact the Group has All manufacturing sites to achieve greater than 95% on controlled waters.
compliance with their effluent discharge consents in every year.
The objective to improve the level of compliance with our effluent discharge consents to at least 95% was achieved for all sites in 2004 with a compliance level of 97.3%.
This represents an overall increase of 14 percentage points since 2000.
Consumption of mains water Objective: Target: To reduce the Group requirements for All manufacturing sites to reduce the use of mains mains water.
water by 25% per tonne manufactured by 2009.
This was a new target in 2004 when the consumption of mains water per tonne was reduced by 25.3%.
The withdrawal from the manufacture of gelatin is estimated to have contributed 9 percentage points to this improvement.
20 Safety, Health and the Environment SHE SHE initiatives 2004 Accidents and enforcement action The reportable accident rate in the Group did not match the low level achieved in 2003 but the 3 year moving average continued to show an improving trend since 2000.
There has been an overall reduction of 34% in the reportable accident rate since 2000.
The Group received two enforcement notices in 2004.
In the USA, our manufacturing site was fined 1,100 for the accidental release to air of a controlled chemical.
In the UK, one site received an enforcement notice for the failure to provide an energy monitoring plan on time under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
There were no prosecutions in 2004.
Soil and groundwater investigations The Group believes it has already identified its major liabilities with regard to historical contamination of the ground and groundwater.
To date, remedial strategies are being developed for the cost effective control of this contamination at several sites.
Detailed risk assessments by our environmental consultants of the potential threat to human health and controlled waters have not resulted in any immediate action being required.
Safety, Health and the Environment SHE 21
