Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 15 A responsible company We take our responsibilities to the environment, employees, suppliers, customers and local communities seriously.
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for performance, which is monitored by regular reporting to the Board on environmental, health and safety, food safety, quality and risk issues.
Environment We are pleased that again there have been no prosecutions for breaches of environmental legislation this year.
All of our manufacturing sites continue to maintain accreditation to ISO 14001 and are independently audited by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance.
Our national distribution centre will be included in this programme in the next year.
Our sites set targets annually to improve environmental performance and this year we have reduced discharge loadings to effluent by 12%.
Our larger sites have plans in place to achieve IPPC permits in 2005.
We have invested 3 million in upgrading effluent treatment facilities at Davidstow and Hartington, enabling us to further reduce our impact on the local environment.
The investment project at Davidstow has also allowed us to introduce new energy saving technologies for heat and water recovery and more efficient steam generation.
Farmer Nick Health and safety Tyler, of Our accident incidence rate continues the trend of recent years, falling by 7% since last year, and is 9% below the dairy industry average.
Our emphasis on health and safety training resulted Willowbrook in over 80 managers completing the IOSH Managing Safely four day assessed course.
Dairy, starts We augment the Groups health and safety audit programme with a rolling programme of external accreditation by the British Safety Council.
This year Chadwell Heath and Totnes the day in achieved 5 and Frome 4. his state of We continue to work with the HSE and have contributed to the HSE initiative in the south west to improve supply chain safety between farm collection and supermarket delivery.
We the art have also introduced a regular bulletin Farm Safety Update, with advice on improving health and safety at farm level, a key area of focus for the HSE.
milking Product stewardship parlour We are committed to producing food and drink to the highest standards of safety, quality and hygiene in line with our Good Manufacturing Practice.
Each manufacturing site is audited annually by a third party in line with the British Retail Consortium Technical Standard.
All sites have achieved accreditation at the higher level.
The Dairy Crest Farm Assurance Scheme ensures the delivery of top quality milk, produced to the standards required by customers, in terms of food safety, animal welfare and protection of the environment.
Dairy Crest provides a subsidised support package, through the independent White Gold Service, to enable supplying producers to maintain Farm Assurance standards with the minimum of disruption and cost.
Ethical trading We have introduced an ethical trading policy to ensure good working practices in social and ethical matters, which meets the requirements of the UK Ethical Trading Initiative.
All of our manufacturing sites have been audited successfully by Bureau Veritas.
Charity Dairy Crest has nominated Leukaemia Research, the UKs leading blood cancer charity, as its corporate charity and in the first year our household business has raised 250,000.
The companys aim is that all sites should play a part in fundraising activities over the next year.
