DMGT AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AS IN OTHER AREAS OF THE BUSINESS, DMGT IS AIMING TO SET THE HIGHEST STANDARDS IN ITS APPROACH TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY.
OUR APPROACH IS BASED ON ALLOWING LOCAL MANAGEMENT TO TAKE LOCAL DECISIONS IN A LOCAL CONTEXT.
How DMGT manages Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Highlights of the year DMGTs activities are diverse, with each of its businesses providing important channels of communication and media focus to different sections of society throughout the world.
Entered the FTSE4Good Index in September 2004.
The DMGT Board reviews its performance in this area through the Risk Committee, with CSR risks discussed at its meetings.
Overall responsibility for CSR at Board level lies with the Finance 902,000 donated to charity.
The Board has adopted policies on equal opportunities, whistleblowing, health and safety and the environment.
Launched online payroll DMGT owes much of its success to the entrepreneurial ability of the management teams leading its six divisions.
businesses have thrived by allowing local management to take local decisions in a local context, whilst benefiting from the global outlook and financial resources of the wider Group.
This approach has delivered benefits to a wide range of stakeholders.
The success of many of the Groups businesses is inextricably linked with understanding and engaging with the communities that they serve, and this allows them to identify needs and to campaign effectively on the issues relevant to their customer base.
The report below provides more detail of divisional activities focused around the following key stakeholder groups: our readers and listeners: the community: our employees: the environment.
Reported here is a summary of our disclosure in this area.
DMGT has a dedicated section on its website with further CSR information available at www.
Please send any comments to: investor.
co. uk @ 25 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 98% Award winning newspapers Hobsons and Raleigh International Environmental credentials The Bristol Evening Post was named Hobsons, part of the careers division 98% of virgin fibre products are Newspaper Society Campaigning of DMG Information, continues sourced from managed forests.
Newspaper of the Year for 2004.
The to support the work of Raleigh DMGT requires that the forests Nottingham Post won the Trading International.
This year, six employees are certified either by the Forest Standards Institute newspaper award travelled to Borneo for two weeks to Stewardship Council, or the Pan in 2004 for its campaign to tackle assist in building a school.
doorstep crime and rogue traders.
Newspapers Classified Advertising staff also raised over 20,000 for Raleigh International.
Our Readers and Listeners Charities involving the media and relevant to the communities Editorial standards within which the Group operates are favoured.
In the last year There are a number of standard setting bodies that have Associated Newspapers launched an online Payroll Giving established codes to which DMGT's divisions adhere.
scheme, working in partnership with Workplace Giving UK which Compliance with these codes ensures that our published and enables staff to make more tax efficient personal donations to broadcast material reaches the editorial standards expected and their preferred charities.
In addition, recipient charities save the agreed by the industry and other stakeholders.
The main code is administration costs of applying for Gift Aid on the donations.
established and monitored by the Press Complaints Commission for the Group's UK newspapers.
Teletext works to the standards A few examples of our involvement during the year are set by the Independent Television Commission, OfCom, the shown above.
Broadcasting Standards Commission and Channel 4s own codes.
DMG Radio complies with the Australian Broadcasting DMGT and our Employees Authority Codes of Conduct.
DMGT Group is an equal opportunities employer.
In addition to a Group policy, each division has its own policies and practices Responding to reader and listener needs across a range of employee issues.
Training is taken seriously Within the established editorial framework, editors and across the Group.
journalists have the freedom to operate as appropriate.
The media industry is highly competitive: therefore, remaining in Staff communication touch with and championing the interests of the diverse groups A variety of approaches to staff communications exist within the who make up our communities is critical to DMGT's success.
Group, including the use of the intranet, regular communication Reader and listener satisfaction is monitored through a number events, face-to-face communications with management, and of mechanisms, such as timely responses to complaints, regular programmes related to specific key events such as major in-house programming and sales research, readership surveys changes in operations or equipment.
and other processes to receive feedback from customers.
Health and safety Compliance with editorial standards is strictly monitored within The Group's health and safety policy applies across DMGT.
It sets the divisions through various mechanisms which include out to ensure the health, safety and welfare of its employees and compliance committees, editorial responsibility, compliance all others who could be affected by the activities of the Group.
Whilst the Chief Executive has overall responsibility at Board level for health and safety matters throughout the Group, day to DMGT and the Community day responsibility is devolved to the managing directors of each Community involvement is integral to our business as well as division.
The Group has had no fines or prosecutions for health to the personal motivation of our employees.
We donate money, and safety failures over the last year.
There are many examples time and in-kind donations such as air time and Teletext pages, of good practice across the Group, in terms of health and safety as well as staff giving time to areas such as fundraising and management systems, the use of independent consultants and trusteeships.
The use of our media channels and activities for initiatives focused on business specific health and safety risk fundraising is driven through participation in the communities areas.
Health and safety is particularly critical in all printing we serve and the concerns and contributions of our readers press facilities which have appropriate policies and management and listeners.
The Group is a member of the Per Cent Club and and monitoring programmes.
Charitable donations are allocated by a Charities Committee at DMGT, as well as being made on a smaller scale by divisional and local managements.
26 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 100% Free exhibition space Recycling Want to know more?
dmg world media provides free space 100% of production paper waste DMGT has a CSR section on its at many exhibitions to charitable is recycled.
Our offices around the website which provides information and or non-profit organisations world practise paper recycling and about our community and including Breakthrough Breast there are some schemes in place environmental activities.
This is a Cancer, the Uphill Ski Club and the for the recycling of plastic cups, summary of our disclosure in this Nature Conservancy Council.
toner cartridges, mobile phones area, with further information and IT equipment.
reported below available at www.
DMGT and the Environment Digital photography is used in an increasing number of the printing The direct environmental impacts from most of our divisions are centres.
In addition the IT equipment at Northcliffe printing centres relatively low.
They arise mainly in our printing divisions.
In the is either collected and recycled if re-useable, or is collected and FTSE4Good index, which DMGT entered in September, Media disposed of by licensed waste management companies.
is ranked as low impact: printing and newspaper publishing is ranked as medium impact: and as a B in Morleys sustainability Absolute energy consumption remained relatively consistent with matrix defined as business that has low impacts and some last year.
Overall efficiency has improved, reflecting the good benefits and may contribute to enabling a more sustainable future.
practices in energy reduction efforts at a number of printing centres.
Since our non-printing operations are primarily office-based, Targets for waste paper are set for each product printed.
This their environmental impact is considered low.
Our offices around percentage varies according to certain criteria such as the the world practise paper recycling and there are some schemes numbers of copies required and edition changes.
Actual waste in place for the recycling of plastic cups, toner cartridges, mobile volumes are compared against budgeted levels, with the results phones and IT equipment.
provided for monthly review at the appropriate Board level.
Newsprint production waste efficiency remained relatively Our report therefore focuses on how we manage the impacts consistent in relation to last year.
The trend to increase numbers in the printing businesses.
In addition, we acknowledge our of colour pages printed resulted in more waste production as responsibility in ensuring that our paper supplies come from a result of greater numbers of runs required to achieve the paper manufacturers that manage their environmental impacts, appropriate print quality.
This makes overall gains in newsprint including the sustainable sourcing of virgin fibres.
These two waste reductions difficult to achieve.
100% of the production elements are the focus of our environmental reporting.
In our printing operations, key environmental impacts are Improvements were made in water efficiency for the Group waste generation, particularly waste newsprint: energy use: during the year.
Northcliffe saw the most significant reductions ink use: Volatile Organic Compounds VOC emissions: and this year 18% improvement over 2003 as a result of a paper purchasing.
benchmarking study of water use which identified where improvements could be achieved.
Ink efficiency remained DMGT has two divisions which include printing operations, relatively consistent with prior years.
Associated Newspapers, which owns the Groups largest printing works, Harmsworth Quays, and Northcliffe Newspapers, which Newsprint supply and the environment owns twelve printing centres around the UK and two printing DMGT is aware of the responsibility it has along the supply chain, centres in Hungary.
All printing centres have environmental in particular for one of its largest purchases, newsprint.
The use of energy, newsprint, ink has a central Newsprint Committee and paper is purchased for all and plates and waste disposal have cost implications for the the Groups newspaper operations, allowing co-ordinated review of businesses and are, therefore, managed for reasons of good the environmental credentials of paper suppliers and the sourcing business sense as well as to reduce our environmental impacts.
Where virgin fibres are used in the paper Waste newsprint and ink use is measured and reported to manufacture, DMGT requires that the forests are certified either divisional board meetings on a monthly basis.
85% of the by the Forest Stewardship Council, or the Pan European Forestry printing presses are Computer to Plate processes.
The Commission, both of which run schemes that provide credible environmental benefits of this system are improved efficiencies guarantees that the product comes from well managed forests.
in the use of ink, plates and paper and a reduction in the DMGT sources its paper from European mills, most of which chemicals used during photographic processes.
hold the environmental management standard ISO14001.
98% of virgin fibre products are sourced from managed forests.
27 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
