Our aim at Kesa is to create a worldis now gaining momentum.
In the last educate customers in the energy class electrical retailing business but year Comet employed its first RENEW efficiency of individual products through we are equally determined to manage trainee as a full-time member of staff.
a series of in-store communication the social and environmental impacts Over the next five years, Comet plans and promotions.
we create in a responsible way.
to support the opening of a further five As a further environmental benefit, all of centres and is actively committed to Kesa remains fully committed to the Dartys 1,200 home service vehicles run increasing the pace of re-employment development of comprehensive Corporate on LPG Liquified Petroleum Gas whilst within the company.
Social Responsibility CSR programmes Vanden Borre has introduced a routeto the benefit of the environment, Recycling planning programme for its home delivery our employees, our customers, our Darty collects all waste packaging from service.
This reduces unnecessary shareholders and, above all, the local home deliveries, warehouses, stores and road miles and saves on costs and communities throughout the seven after-sales centres for recycling.
European countries in which we operate.
in the Paris area alone, Darty recycled Charity fundraising a total of over 1,000 tonnes of cardboard, As a Group, we are sharing At Comet, last years fundraising raised over 100 tonnes of plastic film and the best practices of our operating over 150,000 for The National Childrens nearly 300 tonnes of packaging wood.
companies and we are in the process Homes the Companys adopted charity.
For customers, Darty has launched of developing a unified CSR mission This was achieved through a series a collection scheme for used batteries with specific corporate guidelines of diverse events ranging from a nine-day and accumulators.
trek through the High Atlas Mountains Comet automatically collects and of Morocco, marathon runs, concerts Our activities at a local level recycles all packaging waste from and football matches to in-store include recycling and community customers homes, home distribution sponsored fun days.
projects, environmental and centres and after-sales centres.
energy saving initiatives and charity Darty is a member of several national Comet was also the first electrical fundraising schemes.
We do not make charities and committees including: retailer to provide its customers with any donations to any political party.
ARES, which helps the long-term a mobile phone recycling scheme.
unemployed, ASTREE, helping lonely Community projects Vanden Borre also collects all waste people and FACE, a national foundation ENVIE: Darty has been the leading packaging for recycling as well as actively supporting the socially excluded.
partner of the ENVIE programme since promoting the benefits of recycling in its its conception in 1985.
Dedicated to The future stores.
For many years Vanden Borre has training the long-term unemployed in the Since the demerger from the Kingfisher been actively involved with RECUPEL repair of domestic electrical appliances, Group last July, we now have the an independent organisation which runs ENVIE now works out of 30 centres opportunity to focus our CSR activities a national project for the collection and across France and employs 500 people.
on the very specific issues we face recycling of old electrical appliances.
During the two-year training programme, as a specialised home equipment participants train on otherwise discarded In Holland, BCC has introduced retailing group.
Building on our progress products, which are then sold on a proactive scheme for its customers to date, we are committed to devising the second-hand market in special whereby it pledges to collect and recycle our own CSR mission to the benefit ENVIE stores at an affordable price.
any electrical appliance free of charge.
of all our stakeholders across the world.
RENEW: Launched in 2000, Comet Environment We will achieve these goals by is the founder partner for the RENEW Comet has been recognised as sharing the best practices of our larger scheme.
Based on learnings from Dartys investing more than any other UK retailer companies, continuing to pursue ENVIE, RENEW also trains the long-term in subsidising the price of energy efficient groundbreaking initiatives, and unemployed to repair unusable electrical appliances.
Working with British Gas by maintaining a vision of Kesa as a appliances.
With four centres around and other partners, Comet has business which enhances quality of life.
the UK already established, the project successfully completed a project to Corporate social responsibility From charity fundraising to recycling projects, our Corporate social responsibility vision is to enhance quality of life for all our communities and stakeholders.
