36 corporate social responsibility report Dimension Data recognises its responsibility towards its employees, society and the environment, and evaluates the key risks related to Corporate Social Responsibility on a regular basis.
Over the period under review Dimension Data considered that the ability to attract and retain appropriately skilled and motivated staff remained key to the Groups success, and that a shortage of such talent would be a material risk to the business.
The emphasis for Corporate Social Responsibility as a Group has therefore remained on educational issues for staff and in the communities within which we operate: however, wider social issues in the community also have an impact on the Groups objectives.
Community activities have therefore been beyond the Groups traditional focus on ICT education in the period under review.
The Group is committed to increasing its to ensure that performance is effectively Group companies aim to maintain health sustainability by conducting its business managed.
and safety policies in accordance with and reporting according to the highestRegular communications by senior best practice and adhere to the regulatory ethical standards, and through the management.
The Group CEO regularly requirements of the regions in which they development of its relationship with its communicates with all employees by eoperate.
Local labour standards are employees, local communities and mail, or personal appearance, and the adhered to, with most employees working stakeholders.
regional CEOs do the same on a 40 hour weeks unless contractually regional level.
agreed otherwise because of the nature EmployeesA benchmarking exercise has been of their employment.
The Board remains committed to carried out during the period to attracting, retaining and developing the establish that employees salaries are in Skills development and training highest calibre of employees and building line with comparative companies.
In the financial year under review, over on the Groups culture of high Most employees can earn bonuses based US$4.5 million was spent throughout the performance.
The Group has many on their individual performance and that of Group on training Dimension Data initiatives to involve, motivate and educate the business.
Many employees are also employees, equating to US$525 per its employees.
These include: offered target-based options in the Share employee 2003:US$410.
In the period A global intranet, providing employees Option Scheme.
Currently 3,114 under review a sales skills assessment with constant access to up-to-theemployees hold options in the scheme across all Regions was completed to minute Group communications, policies 2003: 4,073 employees.
During the identify the priority areas of training.
period a fundamental review of this was followed by the rollout of customised @didata, a Group magazine, is scheme has been undertaken by the sales management, account planning and regularly produced.
It provides Remuneration Committee, and proposals solutions selling training across most employees with updates and recognises for new long term incentive arrangements regions.
for the Group are being put before DDU, the Groups global corporate The People Dimension System, a shareholders on 2 December 2004.
The university, aims to accelerate the global, web-based performance new proposals have been designed to execution of the Groups strategy through management tool that allows for the continue the Groups tradition of employee committed training and development of formal and consistent implementation of involvement in share ownership, whilst employees.
There are three DDU Centres certain key strategic HR processes reducing dilution for shareholders.
of Excellence: Sales, Technical and across Dimension Data.
Performance It is Group policy to adhere to local Delivery, and Business and Leadership.
As management is one of the most vital labour standards and globally accepted well as a physical presence at the HR processes within the Group.
It is Group policy Campus headquarters and in other Employees goals are strategically not to employ under-age staff.
Freedom of territories, the DDU also has a strong aligned to ensure the ultimate execution association is also Group policy on a on-line presence, allowing staff to access of the Groups strategies.
These are global basis, with works councils existing world-class training content from formally reviewed twice annually.
This in some countries, where appropriate to anywhere in the world.
Training delivered includes a personal development plan local law and practice.
through DDU is done in partnership with DIMENSION DATA 37 corporate social responsibility report world-class institutions, partner South Africa independently committed in excess of organisations and consultants such as Dimension Data South Africa DDSA is US$235,000 of funding to these projects Harvard Business School, Manchester committed to contributing 2.5% of net in the period under review.
Business School, Cisco and Microsoft.
profits towards its community programme, IS supports worthy causes by means of including fulfiling its obligations towards donating services and solutions, mainly in Communities implementing Black Economic the form of IT connectivity, Internet Dimension Data has traditionally Empowerment BEE initiatives, and access, hosting and skills training.
supported educational initiatives, including primarily aimed at developing primary, development in sport and information and secondary and tertiary technology Australia communication technology skills, and education.
In the period under review a Dimension Data Australia has used its ICT expertise to engage with and total contribution of US$183,000 was predominantly supported the Starlight assist the communities it encounters.
foundation and their IT fund during the During the course of the year, Dimension During the year, DDSA announced the year, but is currently running a pilot Data Group companies engaged in a completion of its BEE equity transaction.
programme to become involved with wider range of community facing activities: The BEE consortium has entered into an Social Ventures Australia SVA, which is and companies which had previously not agreement that is expected to result in a a not-for-profit philanthropic organisation participated in the Groups community 25.01% equity purchase in DDSA.
Details that partners with outstanding social programmes became involved.
Employee of this transaction, and the social enterprises, supports their growth efforts participation and enjoyment increased investment initiatives it embraces, are and uses benchmarks and performance considerably.
contained in the South African measurements to hold them accountable Employment Equity report on page 38. for generating increased social change in United Kingdom At a tertiary level, DDSA sponsors the Australia.
SVA proves a mix of funding During the period under review Dimension position of Chief Operating Officer for access, corporate mentor support and Data in the UK has adopted the Starfish CIDA City Campus, an innovative nonbest practice shared learning.
Donations charity as the focus for its community government university for disadvantaged in the period under review totalled activities.
Starfish is a charity that seeks to students selected from schools across US$82,000 2003:US$55,000.
mobilise and inspire individuals in their South Africa.
The companys involvement In addition, Dimension Data Australia various fields of influence to bring life, also encompasses IT service delivery for intends to support the ongoing hope and opportunity to children orphaned CIDA, as well as putting together the volunteering efforts of employees or affected by the HIV Aids pandemic in necessary curriculae.
including employee efforts with local office South Africa.
During 2004 activities in The Dimension Data Saturday School initiatives that are being sponsored to support of Starfish have included: was opened in 1995 to encourage promote a social issue, and approximately the hosting of the first Dimension Data students from disadvantaged backgrounds US$15,000 is spent annually on student Day of Hope, which was organised by a to develop an interest in computers and to subsidies.
team of volunteers, attracted over 300 help them improve their marks.
It is now members of staff and family and based on the Campus and run by Environment resulted in over US$20,000 being raised Dimension Data volunteers.
Dimension Data is committed to a clean for Starfish.
During the period under review DDSA environment.
Our day-to-day activities do Dimension Data and Manchester United continued its relationship with the not, in themselves, cause significant hosted a Gala Evening in aid of Diepsloot Combined School first pollution.
However, we will at all times strive Starfish.
Linked to this, 144 children, established in 2003. to reduce waste by recycling materials and supported by Starfish, will have the The company continues to support the disposing of any waste produced in an opportunity to participate in Dimension physically disabled by sponsoring the environmentally friendly manner.
Data's soccer schools programme in South African Paralympic Committee for The Groups environmental policy is as South Africa, with three being selected the Paralympic world competition which follows: to win A Chance of A Lifetime: was staged in Athens.
Being office-based by nature, Dimension attending a day's training with Internet Solutions IS is a 60% owned Data has very low primary and direct Manchester United.
subsidiary of DDSA and is committed to impacts on the environment.
The Group is the upliftment of society through mindful of the necessity to be efficient in education and development.
IS has its consumption of energy and strives to ANNUAL REPORT 2004 38 corporate social responsibility report exceed wherever possible the statutory projects, as further outlined below: and recycling, pest control, waste disposal and requirements which apply to the Group in Ngcaba Holdings Pty Ltd.
The security services as well as building, plant the countries of operation.
The recycling transformation of our South African and vehicle maintenance have been of waste materials and the reduction of business through the arrangement to subcontracted to BEE companies.
The non-renewable resources, as well as the acquire a 25.01% equity stake in DDSA by company has achieved its objective of at environmentally friendly disposal of any a black-empowered consortium was both least 30% of non-stock purchases through hazardous resources employed by the a business and social responsibility black-owned companies by the 2004 Group, is encouraged.
When developing imperative, and critical to DDSA's long financial year.
systems, the environmental concerns and term growth.
statutory obligations of customers are Attaining Black Empowered status Entrepreneurship formation reflected in the solutions we provide.
enables DDSA to retain existing business DDSA encourages entrepreneurship Dimension Datas Group companies and develop new business, and makes it formation by leveraging its skills and recycle paper, boxes, toner cartridges, easier for customers from all sectors to do contacts within the industry to the save electricity, and dispose of old business with DDSA, both from a advantage of an empowerment partner, as computer equipment to charities or in an legislative point of view and from a skillswell as offering employees an opportunity ecologically sound fashion.
base and relationship point of view.
to run their own businesses.
Several large As well as the obvious commercial deals were won with a variety of SME Ethics benefits, it demonstrates Dimension partners during 2004.
The Dimension Data Group embraces the Datas commitment to advancing and highest standards in its business activities.
developing transformation in South Africa.
Employment equity The Group operates in accordance with As a fully empowered ICT company, DDSA has to date met its transformation an ethical code, which is distributed to DDSA is better positioned and perceived targets at all levels within the organisation employees via the corporate intranet.
as a company that is helping to address as submitted to the Department of Labour A copy of the code is available on the the imbalances of the past and to further every year since 1998.
It has formed an Groups website www.
com enhance its contribution to the long term Empowerment Equity Committee to drive The Group is non-political.
It does not economic development of South Africa.
empowerment, with the mandate to make contributions to political parties or implement transformation at every level, allow its assets and services to be used in Shareholding at equity level and the executive sponsorship to back it any way that favours any particular Over and above the arrangement to up.
Current employment equity statistics political grouping, other than in the acquire 25.01% of the equity in DDSA by are 33% black staff, 21% white female provision of its normal products and a black-owned consortium, DDSA staff, and 46% white male staff.
services, under its usual terms and continues to hold a 49% stake in blackconditions of sale.
owned telecommunications infrastructure Skills development provider Plessey.
In 2004 black managers made up 59% of South African Employment Equity our management development programme Report Operational and management control candidates.
Executive commitment to the During the year, Dimension Data Operational management participation is MDP ensures that the programme goes announced the completion of its Black at the heart of DDSAs BEE strategy, and beyond affirmative action to real Economic Empowerment BEE equity in spite of the skills shortage amongst empowerment and meaningful transaction, in terms of which a BEE black people entering the ICT sector, the advancement.
consortium entered into an arrangement company has made progress toward its to make an equity purchase in Dimension target of 40% black executive directors by Data South Africa DDSA, which is 2006.
expected to result in them holding 25.01%.
The members of the consortium Affirmative procurement include empowerment investment DDSA supports the government policy to company Safika Holdings Pty Ltd: a establish and support a competitive, number of community-based economic sustainable and viable base of suppliers development organisations who support from previously disadvantaged several rural and economic development communities.
Office supplies, print bureau, DIMENSION DATA
