CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW The Board recognises that if the Group is to both the frequency and severity of accidents minimising the impact of our operations have long-term success and produce good and, in the coming year, the Group is on the environment, in accordance with sustainable returns for its shareholders, it undertaking further initiatives aimed at the Group Environment Policy.
Divisional must maintain high standards of ethical and reducing specific types of accidents.
performance and activities are reviewed at social behaviour in all its business dealings.
the Group Environment Committee, which A number of steps were taken during 2003 04 meets three times per year and is chaired The Groups Key Corporate Values statement to reinforce the drive to reduce accidents.
by the Group Chief Executive.
defines the conduct required of all employees A Group Health and Safety Committee was During the year we accelerated our programme at all times, being: to act ethically and with established to enable divisions to share best practice and experience more readily.
A new to establish an appropriate environmental integrity: to treat their colleagues fairly, accident investigation procedure ensures that management system EMS at all sites.
equitably and with respect: to work safely: accidents receive the appropriate level of 33 Group sites have now been identified as and to protect the environment.
These values management attention and systems have having higher potential environmental impact are underpinned by more detailed policies on due to their size or type of operations.
16 of been improved to enable lessons learned health and safety, the environment, workplace these sites are certified for the internationally from accidents to be quickly shared across malpractice and other topics.
In the UK, divisions continue recognised ISO 14001 EMS: during 2003 04, Chief Executive is the Director responsible to collaborate with the trade unions and the Abbey Board, St Regis Kemsley mill and for corporate social responsibility matters and Health and Safety Executive HSE to raise DW Plastics, Bilzen obtained certification.
reports to the Board on these.
The 17 other higher potential impact sites are standards and St Regis has participated in Safety and the environment continue to be all progressing towards achieving ISO 14001 joint training courses for HSE inspectors.
the highest priority areas of corporate social certification: 16 are on course to be certified Over 80 DS Smith Packaging managers responsibility on which the Group is focused.
Of the Groups 73 other were trained and accredited to the Institute of Occupational Safety and Health standards sites, 35 have a simplified EMS in place, Health and safety appropriate to their lower level of potential during 2003 04.
St Regis Taplow mill was It is essential to the Groups successful environmental impact, and many more are awarded the UK paper industrys leading performance that we provide a safe working on course for implementation of a simplified safety award in recognition of its sustained environment for everyone on our premises EMS during 2004 05. action programme on health and safety and and that all reasonable precautions are taken its extended period without a lost time accident.
to ensure that work is always carried out safely.
The Groups paper mills and some other Kaysersberg Packagings St Just plant was All the Groups businesses have adopted major sites have monitored key environmental accredited for the OHSAS 18801 international performance data for some years.
From early common definitions and reporting methods, health and safety management system and 2003 all Group businesses started monitoring and progress is monitored monthly.
Information other plants in France, Poland and Turkey are and reporting on energy usage, carbon is reported to the Board quarterly and, as an working towards obtaining accreditation.
dioxide CO2 emissions, water usage, waste indication of its importance, safety is a fixed disposed of to landfill and waste recycled.
agenda item at all divisional review meetings.
Environment As comparable data builds up in future years In 2003 04 the Groups accident frequency In 2003 04, the Group made further this will enable the Group to report more fully rate increased by 2% but the severity rate substantial progress in strengthening its on its overall environmental performance.
was 3% lower, reflecting a lower incidence environmental management and reporting.
The EMSs and environmental reporting of of serious accidents.
There is scope to reduce Divisional management is responsible for Environmental improvement A ow of small and large initiatives within the Groups businesses contributes to minimising our impact on the environment.
Projects are often employee-driven and focus on reducing energy consumption, water and chemical usage and waste.
Recycling Glue drums that were previously disposed Lower resource usage Investment in a new of to landll are now collected and returned to the shrink-wrapper substantially reduced lm usage manufacturer for recycling.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 23 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW sites are audited through the Groups routine The Group makes a major contribution to Environmental management internal audit processes.
reducing waste disposal in landfill through Paper the recycling process of its Paper and Paper manufacturing has the largest potential The Group had a number of minor Corrugated Packaging operations.
Corrugated environmental impact of all the Groups environmental incidents during the year, board is produced predominantly from operations.
Six of the Groups nine paper mills following which corrective action was taken recycled paper and is a cost-effective and have ISO 14001 certification and the other promptly and the appropriate agencies were fully recyclable packaging material.
three are progressing towards certification.
At DS Smith Severnside Recycling is the UKs largest The UK mills are regulated through Pollution Packaging Clay Cross, a discharge of ink collector of recovered paper: it works closely Prevention and Control PPC permits under waste into an adjacent stream, caused by the with a number of major supermarket chains which they each have specific improvement failure of a valve, resulted in prosecution to raise recycling levels and continues to programmes and targets.
St Regis overall and a 3,000 fine.
As part of our continuing invest in its collection infrastructure.
St Regis compliance with its PPC emission targets drive to reduce such incidents, investigation is the UKs leading recycler of packaging fell slightly to 98.9% compared with 99.7% results and lessons learnt from environmental waste and largest producer of recycled paper, in the previous year, principally due to incidents are communicated throughout while Kaysersberg is a significant recycler of several small overflows of effluent at the pumping station on the Kemsley site: the Group.
a project to eliminate these overflows is During the year, revisions were made to A large proportion of the Groups businesses due for completion in August 2004. both the EU Packaging and Packaging now have processes in place for assessing Waste Directive and the UK Packaging Waste St Regis is a key participant in the UK paper their suppliers environmental policies and Regulations.
The EU has set material specific sector Climate Change Levy Agreement management systems.
targets for the recovery and recycling of with the Department of Environment Food Packaging and the environment packaging from 2004 to 2008.
The UK and Rural Affairs under which the industry Packaging performs the valuable functions government has consequently set similar has undertaken to achieve energy of limiting damage to products, reducing material specific targets for the same period.
St Regis waste and lowering the total cost of goods.
Recycling of paper packaging under the UK is comfortably on course to meet its target The Groups packaging operations contribute Regulations is targeted to rise from 65% for the year to September 2004.
The Groups paper to minimising the use of resources by and French paper operations are discussing collection and recycling operations are working with their customers to develop with the relevant authorities the details of expected to make a key contribution to emissions trading schemes to be introduced packaging of the optimum specification the achievement of these targets.
from January 2005 in response to the EU for the required use.
The sales and design Emissions Trading Directive.
teams at a number of our UK and continental The Groups plastic returnable transit European packaging businesses are evaluating packaging is designed to be re-used, often In 2003 04, our paper mills accounted for 82% opportunities for making environmentally many times, where customers require multiof the Groups total CO2 emissions and 98% beneficial improvements to customers trip packaging.
Several of our businesses of water usage.
Despite increased paper output, products through switching to recycled paper, recycle worn or damaged plastic packaging, 2 they reduced their total volumes of CO reducing packaging weight and minimising such as bottle crates or layer pads, to produce emissions and water usage.
CO2 emissions waste through creative design.
new crates or plastic sheet.
per tonne of paper produced were cut by 3% Increased recycling In addition to the Groups activities in collecting recovered paper for recycling in paper manufacturing, our businesses look to recycle their process waste and other resources whenever possible.
Offcuts of corrugated board from the box manufacturing process are fed, through tubes, straight from the cutting machines to be baled and then recycled to our paper mills.
Corrugated board recycling The bre from corrugated board makes the best raw material for producing more corrugated case materials paper.
24 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 due to a range of initiatives including eliminating emissions to the local river through employee involvement.
A number of UK commissioning new boilers at the Chouanard the installation of a closed loop water system.
sites have Investors in People accreditation mill in France and cessation of the use of and DS Smith Plastics, Gloucester is now Spicers continues to focus on reducing the coal at the Kaysersberg mill.
Water usage working towards the recently introduced environmental impact of its vehicle fleet, both per tonne of paper produced was reduced by Leadership and Management module.
Spicers through the increasing use of lower emission 8%, principally due to increased recycling of has launched a new e-learning initiative, engines and the rationalisation of journeys.
water at a number of the UK mills.
open to all its UK employees, to supplement John Dickinson is a founder member of the existing training programmes.
The paper mills increased their recycling WWF 95 group, which is committed to of reject material, such as plastic and promoting legal and sustainable development The Group is committed to applying polystyrene, which is produced during the in connection with timber procurement.
equal opportunities in all recruitment and paper production process, principally due to employment practices.
It is also committed, the full years operation of Kemsley mills In addition to the Groups primary focus on as a minimum, to meeting the labour rights waste-to-energy plant which burns reject safety and the environment, the Group places and legislation requirements in each of the material and generates electricity.
Total considerable importance on its dealings with countries in which it operates.
recycling of reject material rose by 15% its employees and local communities.
Community involvement while waste disposed of to landfill was 34% Employees The main focus of our community involvement lower, due to a combination of increased The Group maintains its focus on creating is through our individual businesses and their recycling and improved processes at several an environment in which its people meet the various initiatives to foster good relations mills which reduced the volume of waste Groups objectives while feeling that they with local communities.
Sudbrook mill continued its are well managed, treated with respect and charitable fund-raising activities through investigation and investment programme to able to fulfil their own potential.
Our cash contributions and in the form of product reduce the impact of its effluent discharge.
divisions and businesses organise training and services or staff time.
The majority of Other operations and development programmes to meet their the modest amount of money donated by the Although the environmental impact of the specific needs for raising operational Group is given by individual operating units, Groups other operations is substantially performance and career development.
Five principally to causes in their local communities.
lower than that of paper manufacturing, our St Regis employees successfully completed Donations by the Group headquarters are Corrugated and Plastic Packaging and Office the open MBA section of its management focused on a small number of educational, Products businesses continue to implement development programme, accredited by the training and support causes that help young a range of projects and benchmarking University of Derby, which has involved people become involved in business and programmes to reduce energy consumption, over 70 supervisory, operational and working life.
The Group is a member of water and chemicals usage and waste levels.
Over 20 Business in the Community and donates In 2003 04, our UK Corrugated operations DS Smith Packaging junior, middle and to The Princes Trust.
During 2004, John lowered their total CO2 emissions per senior managers also participated in this Dickinson is running a major cause-related thousand square metres produced by 3%.
development programme during 2003 04. marketing campaign for its Plus Fabric Kaysersberg Packagings St Just plant St Regis undertook a division-wide employee envelopes which is expected to result in a received recognition in the Trophe fide lEau communications survey, which is providing substantial contribution to the National Society scheme, run by its local water regulator, for the basis for developing plans for increased for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children.
MATERIAL COLLECTED BY PAPER MILLS ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDEX 2002 100 SEVERNSIDE RECYCLING 000 TONNES 900 105 90 750 75 600 60 450 45 300 30 15 150 2002 2003 2004 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 CORRUGATED PACKAGING CO2 EMISSIONS PER TONNE OF PAPER PRODUCED TOTAL PAPER AND PLASTIC WATER USAGE PER TONNE OF PAPER PRODUCED DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 25 396 696 424 717 458 736 511 773 569 881 100 100 96 101 92 94
