Corporate Social Responsibility Introduction Among the key features of Aggrekos worldwide This report describes the policies and procedures Health and Safety Policy are: that the Board has put in place to ensure that Aggreko operates in a safe, ethical and responsible Ensuring that health and safety issues are manner, which protects the environment as at the fore-front of considerations when well as safeguarding the health and safety of its we design our equipment employees, customers, and the communities in which it operates.
The process for identifying, Ensuring that our equipment is built and evaluating and managing the risks that are maintained to the highest standards considered significant is summarised under the heading of Internal Control on page 39.
Training and educating our staff worldwide in the safe operation of our equipment Aggreko is committed to working in a safe, ethical and responsible manner.
The nature Ensuring that Health and Safety issues have of our business is that we work in many the appropriate level of focus throughout different countries, often in remote and difficult the management chain.
environments, with equipment and substances which if improperly handled is potentially Aggreko has created its own Global dangerous to people and harmful to property Environmental Health and Safety Management and the environment.
We frequently operate System GEMS which has been implemented in response to natural or man-made disasters, throughout the business.
At the core of GEMS where the infrastructure has been badly damaged is a Best Operating Practice document that and where operating conditions are far from is published in 8 languages English, French, ideal.
Over time, therefore, we have developed German, Dutch, Spanish, Italian, Norwegian a comprehensive range of operating procedures and Singhalese and distributed to every and processes to ensure that we minimise any Aggreko employee worldwide.
The Best risk of harm to people or to the environment.
Operating Practice is updated in the light of experience and incidents, and covers the Health & Safety detailed operating procedures for all major Aggreko puts health and safety at the very heart categories of equipment.
Most of our equipment is heavy, electro-mechanical equipment which, in the GEMS also incorporates a comprehensive nature of our business, is moved around reporting system, which is designed to ensure frequently.
Our compressors and generators that the Company knows of every incident, respectively produce high-pressure compressed and can learn from it.
A uniform accident and air and very high voltages, either of which can incident data collection procedure is implemented be harmful to people if mishandled.
We therefore worldwide, and from these we can measure our take the greatest care to ensure that throughout performance and benchmark our operations.
our operation, safety is the number one priority.
Performance measures are reported at business unit level on a monthly basis, and at company Aggrekos policy is to implement common level on a quarterly basis.
Any serious incident is Health and Safety operating procedures immediately reported to the Executive Director worldwide.
Whether operating in the Australian responsible for the business unit concerned.
bush, the Saudi Arabian desert or in downtown Manhattan, our operating procedures are the same high standard.
26 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Meetings of the senior management of each The Environment region are held regularly: at each of these an Environmental Policy Executive Director will normally chair the Aggrekos equipment is designed to function meeting, and incidents reported under GEMS are in all continents and all types of terrain.
On a quarterly basis, Through careful design and use of the most the Executive Director responsible for Health suitable technology, we also aim to minimise and Safety, George Walker, reports to the Board.
the environmental impact of that equipment.
Aggreko makes available to its customers We measure our safety performance using a equipment and solutions that are designed to metric called Frequency Accident Rating comply with applicable laws, regulations and FAR, which is a measurement of lost-time industry standards wherever we operate in the accidents in relation to the number of hours world.
In effect, this means they comply with worked.
The usefulness of this measure is that the laws, regulations and standards of some we can benchmark our performance against of the most stringent jurisdictions in which other businesses.
It is calculated as the number we operate and, therefore far exceed the levels of losttime accidents multiplied by 200,000 required in many others.
hours, divided by the number of man-hours worked.
The benchmark is the 2003 level The two major environmental issues we deal reported for US service industries by the US with in our business are emissions-to-air from Department of Labor of 1.4.
Aggrekos FAR our equipment the vast majority of which is performance over the past three years has been diesel powered, and the safe handling and significantly better than this benchmark, being disposal of fuel and oil.
This performance should also be seen in the light Our Environmental policies are managed in of the fact that the nature of Aggrekos business a similar way to safety.
They comprise: is almost certainly more challenging from a safety point-of-view than the majority of US service Ensuring that environmental issues are at industries.
A FAR score of less than 1.0 has the fore-front of considerations when we been set by the Group as a target for 2005. design our fleet Ensuring that our equipment is built and Technical Terms maintained to the highest standards NOx Oxides of Nitrogen.
Training and educating our staff worldwide Particulate in the safe operation of our equipment In general this term relates to visible smoke.
Tier 1, tier 2, tier 3, tier 4 Ensuring that environmental issues have US Federal Government target emission reduction the appropriate level of focus throughout levels.
g bhp-hr Emissions in grams per brake-horsepower hour.
LWA Sound power level at source.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 27 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Emissions-to-air: Exhaust Gases and Our strong presence in markets which are Particulates particularly sensitive to emissions, such as Emissions-to-air are an inevitable by-product California, means that these issues are at the of hydrocarbon fuelled engines.
Over the years, fore-front of our design considerations and as engines have become more efficient and decisions on engine choice.
We are constantly legislation to limit emissions around the world exploring new ways of reducing emissions and has become stricter, emissions have reduced are particularly pleased that in 2004 we have sharply.
Aggreko works in co-operation with completed the development of a new gas-fuelled the manufacturers of diesel engines in order temporary power solution, which has significantly to meet new emission requirements at the lower levels of emissions see below.
Reduction in emissions Tier 1 Gas Reduction The principle contribution we can make to Engine engine % reducing emissions to air is in maintaining NOX 6.9 g bhp-hr 1.0 g bhp-hr 87 our equipment in good order, and introducing Particulate 0.4 g bhp-hr 0.1 g bhp-hr 75 engines into the fleet with good emissions performance.
Emissions to air: Carbon Dioxide CO 2 All of Aggrekos core activities release CO The chart below shows a summarised account of 2 into the atmosphere to a greater or lesser extent.
the requirement to meet new emission guidelines The most significant impact arises from power for Oxides of Nitrogen NOx and Particulate as generation in Aggreko International due to set out by the US Federal Government.
Most of the intensiveness of our activities in providing Aggrekos fleet is powered by tier 1 engines: we temporary power stations.
Any generation of have so far introduced 396 tier 2 engines into electricity using hydrocarbon fuels inevitably the fleet and will be adopting Tier 3 compliant causes the release of CO and the performance engines as they are made available by suppliers.
2 of Aggrekos equipment is comparable to other equivalent power sources.
Aggreko is actively researching the availability of alternative mobile Diesel Generator Emission Development 16 power sources that will reduce the level of CO 2 1995 Unregulated emissions: until an economically viable alternative 14 becomes available, the level of emissions will mirror the level of our business activity.
12 10 The actual amount of CO released by our 2 engines is driven by the usage our customers 8 make of our equipment on rent: an engine Tier 1 running 24 hours day will emit much more CO 6 2 than an engine used for a few hours a day.
These Tier 2 4 patterns of usage can vary widely from country Tier 3 to country and from year to year.
We estimate 2 Tier 4A that in 2004 customers using Aggreko engines Tier 4B 0 produced, on an annualised basis, approximately 2014 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 2,060 tonnes of CO per MW that they had on 2 Particulate [g bhp-hr ] rent, and that the average CO emission rate 2 of Aggrekos power fleet was 0.65 tonnes of 28 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 NOx[g bhp-hr ] CO per MW hour.
This compares with a Another potential source of environmental 2 modern coal-fired power station which will damage is in the disposal of consumables such produce in the region of 0.85 tonnes of CO as engine oil and filters.
In our Local business, 2 per megawatt hour.
these are normally returned to our service centres where they are safely disposed.
In Petroleum Spills and the Safe Disposal our International Power Projects business, of Waste Fluids site-specific arrangements are made to ensure Aggreko and its customers handle a considerable the safe handling of these items.
quantity of diesel fuel and the occurrence of fuel spills is an area that the Company monitors Reporting of fuel spills is handled in a similar very closely.
The measure used by management way to Safety incidents, with monthly reporting to measure the performance of the Group in at regional level, and quarterly reporting to the handling fuel is the Petroleum Release Rating Board.
This is calculated as litres released to ground, divided by the cumulative average MW Noise on rent.
The PRR performance over the past Aggreko has built a competitive advantage three years has been: 2004 a rating of 1.39: through an equipment fleet that minimises 2003 a rating of 0.97: and in 2002 a rating external noise.
This is done by the use of of 0.60.
In the early part of 2004 there were a custom-built acoustic enclosures as well as high number of significant spills in North America, performance isolation and attenuation systems.
and one large spill in Aggreko International.
Aggreko continues to work closely with its The causes of these spills were quickly identified suppliers and universities in order to develop its and action taken to minimise the risks of further expertise in this field.
As a result, our equipment spills: as a result the performance in the second is able to achieve the following performance half was considerably improved.
Furthermore, standards that are well below the maximum the increase since 2002 in the PRR is due also levels permitted by current European legislation.
to the greater average running hours and Noise Performance Standards therefore higher volumes of fuel being handled Certified Noise Level Sound Power LWA per MW on rent.
In spite of this unfavourable Aggreko Aggreko trend, the overall performance of the Company Maximum Standard Premium Size of Generator EU Limit Product Product in managing fuel continues to be of a very high 30kVA 98.3 93.3 78.0 standard.
It is estimated that one litre of diesel 60kVA 98.6 89.9 80.0 is released for every 50,000 litres consumed by 125kVA 99.0 90.0 83.0 Aggreko equipment.
Our equipment has been 200kVA 99.1 95.0 91.0 specifically designed to minimise the risk of fluid 320kVA 99.4 94.0 90.0 spillage through features such as a save-all Note: A reduction of 3 LWA in the certified noise level equates to an audible noise level that is approximately 50% lower.
base, double-walled storage tanks and fail-safe valves.
A PRR score of less than 1.3 has been set by the Group as a target for 2005.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 29 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Business Ethics Ethics Policy Aggreko has a reputation for delivering innovation, performance and solutions.
Also at the heart of our long-term success is something less tangible and, less easily illustrated with figures or case studies.
This key element is integrity and honesty in our business dealings, a factor that contributes to our long-term relationships with customers.
All Aggreko employees are expected to behave ethically in their work, and our expectations of them are set out in a Corporate Ethics Policy.
The objective of the policy is to make Aggreko a good company to work for: to maintain our reputation for exceptional customer service, and ethical business dealings, and to ensure the business is managed to a consistently high standard.
Employees who suspect any breaches of the Corporate Ethics Policy are encouraged to speak up, and their confidentiality and position is protected if they do so.
See our Corporate Responsibility Website Further information and copies of the Environmental, Health and Safety Policy, and Corporate Ethics Policy are available on www.
asp 30 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 GOVERNANCE Governance Board of Directors 32 Directors Report 34 Directors Responsibilities 37 Corporate Governance 38 Audit Committee Report 41 Nomination Committee Report 43 Remuneration Report 44 Independent Auditors Report 55
