Social, environmental and ethical report easyJet believes in the goal of excellence of achievement in all its functions and activities.
We see the striving for excellence in environmental, social and ethical activities as a key behaviour for a successful and sustainable business: positive for our shareholders, people and suppliers, considerate to our neighbours while we deliver value to our customers.
Environment We are the largest intra-United Kingdom and fifth largest intra-European airline in terms of passengers carried.
With this commercial success, we acknowledge that as an operator of aircraft, we are impacting the environment in two key areas, namely aircraft noise and aircraft engine emissions affecting air quality.
Even though considerable aviation industry reductions in emissions have been achieved, the success of the deregulation of air transport is delivering higher growth rates than other modes of transport, which is giving a higher growth particularly in emissions.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 1999 report on Aviation and Climate Change estimates aviation contributes 3.5% of human-induced global warming which may increase to 15% by 2050.
The major recent world effort to reduce emissions, the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, in which aviation emissions are treated as a special case, is gathering momentum for formal adoption.
Meanwhile there are active discussions as to how to reduce aviation emissions.
The principal area of concern is emission of the so-called greenhouse gases notably carbon dioxide, nitrous oxides, sulphur oxides and water vapour.
Further to these, because of the specific nature of these emissions, the total effect of aviation greenhouse gases increases the impact beyond that of carbon dioxide alone.
For noise, the most recent development of a way forward has been the ICAO Balanced Approach to improvement.
This has been generally adopted and given legal force by the EU.
We aim to minimise our effect on the environment by taking maximum advantage of the many benefits of efficient modern aircraft, high utilisation operations, good environmental practices and working with others in the air transport value chain to improve the overall air transport system.
We believe that our business model is a most effective basic means to combat the environmental effects of aviation as a transport mode.
Three elements predominate in this view: Firstly, we seek to remove unnecessary flights entirely.
A fundamental approach is the use of point-to-point origin airport direct to destination airport flight schedules.
This concept removes the need for a hub airport and the flight to it and more simply aims to fly the shortest distance between two airports, so giving an immediate environmental benefit.
Secondly, we maximise the use of our aircraft and associated resources.
We provide efficient cabin configurations consistent with our low cost approach with customer comfort and fly intensively with an average flight time of 1.69 hours with regular turnaround time standard of 20 minutes giving a daily utilisation of 11.2 block hours.
Thirdly, we minimise flight waste by providing a strong value proposition that achieves one of the industrys highest annual passenger load factor of 84.5% in the year to September 2004.
To underpin our business efficiency and environmental performance, our policy is to grow the business using new aircraft, while continuing to retire older aircraft, resulting in a fleet average age of 4.5 years as at 30 September 2004 6.0 years at 30 September 2003.
This will reduce year on year as we bring the balance of our Airbus aircraft order into service by 2007.
To further support the goal of a young fleet, we have a policy of replacing individual aircraft within ten years of purchase.
We have an ongoing fuel efficiency programme which reviews operational procedures and monitors the performance of the fleet to ensure that accurate fuel burn information is provided to the crew.
Changes to operational techniques this year have resulted in a reduction in fuel burn and further refinements to the flight planning system have contributed to this by reducing the amount of fuel needed.
In the forthcoming year, further operational changes are to be made, and this together with the introduction of the new A319 fleet is expected to result in a further 2% reduction in fuel used.
Annual report and accounts 2004 33 Social, environmental and ethical report continued Beyond the largely internal actions already discussed, we are taking a global view on how we might further minimise the environmental impact of our operations.
European air transport is continuing to grow estimated by Eurocontrol at 3-4% per year between 2004-2010 and this growth has highlighted limitations to its efficiency, most noticeable in the form of flight delays and longer flight tracks.
A call for action by the EU to significantly reduce delays and their associated effects has led to the introduction of the European Single Sky Regulations which will be progressively implemented from January 2005: among many benefits will be more efficient flights and consequent lower emissions.
We have been actively participating in public meetings and formally commenting on the drafting of regulations that will implement the Single Sky.
We are actively participating in and contributing to a number of European air traffic management improvement initiatives in support of the Single Sky including one which will define the European air traffic master plan from 2007 through to 2020.
This aims to ensure efficiency and environmental effects are as positive as our industry, its knowledge and technology will allow, to provide a sustainable air transport system.
In parallel with this activity, we are in discussions with our UK aviation partners and regulator on combined initiatives, such as the use of precision area navigation and continuous descent approaches, to increase the flight efficiency of our aircraft and so reduce noise and emissions.
We have voluntarily given our support to aviation generally and easyJet specifically, joining the EU Emissions Trading Scheme, proposed to start in 2008.
This is essentially an emissions balancing market, which incentivises participants to reduce emissions to avoid the cost to the business of purchasing energy credits from other businesses that have low emissions.
We have engaged with other transport suppliers and negotiated incentive pricing offers that encourage our people and customers to use more environmentally efficient methods of airport access.
Notable of these in London is reduced price tickets on selected train and bus services when purchased through our website.
We minimise waste of resources in a number of ways.
Key amongst these is our policy of operating a near paperless office, where the majority of hard copy documents are scanned into electronic format before disposing of the paper through our recycling programme.
This programme principally covers paper, including a special secure disposal for commercially sensitive waste and printer toner cartridges.
Our onboard product business policy of supplying food that does not rapidly perish and our charging for these products has the effect of minimising such waste.
To reduce the effect on waste processing we seek to use packaging materials that are either biodegradable or can be readily recycled.
Social The process of designing efficiency into our core business extends to our flat management structure, where we have few organisation layers between the Chief Executive and our operational and customer-facing people.
Our head office facility is also low cost as it consists only of what is functionally necessary to conduct our business.
We have an open office policy to encourage the interaction between any people, with break-out meeting rooms having full access to all the computer-based applications and electronic information, displayed on energy saving screens.
The Company, from its inception, subscribed to a policy of open information access.
This is only limited to comply with our public Company obligations, ensure commercial confidentiality of key information from other parties such as our suppliers or maintain business knowledge security.
We have a number of means to keep our people informed of the business both for internal and external news.
Key amongst these is our intranet, which is the official portal to a wide range of Company information which is actively updated and expanding in subject coverage.
This is a proven, successful communications medium and events ranging from daily operational performance to long term plans are posted here.
34 Annual report and accounts 2004 Using the intranet, access is provided to both common policies and procedures, such as in the People Handbook, or specific activities related to one of the business groups e. g. aircraft technical discussions.
Our people also publish their views on any topic via open discussion forums covering technical, employment, cost issues and more: in fact anything our people wish to debate.
As measurement of travel delivery achievement to our customers is a key performance indicator, we report to our people, via the intranet, on the end result of their effort, by publishing on our intranet front page, the preceding days on-time performance on each weekday morning.
A wide range of topical news from inside and outside the business, management announcements and general social activities, is also available.
To connect the management with any person in the business, directors have instituted a monthly on-line chat forum, which draws a wide audience with lively discussion.
To supplement the general intranet information, a range of monthly magazines is published.
These include Plane Times, in electronic form every three weeks, the quarterly Plane People, containing articles on a wide range of subjects and which is delivered to the home address of each of our people.
Individual business groups produce specialist publications such as The Stable Approach for pilots, Cabin Fever for cabin crew and Crew Safety for the operations team.
We have developed our previous Culture Committee activity into the new Culture Network, which recognises our European personality and location of our people.
This Network gives everyone an opportunity to get involved in communicating issues and ideas to management.
The goals of the Network are to create an environment where people are happy to come to work: to nurture pride in the Company and peoples individual efforts: to deliver outstanding performance to our internal and external customers and to promote our low cost model.
We aim to provide a safe and efficient work environment for all our people.
Beyond those engaged in office-based work, the large majority of our people are aircrew.
They have been one of the mainstays to our success, giving high effort to their role.
The rapid expansion of the airline has from time to time created extra load from events such as service disruption and this coupled with the effect on fatigue, subsequent rest and lifestyle, proved challenging for them all.
To improve this situation we are continuing to invest substantial effort and money into rostering practice and systems.
This year we completed a unique study on the effect of fatigue on our flight crew.
This gave sufficient empirical evidence to the UK Civil Aviation Authority to obtain their approval to change our Flight Time Limitations Scheme to both minimise fatigue and improve the lifestyle opportunity of our aircrew.
We introduced the GoMAD rewards scheme to give social and financial recognition, on a monthly basis, to those of our people who so often go beyond their normal duties to assist others.
easyJet is a committed equal opportunities employer.
Our policy aims to ensure that no job applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the basis of their age, colour, creed, disability, full or part time status, gender, marital status, nationality or ethnic origin, race, religion or sexual orientation.
We are building a workforce that has a balanced age profile and intends to maintain opportunities for younger and older people alike.
A visible industryleading example of this is that we now have no age limit for the employment of cabin crew.
During October 2003 we supported Cancer Research UKs Breast Cancer Awareness Month with a variety of fund-raising events involving both staff and passengers throughout the UK and onboard European flights.
We raised a total of 235,000 and we also assisted in raising the profile of the charity by promoting its goals through our website and in-flight magazine supported by provocative posters.
In addition, the services of the call-centre were volunteered for BBC Sport Relief and Children in Need.
In November, we introduced a new charity policy to recognise and devote efforts to a single charity each year.
The charity chosen was Whizz-Kidz which was set up to help provide mobility for children.
The partnership began with great success as the airline sponsored the launch of the new Whizz-Kidz website with a click and give campaign, raising 50,000 within the first month.
The campaign was further promoted on our website, in emails to customers and our in-flight magazine.
The partnership continued with a variety of internal and external fund-raising events throughout the year and introduced the brand to over 20 million passengers.
Over 345,000 was raised by the end of the partnership and Whizz-Kidz received coverage in major national, regional press and television.
Annual report and accounts 2004 35 Social, environmental and ethical report continued Following the success of our partnership with Whizz-Kidz, we look forward to continuing the charity of the year policy with the National Society for Epilepsy in the 2005 financial year.
Ethical easyJet insists that every employee must: l Keep all dealings open and legitimate.
Ensure that these are always consistent with good business practices: l Keep full and accurate records of all business dealings: l Avoid any suspicion of a conflict of interest: and l Refuse any gifts or gratuities, which may be considered to be bribes from any organisation with which they have, or might have, business dealings concerned with easyJets affairs.
easyJet prides itself on the efficient and friendly service that it offers to its customers.
Each employee contributes to this and easyJet requires that they must perform their duties with efficiency and diligence and behave towards fellow employees and customers with courtesy and decorum.
They must not misuse, damage or misappropriate easyJets property and not cause offence to customers or potential customers.
easyJet does not tolerate the verbal or physical assault of its customers or employees.
An employees actions when dealing with easyJets customers, agents and suppliers should always be those of a competent ambassador.
