Corporate social responsibility review Emap Annual Report and Accounts 2004 31 Corporate social responsibility review Emap is a media company whose purpose is to create must have CSR Management entertainment and information that can be delivered to every home The Main Board of Emap is responsible for setting the Groups and business within dened communities.
strategy, values and standards regarding social, environmental and ethical issues.
It delegates the responsibility of implementing Our people live and breathe their products and are passionate strategy and instilling values and standards throughout the about the interests of their customers, understanding their needs Groups businesses to the Executive Board, details of which and responding to them promptly whether they are radio listeners can be found on page 28.
The Executive Board and the or readers of consumer or B2B magazines.
Divisional Boards each include social, environmental and ethical issues in their formal risk assessment processes.
This enables Underpinning all of Emaps activities are a set of core values that the Main Board to ensure that any potential problems are create a vision of the kind of company we aspire to be, stating identied and contingency strategies are in place.
our principles and standards and giving a sense of what is important to Emap.
These values have been in place for many Emap and the Environment years and even though the Group is in a constant state Emaps activities have a low impact on the environment, and of change, the values have not changed over time.
the Group is classied as such within the FTSE4Good Index.
The purchase of paper, around 175,000 metric tonnes per This year, Emap has formed a new internal, cross-functional steering annum, the contracting out of printing and process waste, and group the CSR Steering Group whose mission statement is: the Groups general energy consumption are the key areas where Emap can inuence the impact it has on the environment.
To galvanise awareness, understanding i Paper and Print and action around Emaps social All external paper and print suppliers are encouraged to adopt a responsible approach to the environment: 49% of the Groups and environmental responsibilities paper comes from forest certication schemes, a gure which through our energy and enthusiasm, Emap is working hard to increase.
As timber is the primary raw engagement, innovation and support, material for paper manufacture, it is important that it comes from a well-managed source that is measurable to a recognised standard.
Paper used by Emap comes only from mills that manufacture to Some of the Steering Groups initiatives are mentioned below.
internationally recognised standards including EMAS European Eco-Management and Audit Scheme ISO 14001 or both.
In The Emap Board is committed to the principles of corporate addition, Emap fulls all of its legal obligations under The Producer social responsibility and is keen to see the Group embrace them Responsibility Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations 1997 more fully as we go forward.
through the national compliance scheme run by Valpak Ltd. All printers used by Emap have environmental statements and policies in place.
On a wider level, Emap supports a number of industry initiatives Tom Moloney including forest certication schemes, an environmental product declaration for paper, an environmental assessment scheme for printers and mass ow analysis of the magazines sector.
The Group also engages on all environmental issues raised by stakeholders, consumers, advertisers, suppliers, shareholders and employees.
ii Recycling Emap has recently introduced a scheme where a single contractor takes responsibility for the collection and disposal of all paper, cardboard and magazine waste from Emaps ofces.
Monthly reports will be fed back to Emap so that the amount of waste recycled can be monitored and reported in future years.
The CSR Steering Group has focused on raising awareness of recycling issues during the year and posters and suggestions on the Groups intranet target the whole workforce to encourage A smash hit with its staff their engagement.
The Green Ofce Initiative aims to encourage The Sunday Times Best Companies To Work For survey found: energy and water consumption savings including turning off electrical equipment and lights when employees leave the ofce 71% of employees found their work stimulating and suggestions to help reduce the amount of waste resulting 73% love working for Emap from the use of drinks machines.
A new contract has recently 50% felt they were doing their ideal job been put in place with a recycling company which will ensure 72% felt that their bosses shared important information that both toner cartridges and mobile phones are recycled.
with them In both cases a donation will be made to a charity of Emaps choice.
69% thought their manager cared about how satisfied they were in their job On a larger scale, unsold magazines are collected by the major magazine wholesalers and converted into recycled bre for newspaper production.
Conducted amongst 500 employees, November 2003. iii Consumption and Emissions Emap as an Employer a Energy Consumption People are critical to Emaps success, a view endorsed by As stated above, Emap aims to reduce its energy and water The Sunday Times, which included Emap in its report on the consumption over the coming year.
100 Best Companies to Work For 2004 in the UK.
Electricity and Water Table Keeping promises may sound unusual for a media empire, but Emap is supportive of the 3,800 people it employs in the UK, and allows them a lot of space to be creative and to develop Electricity Water CO 2 their careers The Sunday Times March 2004 3 Country KwH M Tonnes UK 10,410,378 24,010 4,476 This approach is reected in Emaps policies on recruitment and France 2,925,712 1,258 retention, staff share schemes, staff communication, and health and safety.
These gures represent approximately 75% of Emaps occupied property i Recruitment and Retention for a 12-month period.
Emap ensures that it has fair employment terms for its people.
These gures represent approximately 40% of Emaps occupied property for Employment handbooks set out formal policies for key issues a 12-month period.
such as equal opportunities, disciplinary and grievance These gures represent the CO equivalent of the electricity consumed for 2 procedures, sexual and racial harassment.
b Transport Emaps Director of Human Resources is responsible for raising This is the first year that Emap has shown gures for transport employment standards and implementing best practice employment usage.
It is intended that in the future, year-on-year comparisons policies throughout the organisation.
Each division conducts an will be made.
annual Talkback employee opinion survey, with the resulting action plans shared widely with employees and owned by the Divisional Boards.
Performance reviews are conducted formally at least once KM CO 2 a year and include an assessment of individuals training needs.
Country per year Tonnes UK 1,788,056 364 Many Emap UK companies have obtained Investors in People France 32,164 6 accreditation, including the entire Communications division, Distribution 1,142,400 1,148 seven of the major radio businesses and Emap Advertising.
Following a series of pilot schemes and consultation with staff, a number of new exible working initiatives have been introduced These gures represent the CO equivalent of the annual kilometres travelled.
at Emap Advertising including compressed hour schemes, 2 These gures represent the kilometres travelled by an external logistics company loyalty breaks, exi-time schemes and home working.
Staff turnover in the UK was around 26% for the year ended Ethics and Emap 31 December 2003, an average figure for the media sector.
Emap believes that integrity in its relationships with customers, Data relating to illness and days lost to absence is not collected suppliers, staff, shareholders, regulatory agencies and consistently throughout the Group owing to its devolved nature.
the community is important and gains the respect of all The ratio of men to women employed at Emap is currently its stakeholders.
46:54 with 67% of this total being under 35 compared to 3% being over 55, reflecting the nature of the media and This belief is set out in Emaps Statement of Business Practices publishing business.
which is available for reference on our website www.
ii Staff Share Schemes Emap makes every effort to ensure its people are aware Emap is an enthusiastic supporter of wider share ownership of these expectations and that they contribute to the high amongst its people as stated in its values, and it operates share standards required of them.
This statement, together with plans in the UK, France and Australia to support this.
Emaps corporate values, is at the heart of how Emap conducts its business, externally in its relationships with stakeholders UK Share Plan 93% of eligible staff are involved and internally through its performance management and UK SAYE 22% have taken out SAYE contracts promotion processes.
Total 79% have an interest in Emap shares 32 Emap Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate social responsibility review continued Corporate social responsibility review continued Emap Annual Report and Accounts 2004 33 In the UK, through the Emap Share Plan, Emap has this year again offered Emap and the Community free shares to the value of 820 2003 800 to qualifying staff.
Emap is committed to playing an active role in the communities The Emap SAYE scheme has now been running in the UK for 20 years.
it serves, whether it be through its local radio stations or its Total gure includes all UK, French and Australian staff with an interest in cluster communities of business-to-business readers.
core is active engagement with audiences.
This commitment is part of Emaps ability to build media communities that both A parallel share scheme, Sharemap, which allows staff to save enrich peoples lives and serve the community interest.
All Emaps up to 1,500 a year to buy Emap shares, is also provided as part divisions operate their own community programmes and most of Lifemap, Emaps exible benets plan.
The Group matches the operating companies also run a matching scheme where staff cumulative investment in shares on a one-to-one basis.
fundraising is matched up to 500.
A snapshot of these activities is set out below.
Staff are made aware of share schemes by Emaps Benets team who conduct roadshows in the UK, promoting share plans, Emap Performance: By its nature, local radio broadcasting is at the pension plan, Flexiplan, and Emaps exible benefit programme, the heart of the communities it serves and the past year has seen Lifemap.
Emaps UK share plans and pension plan have won a Emaps radio stations responsible for raising in excess of 300,000 number of industry awards including the 2003 Proshare Award for charity.
Stations operate their own charity funds with staff for the Best Performance in Fostering Share Ownership.
volunteering their time for fundraising activities.
This year through a mixture of auctions, fundraising charity balls and other smaller iii Staff Communication scale activities Rock FM Magic 999s Help a Local Child One of Emaps values is that its people have a right to know raised 136,000: Hallam FM Magic AMs Help A Hallam Child what is happening.
Regular discussions take place to keep raised 88,000: Key 103 Magic 1152s Manchester Kids raised people informed and seek out their ideas and opinions.
The 45,000: Radio City Magic 1548s Give A Child A Chance strongest argument, not the biggest title or highest status, raised 45,000 and was nominated by three prominent local wins the day.
companies as Give A Child A Chance charity of the year.
The proceeds from all of these activities have benefited a variety of Face-to-face dialogue between managers and staff takes place local community organisations and projects including: making regularly: information is communicated through Emaps intranet, contributions to the construction of a swimming pool for children Planetemap, which is used by over 50% of Emap employees with severe physical and learning disabilities: the provision every week: and divisions use newsletters and updates to keep of advice for children on health, social care, education and their staff informed.
learning: recruiting carers into childcare vacancies: and providing access for families in deprived areas to lifelong learning activities.
Emaps European Forum, which meets once a year, allows elected staff representatives to discuss the performance and Emap Advertising: Emap Advertising recently raised 50,000 prospects of the Group in a European context, concentrating on for the Rainbow Trust Childrens Charity, which helps families those issues that may have an impact in more than one country.
who have a child with terminal illness or a life-threatening There are a maximum of 11 staff representatives on the Forum, condition.
A single day of fundraising activity involving over eight from the UK and three from France.
40 teams attempting innovative and creative challenges replaced the Groups annual sales conference and provided staff the iv Health and Safety opportunity to give something back to the community.
Emap aims to do all that is reasonably practicable to ensure the health, safety and welfare of its people, and others who may Emap Communications: This division runs a number of activities be affected by its activities.
The Main Board maintains ultimate raising money for a variety of different charities including National responsibility for health and safety issues at Emap with the Cancer Research and the homeless charity, Alone in London.
Managing Directors of each operating company charged with day-to-day responsibility, supported by all levels of management.
Emap Consumer Media: This division supports charitable This policy is defined in the Groups Health & Safety policy work directly with local and national charities through donations statement and all staff are issued with, or have access to, of subscriptions and CDs as well as general fundraising a detailed health and safety booklet.
events where staff give their time and expertise to help organisations directly.
The Groups commitment to health and safety was recognised when Metro Radio won a national and European health and Emap currently awards two charity grants of 30,000 annually in safety week recognition award.
In addition, the Communications the UK with staff encouraged to recommend potential recipients divisions health and safety standards for exhibitions have been to Emaps Charity Committee.
This year The HeartLine Hospital adopted nationally by the Association of Exhibition Organisers.
Pack Project, and the Sue Ryder Hospice in Peterborough were chosen.
UK Health and Safety statistics for the year ended 31 March 2004 are set out below: 2004 2003 Number of fatalities 0 0 Injuries resulting in absence over three days 2 3 Major injuries reported under RIDDOR 0 1 Dangerous occurrences reported under RIDDOR 0 0 Number of enforcement notices issued by HSE 0 0 Number of prohibition notices issued by HSE 0 0 Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995.
