Social responsibility Business depends on a healthy society to succeed.
Our Social Responsibility policy, distributed worldwide this year, articulates our commitments to our various stakeholders and our belief in actions that are both profitable and beneficial to society.
Full details of our activities can be found in Sound Values, our annual Social Responsibility Report.
We have made good progress during the year but we are not complacent: there is always more we can do.
We are pleased that EMI continues to be included in several Corporate Social Responsibility CSR indices, including FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
For our UK operations, we again achieved the PerCent Standard a community investment benchmark run by Business in the Community for companies that invest 1% or more of their pre-tax profit in the community, through donations of cash, time and gifts-in-kind.
Employment Our Standards of Business Conduct were reviewed to ensure they remain relevant to todays marketplace and were reissued worldwide in nine languages.
The standards cover a range of ethical issues and now include internal codes of practice on content protection a key element of our commercial success.
We also took a new look at a core set of values and what they mean for us: creativity, integrity, accountability, adaptability and empowerment.
This involved a large part of the business, with around 65% of staff in EMI Music directly involved in formulating ideas or participating in discussions and feedback sessions.
In an annual survey by The Sunday Times, EMI Music UK & Ireland was named as one of the 100 Best Companies to Work For.
The results are based on independent employee surveys covering a range of issues such as leadership, benefits, work-life balance and personal development.
We remain committed to equal opportunities for all employees and this year we expanded the geographical scope of our workforce diversity data.
The data we report now cover women and disabled staff worldwide and ethnic minorities in the UK, Continental Europe and North America.
Within this wider framework, women made up 42% of all staff and 32% of management, and ethnic minorities made up 11% of all staff and 7% of management.
The number of staff with disabilities remains small: 0.4% in total and 0.3% of management.
Our health and safety statistics now cover virtually all our locations worldwide.
During the year, we had 28 reportable injuries illnesses 4.7 per 1,000 employees based on UK standards and an average of 4.1 days absence through illness per employee.
We did not incur any health and safety enforcement notices or convictions.
Global warming potential Global warming potential CO emitted due to energy use in buildings factories CO emitted due to energy use in buildings factories per 2 2 kilotonnes unit of turnover tonnes m 50.3 121.8 48.8 48.9 47.8 116.9 114.2 115.0 11 4.0 45.1 43.2 104.0 103.0 38.9 37.1 35.8 87.6 80.7 28.1 59.6 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 18 Community We continued to support charitable organisations and community initiatives in youth and education, arts and culture, and health and welfare.
During the year, we made charitable cash donations of 1.1m: this was complemented by additional support such as arts sponsorship, staff time and gifts-in-kind.
At a corporate level, we remain committed to supporting music education and access to music.
Music can be such a positive element for young people stimulating imagination, spurring creativity and building self-esteem.
While our chief focus is still the Music Sound Foundation see below, we have begun to provide support in a number of additional ways.
During the year these included: participating in a UK government task force to design the Music Manifesto, a forward-looking action plan for enhancing music provision in schools and the wider community: partnering with the Arts & Kids Foundation and the London Sinfonietta to enable a series of individual in-school workshops, followed by an afternoon of educational events and an evening concert at Londons Queen Elizabeth Hall for all participating schools: supporting the Roundhouse, Londons legendary music venue, as a Founding Corporate Partner.
This will help the Roundhouse achieve its vision of becoming one of Europes most dynamic performance spaces and an exciting, state-ofthe-art Creative Centre for young people enabling up to 10,000 young people a year to flex their creative muscles and gain the motivation and confidence that come with improving skills.
In addition to our direct participation in some of the Creative Centres programmes, the EMI live room, a  digital recording facility, will be part of that space.
It has been a landmark year for the Music Sound Foundation MSF, the independent music education charity established by EMI in 1997.
In June, MSF was named Sponsor of the Year by the Specialist Schools Trust, in recognition of its support for the performing arts element of the specialist schools programme.
There are now 24 performing arts colleges with MSF backing and the Foundation remains the largest single sponsor.
The overall programme has been a real success: research published in early 2004 found that pupils at specialist state schools are improving at a much faster rate than those in non-specialist ones, with the greatest progress being made by children who had been at the bottom of the ability range at age 11.
During the year, MSF passed the 2m mark in terms of grants committed across its three funding areas: specialist schools: higher education bursaries: and funds for instruments and training for individual students, non-specialist schools and music teachers.
The Blue Note label continued its support of the Skidmore College Summer Jazz Institute, where our funding provides scholarships for talented and financially needy high school students from around the country.
Students join in a two-week artist-in-residence workshop programme in New York State and participate in a masterclass with one of Blue Notes artists.
Through Capitol Records, we continued our partnership with the California Institute of Arts, supporting hands-on experience for students in writing, performing and producing a jazz CD.
This year also saw the release of a number of benefit CDs, including: Where We Live, an album to support a campaign promoting the universal right to clean air and water spearheaded by public interest law firm Earthjustice: Kosmos, I agapi mas, an EMI Music Greece CD released during World Environment Week in conjunction with WWF: and In the Name of Love: Artists United for Africa, an initiative of Sparrow Records and its retail partners.
The CDs proceeds provided community development aid to an African village devastated by Aids.
To coincide with World Aids Day, all of Queens studio and live albums were made available for digital download for the first time: long committed to the fight against Aids, the band donated the first weeks royalties to the Mercury Phoenix Trust and EMI Records UK matched that donation.
Environment Our move to renewable sources of electricity for our manufacturing and distribution facility at Uden in the Netherlands paid high dividends reducing our worldwide carbon dioxide CO emissions and, as a result, our contribution to global warming 2 and climate change.
Our CO emissions dropped significantly by 26.1% in 2 absolute terms and by 24.3% when related to turnover.
EMIs efforts to reduce CO emissions over the years, and in particular our 2 commitment to green energy close to 100% of our UK operations also use electricity from renewable sources, were recognised by the UKs Liveable Cities Awards, in which we were voted runner-up in the Air Quality Climate Change category.
Three other performance indicators that we have been using in our manufacturing operations relate to solvent consumption, hazardous waste and plastic process scrap polycarbonate.
The amount of hazardous waste we generate is very small.
This year there was an increase of 5% per unit produced, primarily due to some one-off disposals of specific wastes in the US and Japan.
We achieved our target to resume our previous reduction trend in solvent consumption, with a decrease of 14.5% per unit produced.
We also reduced polycarbonate scrap by 13.4% per unit produced through increased production efficiencies, improved preventive maintenance and, in the US, the introduction of grinders onto the moulding machines which enabled the plant to recycle the scrap from the CDs centre Polycarbonate scrap hole back into the process.
