Exel 032 100 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:21 pm Page 50 Corporate responsibility Bristol Retail Consolidation Centre In the UK, Exel opened a consolidation centre for freight entering Bristol the first of its kind in the UK.
The facility is designed to reduce congestion, noise and transport emissions by managing and consolidating routes into the city centre.
In its initial stages the programme has generated a 72% reduction in vehicle movements for the 17 participating retailers, which will continue as more retailers become involved.
Lush, the handmade cosmetics company, has participated in the scheme from the start and commented, The consolidation centre has proved to be a win-win scheme for all with efficient and prompt deliveries, high security attention and of course transport cost savings.
The environmental impact is of major importance and the scheme helps reduce congestion in one of our busiest cities.
Introduction In Dubai, we managed the transport 1.
Introduction 2004 has been a year of significant and export clearance of crisis shipments 2.
Exel in business progress for corporate responsibility for the United Nations World Food 2.1 Economic development CR at Exel.
We have continued our Programme to Colombo in Sri Lanka 2.2 Code of Ethics work to enhance our environment, and Jakarta in Indonesia and supported 2.3 Exels people health and safety performance the Red Cross and Red Crescent with 2.4 Responsibility for health and published our second annual logistics services.
Our industrial sector and safety environment report.
We have worked with utilities customers to 2.5 Security commitment also focused on our Code of deliver water cleaning equipment 3.
Exel and the environment Ethics, employee programmes and to these areas and Banda Aceh in 4.
Exel in the community community involvement, and we have Indonesia.
Exels stakeholders communicated policies to external on an ex gratia basis and the total stakeholders and to our employees contribution from Exel, The Exel throughout the business.
Foundation and employee contributions and fund raising activities amounted CR presented new opportunities for to approximately 400,000.
Increasingly, we have been asked to communicate our approach to During the year, Exel also worked with environmental and social impacts when the Global Reporting Initiative GRI to bidding for new business.
We have develop a logistics and transportation focused on initiatives to minimise sector supplement to the GRI impacts whilst bringing value to Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, our customers, for example through which will be completed in 2005. reverse logistics.
Working with our industry peers has helped us to identify further the social, During 2004, we continued our environmental and economic issues involvement with the World Economic relevant to the industry and establish Forums Logistics & Transportation indicators to measure progress.
We have undertaken stakeholder and To help develop our CR programme, customer consultations and developed we have established a core team key performance indicators for each of employees.
They are led by senior of the L&TCCIs Principles of management who are accountable for Corporate Citizenship.
ensuring our CR objectives are achieved across the business.
We evaluate the The L&TCCI objective to deliver progress and success of policies and humanitarian assistance in times of practices as part of our internal audit need was brought into sharp focus in and risk management process.
the immediate aftermath of the Asian The Board reviews issues related to tsunami.
Following the disaster, Exels non-financial reporting throughout team in Thailand deployed trucks to the year.
deliver emergency supplies to Phuket.
Exel plc 50 Annual Report 2004 Exel 032 100 Bk Prf 16 3 2005 5:06 pm Page 51 Global Reporting Initiative GRI Over the past year, Exel has worked with the GRI and other industry peers to develop a logistics and transportation sector supplement to the GRI s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
World Economic Forum Over the past year, Exel has continued to work with the World Economic Forum s Logistics & Transportation Corporate Citizenship Initiative L&TCCI.
We work with industry peers and organisations with specialist expertise to identify social, environmental and economic issues relevant to our industry and indicators to mark our progress against these issues.
Distinguished Partner in Progress Award from Singapore Economic Development Board Exels Asia Pacic operations were recognised for their regional economic contribution and awarded the 2004 Distinguished Partner in Progress Award by the Singapore Economic Development Board.
Exel is now the largest third party logistics organisation in the region, employing more than 10,000 people across 26 countries.
In addition to expanded operations in the area, senior executives have participated in advisory boards of government agencies and educational institutes.
Mr Teo Ming Kian, Chairman of the Singapore Economic Development Board, said, Exel has expanded its local operations, helping to boost industry standards and contributing greatly to the nations economic development.
Exel in business We are an equal opportunities Exels online learning centre, Campus, At Exel, CR starts with the management employer and are committed to is a way for employees to develop of our own business, including our selecting, developing and retaining business and management skills.
approach to corporate governance, care employees on the basis of ability for the Employees access Knowledge Bytes for our employees, their security, health work to be performed.
We rmly believe to expand their understanding of and safety as well as that of the public that fair employment practices help us specic business issues and Basic and ensuring our principles for ethical attract and retain the right people for Business Toolkits to support ongoing practice are reected across the business.
our jobs and more generally help us to professional development.
create an environment that encourages 2.1 Economic development service quality and profitability.
Exel seeks to be a progressive, inclusive The logistics and transportation sector organisation.
We are working to ensure helps to generate economic growth as Two-way communication is encouraged appropriate policies and practices are in it facilitates international trade, drives to ensure that the issues affecting place, including family-friendly policies efficiency in global supply chains and employees are taken into account and exible working where appropriate.
during the development and review of In all of Exels operating countries, strategies and policies.
Various channels 2.4 Responsibility for health we pay close attention to our economic are in place to support communication, and safety impact, in particular looking at including our global employee During 2004, we continued to review employee development and industry newsletter, Connect, which is available and improve our Group health and safety and community initiatives.
programme, targeting specically those activities that carry greatest risk to 2.2 Code of Ethics Exel places a strong emphasis on employees and the public.
Exels core principles of trust, mutual learning and development, making respect and integrity are critical to our training opportunities available In 2004: continued success.
These principles are and encouraging the involvement Asia Pacic health and safety teams formalised in our Code of Ethics and of employees in the planning and achieved OHSAS 18001 certications communicated across the organisation, direction of their work.
We develop for sites across China, Korea, for example through our website and personal development plans with The Philippines and Taiwan and employee induction programmes.
employees to identify strengths we expect more sites to achieve We are updating our Code of Ethics to and opportunities.
the same certication in 2005 ensure that it reects new developments in Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, and to reect the L&TCCI Principles of We have established leadership Vietnam and Singapore Corporate Citizenship and will further development programmes, including the Notication, Emergency enhance and develop our established Global Business Excellence for senior Assistance and Reporting NEAR whistleblowing procedures.
managers, the Leadership Challenge programme was fully implemented Programme in Europe, Middle East in the US and Canada and will be 2.3 Exels people and Africa and the Young Leaders adapted for use across South America We employ some 111,000 people Programme in Asia Pacic.
This is a 24-hour hotline for throughout the world and maintain integrated within these programmes reporting safety-related incidents policies to ensure that employees with, for example, senior managers health and safety training at all levels are supported and that our on the Global Business Excellence programmes were developed in the operations are conducted in accordance programme supporting community Americas, including safe working with the Universal Declaration of projects in South Africa.
procedures, workplace monitoring Human Rights.
and medical management T o view Exel s Code of Ethics go to http: www.
com exel home corporate ethics code of ethics Exel plc Annual Report 2004 51 Governance Exel 032 100 Bk Prf 16 3 2005 5:06 pm Page 52 Corporate responsibility continued Cory Environmental Liveable City Award In the UK, Cory Environmental won the Corporation of Londons Liveable City Award for its approach to sustainable waste management.
Corys unique use of the River Thames for the transport of residual waste avoids the use of over 100,000 lorry movements each year on Londons already congested roads.
Additional environmental gains include the capture of methane gas to generate electricity and the restoration of landll sites with thousands of trees and hedgerows.
Jonathon Porritt, Chairman of the Sustainable Development Commission, said, The standard of entries from both the public and private sector was high.
Cory Environmental Ltd should be congratulated for achieving so much in a tough environment, and in doing so, setting an excellent example for others to follow.
in the UK, through the Trucks and Our most significant environmental Our environmental policy sets a Child Safety programme, Exel drivers impact is the emissions resulting minimum standard for our activities trained 15,000 school children from energy used in transporting on a global basis.
Over the past year on the potential dangers of our customers goods, in particular our approach has been to work closely large vehicles.
greenhouse gases and their effect with our customers to connect our ideas on climate change.
This is a strong with their own corporate responsibility Exel is in the process of collating health focus of our reporting and management aspirations.
Similarly, by working with and safety data on a global basis and programme, which also addresses suppliers through our procurement establishing key performance indicators energy use, water consumption, teams we are able to minimise and benchmarks, the details of which waste and recycling, congestion progressively the impacts of the will be included in future reports.
products and services we purchase.
2.5 Security commitment Our environmental policy and annual Exels environmental management With the increased emphasis on environmental report set out the systems and processes are key to security and potential terrorism since following objectives of our programme implementing our environmental policy 11 September 2001, Exels global and our progress on addressing and objectives.
These assist us in the security plan helps to ensure that key impacts: monitoring and management of our our operations meet high standards Energy impact and are established in over of physical and information security to maximise efficiency and minimise 40% of the Group, measured as and risk management.
During 2004, emissions, measured against a proportion of turnover.
operational teams across Exel worked turnover closely with national and local law Waste and recycling In 2004: enforcement and government agencies to minimise waste and maximise the Americas contract logistics and independent groups to meet this re-use and recycling, including waste operations partnered with Summit need.
Our progress was recognised handled for customers Energy Services, Inc. of Louisville, during the year with certication Environmental management Kentucky to review energy to a number of industry standards, to implement environmental procurement and use across the in particular the Customs-Trade management systems appropriate region for more efficient resource Partnership Against Terrorism C-TPAT to our businesses and their impacts management.
and Technology Asset Protection to extend and improve our dataAsia Pacic teams continued to Association TAPA.
gathering process implement Go Green Go Clean Suppliers programmes across the region.
Exel and the environment to work with our suppliers to In Penang, distribution centres Exel affects the environment through understand and progressively expanded their pallet repair and our own activities and those of our minimise the environmental impact re-use programme, repairing 10,000 suppliers around the world.
As part of their products and services pallets in 2004, up from 990 in 2003 of our global safety, health and Communication across the organisation we continued environment processes, environmental to communicate our environmental to develop our reverse logistics performance is managed and reported performance to all our stakeholders capabilities, which has enabled us across all regions of operation.
Resources to offer recycling schemes to leading to minimise our use of natural retail clients.
Materials are returned resources and ozone depleting from outlets to central distribution materials wherever possible.
centres for onward recycling T o read Exel s environmental report go to http: www.
com exel home corporate environment Exel plc 52 Annual Report 2004 Exel 032 100 Bk Prf 16 3 2005 5:06 pm Page 53 FTSE4Good Index Series This series measures the performance of companies against globally-recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Exel has been a member since 2003.
Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport Exel was awarded the Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport Award for People Development in November 2004.
Investor in People In September 2004, Exel became the first logistics company to be awarded the new Investor in People Award for Work-Life Balance.
London Transport Sustainability Award In May 2004, Exel was awarded the London Transport Sustainability Award which recognised the contribution that the BAA retail consolidation centre, run by Exel at Londons Heathrow Airport, has made to the environmental sustainability of the airports retail distribution activities over the past three years.
By consolidating deliveries from multiple retailers and catering suppliers, the centre has reduced the number of retail vehicles in the airport by 75% and saved in excess of 60 tonnes of CO in the past year.
Chris Hudson, Exels 2 General Manager, Consolidation Centre, said, By utilising our expertise and experience in consolidation we have successfully supported BAA Heathrows commitment to sustainable development.
03 Exels Packaging Datastore business In 2004: 5.
Exels stakeholders has developed a service to help Exel received special recognition We encourage an active exchange European customers to meet from HRH the Princess Royal, Patron of ideas with key stakeholder groups, environmental compliance of Transaid, the charity of the UK and in 2004 undertook stakeholder requirements and provide support transport and logistics industry, consultations with the L&TCCI.
on how to meet the needs of the recognising our work in Ghana, We assessed opinions on CR issues for Waste Electrical and Electronic where two trainers travelled to our sector held by academic institutes, Equipment WEEE Directive due the region to teach drivers and financial organisations, government to be introduced in 2005. conduct Trucks and Child Safety agencies, trade unions, industry demonstrations associations, international and non- 4.
Exel in the community also in the UK, Exel received governmental organisations.
A further Exel communicates extensively across an award from the Variety Club customer consultation was conducted the communities in which we operate.
Childrens Charity for outstanding with 75 companies across a range This is a responsibility we take seriously corporate support of sectors.
The consultations showed and it is an opportunity to be a positive in the Americas, the Foundation key areas of interest and concern for force for local good.
team worked closely with a home our stakeholders, and we will continue for orphans in Mexico Casa Hogar to respond to these in 2005 through As part of Exels community affairs work, Estancia fide Maria constructing our corporate responsibility programme.
The Exel Foundation supports projects a library using furniture from a through its regional committees.
Exel For its 2004 5 Charity Challenge, account managers and their teams We report on corporate responsibility the Foundation is supporting NCH, the delivered food and supplies to the in accordance with the guidelines on childrens charity based in the UK, and home every two weeks and social responsibility published by the is ahead of its target to raise 200,000. organised events for the children.
Employees, pensioners and shareholders have applied for matched funding We aim wherever possible to use our Exel is a member of the FTSE4Good index.
for their own charities, schools or core competencies to help tackle issues community projects.
Other direct where we can make a positive difference.
grants are made to support employees, In 2004, we continued to act as pensioners and shareholders who worldwide logistics partner for the have invested their time in community Digital Partnership, an initiative of the projects through the Community Prince of Wales International Business Partnership Programme.
Other initiatives Leaders Forum, which aims to promote include the Exel Partnering Education affordable access to computers and the programme, in which employees internet in disadvantaged schools and become involved in local school community centres around the world.
projects and the Trucks and Child We provide transport and storage Safety programme.
support to move computers from companies across the world where they are needed.
Exel gave 800,000 to charitable projects in 2004.
T o learn more about corporate responsibility go to http: www.
com exel home corporate Exel plc Annual Report 2004 53 Governance
