Corporate and social responsibility review Over the last four years FKI has expanded and improved its reporting of social and ethical, environmental, health and safety issues and the Group is now included in FTSE4Good, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index and other social responsibility indices.
In addition to this summarised review, a detailed CSR report is available from the Company Secretary.
FKIs objective is to be the first choice in its chosen markets for customers, business partners, employees and investors, and to be known as a Group that: FKI is a good, responsible, has clear performance targets: corporate citizen in its continually seeks out better ways of doing things: strives to improve its service to customers by developing operations throughout the innovative products, systems and solutions: and world and is continually represents high standards of trust and integrity.
These objectives are being achieved by the collective efforts of developing its approach all Company members worldwide and the Group believes that positive actions with regard to CSR are not only desirable in to corporate and social their own right but are of economic and commercial benefit to all stakeholders.
Throughout this review stakeholders responsibility CSR.
are regarded as including employees, business and private customers and suppliers, government agencies, investors and the businesses and communities that have interaction with FKI operating units.
Responsibility for the Groups CSR policies and their implementation and monitoring rests with the Chief Executive and is co-ordinated by the Director of Human Resources.
This responsibility is delegated to the President or Managing Director of each operating group and in turn to the senior management team of each operating unit.
The CSR reporting requirements for each business unit require quantitative and qualitative feedback of performance in all areas.
This data is checked and compared with previous years and, where appropriate, is available to the Board and senior management to incorporate in business decisions.
During the last year every business has been asked to identify significant business risks as part of a detailed review of risk management.
Appropriate actions involving corporate social responsibility have been identified from these risk assessments that will be implemented by managers of the operating units.
Social and ethical responsibilities FKI recognises that the practice of sound social and ethical responsibility will deliver competitive advantage and contribute to the Groups long-term success.
The greatest contribution that the Group makes in this area comes from the wealth created by maintaining skilled jobs, both within the Group and at suppliers, which are sustained by the Groups business activities.
93% of FKI employees are in companies providing formal social responsibility training 100% application of Group social and ethical policies 16 FKI plc Annual report 2004 Social and ethical policy FKIs social and ethical policy applies Compliance There are formal reporting channels throughout worldwide and acts as a reference point to guide employees the Group to investigate allegations of misconduct and to and other stakeholders on the aspects that drive the conduct take appropriate actions.
Where employees are dissatisfied of FKIs business relationships.
The policy contains detailed with the outcome, formal grievance procedures may allow provisions covering the following aspects.
further examination of the issues.
During the year, there have been ten allegations of malpractice against the Group.
Standard of conduct to be followed in dealing with Three allegations were dismissed, four settled and three are employees and everyone with whom the Group still pending.
Disciplinary actions taken include the dismissal has relationships.
of three employees and appropriate remedial actions and Compliance with the law and applicable regulations.
In order to minimise any malpractice, companies continually investigate and monitor social and ethical issues Sound employment policies, which take account of labour enabling them to improve current policies and to implement rights and conventions, prohibit discrimination and include initiatives to reduce the risk of future incidents.
recruitment, employment and promotion solely on the basis of qualifications and ability.
Health and safety Commitments to customers, partners and suppliers.
The Group has been committed for several years to achieving continual improvement in health and safety performance.
Safeguarding of shareholders interests including applying FKI has implemented management systems and is committed good corporate governance and prohibiting insider dealing.
to full compliance with health and safety regulations Utmost integrity in business dealings and absolute probity in the workplace for all of its employees worldwide in business transactions.
and to minimising the potential for workplace accidents.
Operations are required to record all injuries and these Avoidance of conflicts of interest by employees.
are analysed in order to enable new initiatives and working Community involvement and charitable assistance.
practices to be introduced to minimise the potential for a repeat of the same accident or injury.
Engagement with government and other organisations to promote and defend FKIs business interests.
Health and safety policy In order to ensure that its workplaces are safe and provide a healthy environment, FKI is committed Continuous improvements in managing its to the following policies.
Meet or exceed current health and safety legislation.
Full compliance with health and safety regulations.
Introduce and maintain good working practices.
Safeguarding and maximising the use of Group property.
Consider health and safety in all transactions.
Develop effective health and safety procedures Communication of policies to appropriate stakeholders.
Social and ethical performance and training These Group Make employees aware of potential hazards, safe systems policies are in operation throughout FKI and, in addition, of working, operating procedures and their responsibilities 65% of business units, covering 80% of employees, have and statutory obligations.
their own locally tailored written policies.
Policies are updated by management on a regular basis and are shaped Provide appropriate training.
to cover the needs of individual businesses, for example, Continually improve systems for recording, reporting and providing protection for subcontractors where appropriate.
Many companies address social and ethical issues at induction supported by employee handbooks.
The policy is also promoted Set and publish objectives and targets and assess performance.
through bulletin boards and is periodically included in The Group policy summarised above is in operation in all management briefings.
Training sessions that encompass social companies and, in addition, nearly 80% have their own tailored responsibility are planned every year by major FKI businesses written policy, which is either given to individual employees or representing 93% of employees.
displayed on notice boards or intranet.
Most of the remaining Community support Operating units are encouraged to operations where detailed policies are not circulated are small become involved in their local communities, make donations distribution and office based businesses, which nonetheless to local charities and community work projects, and also make conform to local requirements.
Nearly 90% of operating units long-term commitments of support.
have a designated person responsible for health and safety matters and, over the course of the last year, 50% of activities Amongst the many examples of engagement with the local have updated their health and safety policy to reflect changes community, one company donated a large amount of computer in businesses and local government regulations.
equipment to a local school when it upgraded its computer network and another demolished a disused building which improved the environment for adjacent domestic housing.
Many other companies have been involved in organising charity events and sponsorship and a number of employees sit on boards of local organisations or otherwise assist with their work.
17 FKI plc Annual report 2004 Corporate and social responsibility review Management systems and training FKI seeks to identify Continuous improvement Reporting processes are identified and adopt best practice across its businesses.
By providing to employees during induction and training courses.
structured training and education, employees are encouraged Most reporting is handled by managers, health and safety to take responsibility for health and safety in their working personnel, plant managers or HR personnel and incidents are environments.
Officials responsible for overseeing the handling notified to employee safety committees.
The committees ensure and reporting of accidents and safety committees in many that senior management are aware of problems and provide operations constantly review ways of making the environment advice about how to improve safety.
Health and occupational safer, thereby minimising the risk of accidents.
health issues vary according to the type of work carried out in each operation.
Where heavy production and manufacturing First-aiders are essential for the administration of aid work is involved, regular health checks are available for hearing and to take control of situations where accidents occur.
Health checks also provide the opportunity of Approximately 900 6.5% employees have first aid training reporting if protective equipment is not being used and safety and FKIs commitment in this area is demonstrated by protocols observed.
Many companies have also offered blood providing yearly refresher courses, many involving external pressure, cholesterol and other checks.
Induction training and refresher courses deal not only with normal medical first aid but also with protective Compliance As there is currently no international standard personal equipment, emergency evacuation procedures, for reporting health and safety matters, FKI follows the UK factory layout and fire extinguisher locations and other classification of incidents for Group reporting.
FKI Health workplace safety issues.
Where appropriate, specific and safety accident reporting guidelines was created to assist training is given on correct lifting methods, crane and operating units outside the UK with reporting accidents and forklift truck driving and handling of hazardous materials.
The implementation of this document Continual improvement of training is achieved through has highlighted misclassifications in last years reporting and feedback and course tests.
information has been updated for comparison with this years recorded values.
Contractors and suppliers who visit or work on FKIs sites have to comply with the relevant policies and practices.
Training is Major injuries reported by the Group have fallen by 5% to 37. available were appropriate to customers for improving their This total included 15 fractures, six amputations involving part knowledge on correct and safe use of FKI products.
of a finger and 16 other injuries.
Other reportable injuries involving three days lost time have fallen by 20%.
The incidence of dangerous occurrences has decreased by 38% and these are recorded in view of their importance, even if they resulted in no injuries.
Work related illness also fell by 24%.
The overall results show that the risk of injury has reduced over the course of the year, which was in part due to improved systems.
Analysis of accidents and incidents Dangerous Dangerous Work related Work related Major Major Other reportable Other reportable occurrences occurrences illness illness Incident type 2003 04 2002 03 2003 04 2002 03 2003 04 2002 03 2003 04 2002 03 FKI Logistex 5 6 21 26 3 6 10 12 Lifting Products and Services 12 11 111 145 7 7 3 6 Hardware 2 4 23 26 0 7 25 31 Energy Technology 18 18 95 116 5 4 14 19 Group totals 37 39 250 313 15 24 52 68 These figures have been restated since last year as noted above.
Accident frequency Total reportable Total reportable Accident Accident incidents incidents frequency rate per frequency rate per Average hours accidents accidents 100,000 hours 100,000 hours worked month 2003 04 2002 03 2003 04 2002 03 FKI Logistex 506,498 39 50 0.64 0.75 Lifting Products and Services 641,000 133 169 1.73 2.19 Hardware 376,924 50 68 1.11 1.17 Energy Technology 579,830 132 157 1.90 2.01 Group totals 2,104,252 354 444 1.40 1.59 18 FKI plc Annual report 2004 Corporate and social responsibility review 12% Reduction in accident frequency rate 20% One company uses renewable energy for 20% of its total energy requirements Accidents are also analysed by frequency rate, being the Environmental policy FKI is committed to the protection total number of reportable incidents and accidents for every and conservation of the environment in all of its operations.
This shows a 12% reduction in the rate, The Groups environmental policy involves the implementation which is encouraging.
of an operational management system within each business unit enforcing standards in line with legal responsibilities Three operating units were prosecuted for breaches of health and obligations.
The Group has a detailed policy, which, and safety regulations during the year.
One compensation in summary, covers the following areas: payment of 4,500 was granted for an accident in 2002 where an incorrect type of ladder was used on the factory Develop, install and maintain environmental floor.
The two other prosecutions related to the potential for management systems.
The three units concerned have taken Meet or exceed current environmental legal requirements.
appropriate actions and implemented new safety regulations and training to prevent a recurrence of these incidents.
Focus on product stewardship, identifying ways of improving Elsewhere, reporting and auditing procedures identified several efficiency throughout the supply chain and manufacturing improvements and working methods have been changed to processes to reduce consumption.
further reduce the risk of accidents.
Use environmentally responsible suppliers and subcontractors.
Initiatives Audits and continual monitoring schemes have Give preference to alternatives for scarce resulted in over 70% of FKI businesses implementing health and non-renewable resources.
External professional bodies have carried out a number of audits and checks over the last year and the Develop and market products and services meeting resulting advice is intended to reduce further the incidence environmental standards and target each product to of accidents, thereby improving overall health and safety for be produced more efficiently than its predecessors.
Inevitably, many of the initiatives involve devising Maintain control on discharges and emissions.
safer methods of working and training people how to work at height and improve methods of lifting.
Where appropriate, Raise awareness of environmental issues.
physical changes have been made such as introducing Identify and communicate best practice throughout emergency lighting, updating protective equipment and the Group.
improving machinery safeguards and mufflers to reduce noise.
Set and revise environmental targets and policies.
Environmental report All FKI businesses have adopted the corporate environmental FKI has continued its focus on the environmental aspects policy and, in addition, operations in some countries of its operations.
The Groups main areas of impact on the comply with stringent local requirements on disposal environment are in the use of energy and water and the and treatment of waste.
need to reduce solid and liquid waste.
Where appropriate, companies have been encouraged to implement environmental management systems compatible with ISO14001 to include targets for environmental improvement, monitoring of performance and auditing.
19 FKI plc Annual report 2004 Corporate and social responsibility review Training Education and training are critical to communicate manufactured, as well as variable elements.
Business needs new environmental procedures and over 800 employees govern petrol and diesel consumption resulting in energy received environmental training during the year, the majority usage independent of turnover.
Energy consumption per unit in connection with ISO14001 certification.
During the year of turnover has increased because fixed energy requirements a number of staff received training in hazardous waste could not be reduced in line with the reduction in Group management, material handling and pollution control as turnover.
However, it is expected that consumption per unit part of the normal process of improving environmental of turnover will reduce when turnover increases.
FKI consumes no coke or coal and the majority of energy Many operating units have introduced environmental consumption arises from the use of grid electricity.
committees, usually with management and union members, One company uses renewable wind energy for 20% of its to increase awareness of environmental and waste issues.
total energy requirements and a planning application has Initiatives suggested by these committees have included been filed for the installation of a wind turbine at the pollution prevention and waste minimisation, all aimed largest operational site in the UK.
at increasing efficiency and reducing environmental impact.
A number of FKI businesses have shown a reduction in energy Energy usage Carbon dioxide CO is the main greenhouse consumption as a result of the introduction of initiatives to 2 gas and nearly all of it is produced by the combustion of coal, improve energy efficiency by updating and renewing equipment oil and gas for energy.
FKI has continued to respond positively and machinery, replacing cabling and introducing energy-saving to the UK and global climate change programme introduced lighting in many manufacturing areas.
Skylights have been following the Kyoto Protocol and is committed to reducing installed in some factories to increase natural light, and heating carbon dioxide emissions by quantifying energy usage by the and air-conditioning systems have been modernised with new introduction of management schemes.
thermostats and more efficient heaters.
A multitude of other actions and disciplines have been introduced and new production The target for the year ended 31 March 2004 was to reduce processes have been investigated, such as cold fluxing.
the amount of CO produced per unit of turnover by 1% and, 2 as shown in the chart, total energy consumption decreased by Water consumption Consumption of fresh water is considered 4%, but energy usage per unit of turnover increased by 4%.
In the last year, the total volume of water used decreased by 1.4% but there was a 7.0% Several factors have combined to produce the overall reduction increase in the volume of water consumed per 000 turnover.
in energy consumption, including operating units sharing the same premises and various initiatives for energy efficiency Actions taken to reduce consumption include large-scale and cost reduction.
recycling of water used for cooling welding and heat treatment equipment.
Water consumption, similarly to CO emissions and 2 Ideally the mass of CO produced annually should be compared 2 other environmental waste, is dependent on manufacturing to the manufacturing output of the Group.
Due to the diversity activity.
This year the reduction in water consumption was not of FKI products and services, manufacturing output is not enough to compensate for the reduction in Group turnover.
comparable across the Group, and consequently annual turnover is used as the only common measure.
Energy usage has fixed elements, for heating and lighting premises and powering manufacturing equipment regardless of the volumes 284 2,945 Energy consumption Water consumption 276 259 3 249 Tonnes of CO 000s 000m 2 2,431 2,152.50 2,121.48 2000 01 2000 01 2001 02 2002 03 2003 04 2001 02 2002 03 2003 04 186 1.67 Energy consumption Water consumption 178 1.58 170 3 1.50 1.48 163 Tonnes of CO m turnover m 000 turnover 2 2000 01 2000 01 2001 02 2002 03 2003 04 2001 02 2002 03 2003 04 20 FKI plc Annual report 2004 Corporate and social responsibility review 1,097 732 Liquid waste disposal cost Solid waste disposal cost 994 668 645 000 000 792 459 627 2000 01 2001 02 2002 03 2003 04 2000 01 2001 02 2002 03 2003 04 0.63 0.44 Liquid waste disposal cost Solid waste disposal cost 0.42 0.41 000 turnover 000 turnover 0.54 0.54 0.34 0.47 2000 01 2001 02 2001 01 2001 02 2002 03 2003 04 2002 03 2003 04 Liquid waste management FKI uses water mainly for cooling Air emissions In addition to reducing the amount of carbon purposes, surface treatments, washing down products during dioxide produced from energy consumption, the Group the production process and sanitary purposes.
Some units, is targeting to reduce the amount of volatile organic which produce relatively large quantities of wastewater and compounds, trichloroethylene and particulates discharged liquid as a result of manufacturing processes, have water into the atmosphere.
Several new permits have been awarded treatment plants that are monitored regularly by local water for paint-scrubber units, dust extraction and ovens.
authorities and, where water meets strict standards, discharge Transferring paint systems from solvent based to water based into rivers is permitted.
Otherwise, where permitted, or powder paint has produced a reduction by over 40% in companies discharge into sewers or liquid waste is removed volatile organic compounds in some companies.
Companies by registered disposal companies.
Storage licences are held, are encouraged to work with suppliers to change paint where required, for the Group to have petroleum, bulk and other chemical products and use more environmentally hazardous chemicals or acid wastes on site.
The refurbishment or replacement of cannot treat liquid waste they have permits in place for the exhaust fans and filters and painting plants will ensure removal and treatment of the waste off site.
suitable monitoring and reporting of liquid waste ensured Compliance There have been five complaints against the Group that no permits were revoked.
for environmental matters in the last year and appropriate There was a 21% reduction in the cost of liquid waste disposal corrective actions have been taken.
The only prosecution during the year amounting to a 13% reduction in the cost per during the year related to a 1,000 contribution to a landfill unit of turnover.
Initiatives to reduce the cost of liquid waste claim dating back to the 1980s.
A number of land, soil and disposal have included the use of mechanical rather than groundwater investigations were carried out during the year acid descaling and automated painting is replacing manual and all found no evidence of contaminants, apart from one painting to reduce usage.
Wherever possible, liquid waste is case where trace oils were found from previously closed recycled and an increasing amount of liquid waste, particularly underground fuel tanks, which were removed and, acid, is being sold.
following re-testing, no oil was found.
Solid waste management There has been a 29% reduction Other environmental initiatives Capital expenditure in the cost of disposing of solid waste over the last year projects have focused primarily on using environmentally representing a 23% reduction in the cost per unit of turnover.
friendly coatings, paints, glues, cleaning agents and improved Increasing landfill taxes have encouraged Group companies waste management systems such as wastewater treatment to find additional ways of recycling waste and packaging is plants, segregation of waste and facilities for storing increasingly being reused.
All operating units segregate their solid waste and sell or Companies representing 57% of turnover take part in audits of recycle scrap metals.
Several operations report that 90%97% environmental issues by internal or external bodies.
If suppliers of solid waste is recycled with proceeds of about 3.8 million.
do not have ISO14001 accreditation, they are asked to complete Wooden waste has been minimised so that the cost of recycling questionnaires and audits of their processes.
In particular, material and the waste produced in manufacturing processes Group companies are working with suppliers to substitute are the primary elements of cost.
Approximately 50% water-based or powder paint in place of solvent-based paint.
of operations have initiatives to recycle material and 90% The increasing use of electronic communication will also of companies recycle items such as paper and cardboard.
gradually reduce the amount of paper used.
Laser controlled measuring equipment has been purchased in several companies to improve measurement accuracy, keeping waste to a minimum.
21 FKI plc Annual report 2004 Corporate and social responsibility review
