CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Within the Group there are varied and diverse businesses.
depend upon the use of the natural environment i. e. water for shipping and land for port activities and development and interaction with the We undertook major terminal upgrades adjacent communities and businesses.
The Group aims to promote at Grangemouth making it a modern sustainability and benefit for wider social and environmental groups and ultimately safer port.
in conducting its activities, in balance with the creation of long-term returns for its shareholders.
Economic Benefits The Company has been a member of the Kempen SNS Smaller Europe SRI Index since October 2003.
Membership is available only to those companies with the very highest standards and practice in the three areas of business ethics, human resources and the environment.
The Group is working hard to be a responsible citizen in the communities in which it operates and is pleased that its endeavours have been recognised.
The Group depends directly upon natural resources through the use of water as a transport medium for shipping and land for port facilities and property development.
In undertaking its activities, the Group interacts with local communities and businesses: it aims to promote sustainability and generate benefits for social and environmental groups in conducting its activities whilst also enhancing long-term returns for its shareholders.
An Annual Environmental Report is also produced under our responsibilities as a Statutory Harbour Authority covering the Forth and Tay Estuaries and is available on request.
Employees Industrial Relations and Manpower Industrial relations were satisfactory throughout the Group.
New three year agreements have been negotiated in all locations apart from Dundee which is in the final year of a three year agreement.
The level of settlement across the various locations was similar in general terms but the make up varied in individual bargaining units.
The third year of the Dundee agreement resulted in an increase of 3.5%.
The Company reviewed and amended various policies during the year to ensure compliance with legislation.
The Trade Unions were involved in these reviews and amendments where appropriate, e. g. Grievance Procedures, Discipline Procedures, Equal Opportunities, etc.
The overall employee numbers reduced to 1,111 across the Group primarily as a result of retirals and re-organisations which accounted for 62% of the leavers during the year.
Labour stability and labour turnover continue at a satisfactory level.
Approximately 53% and 33% of employees across the Group have over 10 years and 20 years service respectively.
The age profile has reduced slightly with approximately 62% of the labour force being over 40 years of age.
Employee Involvement The general policy of the Company is to welcome employee involvement as far as is reasonably practicable.
Consultation and communication takes place through structured meeting groups and employee representatives supplemented by newsletters and notices as appropriate.
The Group Wide Communication and Consultation Forum has now been in place for two years and covers all employees, both unionised and non-unionised.
Extensive training of the Forum Representatives took place initially and meetings take place on an annual basis.
26 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 Training and Development A high level of training took place throughout the Group mainly in the Kempen SNS Smaller Europe SRI Index following areas: health and safety, new employee induction, mechanical handling equipment, technical updates, management development and SRI Socially Responsible Investment refers in support of organisational changes.
In the Scottish area there were to investment in companies that demonstrate 265 internal courses 2003 250 for 620 employees 2003 1,060 responsible business conduct.
Increasingly, for 1,154 man days 2003 1,043 together with 84 external courses investors have strong demands regarding 2003 64 for 235 employees 2003 210 for 505 man days 2003 a companys non-financial performance, 464.
There is a continued emphasis on the attainment of vocational in addition to the traditional financial qualifications for operatives.
In Tilbury there were 563 internal courses performance.
These parties wish to invest 2003 439 involving 1,442 employees 2003 1,082 for 2,986 man exclusively in corporations that have concern days 2003 1,405 together with 169 external courses 2003 199 for their employees, the environment and the involving 366 employees 2003 284 for 397 man days 2003 298. community.
SRI portfolios are constructed The relationship with the Academy of Logistics continued during 2004 by the selection of companies based on and courses were run in Tilbury for the Transport and Logistics Industry a number of indicators regarding the three within the Thames Gateway.
The Group continues to develop vocational main categories: People, Planet and Profit.
training plans for Operators, Supervisors and Managers.
The Training Department is working with our Operations Departments to ensure that all new port operators in Scotland undertake their Level 2 Stevedoring Scottish Vocational Qualification.
Currently, over three quarters of Scottish cargo handling staff have achieved this.
A similar Vocational Qualification will commence in Tilbury next year.
The average training cost per employee last year was 1,238 per annum.
Health and Safety Health and Safety continues to be a prime focus in our operations.
We strive for continual improvement and to this end both our Scottish and Tilbury operations were given stringent targets to reduce accidents Port safety.
The target was to reduce reportable three day lost time incidents known as RIDDORS by 10% and major injuries by 20%.
We continually strive to improve our safety The Group achieved an 11% reduction in three day lost time incidents and in 2004 the Group had a 70% reduction and a 70% reduction in major incidents.
One way to improve health and safety performance is to undertake regular audits of performance.
External audits are used to compare actual risk assessments undertaken with the operational activities assessed.
Unannounced and announced audits are undertaken by the Health and Safety Departments to check compliance.
In 2004 the Scottish Operations had a full external audit of the Safety Management System.
The British Safety Council were contracted to carry out an audit which involved visiting all of the commercial port facilities within the Scottish Operations.
The audit highlighted substantial improvement from the last audit in 2001 and the Scottish Operations were awarded three stars out of a maximum of five stars compared with no stars in 2001.
The report has allowed the Health and Safety Department in Scotland to identify key areas for development over the next two years with an aim to achieve a four star award in 2006.
Tilbury will undertake a similar full audit during 2005.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 27 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Environment Biofuels.
Shipping is widely considered to be more environmentally friendly, in terms of transporting goods medium to long distances, than land based We have developed ways of transporting transport methods.
Studies have suggested that moving goods by sea biofuels safely and efficiently as the trend can be up to five times more fuel efficient than road transport and at towards its use in industry grows.
least twice as fuel efficient as rail transport.
Furthermore, the removal of heavy goods vehicles from the roads will increase the longevity of the road surfaces and reduce congestion.
When undertaking maintenance or capital expenditure projects, materials are recycled wherever practicable.
For example, a floor surface was replaced in a distribution warehouse to allow a new racking system to be installed: approximately 50% of the floor surface material which was removed from site was stockpiled by the contractor to be recycled for future road surfacing work.
The Marine Department, which includes the Forth and Tay Navigation Service, collects information on the number and types of marine incidents arising in the Forth and Tay Estuaries, particularly in relation to navigational safety and standards.
In 2004, there were four reports of oil pollution in the Forth and one in the Tay.
Only one of the reported spills in the Forth was attributable to shipping and involved a spillage of less than one tonne.
Despite sending out tugs and pilot boats, and the Maritime and Coastguard Agency utilising a counter-pollution surveillance plane, the oil could not be located.
Although, the other three spills were not from shipping we continued to follow our standard pollution control procedures.
A Tier 2 response was initiated immediately to the oil spill on the Tay, even before the extent of the spill was identified.
The majority of the spill was recovered by the Oil Pollution Recovery Teams deployed Security.
The spill turned out to be less than one tonne.
Prior to the implementation of the Governments Each of our ports has an Oil Spill Contingency Plan and a Major Incident legislation in July 2004 for all commercial Plan which are regularly updated and exercises are also carried out on port facilities to comply with the ISPS, each a regular basis.
In the Firth of Forth, there is a further high level plan to port within the Group received approval from deal with any incidents which occur in the Firth rather than in Port.
This the Department for Transport and complies plan is called Clearwater Forth.
Each year an exercise is carried out with the enabling UK and EU legislation.
under Clearwater Forth which involves all the key organisations which are party to Clearwater Forth such as the port operator, the oil majors, local authorities, environmental regulators and other interested parties.
In 2005, Clearwater Forth will undergo a major revision to check that the procedures adopted in the current plan still comply with industry good practice.
28 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 The Group requires to undertake dredging operations to maintain the Aims of the Group navigational channels in the Forth and Tay together with a small amount It is the aim of the Group to ensure that all operations consider their of dredging within the Port of Tilbury and its immediate approaches.
In impact upon and interface with:- 2004, the volume of dredged spoil disposed of was substantially lower the health, wellbeing and safety of employees than 2002 and 2003.
The reason for this is unclear but it may be that the local environment there was marginally less siltation during 2004 than in previous years.
the global environment the local community The Group is very aware of movement to and from the ports.
Most of the business environment our ports are adjacent the main railway line or have a railhead connection.
In Tilbury, there can be more than 6,000 vehicles entering the port on any In fulfilling the above, all activities should be, at a minimum, day of which half are heavy goods vehicles.
At peak times in Grangemouth, fully compliant with all relevant laws in the operating country.
three heavy goods vehicles per minute may enter the port.
As part of a project to improve logistics associated with the Scottish Ports, a Logistics When equipment, plant, stores and supplies are purchased, the following Project Manager has been appointed.
One of his tasks is to increase the are considered:- number of containers entering the port of Grangemouth via rail rather the health, wellbeing and safety of employees who may use or be than road.
He has already had some success with a new daily train exposed to the product service being established in the second half of 2004. their potential to impact upon the local environment through usage whether appropriate or inappropriate The Finnish Terminal in the Port of Tilbury retains ISO 14001 compliance.
whether the product has to be stored in particular circumstances and On the basis of the success of this initiative, further facilities in Tilbury if so how safely is it stored are working towards compliance and potential sites in the Scottish whether usage or storage of the product requires extra training for Operations will be identified for ISO 14001 compatible environmental employees management systems.
When hiring contractors, the following must There is recognition that all of our UK facilities are on or adjacent be checked:- sensitive conservation sites.
The Group contributes to the Forth Estuary the contractor is suitably qualified to undertake the works Forum, Tay Estuary Forum and Thames Marine Consultative Committee.
the contractor has been through all appropriate induction processes Each of these bodies represents a key link to other regulators, local to work on the site and has the appropriate permits authorities and community and conservation groups.
There is recognition the contractor holds appropriate insurance cover by the Group that corporate giving to the community should be about more than just finance.
A number of organisations benefit from Group This sets the corporate ethos towards compliance and corporate social personnel sitting on the Boards of charities and of support through the responsibility for all Group activities for the future.
provision of office accommodation or meeting rooms.
The Groups Property Division is active in engaging with communities to ensure that any development proposals are understood in the local community.
A key aspect of the Leith developments has been the ability to recruit local labour linked to training initiatives thereby giving local people skills and jobs.
The Group recognises that it operates in a sensitive environment: this is particularly so in the Thames, Forth and Tay each of which has been designated as a NATURA 2000 Site under the EU Birds and Habitats Directives.
The Groups activities can benefit the local communities through the provision of jobs, the reduction of road traffic and associated congestion and pollution.
Our own environmental and health and safety impacts are continually being reviewed and improved by our environmental and health and safety staff.
