26 Group 4 Securicor ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Corporate Social Responsibility Group 4 Securicor is committed to being a socially responsible corporate citizen.
We believe it is important for employees to be treated Health and Safety Ethics fairly and with dignity and respect.
Such treatment is The group has a published Health & Safety policy The group has a Business Ethics Policy which clarifies the basis for an environment which engenders team which acts as a minimum standard for all subsidiary the way the group interacts with customers, suppliers, spirit and a commitment to the group which in turn companies throughout the world.
Subsidiary operating employees, government bodies, investors and the helps to maintain good staff retention levels.
companies must either adopt the group standard as it world at large and includes guidance on, amongst is or use it as the basis for their own company policy, other matters, business practice and entertainment, Communication and consultation with employees takes ensuring at the same time that they comply with local equal opportunities, use of the internet and political place on a wide range of issues.
In adopting these standards, we seek to contributions.
The group statement is treated as a variety of channels for communication including create a workplace and work systems which enable minimum standard.
newsletters, team briefings and intranets, as well as staff to feel safe and secure and where management is formal representational relationships with staff Group 4 Securicor is a member of Transparency seen to take a proactive interest in staff welfare.
associations, trades unions and works councils.
International, a non profit-making, independent, nonNick Buckles is the director responsible for reporting governmental organisation, dedicated to increasing Our policy of equal opportunity ensures that decisions to the board on health and safety matters, assisted by government accountability and to curbing both relating to the recruitment, development, promotion the Group HR Director, Irene Cowden.
Responsibility national and international corruption.
and training of individual employees are based solely is devolved and delegated through divisional presidents on job requirements.
Employment to the managing director of each operating company, The group employs over 360,000 employees in over who in turn must make one of their companys 100 different countries.
Our success depends on the directors responsible for health and safety.
Each commitment and competence of our employees and company appoints a suitably-qualified person to our human resource strategies are therefore aimed develop the companys own policies and procedures at ensuring that employees are trained to be totally and to undertake management and employee training.
competent in their roles and have the opportunity Risk assessment processes must be developed and a to develop to their full potential.
Formal career and procedure put in place for monitoring compliance succession management processes help support the with policies and procedures.
Accident reporting and movement of managers within and between the analysis will be undertaken at both company and various group businesses as part of their career paths.
They also enable us to share knowledge and expertise across the businesses.
27 Community involvement Group 4 Securicor has selected the protection, support, education and development of children as a specific area of focus for its charitable and community Group 4 Securicor companies around the world give direct involvement in 2005 and beyond.
With its involvement in so many different countries, the group has entered support to various community projects local to them, three into a corporate partnership with Save the Children.
examples of which are shown below.
A substantial sum has been put aside to assist Save the Children with their many projects around the world.
At the same time, the group has committed to providing financial support to other projects which Trailwalker benefit needy and underprivileged children.
Through Trailwalker, first held in 1981 in Hong Kong, is a gruelling challenge over this arrangement, employees will receive funding to assist 100km of demanding terrain.
All funds raised by the event support Gurkha education with activities which help children in their local area.
projects in Nepal and the work of Oxfam in over 80 countries.
Securicor Hong Kong has taken part in The group has a large number of employees in four the event every year since 1999, raising over HK$560,000 in sponsorship.
of the countries most directly affected by the 2004 tsunami disaster, namely India, Indonesia, Sri Lanka and Thailand.
Two of our employees in Aceh, Indonesia, are Wackenhut Golf Event missing, presumed dead.
We made a donation of In the United States, Wackenhut has held an annual golf event for the last 100,000 to Save the Children, with a request that the benefit be shared between the four countries named.
eight years to benefit local and national US charities, all of which work to In addition, we have set up a scheme under which we support needy or deprived children.
Over this period, Wackenhut has donated some are matching, pound for pound, tsunami-related US$600,000, raised through sponsorship for the golf.
The 2004 event was attended by 140 golfers and donations made to Save the Children by our staff.
the monies raised were donated to The Boys and Girls Club, Junior Achievement, The Victory Junction Gang, The Miami Transplant Foundation, Tremors Foundation and the Hospice of Palm Beach.
Charitable Trust Prior to the merger, Securicor had a charitable trust which made numerous modest financial donations to Magic Cents charities supporting a wide range of causes.
In 2005, Group 4 Securicor will focus on the support In 2004 Group 4 Belgium sponsored the Magic Cents initiative organised of child-related projects around the world and the by Child Planet.
The company collected over one million cardboard boxes, which had been charitable trust has therefore been discontinued.
distributed to a chain of supermarkets and post offices and filled with coins by children, and delivered them free of charge to the National Bank of Belgium.
The money raised helps finance projects which aim to improve the lives of children staying in hospital.
