06 Group 4 Securicor ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Our People Leading through our People Group 4 Securicor has over 360,000 employees and our success depends on their commitment and competence.
To be a global leader we have adopted strategies that will ensure our people can face the many challenges ahead.
Irene Cowden Group Human Resources Director Irene Cowden is Human Resources Director of Group 4 Securicor, having previously been appointed to the Securicor plc board in August 2002.
She joined the Securicor group in 1977 and held senior management appointments specialising in employee relations, compensation and benefits, and organisation development.
07 We have a clear strategy to ensure that the organisation to ensure that our people remain close to their We recognise that having good leaders is only one derives maximum value from its people in pursuit of customers, can make quick and sound decisions and part of running a successful business: we know that we the groups vision and objectives.
The strategy states are fully accountable for their actions.
need to ensure that all of our people feel committed that we will recruit and develop the best people in to delivering excellent customer service and feel proud the industry to help create an environment in which Our vision and business model demand exemplary to work for the organisation.
In order to ensure that they are able to develop their potential and feel leadership with global frameworks which are our front-line employees fully understand our vision motivated to deliver excellent performance for our developed and applied to local markets.
To ensure that and values, we use a wide variety of channels to customers and shareholders.
we continue to develop strong leaders throughout our communicate and consult with them including businesses, we have introduced a leadership programme newsletters, team briefings and intranets.
As a global leader we believe that our people bring through which we can grow our in-house talent.
to the business a depth of cultural diversity which is The wellbeing, physical security, pay and other unprecedented in the security industry.
This level of This programme provides an accelerated pathway for conditions of our staff lie at the heart of what we diversity is a great strength for Group 4 Securicor and those employees with high potential to develop their believe in.
As a global company, we work with over we are continually learning from each other and sharing leadership skills, thus enabling them to progress rapidly 60 unions and with staff representatives and best practices across the world.
With over 90% of our to senior management positions.
employees to ensure that we operate in the best employees working outside the UK, they face a range of interests of our customers and employees.
Indeed, issues including differing phases of market development, The leadership programme has been designed using best we have higher levels of union membership in our differing legislation and unique customer needs.
practice examples from global organisations, adapted to companies throughout the world than the industry address our unique needs.
Each part of the programme norm and are proud of our productive relationships To ensure that our people are able to meet these is designed around our business model and business with employees and their representatives.
challenges wherever they operate in the world, we lines in ways that enable participants to gain real-time adopt a performance management culture throughout experiences of the challenges in all areas of our business.
the organisation, supported by systems and processes
