qxp 11 4 05 10:01 am Page 12 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 12 Group chief executives operating and financial review | continued ahead of MORIs UK private sector norm.
Our goal for the future is to Occupational Health We have made significant progress in our lift the levels of pride, engagement and advocacy into a similar occupational health programme.
Health assessments of our workforce leadership position.
We are clear that motivated employees and a have been undertaken in our Infrastructure Services and Slate strong culture are the foundations of excellent customer service and businesses.
essential prerequisites in any organisation seeking, as we are, to build long term client relationships.
The Code of Conduct This now plays an important role in our site induction programme and forms the basis of our behavioural safety Corporate Responsibility initiatives.
We believe that there is an immeasurable benefit in gaining the trust of our clients and partners by ensuring that both the future resources Behavioural Safety In our quest to reduce our accident frequency rate of the Company and the development of our people are being even further, we now believe it is important to supplement this with a managed actively.
focus on positive behaviours which encourage a proactive approach to safety management.
Each of our business streams has developed pilot We have reported on our sustainability performance for the past programmes with consultants.
three years and produced a report entitled Responsible and Safe.
This year, our web based report, which can be accessed at For 2005, we have set new objectives: www.
com, has been renamed the Alfred McAlpine Corporate Responsibility Report, 2004.
Environmental Measurements In 2005, environmental data collection programmes will be extended Group-wide.
During 2006 we intend to Our corporate responsibility CR programme has taken some significant introduce a CO emissions reduction programme based on this data.
We have decided on a framework of measuring our CR performance through the following existing management Behavioural Safety Our behavioural safety programmes are set to structures.
continue, the pilot work now being extended across our businesses.
Workforce Customers Community Suppliers Drugs and Alcohol During the course of the year, we will expand our Health and safety Environment drugs and alcohol testing where there is a reasonable cause for Standards of business conduct suspecting that employees are not complying with Company rules.
Policies in all these areas are already well developed and objectives are Driver Safety We will carry out a review of driver health and safety.
being set in each of our businesses.
Much information has been generated by the Government and health and safety bodies since we introduced our policy two years ago.
Our top priority is the safety of our employees and all those who may be affected by our work.
Our ambitious goal of reaching an AFR of 0.1, We have retained our membership of the FTSE4Good index, and as a which equates to one accident per million man hours worked, still part of the CR reporting community we provide information in the remains our medium term target figure.
Our ultimate goal is to annual EIRIS Ethical Investment Research Service and to the Business eliminate all accidents.
in the Community Environmental Index survey.
For 2004, the Group set a number of key objectives: Two years ago, the Company introduced a community initiative which is intended to encourage our staff to get involved in activities within Environmental Measurement Sample environmental data collection the communities in which we work.
Examples of such initiatives are programmes were set for each of the business streams.
The data has included in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
been collected and adds to our understanding of the way the Group uses energy resources, generates carbon dioxide and manages and The Group introduced a programme of internal Safety, Health and recycles waste.
Environment SHE auditing based on the principles of level five of the widely used International Safety Rating System.
It is planned in 2005 to Third Party Certification to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 All of begin a programme to raise the auditing standard in order that our SHE the Groups operational businesses are third party certified to OHSAS performance can be benchmarked with industries that are performing 18001, the internationally recognised health and safety management to higher standards than our own, for example the petrochemical or system standard.
Since the year end, Business Services has gained third nuclear industries.
party certification for all of its operations to ISO 14001, which completes the third party certifications for this standard across the Group.
