SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW COMBINING THE GOALS OF COMMERCE AND CONSCIENCE continuously improving the reporting of data and particularly in the When the foundations of todays GKN were established in 18th century light of the disparate nature of the production processes in our different Britain the sole purpose of a manufacturing company was to produce divisions, we have decided this year to present the environmental data on wealth for its owners.
As referred to in last years review, the use of sales as a metric has a number of disadvantages, including distortions caused Today, almost 250 years later, wealth creation still endures as the principal by price reductions, intra-Group trading and widely varying consumption concern for the directors and managers of a business but there are many levels in differing manufacturing processes.
The development of alternative more stakeholders who can now legitimately claim an influence on GKNs metrics continues.
Within our Automotive businesses we are now commerce and conscience.
progressively measuring energy, waste and water relative to weight If we achieve success with our customers we generate value for our of products shipped as an alternative metric, on a divisional basis.
shareholders, rewardsfor our employees and the ability to make a We continue to use sales within our Aerospace businesses where the meaningful contribution to the communities of which we are part.
widely differing range of products manufactured and the drive towards ever lighter components means thatweight is not an appropriate And in seeking to create highly efficient manufacturing processes to measure of production.
Divisional environmental performance data meet our customers demands for quality and cost effectiveness, we using this alternative metric will be placed on our website at experience no conflict in also working to minimise the impact of our www.
operations on the environment and to making a contribution towards sustainable development goals within society as well as in creating GOVERNANCE an ever safer workplace for our employees.
Management systems The principles of good corporate social responsibility are embedded SCOPE OF THE REVIEW within GKNs values which are embraced throughout the Group.
They In this years social responsibility review GKN has again used, as can be viewed on our website.
a framework to present the information, the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI, an international multiThe Board views very seriously its responsibility for ensuring that all the stakeholder group.
The GRI Guidelines, lastpublished in June 2002, are Groups businesses act as good corporate citizens.
During the latter part based on the triple bottom line reporting concept covering economic, of 2004, the Executive Committee of the Board established a Governance social and environmental performance.
The financial aspects of the and Risk Sub-Committee, chaired by Grey Denham, Company Secretary, economic performance of the Group in 2004 are reported on elsewhere with responsibility for monitoring and reviewing matters relating to in this annual report.
governance and compliance, risk management and corporate social responsibility.
The Group Risk Management Council GRMC, which GKN supports the terms of the UniversalDeclaration of Human Rights replaced the Group Loss Prevention Council in 2004 and is under the and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and continues overallsupervision of the Sub-Committee, is the policy advisory and to work towards ensuring that there is no breach of these within its steering group on accidental risk and sustainable development.
Our ultimate aim is to ensure that similar standards operate Its responsibilities include providing oversight and direction on the throughout our supply chains.
management of accidental risk across GKN: acting as a focus for guidance The Group operates globally and it is therefore appropriate that our on, the development of strategy for, and reporting on the progress of, approach to social responsibility is global.
Accordingly, the review covers keyelements of sustainable development within GKN: being a primary all of our subsidiary companies worldwide.
It also embraces our joint source of information for effective communication with all stakeholders: venture companies through an open exchange of information and ideas: recognising outstanding achievement in risk management and promoting where practicable performance data is collected from those companies.
the sharing of best practice.
The GRMC is supported in its role by Joint ventures may also participate in our global Safety Award and Green Divisional Risk Management Councils formerly Divisional Loss Prevention Scheme Award programmes.
Councils, the purpose of which is to ensure that best practice processes are embedded within the Groups operations.
The performance data presented in this review has been the subject of self-certification by Group companies together with some independent Maureen Constantine, Group Human Resources Director, has responsibility verification of data or data collection processes as described below.
for ensuring implementation of and compliance with health, safety and environment programmes.
Grey Denham, together with the internal We have again reported our performance against key environmental audit department and the Audit Committee, oversees compliance with indicators energy, waste, water by measuring volume consumed or Group policies.
However, in line with our objective of ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 31 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED The management of social responsibility issues is an integral part of Ethical standards policy the Groups overall corporate governance procedures and therefore this The Ethical Standards policy sets high standards of integrity, honesty and review should be read in conjunction with the corporate governance fair dealing for all employees.
As part of the overall Group Ethical Standards section on pages 74 to 78.
In particular the management of social, policy, individual divisional and company policies require that all environmental and ethical risks is encompassed within the internal business should be conducted with respect to human dignity and rights, control procedures described in that section.
and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and that corrupt practices and the acceptance or making of bribes be prohibited.
The most significant risks that we have identified in relation to social All commercial transactions must be properly recorded, and assets and responsibility issues are loss of reputation resulting from the manner confidential information must be fully protected and used only for the of operation of our businesses and safety issues arising from quality or purpose for which they were provided.
Both of these could, potentially, impact shareholder value significantly as well as our employees and the communities in Employees are also required to avoid conflicts of interest between their which we operate.
In environmental terms, our manufacturing processes business relationships and personal activities.
All employees have are not inherently high risk, however greatcare is taken to prevent any access to appropriate nominated executives or groups of executives for adverse impact arising.
the purposes of advice and assistance and, where necessary, rulings on ethical issues which may arise.
Corporate social responsibility issues are reported to the Executive Committee and the Board twice yearly, and health, safety and environmental GKN also has a separate policy on the appointment of agents and performance is also reported separately to the Executive Committee on a consultants which governs the terms of appointment of, and the conduct quarterly basis.
Significant incidents are reported to executive Directors of the ongoing relationship with, agents and consultants to ensure that within 24 hours and to the next meeting of the Executive Committee.
all business is carried out lawfully and ethically.
The Business Excellence Programme is the overarching strategic business Competition policy tool we use throughout GKN in all aspects of managing the business, To ensure that Group companies comply with the laws relating to including our corporate social responsibilities.
The programme, using competition and fair trading, the Group has a policy that relevant the Business Excellence model developed by the European Foundation employees are trained in competition laws applicable to their day-to-day for Quality Management and Lean Enterprise, forms an integrated approach activities.
Employees are trained by wayof attendance at courses or by to performance improvement towards best-in-class standards across use of interactive CD-ROM training packages developed by the Group.
These include leadership, empowerment, organisational processes, customer relationship management and Data protection policy community contributions.
All divisions have carried out at least one The Groups Data Protection policy is designed to ensure that personal strategic business excellence assessment at regional level and all the information held throughout the Group is treated with due respect for major businesses have at least one trained excellence champion.
The the privacy of the individual and in a manner compliant with local data total number of trained assessors within the Group at the end of 2004 protection regulations.
The policy is applied worldwide even where it is was 155. more exacting than local legislation.
Group governance policies Employment policies A series of governance policies, which are applied throughout the Group, The Groups Employment Law and Practices policy requires every underpin GKNs values.
Our internal control procedures described in business in the Group to adopt employment policies and procedures the corporate governance section on pages 77 and 78 are designed to ensuring that employees and prospective employees are afforded equal confirm proper implementation and identify material breaches of these opportunities irrespective of gender, race, sexual orientation, disability, policies.
No such breaches have been identified in respect of 2004. religion or ethnic origin.
Wherever it operates, the Group complies with The newly formed Governance and Risk Sub-Committee is charged with local employment law and practices.
bringing together, within a new code on corporate social responsibility, All businesses are required to ensure that employment decisions existing governance policies and policies on health and safety, the are based on qualifications and merit.
The working environment must environment, the community, business continuity and risk financing.
respect employees human dignity and rights and be free from all forms It will also be considering the development of new policies in areas of discrimination and from any form of conduct, physical or verbal, which such as supply chain management and product and process design.
could be considered to be harassing including sexual harassment, GKNs current governance policiesare summarised as follows: coercive or disruptive.
Working conditions must be safe and healthy 32 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004 and there are specific requirements in relation to substance abuse and GKN managers from around the world considered how best to identify and dangerous weapons.
implement best practice in terms of ethical behaviour and contribution to the local economy, as well as promoting the health and welfare of Policies are designed to encourage employees to report and discuss employees, their families and the communities in which we operate.
problems on a confidential basis and to provide expeditious and Whilst there are many examples within the Group of which we can be confidential grievance procedures.
proud, the challenge is to develop an integrated, global approach to corporate social responsibility, including social responsibility reporting, Employee disclosure procedures policy which will become embedded in all our operations.
Group companies are required to establish appropriate procedures to enable employees to disclose in good faith, at local company or Diversity and inclusion if appropriate at divisional level, instances of wrongdoing by other One of GKNs values is to act with integrity at all times, and in so doing employees at any level, including anysubstantial breach of the Groups we aim to be regarded as an employer of choice.
Employees must be able to do so in the knowledge that their operating across more than 30 countries, with different national cultures, concerns will be investigated and dealt with properly and sensitively different customers with varying expectations in a rapidly changing business and without fear of reprisal or disciplinary action.
The process must environment, the commitment of GKN employees and the continuity and also provide for employees, should they so wish, to make disclosures consistency they bring to the business is a differentiating factor in our in writing directly to the Company Secretary or the head of the internal competitive environment.
Making sure that employees are involved audit department at the Corporate Centre.
in and informed about business objectives and can contribute from a In support of its governance procedures, our Aerospace business, which wealth of ideas, backgrounds and perspectives is part of developing an operates in the highly regulated world of government contracting, has inclusive culture where diversity is valued and individuals are respected.
established an external Ethics Hotline.
This provides employees with During the year GKN Driveline North America has taken the lead in a means of voicing concerns on compliance and regulatory issues to examining, with the help of an external facilitator, perceptions of diversity a third party provider, if they wish on an anonymous basis.
and attitudes towards difference amongst GKN employees.
As a result of this survey, an awareness workshop for managers looking at issues of TOWARDS PEOPLE EXCELLENCE diversity and inclusion was developed, and the pilot programme involving 2004 has seen a continuing focus on employee development and 20 managers from all levels within the region was well received.
A similar progression in support of our core GKN values.
During the year we have programme will be rolled out across all the divisions during 2005.
The continued our work to create a culture where continuous improvement is objective of this increased awareness of the value of diversity is to broaden an integral part of our business processes, recognising that the contribution our perspectives in terms of new recruits to the organisation, to look of our employees is critical to operational excellence.
Objectives around beyond the perceptions of the immediate knowledge base and to grow employee development focus on realising the full potential of our people the organisation through the potential of our employees.
at individual, team and organisational level.
We aim to promote fairness and equality, to involve and empower our employees and to build Training and development commitment to GKN as an employer through recognising the value of GKN offers a wide range of experiences and careers not limited to individual skills and knowledge.
Training and development activities across the Group At the International Leadership Conference in November, corporate continue in order to ensure that employees are well equipped to perform social responsibility was a major topic on the agenda.
Some 200 senior the duties of current jobs as well as to develop skills and knowledge for the Employees by business Employees by region as at 31 December 2004 as at 31 December 2004 UK 5,600 Automotive Continental Europe 15,200 Subsidiaries 31,000 Americas 12,100 Joint ventures 3,700 Rest of the World 7,600 Aerospace Subsidiaries 5,800 including subsidiaries and joint ventures ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 33 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED future requirements of the business.
Technical skills are a prerequisite WORKING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS for day-to-day operations, particularly in engineering and manufacturing, We define stakeholder as any person or organisation who is affected by, or and GKN is active with external organisations such as schools, colleges, whose actions impact upon, our business.
These include local communities, universities and industry groups to promote engineering and manufacturing shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, business partners, local as a rewarding and meaningful career path for young people.
authorities, government agencies and non-governmental organisations NGOs.
We engage with these stakeholders in a variety of ways.
In 2004, GKN was awarded BEST partner status by the Royal Academy of Engineering in the UK for our work with the Engineering Development As part of our aim to contribute positively to the communities in which we Trust programmes.
Only two other UK companies have achieved this operate, wherever possible we employ local labour in our businesses.
GKN sponsored the 2004 award for the best mechanical invest in local community projects both by way of financial donations and engineering student, part of the Science, Engineering and Technology through the volunteer work of our employees, particularly in less developed SET Student of the Year Awards launched in 1998 to raise the status of countries.
Examples of local initiatives are given on page 35. technology education in the UK.
The Awards have since become known Over the last few years, a number of meetings have been held with major as the Oscars of British technological education with entries from all shareholders and NGOs to discuss the Groups performance with regard of Britains leading universities.
The winner of the award was Graham to corporate social responsibility and it is our intention to continue to McShane, an undergraduate at Cambridge University.
Additionally, seek dialogue with major stakeholders.
GKNs International Leadership Development Programme for graduates was highly commended as an example of best in class in a recently We are aware that there are some investment organisations and published research project by Lancaster University.
individuals who are concerned by companies involvement in the defence industry.
Following the sale of our helicopter joint venture, In addition to technical capability, leadership attributes and personal AgustaWestland, GKNs primary interest in defence equipment is through behavioural competences are also important to the continuing development GKN Aerospace which is a first tier supplier of aerospace structures, of the business.
Each year a detailed review of the management propulsion systems and special products for US and European military competence of the Group is undertaken across all business units, the aircraft programmes.
All sales outside domestic markets are strictly in results of which are then reported to both the Executive Committee and accordance with the relevant government export approval procedures.
Career progression and succession programmes are also monitored in this way.
Personal development planning is encouraged for In addition to the impact of our own activities, the impact of our supply all staff, and personal objectives and performance levels are assessed partners and the products we manufacture both during their life and in on a regular basis.
Training is tailored to individual development needs their end of life phase are of increasing importance.
We continue to seek rather than set programmes, and is made available through a variety to identify ways in which we can support our key suppliers in this regard of channels: on-line, through external providers, and through in-house to our mutual benefit.
As a component supplier, the impact of our products providers such as our International College of Engineering.
Mentoring hasto be addressed also in partnership with our customers as well as and coaching structures are also in place to support executives in their our suppliers.
This continues to be an important focus of attention.
development through the experience of more senior managers often GKN plays a substantive role in a number of key industrial organisations.
from a different function or division and a different background.
We are founder members of the Industry and Parliament Trust, the UK Per The GKN Board has mandated that all divisions must conduct an employee Cent Club and the UK Emission Trading Scheme.
We are active members survey at least once every two years.
Recent surveys, carried out in the of the Engineering Employers Federation and Confederation of British various divisions in local languages, produced interesting results with Industry in the UK and the German Employers Federation.
We are also common areas for improvement such as communication, personal active members of the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders development, concern for employees as individuals and the need for SMMT in the UK, the Society of British Aerospace Companies, the US more widespread coaching and mentoring.
On the positive side, results Organisation for International Investment and the British Occupational indicated agreement that GKN provides a healthy and safe working Health Foundation.
In addition, we are represented on the boards of the environment, shows concern for its customers and shareholders and Automotive Academy, Skills4Auto and on the Engineering Training Board.
A key stage in the process is the development of GKN Driveline was one of 11 founding signatories to the SMMTs action plans to address those areas where the response scores were less sustainability strategy Towards Sustainability which outlines the acceptable and where immediate improvement is required.
Subsequent automotive industrys commitment to balance economic progress with tracking of performance against action plans is critical to ensure that the environmental care and social responsibility.
The fifth Annual Sustainability desired improvements are implemented.
In many instances this aspect Report published towards the end of the year demonstrated the increasingly is incorporated in regular business reviews.
80% of all employees have prudent use of resources within the automotive industry.
been surveyed in the last two years.
34 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004 OUR COMMITMENT TO THE COMMUNITY 5,000 GKN people make a difference in the wake of the Tsunami GKN is committed to enhancing the welfare of the communities in On the morning of 26 December 2004 more than 5,000 GKN which it operates.
In 2004, charity and community contributions by employees across the Asia Pacific region were among the millions Group companies amounted to some 794,000.
Those organisations worldwide who were shocked by the first news bulletins telling of to which cash contributions were made are listed on GKNs website the Indian Ocean Tsunami.
Community support is widespread across GKNs Thierry Ehrhardt, Plant Director of GKNsplant in Rayong in Thailand, worldwide operations.
The following are just a few examples: said: All we knew at first was that a big wave had hit six provinces Asia Pacific GKN Driveline India has teamed up with a local NGO, in the south it was only the following day that we heard that many Pranab Kanya, to provide informal education to underprivileged children people had died.
Then we heard that many more thousands had lost of migrant workers at nearby brick kilns.
At local facilities provided everything they had no clothes, no shelter and nothing to eat.
by Pranab Kanya, GKN Driveline India is funding the cost of teaching More than 200 people work for GKN in Thailand and their response and assistance, refreshments and stationery.
Food, clothes, cooking utensils and money were receive teaching in English, Hindi, elementary mathematics and general raised and a GKN team was despatched to Suratthanee, one of the knowledge.
GKN employees also help out at the facility and in the future affected areas, more than 900 kilometres away.
Then they learned GKN will assist with the provision of better classrooms, uniforms and that a small fishing village in the region of Ranong, which was a basic exposure to computers.
further 200 kilometres away, had not received any assistance and more aid was despatched from Rayong.
The Americas Employees at GKN Aerospace, St Louis have formed one of only two corporate community emergency response teams The experience for the GKN aid workers was harrowing and they CERTs in the St Louis area to provide search and rescue assistance found themselves distributing aid for the living and helping to buy in the event of an emergency.
The team completed a training exercise coffins for the dead.
in July which simulated a real life mass casualty disaster and later In Malaysia the families of several employees lost everything when in the year participated in another drill to prepare for an earthquake.
the tsunami hit their homes in the coastal area of Kuala Muda and a The CERT team was on standby to assist with the disaster relief following donation drive among employees was matched by GKN.
Funds were the Florida hurricanes in September.
prioritised for the families of GKN staff.
GKN Driveline Brazil continues to be very active in its local community, Across the Asia Pacific region there were other spontaneous responses.
a more recent initiative being involvement in a Food Bank programme In India all employees contributed one days salary and GKN made a through which the company donates 40kg of food every day to a day matching contribution.
In China donations from employees and their care centre in the local community benefiting over 100 young children company made a large contribution to relief efforts and in Australia from poor families.
employees decided to forego their annual Christmas bonus.
On behalf of the Group GKN plc made a donation of 100,000 to the Europe GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems Kings Norton in the Disasters Emergency Committee, and many Group companies and UK supports secondary schools in its local area through a number of their employees around the world have raised money for tsunami initiatives aimed at promoting a better understanding of the world of work.
In 2004, these included events at a girlsschool on the manufacturing environment and succeeding in an engineering role, and at a local school Walter Rohregger, Managing Director of GKNs operations in Asia on a project concerned with running a business.
During 2005 this will Pacific and Japan said: We are thankful that the GKN family across be extended to conducting mock interviews with school leavers and an this region suffered no direct loss.
While our employees have environmental awareness programme.
mourned for those who died and have prayed for the missing the priority for all of us has been to help the survivors trying to rebuild GKN Driveline Polska Poland plays an active part in the life of their lives.
the Olesnic a community and region in which it is located including involvement with an orphanage in Bierutowa the children from which Of all the countries in which we operate Thailand has been the hardest hit.
After the immediate assistance which we rendered in the attend company events with employees children, support for a local aftermath of the disaster we focused our efforts on a small fishing school with opportunities for pupils to gain experience in a production village in Kampoun where we are helping to build new houses and plant environment, and support over a number of years for the Technical for fishermen who have lost their livelihood we are helping purchase University of Wroclaw.
We believe that such practical help is the best way we can make a difference.
ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 35 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED MANAGING HEALTH AND SAFETY IN GKN Targets Health and safety are well established as an integral part of a strong Objectives and targets continue to be applied primarily at plant level company culture based on shared values which are reflected in the where they can best reflect a plants specific needs, risks, priorities behaviour of employees at all levels of the organisation.
We continue to and opportunities for improvement.
Performance targets are applied focus on strong, committed, visible and supportive leadership, together in two ways.
Every part of GKN has to achieve an overall, clear and with appropriate behaviours as the main drivers of health and safety positive improvement trend leading to and maintaining a best-in-class improvement towards a goal of zero preventable accidents.
Where considerable improvement is needed, plants have of executive bonus based on safety performance introduced in 2003 specific, often aggressive, targets.
In 2004, 74% of plants improved or continued in 2004. maintained their excellent AFR performance and 71% of plants achieved their AFR targets.
For ASR 62% of plants maintained or improved their The deployment of Business Excellence within GKN continues to provide performance and 54% met their targets.
a framework for achieving excellence in safety.
A key part of our strategy is to encourage every employee to take ownership of their own health In addition to performance targets for AFR, ASR and SIR we also apply and safety and that of their immediate colleagues.
Developing people targets to and measure performance against key enablers including excellence, team working and continuous improvement throughout the health and safety training and the publication of health and safety organisation forms a major part of our improvement aims including objectives and plans.
These enablers and associated targets are those for health and safety.
subject to change as part of a dynamic approach which addresses developing needs and priorities, and drive continuous improvement.
Many GKN businesses now incorporate in their operations features from They consistently operate at an achievement level of 75% or above.
the health and safety management system OHSAS 18001 and 11 GKN companies have now achieved certification to this standard.
Benchmarking results place our accident rates well below industry averages in the UK, Germany and the US.
Against those of our peer Performance companies in the UK and the US where comparative data is available, Our performance in 2004 again shows an improvement against the key our performance compares very favourably.
performance indicators of accident frequency rate AFR and of accident severity rate ASR which also includes lost time due to occupational ill Verification health.
Group results are shown in the charts below.
We recognise the importance placed by stakeholders on verification to ensure that the data which is reported on in this review is robust.
We Over the last five years AFR performance has improved by 71% and reported last year that an external review of processes and procedures ASR by 51%.
Our serious injury rate SIR remained relatively flat in used in the collection and reporting of health and safety data had 2004 but nevertheless showed a 63% reduction over the last five years.
been carried out at a sample of 10 sites which revealed no significant Further improvements have been made to processes and systems for deficiencies.
We are currently reviewing how best to develop this process the management of serious accident risk.
Verification and assurance of the effectiveness of data collection actions with fines totalling 13,416 occurred in plants in the UK, Italy, systems is demonstrated through the achievement of certification to US and Australia.
21.4 359 Accident frequency Accident severity 350 19.7 rate AFR rate ASR 297 lost time accidents lost days shifts due per 1,000 employees to accidents and 13.4 occupational ill health 181 per 1,000 employees 176 8.3 6.2 00 01 02 03 04 00 01 02 03 04 36 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Occupational health The target, if achieved, will bring GKNs reduction in emissions broadly GKN adopts an overarching approach to risk in all aspects of its in line with the targets set in the Kyoto Protocol.
In conjunction with our management of safety, there is a parallel set of provisions for safeguarding employees health with the Performance focus clearly on the avoidance of work-related ill health through the As referred to earlier in this review, thisyear we are reporting environmental completion of workplace-based risk assessments, occupational health performance on a divisional basis.
Our business processes across the management intervention, the promotion of wellness programmes and Group are diverse and thisisreflected in the range of environmental active data collection and monitoring.
For example, as can be seen from the charts below, Hoeganaes consumes energy and water and generates waste Safety award scheme at a much higher rate relative to reported sales than the other divisions The GKN Safety Award scheme, which has been a key contributor within the Group.
This business is engaged in the production of metal in transferring best practice in health and safety across the Group, powders and, by definition, has processes which are more energy has been run annually since 1997 and attracted 37 entries in 2004, intensive, result in higher water usage due to its cooling processes, equalling the previous record number and demonstrating the high level and produce a higher level of waste principally in the form of slag.
of interest, involvement and commitment to safety throughout GKN.
In 2004, Hoeganaes reported sales, which account for 4% of Group Leadership, employee involvement and team working together with sales, increased by 10%.
excellent progress were key attributes recognised by the judges.
Five Also referred to earlier in this review, the use of sales as a metric has a teams received awards from Kevin Smith, Chief Executive, at an awards distorting effect on the resultant data.
In particular GKN Drivelines level ceremony attended by over 200 people.
The overall winner was GKN of sales is impacted significantly by annual price reductions required by Aerospace Chem-tronics for commitment to continuous improvement, customers and intra-group trading which have a negative impact on the developing a safety system with many best practice features and in performance when compared with the respective prior year.
recognition of major performance improvement.
The other winners were GKN Driveline Brazil, GKN Driveline North America, GKN AutoStructures Each year, we continue to improve our environmental reporting processes Telford, UK, and GKN Sinter Metals Wisconsin, USA.
and as a result this can have a distorting effect on prior years comparisons.
Such effects, where significant, are noted below.
Special awards were also presented to GKN Sinter Metals Emporium, USA, for continuing to demonstrate many best practice features and Energy consumption achieving five million hours without a lost time accident, and to GKN With the exception of Hoeganaes, all divisions continued at relatively North America Services which since 2001 has had an informal network of low levels of energy consumption relative to sales.
We recognise that health, safety and environment advisors in three divisions of the Group there remains room for improvement, however, and efficient energy which provide shared resources and solutions and share best practice.
management is receiving a high level of focus across all our plants.
ENVIRONMENT We continue to beat the targets we have set ourselves under the UK Environmental management continuesto form an important element of Emission Trading Scheme, the overall target being a 10% reduction in the Groups integrated approach to loss prevention.
GKNs environmental our absolute CO emission over a five-year period to 2006.
The incentive 2 management system EMS is part of this approach and is broadly based payments we have received as a result are being invested in energy on the international management standard, ISO 14001.
Both of these saving schemes in the UK to reduce further our CO emissions.
2 impose a requirement for continuous improvement in environmental performance and, in the case of ISO 14001, a requirement to demonstrate that improvement to an independent certifying body.
Divisional performance: 6,000 Energy Targets relative to sales 5,000 GKN is committed to achieving accreditation to ISO 14001 at all kWh 1,000 4,000 its manufacturing sites throughout the world.
80 plants are currently 3,000 accredited and a further 13 are planning to achieve accreditation 2000 2001 in 2005.
Three of our European companies continue to maintain 2,000 2002 certification to the ECO Management and Audit Scheme EMAS.
2003 1,000 2004 GKN maintains its commitment to reducing carbon dioxide CO 2 Aerospace AutoDriveline Hoeganaes OHS Sinter 0 Components emissions relative to sales by 2005 starting from a 1999 baseline.
ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 37 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Waste generation The GKN Green Scheme continues to recognise and reward Group Performance was mixed across the divisions.
The increase in reported companies which have developed innovative ways of reducing their waste generation by the OffHighway Systems OHS and AutoComponents environmental impact.
The Green Scheme overall winner in 2004 was divisions was due to the inclusion this year of scrap metal as waste in GKN Aerospace Services, St Louis in the US which launched a multiple the 2003 and 2004 figures this is in line with other reporting divisions.
attack on historically inefficient practices.
The business improved its The volatile nature of Hoeganaes performance is due to the timing of chemicals data management, its oilreclamation and oil consumption, the removal of slag from its sites which is when it is recorded as scrap.
and minimised raw material consumption resulting in less hazardous Much of the waste generated is of value and is sold, often at a premium waste and a significant saving.
Other winners were GKN Driveline Arnage, rate.
Steelmaking slag produced at Hoeganaes is typically used for infill France, GKN Wheels at Telford in the UK, our Sinter Metals facility at in major construction projects.
Radevormwald in Germany and GKN Driveline Slovenija.
Water consumption CONCLUSION Most divisions are showing a flat or reducing trend over the five years with We continue to make progress as a Group in enhancing our role as the exception of Aerospace.
The increase in water consumption within that a good corporate citizen.
Recognising that we have scope for further division is principally due to the acquisition of the St Louis business which improvement, towards the end of 2004 the newly formed Governance has been reported on since 2002 and also the inclusion by St Louis of and Risk Sub-Committee commissioned a comprehensive survey of data on steam for the first time in 2004 this data was previously not all our operating facilities around the world to determine the extent available due to the terms of a supply agreement with the previous owner.
to which CSR practices and procedures are embedded within their The improved performance by OffHighway Systems is particularly pleasing.
The results of this survey, which are at present Hoeganaes figures are impacted by sales price increases in 2004. being analysed, will help us to identify the key areas of focus for 2005.
We look forward to reporting on our progress in the 2005 review.
During the year, seven enforcement actions against GKN companies, all in the US, resulted in fines totalling US$57,200.
The largest of these US$40,000 was levied against Hoeganaes, Milton in Massachusetts for exceeding its air permit limit.
In addition there was a further enforcement action against the Sinter Metals plant in DuBois, Pennsylvania, in respect of an air permit violation for which the fine has yet to be determined.
Verification As part of the certification to ISO 14001, the suitability of systems in place to gather and report data is assessed by external independent certifying bodies.
In addition, Group companies are required to certify the accuracy of the data that they report centrally, and most companies have developed their own internal auditing systems.
The energy data relating to UK companies has been successfully audited as part of the UK Emission Trading Scheme for the base years 1998-2000 and on an annual basis for the life of the Scheme.
Divisional performance: Divisional performance: 350 7 Waste Water 300 6 relative to sales relative to sales 3 kg 1,000 m 1,000 250 5 200 4 2000 2000 150 3 2001 2001 2002 2002 100 2 2003 2003 50 1 2004 2004 Aerospace AutoDriveline Hoeganaes OHS Sinter Aerospace AutoDriveline Hoeganaes OHS Sinter 0 0 Components Components 38 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
