GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 48 49 Corporate Social Responsibility Greggs plc believes that as a major employer, a provider of food products to the public, In 2004, Greggs plc appointed its first Community Initiatives Manager.
This is a full-time and a public company with obligations to its shareholders, the company has a responsibility dedicated role to oversee our work in the wider communities, in particular to accelerate to conduct its business with integrity, to act responsibly, to address the impacts of our further roll-out of the Greggs Breakfast Clubs.
This appointment is testament to Greggs on-going commitment to the communities in which we operate.
business on the environment, and to give something back to the wider communities in which we operate.
In addition to the schemes listed above, Greggs plc staff throughout the country participate voluntarily in a wide range of charity fund raising, which makes an additional meaningful This responsibility is delivered through the following: contribution to the wider communities in which we operate.
By their dedication and Customers, People and Suppliers devotion, our employees are a true credit to the Greggs plc name, and the real benefits of what they achieve are inestimable.
It is thanks to these employees and their efforts that Our Values are embraced by the Board and expected of all colleagues: as a Company we are able to make a contribution to the communities in which we operate.
We will be enthusiastic and supportive in all that we do, open, honest and appreciative, The Environment treating everyone with fairness, consideration and respect.
The Company recognises the importance of protecting our environment for future Our Values are a basis for all of our activities.
Our employees are expected to use them generations and is committed to carrying out its activities with due consideration for the in their relationships with each other and with customers and suppliers.
Our Values are environmental impacts of its operations and in line with Our Values.
our code of conduct and are the framework within which the business manages its activities and operates.
Environment Policy Food Safety and Health and Safety are at the forefront of how we operate.
We insist on Greggs plc has identified the key environmental impacts of its activities.
We are committed providing our customers with good quality food products and assurances of food safety.
to an ongoing programme of continual reduction of any adverse impacts and prevention Our robust systems also seek to protect the health and safety of our customers and of pollution consistent with our long term business objectives.
To manage this, the Company is progressively introducing an Environmental Management System EMS employees.
in each Division, which will seek the following: Wider Communities Compliance with all relevant environmental legislation, regulation and other In 2004, Greggs plc directly donated 1.3% of pre-tax profit to charity.
requirements applicable to the Company or to which the Company subscribes.
The Greggs Trust is a registered charity, founded by Ian Gregg in 1987.
Its main Reduction of waste at source via the efficient use of resources and encouragement objective is the alleviation of the effects of poverty and social deprivation in the areas of the re-use and recycling of waste.
Its income in 2004 was 884,390, derived from the Working towards increasing efficiency at all sites.
Greggs plc donation, from employees under the Give As You Earn Scheme 10% of employees donated through this scheme in 2004, and staff fund raising activities.
Monitoring and improving the performance of vehicles owned by Greggs plc.
The balance was received in the form of donations from major shareholders and Working towards ensuring that policies and procedures are in place so that accidents income from investments including shares in Greggs plc held by the Trust.
Funds incidents with potential adverse environmental impact are controlled as far as is are distributed by the Trustees and via the 13 staff Charity Committees operating reasonably practicable.
across the country, offering support to good causes within our trading areas.
Progressively making employees aware of the environmental issues relevant to their The Greggs Breakfast Club scheme is designed to get children in selected primary role within Greggs plc.
schools off to a better start by providing them with free breakfasts.
Greggs funds all of the healthy breakfast, including provision of fresh bread from local Greggs shops, Taking into account the adverse impact on the environment of any capital together with the necessary equipment.
Greggs staff work with school teachers to expenditure project.
encourage parents, grandparents and other volunteers to run the clubs, including During 2004, progress has been made as follows: serving the breakfasts, thereby helping them to help others in their own communities.
The first formal EMS has been implemented in the Greggs Central Savoury Plant In 2004, the number of Breakfast Club schemes increased from 60 to 82.
The concept at Balliol Park.
has been validated by external independent research which has shown that Breakfast Club attendance encourages children to get to school on time and increases The Greggs Central Savouries Plant has been granted an Integrated Pollution attentiveness in class.
Prevention and Control IPPC Permit to Operate.
This is one of the first to be granted in the UK food industry.
The Greggs Cancer Run, is an annual event which has raised nearly 3 million since its inception in 1983.
The Cancer Run originated in Greggs North East, organised Environmental Aspects and Impacts registers have been completed for all divisions each year by a group of dedicated staff.
In 2004, Cancer Runs took place at both first stage of the EMS.
These identify the environmental effects of our activities, and Greggs North East and Greggs North West.
The event will take place in an additional will be used to plan the appropriate actions to minimise these.
Environmental Audits of all divisions are now included in the annual audit schedule.
2004 was Year 4 of the Companys investment of 500,000 in the 5-year Newcastle Greggs plc is working closely with DEFRA on the disposal considerations for animal Employment Bond, which is secured as to repayment by Northern Rock plc.
The investment is at zero rate interest, with the interest foregone to be used to help tackle long-term unemployment in the Newcastle upon Tyne area.
Continuation of the SEBA Save Energy Be Aware initiative in all shops and factories to reduce energy consumption by the Company.
On a nationwide basis, Greggs is a member of the Per Cent Club and made charitable donations of 615,000 in 2004, the majority of which was directed In 2004, the Company has taken steps towards meeting its environmental commitments through the Greggs Trust.
and will continue to grow this commitment during 2005.
