Corporate social responsibility: our people and our communities During the last decade, societys expectations of business have changed.
Companies are now Companies are now expected to reach higher standards in the manner in which they deal with their staff, and in their expected to reach higher response to the needs of the community.
Indeed, corporate social responsibility has been defined as standards in the manner business giving back to society.
Companies that do this well are recognised, praised publicly and in which they deal with have an enhanced image in the eyes of their customers and investors.
Those that do not are subject to criticism by shareholders and in the their staff, and in their media.
Quite apart from the benefits to society from showing social responsibility, therefore, it response to the needs makes good business sense for a company to show sensitivity to the needs of a wide range of the community of stakeholders.
As an employer, corporate social responsibility means giving our staff the opportunity of a creative and Companies that do this fulfilling career, and treating them fairly and without discrimination.
Fortunately, GWRs reputation well have an enhanced enables us to attract outstanding talent in programming, sales and administration.
To help them image in the eyes of their reach their potential, we have developed the Personal Development Review PDR, which assesses customers and potential an employees progress against individual objectives and links their remuneration visibly to their performance.
investors GWR has identified seven core competencies for success in commercial radio, and each member of staff is encouraged to build their individual development plan around these core competencies.
The PDR gives individual focus to a range of training programmes for both management and sales staff, which emphasise leading from the front, customer service, informality and plain speaking.
There is, of course, more to this development scheme than altruism.
By recruiting the right people, training them to function well in effective teams, and identifying and developing tomorrows stars, GWR will retain its competitive advantage of having more capable staff than its peers.
34 GWR Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 We like our staff to take the opportunity that we One reason why GWR believes that it is important offer them to use the companys time to go beyond to invest in socially worthwhile projects is that we their job descriptions and to make an active recognise that we are using a public resource contribution to the communities within which they the broadcast spectrum to operate our business.
During the last year there have been The benefits derived from a corporate social some outstanding examples of our employees responsibility programme are a way of giving the offering something back to the community in this public confidence that this resource is being wisely way.
For example, staff in a number of stations act used and that society is benefiting from it.
Indeed, if, as Reading Role Models, helping pupils in local as seems possible, Ofcom introduces a mechanism schools to improve their reading, and sit on charity so that the use of spectrum is priced and charged boards to help with media and PR strategies.
for, we would expect broadcasters to be invited to Involvement in projects like these gives our staff put a monetary value on the benefits they give to new development experiences as well as helping society in this way, so that value can be factored the communities in which they work.
Of course, we also involve ourselves in the local As with any other aspect of our activities, we want community more formally, through initiatives to be sure that we are giving value for our sponsored by individual radio stations.
GWR looks to a number of stations regularly champion particular projects in independent sources to assess the impact of our their broadcast areas, taking their lead from listeners corporate social responsibility programme.
For and responding to their concerns, and they make example, GWR is the only radio company to have it their business to react swiftly to local issues and achieved Good Corporation accreditation, and this problems.
During 2003 04, GWR stations have raised was re-verified in April 2004.
GWR was the highest money for many local causes, such as improving the rated commercial broadcaster in the 2003 Business reading age in local schools, helping local childrens in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index, charities and spearheading crime reduction published in the Sunday Times in March 2004, campaigns, especially around gun crime.
coming 71st in the overall ranking.
GWR also met the standards for inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index, There have been national initiatives, too.
Classic which guides socially responsible investment.
This FMs work in reaching out to bring classical music to gives us confidence in what we are doing in a new younger audiences who may not have encountered and closely scrutinised area of business life.
it before through its range of partnerships with orchestras earned the station the title Arts and Business Champion of 2003 in the Arts & Business annual awards.
In just one of these partnerships, for example, a group of young students from the Guildhall School of Music and Drama came together to create Classic FM Vision which they performed live to 6,000 school children in the course of a week.
Enriching peoples lives through introducing them to classical music, which Classic FM has been outstandingly successful in doing since it began to broadcast in 1992, is a public benefit of which Classic FM and GWR are proud.
But, of course, this is good business sense for us too, since these initiatives increase our audience for the future.
35 GWR Group plc Corporate social responsibility Annual report and accounts 2004
