HALMA Corporate Responsibility Report Sociallyresponsible Investing in Halma shares meets the criteria of many professional and private investment investors who base their decisions on environmental, ethical and social considerations.
The Group is a world leader in several key environmental technologies and has a reputation for honesty and integrity in its relationships with employees, customers and business partners.
Social conditions can be improved for all through the creation of wealth.
Halma creates wealth responsibly allowing our employees, customers, business partners and shareholders to determine where this wealth is best distributed.
In each of the following areas, the regulatory demands upon us vary considerably around the world, so Halma establishes the core structure to ensure that Group  the solutions to their particular needs.
Theenvironment Within Halma, we have an excellent long-term record and a clear strategy for addressing environmental issues that affect our businesses and for developing products that protect the environment and improve safety at work and in public places.
Ourproducts Many of our innovative products play a very positive role in monitoring and improving the environment.
Halma brands lead the world in a number of technologies which help to minimise environmental damage.
During the past year, Perma  Our principal environmental technologies are water leakage detection, gas a state-of-the-art extrusion emissions monitoring, water and effluent analysis and UV water treatment.
We system for precision tubing  to replace its existing dangerous chemicals, as well as products that minimise the waste of clean water.
Perma Pure Our commitment to the development of equipment for measuring environmental anticipated that the new changes and controlling the damaging impact of industrial activities is long-term.
extruder would reduce  For example, Palmer Environmentals Permalog is an acoustic leak noise logger fluoropolymer Nafion, which transmits leakage information to a radio receiver to enable leaks in water which it uses as a key .
component, by reducing Atmospheric levels of highly flammable hydrogen can be precisely monitored in rejected material and locations such as laboratories, refineries, battery rooms and fuel cell facilities with permitting extrusion of finer Crowcons TXgard-IS.
Sixmonths We make safety equipment for use at work, in public places and in transportation after installing the new systems that contribute to increased personal safety by ensuring safe practice at extruder at a cost of work, protecting people from fire and making elevators and automatic doors safe $250,000, Perma Pure has already observed not only andeffective.
VolkOptical increased production has developed a new autoclavable vitrectomy lens for use in retinal surgery which capacity but also a means that ethylene oxide gas is not required for sterilisation.
considerable reduction in rejected material, amounting to more than Environmentalpolicy $50,000 per annum.
The Groups policy on environmental issues is published on our website and has Additional savings are been distributed and explained to all Halma business units.
anticipated as the dimensions of the extruded Asenior executive ineachofour business unitsis responsible forimplementing the tubing are refined to benefit environmental policy at local level.
The Group Finance Director, Mr K J Thompson, from the narrow tolerances of the new extruder.
has principal responsibility for coordinating and monitoring the policy.
Halma p. l. c. 2004 33 Corporate Responsibility Report continued HALMA Demonstrating the Groups  commitment to ensure all Wearecommitted todeveloping  companies comply with system EMS throughout the Group to measure, control and, where practical, applicable regulations, reduce our environmental impacts.
We are developing performance indicators that Apollo Fire Detectors Limited .
The  requirement for an EMS and the related reporting has been rolled out to all UK the requirements of the business units, which represent over 50% of Group production facilities in terms of Restriction of Hazardous external turnover.
All Group companies are encouraged to undertake ISO 14001, Substances Directive the international environmental standard, accreditation where warranted.
The removing cadmium, requirement to implement an EMS will be extended to the rest of the Group in the chromium, mercury and certain flame-retardants medium term.
from their products even though fire detectors are None of the UK Group companies has incurred a Health and Safety Executive fine, currently exempt from the .
Apollo has Equivalent information is not currently collected for the rest of the world.
also commenced its compliance plan for the Waste Electrical and Ourimpacts Electronic Equipment We support the concept of sustainability and recognise that, in common with all Directive that comes into businesses, our activities have an environmental impact.
Our products do not force in August 2005. require capital-intensive manufacturing processes, so the environmental effect of our operations is relatively low compared to manufacturers in other sectors.
 development teams at each Group company to re-examine their product designs with a view to being more efficient and effective using components which are more environmentally acceptable.
Group companies are encouraged to improve energy efficiency, reduce waste and emissions and to reduce the use of materials in order to reduce our environmental Across the Group we also impact.
The Group is carrying out an audit in 2004 05 to establish baseline data on operate programmes, where commercially viable, to emissions to air and water, water and energy consumption and waste production.
ensure the responsible The data collected will enable the Group to set objectives for reducing its disposal of packaging, environmental impacts in those areas and to look at setting targets for reduction including the re-use and in key areas.
The Group plans to report shortly on CO emission and water 2 recycling of all packaging consumption as well as waste disposal.
types and, where necessary, the use of licensed The baseline data is expected to confirm that the main areas of impact on the contractors to dispose of environment are energy consumption and waste disposal.
The Group does not non-recyclable waste operate a fleet of distribution vehicles although we do own a number of company packaging safely.
,  addition, the use of biodegradable packaging of waste water to manage.
One Afterthe2004  Group company, Memco key areas of environmental impact, the Group is committed to examining the Limited has invested in a establishment of green procurement policies.
cardboard compactor, which reduces the volume of their The Groups environmental performance will continue to be reported in both the cardboard waste Annual Report and on our website.
The waste is now collected, free of charge, by a local company who recycles the cardboard.
34 Halma p. l. c. 2004 Corporate Responsibility Report continued HALMA Healthandsafety  employees whilst at work and operates so as to provide a safe and comfortable , visitorsandthepublic.
ItistheGroupspolicy to manage its activities to avoid causing any unnecessary or unacceptable risks to health and safety.
The policy is understood by all Group companies.
Given the autonomous structure of the Group, operational responsibility for compliance with relevant local health and safety regulations is delegated to the board of directors of each Group company.
Health and safety training is carried out within companies as appropriate and we intend to commence collecting data on accident rates with a view to publishing them in the medium term.
Adequate internal reporting exists in  this policy.
Ethics Halma encourages its employees to act fairly in their dealings with fellow employees, customers, suppliers and business partners.
Our suppliers are of high quality and operate to acceptable international standards.
Halma operates a confidential whistleblowing policy, which enables all Group employees to raise any concerns they may have.
The FTSE4Good index measures and benchmarks the performance of companies with good records of corporate social responsibility and aids investors who use socially responsible investment criteria.
The FTSE4Good Selection Criteria cover three areas: working towards environmental sustainability: developing positive relationships with stakeholders: and upholding and supporting universal human rights.
