32 32 Alliance UniChem Plc Alliance UniChem Plc Corporate and social responsibility Alliance UniChem is committed to improving the wellbeing of the communities that we serve.
In order to achieve this fully, the development, application and review of the Groups policies and initiatives with respect to corporate and social responsibility are core to our business activities.
Product testing Ornella Barra has direct responsibility for The Group operates a policy under this area at Board level in her role as Group which we ourselves do not participate Services Director.
Ornella has within her in product animal testing.
No testing is portfolio of management responsibilities, undertaken on our behalf and none of a number of functions that are directly our non-prescription own brand products accountable as a central part of our are tested on animals.
However, it is structured programme for corporate acknowledged that suppliers of our and social responsibility.
exclusive generic pharmaceutical products Ethical trading may have been compelled to undertake We appreciate that customer requirements, We strive to ensure transparent and testing to obtain original product licences, employee needs, the social and community ethical trading in all activities.
This not and that many of the formulations will conditions in which we operate, as well only reflects our moral responsibility, but have been licensed by the initial developer as the regulatory demands we face, vary is also essential for the future success of using animal testing in pursuit of their greatly across Europe.
It is for this reason our Group.
that we have a commitment to all our stakeholders to match our activities with We operate within rigid moral and As far as possible, we extend our policy of the needs of the local market, whilst ethical parameters in retail pharmacy as not using products tested on animals to directly observing and applying common determined by the relevant professional suppliers of raw materials that are used in principles.
Our core ethical values of and regulatory bodies.
These parameters the production of our own brand products.
partnership, service, excellence and set out that we must provide the best level We are, however, unable to guarantee that innovation underpin these principles and of patient care and ensure we always act all raw material suppliers do not use, or form the base from which we are able to in the patients best interests.
This is a core have not in the past used, animal testing.
deliver the high quality services that we principle of our retail businesses.
When selecting suppliers of own brand offer our customers.
product, we review their policy on animal The Group has a significant number of testing as a factor in the selection process qualified pharmacists employed at every and in doing so we are moving toward a level of management who are bound by position where we aim to be able to these professional standards.
We are able provide a commitment in future that to assess our business operations against none of the raw materials used in the them.
We promote the reporting of preparation of own brand products have dispensing errors in order to learn from been tested on animals.
these and enhance our systems accordingly.
Mystery shopper surveys are regularly We therefore recognise, as a wholesaler carried out in our pharmacies to monitor of pharmaceutical products and operator the quality of customer service and advice.
of pharmacies, that many products we stock will have been tested on animals as We strive to be transparent with customers part of their product licensing procedures.
within our wholesale businesses and this is As a Group, we have an obligation on the basis of our commercial relationships.
professional and legislative grounds to We adhere to Customer Charter ensure the provision of licensed medicines documents that set out the levels of to patients.
We must therefore stock and service and professional standards that supply all required licensed pharmaceutical are expected of us in a number of markets.
If we have a choice of products to be used, we consider the methods of Non-resale products and services are testing before deciding on which products sourced under the coordination of our to stock and acknowledge that we have an procurement function, which operates ethical and legal obligation to do so only a strict ethical code using industry as a secondary factor to patient wellbeing.
best practice to ensure fairness and transparency with our suppliers whilst achieving best commercial terms.
33 33 Alliance UniChem Plc Alliance UniChem Plc Our core ethical values Environment The Group regards the care of the environment as a natural part of running Partnership a responsible and successful business.
It conducts its business activities in a way that reduces, as much as is reasonably Service possible, its direct and indirect impact on the environment, whilst at the same time promoting practices that Excellence Health and safety protect the environment and support The Group conducts its business with the sustainable development.
highest concern for the health and safety Innovation of its employees, contractors, customers, During 2004, an internal team led by neighbours and the general public.
Group Human Resources undertook, with the help of external consultants, an In 2003, the Board approved a new policy environmental benchmarking review of aimed at promoting health and safety our activities.
Following this review, a new best practice across the Group.
An internal environmental policy for the Group was team, led by Group Human Resources, drafted.
This policy was approved by the began working with external advisors on Board in February 2005 and is currently a Group wide benchmarking exercise to being applied across all businesses.
improve the measurement of performance in this area.
During 2004, the Group The Groups environmental policy identifies measured performance across our the following key priorities: businesses against almost 20 different standards identified during the Ensuring the appropriate use of resources benchmarking review.
All businesses are and materials We operate a policy under which we required to report on compliance with the ourselves do not participate in product new standards which cover a range of Minimising waste and encouraging reuse animal testing.
No testing is undertaken issues including fire and electrical safety and recycling on our behalf and none of our and first aid.
Furthermore, they must also non-prescription own brand products report on a number of key health and Ensuring the safe handling and disposal are tested on animals.
safety performance indicators, most of of pharmaceutical products which relate to accidents in the workplace.
Implementing environmental The Groups accident frequency rate management systems number of reportable accidents per 100,000 hours worked was 1.46 in 2004, Communicating our commitment to compared to 1.42 in 2003.
When looking the environment across the Group specifically at three day lost time accidents, the accident frequency rate was 1.12, The Groups environmental policy compared to 1.13 in 2003.
In all cases, requires that each business identifies the we work closely with relevant health and environmental issues most relevant to safety authorities to address any issues that its business activity and sets objectives are identified.
in terms of the standards it expects its employees to meet.
Each business will monitor and measure its performance against these environmental objectives.
34 34 Alliance UniChem Plc Alliance UniChem Plc Corporate and social responsibility Environmental management systems Increasing management focus on the environment is helping to ensure that environmental considerations are included in everyday decision making.
Processes have been put in place, for example, to ensure that the environmental Resources We also work, where impact of any new facilities or installations A priority for the Group is to ensure the is considered at the design stage.
possible, with regulators appropriate use of resources and materials.
By beginning to measure, manage and and the pharmaceutical Limiting energy consumption is a key report on key aspects of environmental component of this.
As we work towards performance, we are establishing a industry to recycle suitable improving the efficiency of our wholesale framework by which we can implement pharmaceutical products depots through our best practice our environmental policy across the programme, we are not only improving for charitable use.
Each operating business must now productivity and reducing costs, but we report key performance indicators for are also extracting environmental benefits.
environmental management, with a focus on waste reduction and energy usage.
Our efforts to optimise our transport operations, in the form of van route Communication optimisation systems, are enabling us We have dedicated resources across to lower fuel consumption.
In the UK, the Group committed to disseminating our van fleets are run predominantly on our new environmental policy and to diesel fuel and are routinely replaced by overseeing the implementation of and increasingly fuel-efficient models.
compliance with new environmental objectives.
Through their efforts, as well as Our two UK businesses have been Waste management through Group-wide and local newsletters, awarded the prestigious Investors in Across the Group we operate programmes, new policy manuals and the education People accreditation which demonstrates where commercially viable, to ensure of line managers, we are developing our our commitment to providing training the responsible disposal of packaging, focus on key environmental practices.
and development opportunities for including the reuse and recycling of our employees.
Where possible, Employees we use licensed contractors for The Group operates a strict policy the safe disposal of non-recyclable against discrimination on the grounds waste packaging.
of sex, age, religion, nationality, marital status, disability or sexual preference We operate programmes to collect and and promotes diversity throughout dispose of unwanted pharmaceuticals our workforce.
It is essential to dispose safely of out of date products or partly used We continuously strive to reflect the products where safety seals have been diversity of the markets and communities broken.
We have processes in place in which we operate.
Our employees that ensure controlled and licensed work on a European scale, and neutralisation and disposal of this kind whether this results in a career within During 2004, UniChem was commended of product, in line with government or beyond national borders, we for its recycling efforts by Severnside, regulation.
We also work, where possible, implement programmes to support the UKs largest recycling services provider.
with regulators and the pharmaceutical individual development in line with our UniChem employee, Keith Burrows, was industry to recycle suitable pharmaceutical requirements.
We seek to recruit, develop presented with the coveted Managers products for charitable use.
and promote employees to enable them Award for his work in broadening to achieve their full potential.
We value the experience of our employees and aim to provide training, development and secondment opportunities to help them meet or exceed individual objectives.
Our commitment to training has led us to develop a continuing professional training programme for our pharmacists which exceeds the requirements of their professional bodies, and helps us achieve considerably above average recruitment and retention levels for qualified employees.
During 2004, we instigated a management development programme for our 80 most senior managers at the INSEAD business school in France.
35 35 Alliance UniChem Plc Alliance UniChem Plc Community engagement In keeping with our mission to further enhance ways to serve the communities in which we operate, the Group is piloting a Community Engagement scheme at Moss Pharmacy.
Implemented in July 2003 and overseen by a specially appointed manager at Moss Pharmacy, the scheme aims The Group was an early adopter of the to move away from traditional cheque Going the extra mile for European Directives on Works Councils book generosity to a more proactive and the communities we serve and for some time has been successfully meaningful relationship with local charities operating a European workers council.
The scheme is being evaluated at Group level and, should it prove We aim to be recognised as a professional successful, will be rolled-out across organisation which values employees the Group.
highly and provides them with a work environment within which they can During 2004, Moss Pharmacy moved away continuously enhance their skills and from its single Charity of the Year abilities and develop excellent long-term approach to enter into long-term careers.
We want to be an employer that relationships with ten health related people aspire to work for.
charities, one of which will be awarded Charity of the Year status each year.
The Chessington UniChem driver who The long-term nature of the relationships Community delivered, within 40 minutes of receiving the gives each partner time to learn how Our business is the provision of community request from the Royal Marsden Hospital, best they can work together beyond basic healthcare, either as a primary provider a life-saving supply of Triclofos for a child fundraising activities.
Examples of the through our retail pharmacies or as undergoing surgery and already in theatre.
practical ways in which these charities a secondary provider working with have been supported include the donation independent pharmacist customers.
of redundant PC equipment to disabled The fostering of community wellbeing individuals through the Leonard Cheshire and the promotion of healthcare initiatives Workability Programme, so as to improve are both a commercial necessity and a core their independence and employment corporate responsibility.
We work closely prospects, and the recycling of mobile with local healthcare providers to advise telephones and printer toner for the and inform the communities we serve.
In September 2004, Moss Pharmacy held its first mobile We operate initiatives to promote blood donor service, introducing many community wellbeing at a local and new or lapsed donors.
Two further sessions national level in each country in which we are planned for 2005.
Moss Pharmacy was operate, often in partnership with local or The Newcastle pharmacist who instigated, also invited to support a Home Office national authorities, local healthcare teams outside of working hours, a needle initiative on domestic violence following or charitable organisations.
We support replacement service for drug addicts the launch of a new domestic violence local community charitable projects in Newcastle, a project so successful, helpline.
All Moss pharmacies have been and aim to establish a more structured it is now receiving regular funding.
supplied with booklets and a poster on the approach towards our centralised initiative promoting the helpline number.
We therefore ensure that our charitable activities are focused in areas or with organisations where we Our people drive our policy can offer not only a source of funding, Our people are our assets and we are but also the benefit of our employees proud of the fact that not only do we skills and experience.
strive as a Group to maximise our service to the community, but as individuals too.
There are many occasions on which our staff have gone above and beyond what would be considered their normal terms of duty for the communities they serve.
The Netherlands pharmacist who prepared IV medicines to be delivered and administered by him and his team of pharmacists to a terminally ill seven year old little girl over the Christmas period, enabling the child to spend her last Christmas at home with her family.
