Corporate and social responsibility 44 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 HMV Group maintains a strong commitment to the interests of all its stakeholders: customers, shareholders, employees and suppliers.
Wherever possible, the Group seeks to align its business goals with sound social, ethical and environmental practices, and in order to be successful in the long-term and to create long-term benefits for all stakeholders the Group believes that it must act in a responsible manner.
The Group complies with best practice ethical codes of conduct, promising to retain its corporate integrity by remaining free from corruption and not subject to other influences, such as political parties, to which the Group gives no funding.
Relations with stakeholders The Group has a strong commitment to communicating openly and honestly all shareholder and stakeholder information, both internal and external, and a high standard of transparency of financial reporting is maintained.
Regular communication with shareholders takes place through the interim and annual financial statements and via the trading statements that are issued by the Company.
This information is also available via the Groups website at www.
com There is also in place an ongoing investor relations programme facilitating regular contact with the investment community, including buy-side fund managers and analysts and sell-side analysts.
The Companys Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity for communication with both institutional and private shareholders and incorporates a presentation on the business and its current trading position.
Our people The knowledgeable and passionate people we employ strongly differentiate the Groups specialist retail brands from our competitors.
Our businesses have a strong focus on being employers of choice, providing stimulating and rewarding work environments and maximising the performance levels of employees, and therefore the learning and development opportunities offered to our people are a high priority.
Employee retention has improved strongly in Waterstones, and is now at a record level in HMV UK & Ireland.
The progress reflects, in particular, the benefits of fast track schemes to ensure capable managers for the future, regular employee surveys and formal appraisals, so that our people are able to voice their opinions and are heard, and a high quality of internal communication, enabling employees to receive a sufficient level of information to be able to perform effectively.
A variety of development programmes, courses and qualifications exist to cover all levels of staff.
This includes programmes for graduate managers, trainee store managers and retail skills and personal development for managers.
In HMV UK a one-year management diploma for experienced store and head office managers is offered in association with Ashridge Business School, a European leader in management development, and is designed to broaden participants knowledge of retail markets and our specialist business sectors.
The Groups businesses are equal opportunities employers and do not discriminate on the grounds of sex, colour, race, ethnic or national background, sexual orientation, marital status, age, disability, political or religious beliefs.
Health and safety policies and practices are regularly monitored, reviewed and communicated through a variety of internal channels.
Charities HMVs preferred charity is Nordoff-Robbins Music Therapy Centre, which is grounded in the belief that everyone can respond to music, no matter how ill or disabled, and promotes the unique qualities of music as therapy to enhance communication, support change and enable people to live more resourcefully and creatively.
HMV supports the charity through various fundraising initiatives.
Since 1996, the annual HMV Football Extravaganza charity dinner and auction has raised over 2.4m for Nordoff-Robbins Music Therapy, including 440,000 in 2004.
Waterstones embarked on its first year of support for the Dyslexia Institute, producing a 23-page guide to reading techniques and book recommendations for young dyslexic readers, which was distributed through all stores.
Waterstones also raised funds for the Dyslexia Institute through the sale of charitable Christmas cards.
Environment Although the Groups retail businesses and the products they sell have little direct impact on the environment, we recognise that as a Group we may have some limited effects.
The Groups main businesses are developing strategies to minimise any threat, and activities are focused where they may have the most impact.
In waste and recycling, almost half of all Waterstones stores recycled cardboard through accredited collectors, and in addition the business participated in the British Retail Consortiums recycling initiative in key shopping locations.
HMV UK & Ireland embarked on an audit of the current recycling policies of its stores with the aim of setting new improvement targets.
Recycling was extended to paper, plastic and aluminium waste at the Companys head office.
In energy management, notably electricity, a new scheme to monitor usage in stores and to benchmark consumption was initiated in HMV, with the aim of setting consumption reduction targets.
Further examples of energy savings included, at office locations, the turning off of PCs, photocopiers and other electronic equipment at the end of each working day.
Supply chain Supply chains in the Group are by retail standards relatively uncomplicated, with a high concentration of products supplied by a limited number of music, video and games companies and book publishers.
Supply chain arrangements in each of our businesses are structured on a single territory basis, as is consistent with copyright markets.
The Group recognises the importance of strong, long-term relationships with suppliers to the stability of our businesses and is committed to maintaining and developing these relationships.
Supply chains are continually monitored and reviewed to ensure the most efficient arrangements for the Group and its businesses.
Universal access The Groups aim is for all of its stores to be as fully accessible as possible to all customers.
HMV UK and Waterstones completed full access audits of their store estates during the year, based on criteria devised by the Centre for Accessible Environments.
A number of actions resulted, including every store to be equipped with at least one hearing loop to enable hearing impaired customers to receive good customer service, wheelchair ramps to be fitted, stairs altered and lifts provided where required and practicable to ensure, where reasonable, access to all store areas, and detailed staff training to be delivered for the provision of customer service for people with disabilities.
