0145 MFI 22-25 CSR tp 4 4 05 8:55 pm Page 22 Corporate and social responsibility Introduction This policy was reviewed to account for changes and expansion into overseas markets, as we recognised Last year the Group included a corporate and social the need for greater vigilance of social and responsibility statement for the first time and we environmental issues within our supply chain.
intend to continue to report our progress in this area.
The Group continues to recognise its actual Distribution and potential corporate and social responsibilities The Group has a complex distribution system.
to society and acts in a strategic way to implement We endeavour to operate our 154 HGVs and 400 vans them.
Relevant laws and regulations are considered and assorted vehicles as efficiently as possible.
a starting point from which responsible behaviour We are planning on replacing 30 of the HGVs this can build.
This year we will be launching a link from coming year with new Euro 4 engines to increase our corporate website to a new CSR website to give efficiency and reduce emissions.
We will also be more detailed information on the subjects covered replacing 60 of our primary trailers with a new in this section.
ergonomically designed exible step frame trailer Our areas of responsibility are organised and which can increase capacity by 30%, be more described under four headings: versatile for bulky goods and encourage less damage Marketplace to products.
The additional benets will be less Environment vehicle movements and hence less CO emissions.
2 Workplace Community Wood Approximately 80% of the Groups raw materials i Marketplace are wood or wood bres.
In 2004 we used 402,500 Customers cubic metres of wood in the form of chipboard Our aim is to help people live better lives in their own 351,100 cubic metres, MDF 49,200 cubic metres homes by striving to deliver quality merchandise on and solid wood 2,200 cubic metres.
We also used time and in full, notwithstanding the challenges in 7,800 tonnes of cardboard packaging for our delivering the hundreds of individual components manufactured products.
We are a member of To ensure a sustainable future for the business Qualitas, the independent arbitrator, and also it is important that we source our wood in an participate in an Office of Fair Trading OFT environmentally and socially sustainable manner.
Wherever possible we specify the Forest Stewardship Council FSC or the Programme for the Endorsement Supply chain of Forest Certication PEFC schemes as the preferred It is important for the Group to manage both its own options.
The wood products used were 68.5% FSC internal supply chain as well as the relationships and 31% PEFC accredited.
The cardboard packaging with our many external suppliers.
Our new global was 100% FSC accredited.
sourcing questionnaire continues to assess the Within the ethical sourcing policy we reserve the corporate and social responsibility performance of right to audit suppliers and this is especially so for external suppliers on the basis of labour standards, the chain of custody for wood and wood products.
human rights and the environment.
We will be using the new questionnaire for all new suppliers of goods ii Environment and services with appropriate follow up and audit, We are committed to preserving the natural as we deem necessary.
We used new suppliers in environment and our key objectives in this the development of our new questionnaire to utilise regard are to: their own experiences in this area.
Existing suppliers reduce consumption: will be requested to use the new questionnaire when re-use or re-cycle wherever possible: contracts are reviewed or new products purchased.
measure progress by setting key performance The Groups purchasing is governed by an Ethical indicators: Sourcing Policy when making purchasing decisions.
MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2004 22 0145 MFI 22-25 CSR tp 4 4 05 8:55 pm Page 23 Corporate and social responsibility continued continue working towards re-accreditation of the Electricity, gas and fuel consumption result in the environmental management systems ISO 14001 emission of CO, a greenhouse gas that research 2 in our manufacturing division: indicates contributes to climate change.
CO emissions 2 work closely with our suppliers to ensure that in 2004 totalled 145,705 tonnes representing a items we purchase come from sustainable decrease per million pound turnover of 3.8 tonnes renewable resources and are produced in a socially over the last 12 months.
The principal source responsible way: of emissions is from the use of electricity.
ensure that our policy is up to date and relevant CO emissions Tonnes per 1m turnover 2 to our business and is used throughout the organisation in training and general business 120 undertakings: and 100 ensure that a support structure is in place to enable our objectives to be fullled.
80 60 Energy 40 We have been active in measuring and reducing our energy use.
Our retail stores in the UK and our 20 manufacturing sites have been awarded the Institute 0 of Energys prestigious Energy Efficiency Accreditation, 2004 2003 2002 having first been accredited in 1996 and again in Electricity Gas Fuel 1999 and 2002.
The Group has made considerable efforts to reduce energy consumption over the past ten years, an effort that has been recognised by the Carbon Trust in publicity throughout 2003 and 2004.
In addition, 35 stores last year purchased electricity from renewable sources.
We will continue to use such We are continuing to install building energy sources where available and commercially viable.
management systems in all new stores and are monitoring energy performance in all stores.
Our framework agreement with the Carbon Trust has allowed us to take advantage of their services and five locations have recently been surveyed to identify CO emissions savings that can be implemented 2 across the retail network.
Energy use kWh per 1,000 turnover Waste 250 This year we introduced a total waste management 225 service into the distribution area of the business, 200 which has resulted in an annualised reduction in 175 1,000 vehicle movements and an efficiency saving 150 of approximately 40,000.
This service is to be 125 rolled out to the manufacturing and retail division early in 2005.
To help with the promotion of this 100 service and our environmental 3R reduce, re-use, 75 re-cycle policy, a Group waste management 50 co-ordinator has been introduced to facilitate 25 the project.
0 2003 2002 2004 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2004 23 0145 MFI 22-25 CSR tp 4 4 05 8:55 pm Page 24 Corporate and social responsibility continued Environmental management Service excellence Currently five out of our nine manufacturing and We are building a culture at MFI that recognises that distribution facilities have been re-accredited and the level of service we provide to our customers can certied to the environmental standard ISO 14001. only be as good as the level of service we provide to We continue to work towards certifying all facilities each other.
We have taken part in the As part of our efforts to achieve this we continue Business in the Community benchmarking schemes to develop our Environment of service programme and we have also been accepted into the FTSE4Good whereby everyone in the Group is valued for their Index Series.
contribution and: have a say in the future of MFI: iii Workplace have the information they need to get their jobs done: have the skills and freedom to be effective, efficient Today, around 14,000 people worldwide work for the Group.
Due to the vertically integrated nature and innovative in their work: receive a share in the financial success of the of the organisation, their skills and expertise are hugely diverse, ranging across many areas including organisation: are able to honour themselves as their word: retail, trade and the supply chain, including logistics and manufacturing.
have clarity about their role and how they contribute to the overall plan: and Over the last five years, our colleagues in MFI have worked hard to transform the company from an have the trust and respect of their colleagues.
out-of-town retailer selling kitchens and bedrooms, Diversity to a successful business serving both trade and retail Our Respect for all programme continues.
customers from different routes to market.
Such This programme was initiated to gain a better rapid change has required colleagues to adapt to understanding of the make up of our people, how new ideas and innovations, from changing store we might better reect the UK population as a environments to different ways of working.
whole and the communities in which we work, Events in 2004 brought about one of the biggest and to develop colleagues understanding in the challenges our colleagues had ever faced, when the area of diversity.
introduction of new supply chain technology had We believe that our colleagues abilities a serious impact on the level of service we provided and achievements should solely determine their to customers.
The level of service to our customers recruitment, career success and progression.
This at this time was unacceptable, for which we apologise.
applies to all colleagues regardless of age, race, Our people gave a spotlight focus to those activities gender, disability, sexual orientation, religious belief, that would improve customer service and contribute lifestyle, class or other method of discrimination.
towards our results, and there are many stories in our organisation where colleagues have gone over and Learning and development above the call of duty to respond to customers needs.
Learning and development is a critical part of This major change also required many colleagues creating an environment of service inside our to change the way they work and learn new skills, company.
We believe in investing in our people, so practices and processes.
Our people have taken all that they have the skills and freedom to be effective, this in their stride and they deserve to be recognised efficient and innovative in their work.
for their tremendous strength, resilience and loyalty.
We have improved our learning and development portfolio so that colleagues can receive training or development in the form most suited to them, from face to face training or coaching, to self help web based training, learning libraries and feedback tools.
We will continue to look for innovative and efficient ways to enable our people to learn and develop their skills.
MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2004 24 0145 MFI 22-25 CSR tp 4 4 05 8:55 pm Page 25 Corporate and social responsibility continued Health & safety iv Community Our principal objective continues to be to develop Our policy is to continue to contribute to the the safety culture of the business such that each well-being of the communities within which we individual understands their responsibilities trade and where our colleagues live.
The Group regarding health & safety.
We have seen a lot of in 2004 donated cash and goods to the value of progress this year towards the transfer of ownership over 400,000 to over 1,000 local community and for health & safety to line management.
The health charity organisations, which included supporting & safety team has been restructured to support this our colleagues who do good works in their new approach.
We have introduced a new position of local communities.
Operational safety manager to help with the change Our major charity beneciary was the Outward management process to full our objective.
Bound Trust, where young people are taught people Our occupational health service has developed skills that can help them reach their potential in their to support the needs of the manufacturing division lives.
They have new and life-changing experiences, in their drive towards effectively managing the gaining faith in themselves and learning from sickness absence within the factories.
Three of the manufacturing sites have been We continue sponsorship with the English re-accredited with the Occupational Health & Safety National Operas The Ring Cycle and the London Standard OHSAS 18001 and it is our aim to Chamber Orchestras A Chance to Play Scheme, which extend this to all the remaining sites.
gives children the chance to play a musical instrument.
In terms of our performance this year we have In 2004 the Group exclusively sponsored had 256 reportable incidents, six more than last year.
Glyndebournes Workshops for Young People.
We have had another year of no improvement This gives over 2,500 young people from 60 notices, no prohibition notices and no prosecutions schools around the country the opportunity to by the Health & Safety Executive.
experience opera through workshops, culminating A summary of the top six types of accidents is in a live performance.
given in the pie chart below: The Group places great importance on supporting its local communities by being a good neighbour.
Accident types Total charitable contributions Products Manual handling Cash Slips, trips and falls 400,000 Struck by object Struck against something xed 300,000 Contact with moving machinery Other 200,000 100,000 2003 2004 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2004 25
