Responsible Business Introducing children to engineering at the Imagineering Exhibition was a rewarding and surprisingly challenging exercise.
Sarah Jackson Manager-Trainees & Students A responsible approach to doing business Priorities for IMI businesses We take our responsibilities to the environment and to the Over the past year we have strengthened our already firm communities in which we operate often referred to as commitment to working in ways that are more sustainable and Corporate Social Responsibility or CSR very seriously, not take account of all stakeholders, including future generations.
least because we recognise that such an attitude can impact Within our overall approach to CSR we have identified four CSR positively on profitability, returns to shareholders, reputation priorities that are appropriate to our operations and consistent and growth.
We believe that we can continually improve our with our overall corporate objectives and priorities.
management of social, environmental and economic issues to The first essential is that all our operations meet or exceed achieve a high standard of responsible care for people and all legal requirements in the territories in which they operate the environment without compromising growth or business with regard to employment practices, health and safety, efficiency.
environment, corporate governance, competition and anti-trust.
In 2004 IMI plc was again selected for inclusion in both the We also ensure that as such legislation may evolve and change FTSE4Good Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
All in individual jurisdictions we remain in full compliance with it.
IMI businesses operate to a code of business principles and Our Heimeier plant in Germany, for example, has achieved policies which is accessible on our website, www.
compliance with the European directive on noise reduction 2003 10 EG more than a year ahead of that legislation Managing and monitoring CSR performance becoming law in Germany.
Where legislation does not exist, we Board level responsibility for all CSR matters rests with the will apply our own standards of best practice.
Under his direction existing policies in a Supporting our customers CSR priorities is a second clear number of related areas are being reviewed and brought priority for us.
Our operations seek to understand the whole together to develop a new Group CSR policy.
business environment experienced by our customers, including A small senior team with relevant experience, reporting to the their social and ethical responsibilities.
We actively support our Finance Director and liaising closely with the business units, customers on issues that are priorities for them.
Typically meets regularly in this context to review the Groups these issues may include diversity in the workplace, energy performance on CSR and identify any necessary conservation and supply-chain relationships.
In conjunction with this, formal Health, Safety that we provide to our customers in these areas is sometimes and Environmental HS&E audits as well as internal surveys very publicly recognised.
During 2004, for example, Display and reviews are carried out across the Groups operations and Technologies, part of our Merchandising Systems business, was CSR objectives are reviewed at least annually.
The president awarded the prestigious Chairmans Harvey C. Russell Award by and other senior personnel of each operating unit are Pepsi-Cola in recognition of its commitment to supporting responsible for the implementation of HS&E policies, their Pepsis diversity and inclusion goals throughout the supply chain.
communication across the business and compliance with all We have a significant number of operations around the world related policies and principles.
HS&E forums are held annually and also source parts and sub-assemblies on a global basis, in the UK and the USA to understand risks in these areas and so we recognise the particular challenges relating to to establish, share and promote best practice.
manufacturing facilities in low-cost countries.
A third priority is We publish greater detail on our CSR management systems to ensure that all our facilities operate in accordance with our and policies as well as our environmental report on our website policies on health, safety and the environment, employment www.
This information is updated annually in practices particularly child labour, pay, benefits and working May June and more frequently as and when relevant conditions, improper gifts and payments, and also set standards information becomes available.
The website also includes links on these matters that suppliers too are required to meet.
The to some of the charitable, community and social programmes contribution made by Norgren and other businesses on the supported by the Group.
24 Responsible Business same industrial park at Queretaro in Mexico was recognised by particular note this year included: the Mexican Environmental Protection Agency in 2004 with the A new centrifuge in one of the Swedish facilities of our TA award of a clean industry certificate - the only such business to separate metal chips and oil, allowing both the oil certificate awarded by the authorities this year.
In China, and the metal chips to be recycled.
where such provision is rare, our Cornelius facility at Tianjin Development of new energy saving schemes and training at sets an excellent example, with a high level of social insurance, several Polypipe facilities to enable the business to continue including medical and pensions for employees, and a popular meeting ever tighter national targets for energy efficiency per vocational training scheme, also available to all.
unit of raw material processed.
Our fourth priority is to minimise energy consumption.
Each of CCI sponsorship of an employee rideshare scheme at its our facilities is required to set targets aimed at minimising plants around the world, aimed at reducing car journeys and emissions with global warming potential and also reducing the hence fuel consumption, emissions of greenhouse gases and associated costs.
In all our facilities recycling and reducing air pollution.
waste are part of how we do business, but initiatives of 25 IMI plc Annual Report 2004 Responsible Business This priority is also expressed through the fact that reduced Practical vocational training for secondary school students energy consumption is a primary benefit of and selling point neighbouring our Norgren plants in Germany at Fellbach and for many of the products and services provided by IMI Group Alpen and at Lichfield in the UK.
This relationship is very much companies, for whom promoting efficient use of energy is good two-way, with Norgren employees helping to train students in business.
In just the last six months of 2004, for example, metalwork and prepare for job interviews and students more than 2000 Chinese sales engineers from some 50 design planting trees and a school garden at the Alpen plant.
institutions attended seminars held by our Indoor Climate Major literacy and early start education programmes in business and were able to see, at first hand, how a heating, Milwaukee, supported by DCI Marketing, as well as high school ventilation and air conditioning system balanced using our athletics programmes in Rosemount, Minnesota supported by advanced technology and measuring techniques provides Cannon Equipment.
Both these operations are part of our savings in excess of 20 per cent.
A contract with Chinas Merchandising Systems business.
Energy Efficiency Bureau will also help ensure the spread of A seventh year of funding and active employee participation best practice across one of the worlds largest and fastest by Display Technologies, also part of our Merchandising growing economies.
Systems business, with the Queens Child Guidance Centre in Corporate governance New York.
This non-profit community organisation works to The Companys commitment to best practice in all aspects of improve the well being of children, adolescents and their corporate governance and details of the standards it adheres families.
to can be found on pages 32 to 35.
Information is also Support for two educational calendars in Sweden by our TA available on the corporate website www.
com business one aimed at improving road safety for 6-12 year Community engagement olds and the other addressing nature and the environment for We place great emphasis on community relationships at many older youngsters.
At corporate headquarters we continue our longPolypipes contribution to the salary of a person involved in standing support for and work with local institutions of world running People United against Crime, a local initiative to reduce class calibre, most notably the City of Birmingham Symphony crime and the fear of crime in the Sheffield area of the UK.
Orchestra CBSO and the Birmingham Royal Ballet and we IMI businesses made significant contributions to healthalso maintain healthy relationships with local schools and other related causes both financially and through the personal charitable bodies.
On occasion we have been able to bring contributions of our employees.
Successful blood donation these areas of support together, for example by making drives were held at many IMI facilities around the world.
concert tickets available to students, to local charities for Heimeier in Germany held two such sessions during the year fundraising purposes or as a token of thanks to charity and CCIs headquarters in California achieved four.
In the summer of 2004, through our relationship also supported an employee who donated bone marrow to save with the CBSO, we also hosted a free lunchtime concert in the the life of a leukaemia sufferer, by allowing him extra paid leave business park for the benefit of our immediate neighbours.
for tests and other medical procedures.
In addition: All IMI global graduates undertake a six-month community placement during their training period.
The UK Imagineering CCI supported the Childrens Hospital of Orange County by initiative, involving a number of IMI graduate trainees and final matching employee donations.
year university students to promote engineering in schools, Polypipe sponsored activities at the Aurora Centre a was again very well received.
Our graduate trainees also Doncaster UK based cancer charity.
continued work begun in previous years with the environmental IMI supported a team of 19 from headquarters who raised Ackers Trust.
New community projects run by our trainees this money for Breast Cancer research by matching the funds year included research in the USA into the cycle of abuse in raised through their individual efforts.
abusive families and in the UK, mentoring 16-25 year olds into DCI Marketing supported research into muscular dystrophy the workplace in Farnham: the design and refurbishment of a and leukaemia and Benefit to Fight Breast Cancer.
therapeutic garden centre in Edgbaston: and a women and These examples and many others demonstrate how our childrens project in Birmingham.
businesses and the people within them are working to make a Schools and other educational activities are a strong theme positive contribution to their local communities and across many of the social and community programmes environments, while still delivering the necessary business pursued by IMI businesses.
Other highlights in 2004 included: performance.
The mutual benefits to all stakeholders are Internships for all eligible by age offspring of CCI appreciated wherever IMI has a permanent presence.
employees worldwide to provide insight and practical experience in the workplace.
26 Responsible Business Our local communities, our workforce, our business, students and the environment have all benefited from our deep and long-term relationships with local schools.
Ulrich Gutzman Human Resources Director, Norgren Germany 27 IMI plc Annual Report 2004
