22 Corporate social responsibility continued Environment, health and safety Inchcape is committed to pursuing sound environment, health and safety EHS management policies and practices throughout our businesses worldwide.
We recognise that by providing customers with access to leading products and services, we can support the drive to improve our environment.
We are also continuously looking to increase the levels of health and safety standards in the workplace.
Inchcape Fleet It is therefore Inchcapes policy to: Solutions innovation Our fleet management and leasing consider EHS issues within existing and future business activities, business in the UK, Inchcape Fleet through the implementation of appropriate policies and procedures: Solutions IFS, has developed a new online tool that allows employers to check monitor and manage the EHS impacts, risks and opportunities whether their employees are safe to be for our businesses in order to benefit our colleagues, customers, driving on company business.
The Driver Licence Verification Service DLVS is principals and the local communities in which we operate: designed to improve efficiency and remove the administrative burden of carrying out promote the awareness of the Environment, Health and Safety the recommended driver licence checks.
Policy the Policy across our businesses in order to assess its Under current Health and Safety performance, and set practical targets for improvement: and legislation, employers have a duty towards employees, who need to drive for company report, as appropriate, on the status of the EHS performance business, regardless of whether or not they are using a company car.
within each of our businesses.
IFS has therefore developed the innovative DLVS, which operates alongside existing systems and enables IFS customers to have around the clock web access to their data and any associated reports.
The simplicity of the process ensures that checks can be made easily and regularly with the results updated automatically for client reporting.
The system is so advanced it can even identify those drivers who, for example, may benefit from driver training.
This in turn can lead to reduced associated costs for the company and, importantly, a lower accident rate.
Environmental education in Greece Throughout 2004, Toyota Hellas, continued its sponsorship of an educational programme that originally began in 2003.
The programme aims to educate young people about environmental matters whilst encouraging them to get involved with issues, such as pollution, affecting the larger cities in Greece including Athens, Thessalonki and Patras.
The scheme was split into two stages and the first, beginning in September 2004, was aimed at providing information Inchcape is committed to pursuing to stimulate students interest.
At this point teams of five students were selected sound environment, health and safety from each of the forty participating schools.
At the second stage a competition management policies and practices was launched and students were given three months to find a solution to a specific throughout our businesses worldwide.
The winners of this competition will be rewarded with a trip to the UK in 2005.
In total Toyota Hellas has contributed over 45,000 to the programme, which reaches completion in June 2005 when the students projects are finally assessed.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2004 23 Implementation of the Policy is the responsibility of the management Connected to a safer working environment Many of our businesses within each Group business and is supported and monitored by have introduced programmes to create safer working environments.
Common standards are applied to a wide range For example: of EHS matters and compliance with local statutory requirements is the minimum standard we will accept.
Where local standards United Kingdom Retail has developed a personalised health are below international good practice, it is our policy to follow UK and safety training programme, which will be rolled out in 2005, good practice.
commencing with EHS co-ordinators and new starters, with all A key element of our approach is the operation of Environment, staff being given appropriate training by the end of the year: Health and Safety Focus Groups at business unit level.
These Groups Greece An external consultant has performed an EHS risk analysis are responsible for improving the EHS performance through the audit for all our sites.
Based on the findings, an EHS training development of local standards and staff training.
They are also programme was developed.
Training, tailored to the risk profiles responsible for monitoring EHS performance.
of individual roles, will be given to all staff: Our businesses carry out detailed half yearly inspections.
Copies of these inspection reports, and related action plans, Belgium An external training provider is developing an interactive are forwarded to the Group Risk Manager who reports significant one day EHS course tailored to the specific needs of our business issues to the Groups Risk Committee.
and our employees, whether they be based in a dealership, a body In addition, the Group Risk Manager visited over half our shop or office.
This training programme will be offered to all our sites in 2004 carrying out EHS awareness training, meeting with staff and will take place in 2005: the Focus Groups and performing site inspections.
Each visit Asia Pacific We have a programme, which provides all employees is concluded with a meeting with the Chief Executive of that with EHS training.
Phase I, awareness business, and action plans are then agreed and reported upon.
training, has been completed in five of our businesses, including Initiatives and investments Crown Motors: the remainder will be completed in 2005: In 2004 we made investments in a number of our businesses, In addition, 2004 also saw the creation of a safety management across our core markets, to improve and promote EHS initiatives.
This committee, which consists of Reduce, reuse and recycle Our businesses in Greece and Belgium frontline staff from our aftersales sites, is responsible for enhancing are working as part of a broader initiative of the Toyota Motor EHS management: Corporation to reduce, reuse and recycle waste in facilities where, Australia Our business in Australia saw the initiation of its national inter alia, Toyota cars are distributed and serviced.
Occupational, Health and Safety training programme.
This included Starting in 2004, our Greek business, Toyota Hellas, offers all training on a diverse range of issues, such as forklift and chemical its authorised repairers in the Athens area the cost free collection safety, and bomb threat suspect package handling, as well as risk of used oils and lubricants, tyres, batteries, and plastic packaging.
management training for managers and supervisors.
This service will be expanded in the coming years to cover the whole of Greece.
In addition, a non-profit company, AMVH, in which Toyota Hellas supports by providing funding for c. 10.0% of its operating costs, will be appointing an authorised network of End of Life Vehicle ELV treatment centres.
They will be fully compliant with European Union regulations and all car owners will be able to deliver their ELVs to them cost free.
The first two centres have now been certified and have started offering their services.
In Belgium, we have signed a preferred partner agreement with a waste removal and treatment company.
We will be working with this business to provide a comprehensive service to the Toyota dealer network, helping them comply with relevant legislation and encouraging them with discounted costs.
Toyota Belgium has also entered into a ten year agreement for the zero cost collection and treatment of ELVs with Belgium Car Recycling, thus providing points to which ELVs can be taken.
In 2005, we will be undertaking environmental audits of the dealer network.
