20 Corporate social responsibility Inchcape in the community Corporate social responsibility: Over Christmas 2004, staff at IFS elected to send electronic Inchcape established a Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Christmas cards to customers and suppliers instead of printed Committee in 2002.
This Committee is chaired by the Group Chief ones.
This saved the business c. 750, which was then donated Executive, who has responsibility for CSR at Board level, and to the New Born Baby Unit at St Marys Hospital in Portsmouth.
includes the Group Finance Director, the Group Company Secretary, As part of an ongoing commitment to this cause, IFS is currently the Director of Audit and Risk Management, the Group Human investigating how it can help with the cost of transporting babies, Resources Director and the Investor Relations Manager.
which need dedicated care, to local specialist units.
The Company remains focused on looking at further ways Elsewhere in the UK: one of our dealerships, Inchcape Ford to take its CSR programme forward.
Guildford, staged a Thunderbirds inspired event, which coincided This section outlines our commitment to the environment with the films release in the UK.
The extravaganza attracted film in which we operate, health and safety issues, our employees, fans, families and the local television station.
Our colleagues and and values.
customers were able to view Lady Penelopes iconic six wheeled pink Thunderbird and, in total, raised over 1,300 for the Inchcape in the community: Breakthrough Breast Cancer charity.
Inchcapes global spread means we encompass a broad range Colleagues working at our Business Services operation, of people, cultures and lifestyles.
Inchcape Automotive, donated over 5,000 to a variety of causes in We actively encourage and assist our colleagues in supporting 2004.
Fundraising activities included a rather painful experience for local fundraising projects in the markets in which they work.
some of our male colleagues who had to choose between having This section offers just a few examples, from around the world, their legs waxed or shaving their heads for Children in Need.
where Inchcape and its colleagues have tried to make a difference.
It proved worthwhile though as they raised c. 1,000 through United Kingdom Our Head Office annually selects and sponsors this event alone.
a charity for twelve months, and in 2004 our colleagues chose the GreeceThe main community focus in 2004 for Toyota Hellas, Lymphoma Association.
This is a charity that provides emotional was understandably the Olympics.
The year saw an exceptional support and information to people with lymphatic cancer and their amount of fundraising activity and sponsorship due to the impact families, carers and friends.
The total raised amounted to over the Games had on our colleagues, customers and environment.
2,400 and was achieved through a variety of fund raising activities Toyota Hellas jointly sponsored a unique exhibition, which including weekly dress down days, Easter and Christmas raffles sought to celebrate the birth of the Olympic Games in Greece.
and subsidised social events held throughout the year.
The presentation, entitled Tales of the Olympic Games, was staged With the Olympic Games taking place in Greece, where we at the Foundation of the Hellenic World in Athens and used modern Import, Distribute and Retail for Toyota Lexus, Inchcape was proud technology to communicate the prestige and allure of the Games.
to donate 5,000 to the British Olympic Association.
This sponsorship As well as providing half the sponsorship funds for the event, not only contributed financial support to the Olympic movement in Toyota Hellas also organised non-profit activities, such as guided Greece but also aided other services provided by the Association tours of the exhibition, raising over 35,000 for the Games.
such as technical support and staff development.
In line with its philosophy of supporting the cultural needs Inchcape Fleet Solutions IFS, our fleet management and of the local community, our business in Greece also became leasing business, has made a real contribution to its local community involved in the extensive restoration programme in Athens.
in Portsmouth through a newly created Charitable Trust Fund, The programme involved supporting the Municipality of Athens which was established in 2004.
IFS has chosen to support the in its aim to improve the backdrop of the city, in the run up Waterside School, which works with children who have suffered to the Olympic Games, and Toyota Hellas contributed a further emotional and behavioural problems.
Through consistent c. 110,000 to this project.
fundraising initiatives, our colleagues have already managed to raise some 3,000.
Belgium Toyota Belgium has enjoyed a long standing relationship with the United Fund for Belgium, a local charity that aims to improve the quality of life for handicapped people and underprivileged children.
It has supported the cause for the last three years and, in 2004, donated c. 2,000 to the charity.
Toyota Belgium also helped a variety of other local causes in 2004, including the National Burns Unit.
Over 2,000 was raised for the unit, through a charity golf event, and this money helped the hospital organise a 2004 Summer camp for severely burnt children.
Many members of our staff throughout the Group have already contributed to the numerous Tsunami appeals, both personally and via their individual business unit, and are still actively raising funds.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2004 21 Inchcape stirs up support for the Wooden Spoon Society The Wooden Spoon Society, a national UK based charity, was set up over twenty years ago with the aim of assisting and benefiting children and young people with physical, mental and social disadvantages.
In order to raise funds the Society, which has its roots based in sport and in particular rugby, hosts a variety of events each year and charges for membership.
Inchcape UK has been a supporter of the Society since 2003, contributing some 10,000 per annum.
Australia Inchcape Motors Australia IMA has provided ongoing support for the Starlight Childrens Foundation since 2000.
Inchcape colleagues play This charity strives to improve the lives of seriously ill children Father Christmas!
Over Christmas 2004 colleagues at our and their families in Australia, and the highlight event in the Toyota Lexus dealership in Nottingham, fundraising calendar is the annual IMA Subaru golf day, which is UK, donated presents to seriously ill attended by customers and staff.
children being treated at the local Queens Medical Centre.
At the 2004 golf day, IMA set an all time record by attracting Through the combined efforts of staff some 130 visitors who raised c. 11,500.
IMA was also able to and the business, they were able to raise bring a smile to the faces of many of the children by arranging for some 600 for a variety of gifts.
These were then given to those children who were Petter Solberg, Subaru World Rally Team driver, to take some time staying on the leukaemia ward at the out from the World Rally Championship and meet with them at Centre throughout the holiday period.
the Randwick Childrens Hospital in Sydney.
Athens restoration Hong Kong Crown Motors, in Hong Kong, has been a long standing programme supporter of the Toyota Classics concerts, which are biannual and A restoration programme took place prior feature orchestras from around the world.
In 2004 some 2,000 to the Olympic Games, to improve the back drop of Athens.
A series of sculptures people attended the concerts and through ticket sales alone, were designed and erected including one Crown Motors raised a staggering c. 36,000 for its nominated pictured to the right, which was funded charity: the Special Unit for the Hong Kong Girl Guides Association.
by our business Toyota Hellas.
This organisation aims to provide a supportive and inspiring learning Aid for victims of the Tsunami environment for young women with physical disabilities.
On 26 December 2004 an earthquake Crown Motors also organised the annual charity Lexus Club caused a terrible Tsunami to strike.
In its aftermath there has been great devastation golf event, which provides much needed aid for the China Literacy and loss of life not only for the people of Foundation.
The Foundation supports the creation of educational South East Asia and Africa, but throughout facilities and opportunities for children in very poor areas of rural the world.
Some 4,000 was donated to the Foundation from the The final death toll is expected to be well over 100,000 people but many more golf day and this money has helped to complete the construction are still missing and millions have been of a school in rural Guizhou, the second poorest region in China.
Hundreds of thousands have The school can now accommodate 100 pupils from local villages lost their livelihoods in countries including Sri Lanka, Indonesia, Thailand, India, within the area and aims to provide comprehensive education Maldives, Malaysia, Burma and Somalia.
to children that, otherwise, would not have such an opportunity.
This catastrophe prompted a staggering amount of people around Singapore Like our colleagues in Hong Kong, Borneo Motors the world to respond on a huge scale.
also supports the Toyota Classics concerts and raised c. 32,000 Many members of our staff throughout the Group have already contributed to for its chosen charity, the Childrens Cancer Foundation, in 2004. the numerous Tsunami appeals, both This organisation works to improve the quality of life for children personally and via their individual business with cancer by enhancing their emotional, psychological unit, and are still actively raising funds.
Further financial donations made and social well being.
by the Company will aim to provide Borneo Motors also organised a series of charity golf days long term support, such as reconstruction throughout 2004 and raised money from registration fees, which programmes, to help affected communities rebuild their lives.
Inchcape is therefore were then donated to a different charity each time.
One of the most currently exploring a number of projects successful days was the Lexus Club event, which raised c. 16,000 with reputable charity organisations.
for the Society for the Physically Disabled.
Charitable and political donations In the UK, Inchcape and its subsidiaries have donated funds throughout the year totalling 0.1m 2003 0.1m.
Total charitable donations made by the Group worldwide during the year were 0.4m 2003 0.2m.
These figures exclude personal contributions Burma from our colleagues.
India No political donations were made in 2004 2003 nil.
Thailand Somalia Somalia Sri Lanka Malaysia Maldives Indonesia Inchcape plc Annual report 2004
