EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL POWER OPERATES IN AN INCREASINGLY COMPLEX BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT.
WE PLACE A HIGH PRIORITY ON THE RECRUITMENT, RETENTION AND TRAINING OF STAFF AT ALL LEVELS, WHETHER EMPLOYED BY US DIRECTLY OR BY ANY OF OUR SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES OR ASSOCIATES.
We operate an incentive weighted Leadership: we expect our employees communication with all staff around the compensation scheme which we believe to exercise leadership in their dealings world, as well as regularly holding rewards and develops staff on the with colleagues, partners, customers global Employee Forums.
following bases: and other contract parties.
Equal opportunities Achievement of tangible personal This all relies on a foundation of personal The Group is committed to equal objectives: annual targets are set integrity.
We endeavour to ensure that all opportunities, both from a sense of social for all personnel, calibrated at levels of our staff conduct themselves, internally responsibility and also because it makes designed to ensure that individuals and externally, in a manner of the sound business sense to benefit from the are able to contribute to the highest integrity.
wide ranging knowledge and experience attainment of these objectives.
Clear communication links are critical of individuals in all sectors of society.
This Professional and educational to enhance business and commercial commitment to equal opportunities means advancement: we promote and awareness throughout our business.
that decisions to appoint, reward, train, facilitate mid-career training, internal Corporate publications, the International develop and promote are taken purely on and external seminars, personal Power website and extranet, employee the basis of skills and abilities, as matched development plans and other awareness briefings from executive against the requirements of the job.
In addition, management and team briefings are all Group values its reputation as a caring we encourage our employees to used to promote communications and an employer and seeks to attract and retain participate actively in their personal understanding of the development and high calibre employees.
Opportunities for development and in relevant application of policies and strategy.
We training are given a high priority to ensure professional organisations.
use the latest technology to aid rapid that all individuals can contribute to their 52 Blackstone, Massachusetts own career development.
This approach the International Power Unapproved Riley participate in the 2002 extends itself to the fair treatment of Executive Share Option Plan a Performance Share Plan, the Approved people with disabilities in relation to their discretionary plan for selected and Unapproved Executive Share Option recruitment, training and development.
UK-based employees Plans and the International Power Sharesave Plan.
the Global Executive Share Option Plan Employee share plans a discretionary plan for executives The vesting of any awards made under International Power has in place a resident outside of the UK the 2002 Performance Share Plan, and number of share-based plans under the ability to exercise options granted the International Power Sharesave Plan which employees of the Group and under the Approved and Unapproved open to all UK resident employees its subsidiary companies may acquire Executive Share Option Plans and the Ordinary Shares in International Power the International Power Global Global Executive Share Option Plan, plc.
These plans form an integral part Sharesave Plan open to employees in are all subject to the satisfaction of of the Groups strategy to provide certain jurisdictions outside of the UK.
Information on appropriate reward and retention the relevant performance conditions for All of the listed plans are currently strategies for employees, to align each award or option grant under each in operation.
employee and shareholder interests plan is given in the Directors remuneration through incentive targets based on clear Executive Share Options have been report.
The exercise of options under the operational and financial criteria and to granted to executives in five countries Sharesave Plan is not subject to any recruit, motivate and retain employees.
outside the UK and the Global Sharesave performance condition.
Plan is now in operation in four countries These employee share plans are: Following the Rights Issue, the outside the UK.
As the Group continues Remuneration Committee, in accordance the 2002 Performance Share Plan an to grow and employee numbers continue with the plan rules, adjusted the number annual plan open to Executive Directors to increase, we anticipate that the of options and shares under the above and a small number of senior managers extension of share plans to overseas plans, the option prices, and the associated jurisdictions will continue apace.
the International Power Approved performance conditions.
All the details Executive Share Option Scheme a Executive Directors Philip Cox, Mark referred to in the remuneration report discretionary plan open to selected Williamson, Tony Concannon and Steve reflect these adjustments.
