CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OUR AIM IS TO ENSURE THAT INTERNATIONAL POWER CONTINUES TO BE KNOWN THROUGHOUT THE WORLD AS A RESPONSIBLE, EFFICIENT AND SUCCESSFUL COMPANY.
OUR STAKEHOLDERS OUR EMPLOYEES, REGULATORS, SHAREHOLDERS, CUSTOMERS, SUPPLIERS AND HOST COMMUNITIES EXPECT NOTHING LESS OF US.
46 First Hydro, UK Todays fast-changing world relies which included concepts of corporate Our ability to deliver better performance increasingly upon electricity.
It also governance and CSR issues.
is demonstrated by our track record in demands responsibility from the industry competitive energy markets which is Establishing a sound reputation starts that produces it.
For a global wholesale based on our heritage in the power at ground level.
We work hard to build generating company like International industry.
By disseminating technical long-term sustainable partnerships in Power, this equates to fair and ethical expertise widely throughout the Company, the communities in which we operate principles to govern the way we manage we strive to raise overall performance.
This particularly for our assets in developing and conduct our business.
It means working has commercial as well as environmental countries.
Here International Powers more smartly by ensuring our key benefits.
Effective management systems investment in local healthcare and competences, technical expertise and best increase transparency and accountability.
education provides additional benefits practices are properly implemented over a By publishing key performance data, we for employees, their families and the widely dispersed and diverse range of assets demonstrate publicly how we are putting wider community.
As well as striving to to produce power more safely and cleanly.
improve life generally, we also donate At stake is our reputation.
Our aim funds to specific community projects.
Where we are not the sole owner of is to ensure that International Power an asset we seek to establish our CSR CSR also covers the way we regard, continues to be known throughout standards and principles with our partners, develop and reward our employees.
the world as a responsible, efficient and for instance through influence at the Details of this are contained in the successful company.
Our stakeholders asset Board level.
Employees section on page 52 of our employees, regulators, shareholders, this report.
In March our CSR performance was customers, suppliers and host communities formally acknowledged and we are now expect nothing less of us.
As with any large industrial process, included within the FTSE4GOOD index, the environmental impact arising from This strong commitment to corporate which identifies companies that meet electricity generation is now subject to social responsibility CSR flows from globally recognised corporate responsibility international as well as regional and local the top.
The Board is briefed regularly standards.
The FTSE4GOOD index covers scrutiny and regulation.
Our continuing on our CSR performance.
Our three new environmental sustainability, stakeholder obligation is to manage our growing Executive Directors attended an Institute relationships and upholding and portfolio of assets so as to reduce the of Directors training course in 2004, supporting universal human rights.
environmental impact of our activities.
47 INTERNATIONAL POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2004 2001 Flagship Project The Citizens Foundation TCF school, HUBCO-IPGD Campus in Pakistan, was officially opened in April 2004 and the junior section has been successfully running for a full year.
The first and second year pupils of the secondary school are now in class.
This school is built to the very high standard of TCF, a non-government organisation which, in partnership with industry, continues to build schools throughout Pakistan.
The school will eventually teach 500 children, many of whom would not have received a secondary education before the school was built.
Policy Keeping people informed Since 2003, International Power has been Communicating with different groups of working to a set of Board-approved stakeholders is an important part of CSR values known as FIRST: management.
In addition to our annual report to shareholders, we brief and F Financial discipline provide information on-line for our stakeholders to enable them to monitor I Integrity of communication our performance.
We listen to what they R Respect for the individual say and respond to their on-going need for information on company business.
S Substance with style To ensure effective communication T Team first culture.
with our employees, initiatives include the International Power Global Forum.
FIRST is translated into practical guidance This draws together staff from all global through International Powers business locations and levels and allows them policies.
These cover the environment, to take part in discussions on company health and safety, equal opportunities, related issues.
The next Global Forum procurement, ethical business practices, will take place in September 2005. conduct in the community and charitable contributions.
A staff handbook, the More informal information is sent to International Power Code of Business employees in a printed newsletter, three Conduct, which incorporates all relevant of which were distributed worldwide in International Power policies, was 2004.
The newsletter contains articles approved by the Board to guide the and employee news, submitted by staff, Companys activities in all regions and has as well as Company news.
Many of our been distributed throughout the Group.
regional businesses or individual power stations also issue specific information All our health, safety and environmental to employees and the local community policies underwent systematic review on items of local interest.
48 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2002 Flagship Project This project backed the development of an energy garden at Deeside power station.
The garden has been designed as a showcase for various forms of alternative energy generation with interactive and sensory displays.
As an educational resource, linked to the national curriculum, the energy gardens support materials also cover health, safety and a wide spectrum of environmental issues, including recycling, sustainable lifestyles, transport and water management.
2004 saw the launch of our new extranet company-wide.
It supports the more It prompts employees to approach their site ImPact which can be accessed via regular local HSE committee meetings.
work with extra care through following the internet by our employees throughout Continuous communication with five basic and simple steps: the world.
ImPact was built with input individual assets is carried out on an from staff in all regions and provides a as required basis.
Health, safety and 1 Stop, step back, think through the task.
wealth of information including our environment issues were reported, 2 Go through the task and identify performance, policies, latest news, through the CEO, at main Board hazards.
awards, community projects and meetings throughout the year.
We work with suppliers to ensure that 4 Make the changes to control the risks.
Each asset at local level conducts direct they understand and can respond to our contact with regulators.
We continue to CSR policies.
During 2004 we set up a 5 Do the job safely.
monitor and represent the Companys project to review the CSR practices of interests on current and future regional, our major coal suppliers.
We have now Take 5 will now be progressively national and international regulation established an ongoing programme incorporated into the safety ethos of our covering our activities.
which requires them to report annually power stations in all regions during 2005. to us on their own health, safety and Any organisation or individual may visit During 2004, International Power environmental policies and performance.
com introduced Behavioural Safety Training for up-to-date information about the As well as monitoring performance, systems at the Deeside and Hazelwood Company and its activities.
This information the Health, Safety and Environment sites.
Though recognising that our assets is supplemented by more detailed assetCommittee identifies and pools best may differ widely, we are keen to ensure specific information on individual websites.
practice and encourages employees that staff receive the most appropriate to learn from the experience of their health and safety training.
Behavioural Management colleagues around the world.
The Take 5 Safety Training will therefore be initiative was one which emerged from During 2004, our Health, Safety and implemented progressively at other sites.
our Hazelwood site in Australia in 2004.
Environment Committee met four times to manage and communicate HSE issues 49 INTERNATIONAL POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2004 By evaluating initiatives and incidents The plants pioneering technology Recognition and benchmarking from inside and outside the Company, efficiently converts fuel into usable energy Power production is a complex process we are able to refine our health and while reducing NO and CO emissions by x and many of our assets operate in safety systems.
Information is distributed as much as 90%.
In addition, to conserve competitive markets.
Although our power company-wide as Health and Safety water, they use air rather than water as a stations throughout the world may use Information Memoranda.
Lessons learned cooling agent in eight of their ten turbines.
different fuels and different technologies are used to promote awareness and to generate electricity, the way we record Two turbines at the Hays site recycle encourage best practice.
and report our CSR performance must reclaimed wastewater from the city of be undertaken in a consistent and We actively encourage our plants San Marcos, resulting in an annual transparent way.
By working to the to achieve certification to recognised saving of 100 million gallons of water.
Global Reporting Initiative and the management systems.
The majority Association of British Insurers reporting have already reached the ISO 14001 Targets guidelines we, and our stakeholders, may standard.
A rolling programme for International Power has established a check and compare our performance the implementation of ISO 14001 has systematic twin approach to CSR target with that of other power companies.
now been established across all five setting.
Some targets are set at asset International Powers annual web-based of our wholly-owned US-based assets, level by regional directors.
These include CSR report is now produced in line with the target date for an approved specific local targets which would be with these accepted guidelines.
system at each site by the end of 2005. inappropriate for other sites or regions.
During 2004 our Kot Addu power Other generic targets are set at Demonstrating excellence station was the first industrial plant in corporate level.
This allows management For the second consecutive year Pakistan to become accredited to all three to identify key areas for improvement HUBCO in Pakistan has won the ROSPA management systems standards: ISO 14001, across the Company.
high commendation sector award for the OHSAS 18001 and ISO 9001. electricity industry.
The award recognises Some targets set in 2004 will continue HUBCOs highest standards of occupational and be expanded year-on-year as part of Positive improvement safety and their commitment to continue an ongoing improvement programme.
By stepping up our focus and emphasis to raise health and safety standards at New performance targets are also added on health and safety in 2004, we have the power station.
achieved a reduction in the number of Hazelwood was awarded a national lost time incidents across our assets.
Future regulations commendation for health and safety by Our Milford plant in North America has As always, one of our key objectives is to the Minerals Council of Australia at their reached 3,000 days without a lost time comply with all applicable legislation at annual awards ceremony.
The award incident, Hub power station in Pakistan local, regional, national and international recognises committed leadership and a has reached 2,000 days while others level.
We also have to keep abreast of all strong and consistent safety conscious including Pego, Pelican Point, Synergen, forthcoming legislation likely to affect our culture across the whole site.
Marmara, Pluak Daeng, Hays, Bellingham business.
Assessing the likely ramifications and Midlothian, have all achieved 1,000 In the US, our Midlothian and Hays sites for individual assets is the responsibility days.
both received the Texas Environmental of the Companys Health, Safety and Excellence award from the Texas As a wholesale electricity generator, Environment Committee.
Commission on Environmental Quality we recognise the impact our business in 2004.
The award recognises the use has on the environment.
by utilising the latest technology and optimising the way we operate our The plants are using clean burning assets, we achieved improvements technology and water conservation in our environmental performance.
strategies, making ANP the first and In the key performance indicators only power producer in Texas to use we reduced our output of SO, NO 2 x sequentially fired combustion techniques and CO. 2 to produce cleaner power, while greatly reducing gas emissions.
50 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2003 Flagship Project In late 2003, EOP in the Czech Republic submitted a proposal to improve schools in its region, at a cost of 100,000.
The main task was a major upgrade of the teaching facilities in the local Opatovice School.
Improvements included a new roof, windows, thermal insulation and modern toilets for the children.
The work took place during the summer of 2004 and was ready for the new autumn term.
The second and third phases of the scheme included buying new IT equipment and teaching aids for the village primary schools of Ceperka and Dritec.
Equipment included fully networked PCs, software and support equipment such as printers, data projector, scanner and digital camera.
The equipment provides modern technologies to teach different subjects and foreign languages.
It was installed in the autumn term and children are already deriving much benefit from it.
The revised Large Combustion Plant Charitable giving Flagship projects Directive and the EU Emissions Trading The Companys Charities and Donations Our flagship projects most of which Directive will impact our European assets.
Committee oversees corporate charity were proposed by staff have been We have continued to participate in awards.
The Committee is responsible for running for three years.
They are industry-wide discussions to advise the International Powers flagship projects community projects funded annually by UK Department of the Environment, see case studies which provide annual International Power.
Flagship projects can Food and Rural Affairs and the Environment funding for community-based projects.
But they all have Agency for England and Wales on the On a local level, each of our assets has an the same aim: improving quality of life implementation of both Directives.
annual fund for charitable projects in their in different corners of the world.
This is to ensure that the industrys view area.
The Committee is also responsible is voiced in terms of potential impact for International Powers match funding Our responses to the across the entire sector.
This enables employees to apply Tsunami disaster Power has strategies in place to enable our to the Company to match any money Since the Tsunami disaster, the Companys business to comply with the requirements they have raised for good causes.
main aim has been to support locally of these key pieces of legislation.
co-ordinated efforts to help those who During 2004 International Power and lost loved ones, homes or essential We have also been proactive in assessing its subsidiaries contributed 683,679 to the EU Emissions Trading Scheme covering facilities in their villages.
We believe this charitable causes and other community is best achieved by targeting aid at our carbon allocations and the potential projects.
Companies in which we have impact for each of our European plants.
specific projects, mostly at a local level.
a minority shareholding associates, The scheme came into operation in joint ventures and trade investments The total amount the Company and its January 2005. contributed a further 137,612. associated companies are giving is just over US$470,000 247,368.
Details of the initiatives are located on our website.
