Case studies Rising to the challenge Health and Safety Laboratory The Health and Safety Laboratory HSL is technology, security and cleaning.
On planning and the care that went into Britains leading industrial health and safety completion we took on responsibility for a executing the process meant that all the facility with over 30 years of research number of further areas including catering, services were moved across in the space experience.
Until recently it occupied around porterage, reprographics, stores, pool cars, of four weeks.
100 buildings and structures on a site in registry archiving and reception.
Buxton and three large buildings in Sheffield.
As Stuart Jones, Estate Manager at HSL, said, Many of these no longer met its needs and The Buxton site covers 270 hectares, the Ive been very impressed with the way were in need of major refurbishment.
HSL equivalent of some 350 football pitches.
Interserve has continued providing all its concluded that rationalisation of operations While servicing this estate requires services at the same time as overseeing an to one site and the creation of substantial considerable logistical skill, the greater extremely complicated migration from our new facilities would offer better value for challenge was the need to manage the move old premises to the excellent new facilities.
money, improved effectiveness and greater of all staff from their facilities in Sheffield The fact that we hardly missed a beat in the intellectual exchange.
It chose PFI as the best and to relocate those already at Buxton transfer was as much due to their planning route to achieve these ends.
while minimising any impact on HSLs and management as to the dedication and operational effectiveness.
commitment of our own staff.
Working with Shepherd as the construction partner, Interserve put together a package We began migration planning before we had comprising a new laboratory at Buxton and even won the contract.
We developed these the provision of facilities management plans in great detail once we were familiar services, both while the laboratory was being with the sites operations and liaised with built and afterwards for a period of 30 years.
The migration During construction Interserve provided a began at the end of October 2004 and, on range of services across both sites including consecutive weekends, involved moving first building fabric repairs, mechanical and the Buxton staff and then those from each of electrical maintenance, information the three Sheffield buildings.
The intricate 14 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2004
