Corporate Social Responsibility continued Carbon dioxide emissions Most sites operate schemes to transfer station and an overall equal regardless of gender, race, Carbon dioxide emissions represent collect and recycle paper and recovery rate of 4.0 per cent disability, sexual orientation, the Groups main environmental cardboard and these are often 2003: 6.9 per cent.
age, religion, religious belief or impact.
The key elements are: supported by employee initiatives any other reason that might be to recycle other items such as print Natural resource usage assumed to limit their contribution Fuel diesel and petrol cartridges, mobile phones, drinks or potential.
consumption in company cars, Water cans and vending machine cups.
vans and commercial vehicles Water is predominately used Project Services head office, for As far as possible the structure of to provide welfare facilities in Electricity consumption instance, recycled 91.2 per cent of the workforce should reflect the offices and at other locations its vending machine cups through diversity of Interserves external Gas and oil used to heat where we work.
There is also the Beca scheme.
premises some limited use of water in cleaning processes and in Overseas travel of UK-based Regular collections of waste and All employees have a personal spray booths.
We estimate employees of material to be recycled are not responsibility for the practical 3 that a total of 42,000m of quantified, while other collections application of equal opportunities, water is used per annum.
Our estimate of carbon dioxide are usually volume-based.
demonstrated by respect for the emissions in 2004 is 26.4 tonnes per Measurement of tonnages is Other individual, in their everyday million of turnover 2003: 30.9 therefore impractical.
In addition Various products supplied for dealings and working relationships tonnes per million, a total of construction activities such as use in formwork and with colleagues, customers, 33,488 tonnes 2003: 37,440 tonnes.
demolition or earthworks can scaffolding are timber-based suppliers and other parties.
This was apportioned: generate large tonnages of waste or have significant timber that is often reused and these content.
Suppliers confirm Ethics Tonnes per m turnover dwarf the amounts produced or that this is being obtained It is important that individuals 30 recovered in normal office-based from managed, sustainable throughout all of Interserves 25 operations.
operations retain a set of core 20 values and approaches to the 15 Site Services, part of the Project Potential pollution process of doing business.
The 10 Services division, provides a skipInterserves environmental reputation of the Group and the collection service for construction management systems provide trust and confidence of those with 5 2003 2004 sites and commercial premises.
A clear focus on the arrangements whom it deals are among its most 0 proportion of the waste collected required to prevent pollution vital resources, and the protection 2004 2003 0.9 0.5 Overseas travel is processed through its waste incidents.
During the year no of these is of fundamental 2.2 1.6 Heating transfer station in Aldridge where enforcement action was taken by importance.
We demand and 6.1 4.5 Electricity 21.8 19.8 Company vehicles it is segregated.
During 2004 Site the Environment Agency against maintain high ethical standards in Services handled a total of 89,873 any Interserve company.
carrying out our business activities Waste generation and disposal tonnes 2003: 59,782 tonnes of and tolerate no form of corrupt While policies and systems are waste of which 23 per cent 2003: practice.
To support an open and Social and ethical generated at Group, divisional or 42 per cent was processed through honest operating environment, business-unit level, detailed the transfer station.
A total of Interserve has a whistleblowing Diversity and equal opportunities arrangements for waste 3,592 tonnes 2003: 4,148 tonnes policy and procedure which is Interserve is committed to a policy management are made at local of material was recovered which available to all employees.
of diversity and equal opportunities level, often as part of an overall might otherwise have been sent to in its employment practices.
This represents a recovery Our ethical policy includes policy supports the fundamental generally include measures for rate of 17 per cent 2003: 16 per guidance for managing our belief that all our employees, waste segregation and streaming.
cent of the waste processed in the relationships with customers, including potential recruits, are 22 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2004 1 23 1 Its A Knockout.
Cumberland Infirmary, Carlisle 23 teams 3 George Franks, Cuba Bike Ride George, back row, left, took part in this event organised to raise funds for the Eden took part in the MIND bike ride in Cuba raising over 3,500 Valley Hospice which was facing closure.
The Interserve team in the five-day trip.
2 Zoe Kubiak, New York Marathon Zoe Kubiak ran in the New York Marathon to raise money for the Kings College Hospital Liver Unit.
Last year Kings treated over 246,000 patients not only from within the UK but also from overseas.
suppliers and competitors and achieved its first accreditation to improve the quality of life for In addition to their work on behalf addresses the specific issues and Group Head Office and the people living with cancer.
Its of Macmillan, employees raised associated with international Equipment Services division were activities include funding specialist money for many other causes business.
We consider harassment reaccredited during 2004.
Macmillan nurses and doctors, during the year.
We salute those of any employee for any reason building cancer care centres and listed below, as well as others not to be unacceptable.
In support of good peopleproviding a range of information mentioned by name, who gave management practices, other and support services.
their time and effort in support Employee consultation initiatives have been implemented of a wide range of charities.
We believe in involving our during the year including We have formed committees in An Olde Worlde Christmas personnel in matters affecting them competency-based performance locations across the Group to Fayre along the corridors of as employees and have continued reviews in Project Services and the organise fund-raising events and one of our main offices raised to keep them informed of all expansion of Industrial Services assist individuals in undertaking 1,500 for St Giles Hospice relevant factors concerning the training function to deliver sponsored activities.
As a result of Groups performance, strategy, accredited, grant-assisted training, their work and the generosity of Zoe Kubiak ran the New York financial status, charitable in particular in Health and Safety.
many people in Interserve and Marathon and helped raise over activities and other issues.
We beyond, more than 13,000 was 2,700 for Kings College achieve this through formal and The success of individuals raised in 2004 to complement the Hospital Liver Unit informal briefings, through our committed to their personal Group donation of 25,000.
Nicky Collings and a team Group magazine, Focus, which training and development is of enthusiastic organisers is issued three times a year, recognised through the wellBeyond Macmillan, all Interserve co-ordinated a raffle that and through our intranet.
The established Interserve Training divisions took part in the Crisis generated more than 6,700 intranet underwent considerable Trust.
The Chief Executive presented Christmas Card Challenge, where for Children in Need enhancement in 2004 and is 15 people from across the Group money is donated to charity instead currently being developed with awards in May 2004. of being spent on Christmas cards.
George Franks raised over 3,500 further.
Employee representatives We added to the amount raised and for MIND via a bike ride in Cuba are consulted regularly on a wide Charitable giving donated a total of 10,000: 2,000 Chris Gair ran the London range of matters affecting their Interserve believes in contributing to the appeal with the remainder Marathon for Children with current and future interests.
to the well-being of the going equally to four other Leukemia raising in excess communities in which it operates.
charities the Anthony Nolan of 1,300 Investors in People We have a programme which Trust, Riding for the Disabled, Investors in People IiP is the operates at different levels: at Samaritans and Barnardos.
Adrian Boucher completed the national standard which sets a Group level we have a chosen London-to-Windsor cycle ride level of good practice for training charity and make an annual Facilities Services again contributed and made 250 for Cancer and development of people to donation: we encourage business 4,000 to the Inspire Foundation, Research UK achieve business goals.
It provides units to run charitable events, which funds medical research into A team of Interserve employees a framework for improving business either for the Group charity or for the recovery of mobility following at the Cumberland Infirmary performance and competitiveness another cause that is important to spinal cord injury, and made a raised 1,000 for the Carlisle through a planned approach to the area or the people involved: further donation of 5,000 to Eden Valley Hospice by taking setting and communicating business and we offer support for employees Project Compass in 2004.
Project part in and winning, against objectives and developing people to undertake sponsored activities.
Compass is an initiative to address competition from 22 other teams to meet these objectives.
homelessness and unemployment an Its A Knockout contest Since the beginning of 2004 among ex-service men and women.
Our strategy of rolling out IiP Interserve has been working with We also have a representative on recognition across the Group is Macmillan Cancer Relief as its Project Compasss steering group.
Macmillan provides Investments division has now expert care and practical support Interserve Plc Annual Report 2004 23
