24 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT page twenty four INNOVATIVE APPLICATIONS FOR HEALTHCARE COMMUNITIES 25 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT page twenty five THE GROUPS PHILOSOPHY IS TO ESTABLISH A PAPERLESS WORKING ENVIRONMENT WHEREVER APPROPRIATE THROUGH THE AUTOMATION OF EMPLOYEE MANAGEMENT TOOLS COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE The appraisal process is a key determinant Disabled individuals are afforded the same SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY of remuneration and advancement, as well opportunities as others, and the Group It is iSOFTs view that operating in an providing an opportunity to monitor actively supports the employment of environmentally and socially sustainable ongoing employee progress.
disabled persons both during the manner provides a stronger basis for recruitment process and in the retention of The directors further recognise that future development of the business employees who become disabled whilst in sustaining the Groups competitive operations, financial performance, the employment of the Group.
advantage over the longer term is protection of reputation and market dependent on employees realising their HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY valuation.
Whilst this is the first corporate full potential.
It is Group practice, The health and safety of our employees social responsibility statement we have therefore, to ensure that personal is also of paramount importance to iSOFT.
published, all of the policies have existed development, reward and promotion is In fostering a working environment for some time as an integral part of the determined with direct reference to ability, encouraging productivity, participation and iSOFT business.
commitment and individual contributions togetherness, the Group has created a As a result of this deep commitment to to the collective achievements.
workplace which embraces statutory Corporate Social Responsibility, iSOFT was requirements and best practice guidelines iSOFT recognises its responsibilities awarded membership to the FTSE4Good wherever possible.
as a significant and growing employer in Index in September 2003.
Created by the India and has established close links to EMPLOYEE EQUITY PARTICIPATION independent global index company, FTSE local universities and proactively supports A significant number of employees have Group, the index is designed to identify local community initiatives such as shareholding interests in the Company companies that meet globally recognised education sponsorship.
either directly or under share option and corporate social responsibility standards.
The directors Employees are typically educated to EMPLOYMENT POLICY actively encourage employee equity degree standard and, as a Microsoft The objective of iSOFTs employment participation, subject always to the Groups Certified Solution Provider Partner, iSOFT policy is to support our business goals employee share dealing code rules, as actively promotes Microsoft accreditation through the attraction, retention and they firmly believe that this encourages the for staff engaged in the development and realisation of the full potential from a profitable development of the Group.
support of the software application high-calibre workforce.
Details of the current employee share portfolio.
The directors are proud of the option schemes and the options granted During the year, regular consultations and Groups record in respect of staff retention during the year are provided in note 23 to briefings took place with employees to and development.
the financial statements on page 66. enhance their understanding of the EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES POLICY Groups performance and the financial Our July 2003 Sharesave scheme has The Group is a committed equal and economic environment in which been widely participated in, with 29% of opportunities employer and has it operates.
eligible employees in iSOFTs world-wide established working practices locations now participating in the Scheme.
Priority is given to ensuring that employees to promote an employment environment Given the success of the original schemes, are aware of significant matters relating to that is free from discrimination and the directors are proposing to introduce a the Groups trading performance and harassment.
The iSOFT policy ensures new offer under the existing Sharesave organisational changes.
that no employee, or applicant, is treated scheme in the coming year.
Participation less favourably on the grounds of gender, The directors recognise the importance of in the Sharesave scheme is encouraged marital status, race, colour, disability or individual employee contributions in across the Group.
sexual orientation or is disadvantaged by delivering the Groups successful conditions or requirements that cannot performance to date and have maintained objectively be justified.
the commitment that each employee receives a formal appraisal every six months.
26 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT page twenty six BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMME The directors recognise that whilst DONATIONS Following the completion of the merger iSOFTs business activities as a provider The Board of Directors feels that the with Torex and the conclusion of the of software applications, have minimal choice of charitable activities is a matter National Programme for Information direct environmental impact, there are of conscience for individual members of Technology NPfIT in England procurement, environmental impacts in running a staff, particularly given our wide a top-to-bottom Business Improvement company and our commitment to adopting involvement with numerous healthcare Programme was instigated with the best practice evidences our responsibility.
No charitable donations were objective of redesigning the Group wide made during the year.
The Group maintains an environmental operational organisational structures, to policy to raise awareness, establish iSOFT made no financial contributions to achieve optimisation of the significant standards, assess the impact of its any political parties in the year.
talent residing within the enlarged Groups business activities on the environment, workforce.
This Programme will also This report was approved by the Board on set improvement objectives and monitor ensure that the resulting structures are 23 June 2004 and signed on its behalf by: performance against these objectives.
populated with the appropriate number of skilled resources.
After completion of Examples of the Groups commitment to merger integration activities, already at this policy are as follows: an advanced stage, the programme focus the continuing promotion of remote will turn to continual improvement working to reduce the environmental initiatives and other organisational burden of commuting and business development activities.
John Whelan travel: Group Finance Director EMPLOYEE CONSULTATION introducing leading edge technology In conjunction with this Programme, iSOFT solutions to promote direct electronic introduced an Employee Consultation information processing and exchange Forum VOiCE in April of this year, with and teleconferencing: and elected representatives.
VOiCE was enhancements to the Groups intranet established to create a means of active site such that employee involvement, social dialogue, information communications can be distributed dissemination and communication with the electronically.
employees of the Group based within the UK.
The success of this forum will be The Groups philosophy is to establish a reviewed over the remainder of 2004 and, paperless working environment wherever if successful, rolled out across other appropriate.
This has been realised international operations.
through the automation of a number of employee management tools such as SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND ETHICAL performance appraisals, annual leave SEE MATTERS requests, sickness records and the job The iSOFT business as a whole recognises profile library.
that achieving success in environmental and social management is a joint The responsibility for maintaining and responsibility between employees and enforcing the SEE policy resides at Board management.
A copy of the current environmental participation in community events and policy is available on the Group website.
charities is strongly supported through the giving of time and the internal promotion and support for such activities.
27 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY page twenty seven INNOVATIVE APPLICATIONS FOR HEALTHCARE COMMUNITIES
