27 Corporate Responsibility ITVs Corporate Responsibility In 2004, Ofcom dealt with complaints Community CR performance can impact on about 550 ITV programmes.
Of these, ITV supports good causes on our business by inuencing our 526 were not upheld.
Complaints and off screen by donating airtime, relationships and reputation with the about seven programmes were cash and expertise.
In 2004, our viewing public, Ofcom, employees, resolved to Ofcoms satisfaction.
investors, regional opinion formers, Complaints about 17 programmes ITV came second in the Guardians artists and advertisers.
Giving List published in November 2004 based on data for 2003 from ITV is committed to high standards of ITVs licences contain quotas for former Granada sites.
Our agship responsibility in the programmes we certain types of programme, for campaign in 2004 was ITVs Britain make and broadcast and in the way example news, current affairs and on the Move that encouraged the we conduct our business.
ITV met all of its nation to take more exercise by that our role as a commercial public quotas for 2004. walking 10,000 steps a day.
service broadcaster makes a significant News and documentaries are key contribution to the social fabric of the facets of ITVs public service function Employment UK.
Our separate CR report provides and a vital part of our role in society.
ITV is a major investor in the UKs details of the key issues and how we Part of ITVs corporate responsibility creative economy.
We spent over are managing them.
The CR report is to present balanced, informative, 1 billion on programming in 2004 is available on our website at impartial news and documentaries.
86% of our programmes were original www.
com or in hard copy from productions made in the UK and 33% the Company Secretarys ofce.
ITV makes news accessible and were independently produced.
The reach ITV operates in a closely regulated The benefit is felt around the country of ITV News exceeds all newspapers environment where the standards with 40% of all our programming and nearly all other television news applying to our programmes are part produced outside London.
Through its regional of our licence agreement with the stations, ITV provides local news We provide training for all employees regulator, Ofcom.
Strict standards also across the country.
including freelancers and those on apply to the advertisements broadcast short term contracts.
We aim to comply fully with Our agship current affairs series, invested 5.2 million in training and all these requirements and have Tonight With Trevor McDonald, over 2,900 employees completed appropriate systems, training and brought many current issues to the 10,894 training days.
support to guide employees taking attention of an average 3.4 million programme decisions.
Soap operas, dramas Environment and documentaries engage a A new structure for managing CR ITVs main impacts on the environment mass audience in a range of social issues was established in 2004. are the energy and water we use at issues from racism, to disability or A CR Operational Group has been our sites and the waste we produce.
appointed reporting to the CR and In 2003, our total energy use from Operational Risk Steering Group, these sources was 122,337 MWh, a Diversity chaired by the Company Secretary.
This resulted ITV is determined to reect the UKs in emissions equivalent to 37,656 The prime function of the new rich cultural diversity in our workforce tonnes of CO, a 14% reduction in 2 structure is to coordinate management and on-screen.
During the year we absolute terms on 2002.
In 2003, we of CR issues already well established developed diversity strategies for our used 99,480 cubic metres of water within operational functions.
An annual broadcasting, news and production and recycled 18% of total waste.
survey of CR risks is commissioned divisions and appointed diversity from independent consultants who champions at board and senior The CR report is available on our prepare a report for management.
ITV is currently website at www.
com or in chair of the Cultural Diversity Network, hard copy from the Company CR on air an industry diversity initiative, and Secretarys ofce.
CR on air relates to programme hosted a seminar on monitoring standards, our role as a provider diversity on screen.
of news and current affairs A diverse workforce helps us to create programmes, social and community programmes that appeal to all sectors issues in other programmes and of the UK population.
accounted for 46.6% of employees, ITV operates under the ITC 4.2% of employees for whom we Programme Code that protects have ethnicity data are from ethnic viewers from harm or offence, and minorities and 1.2% of employees ensures that broadcasters maintain declared themselves to have a disability.
due impartiality, fairness and respect for privacy, while upholding freedom of speech and editorial integrity.
