Corporate social responsibility report Supporting the people, communities and businesses The CSR steering group has ensured that significant progress around us continues to be made across all of the areas listed opposite.
Successful initiatives in the last twelve months include: J D Wetherspoon is a central part of local communities all over the UK, bringing benefits to millions of people in their daily livesHi-tech taps introduced in new openings save 400 litres of through social enjoyment, as well as providing direct or indirect water every single day thats the equivalent of over 4 million employment for many thousands.
The company recognises the importance of environmental andBy using specialist motor-controllers on our air-handling units, social issues and has a dedicated corporate social responsibility we have achieved savings of up to 27% on our energy usage on CSR steering group chaired by the commercial director.
A similar system on our fridge and freezer units has achieved savings of up to 12% on our energy usage on The company, under the CSR groups stewardship, is able to our new openings.
ensure that it is fostering the preservation and protection of the environment, while recognising its wider social responsibilityThis year, we will recycle 44,985 litres of oil from recycled throughout all of its commercial activities and operations.
This demonstrates significant progress since 2002, when we recycled just 547 litres.
The company is committed to continually challenging and reviewing its CSR policies and ensures that it protects itself from Our brand-new central distribution centre in Daventry will any significant risks to which it may be exposed.
enable us to develop a single drop-off point for recyclable materials, eliminating millions of lorry miles.
Our strategy in this It is the policy of the company to: area will develop more fully in the next twelve months.
minimise the extent of the environmental impact of itsAll of our pubs and staff are encouraged to engage actively in operations, as far as is reasonably practical.
raising money for our chosen charity CLIC Cancer and Leukaemia in Childhood.
Such is the enthusiasm of this activity strive to minimise any emissions or effluents which may cause that we have doubled our initial pledge to raise 1,000,000 to environmental damage.
2,000,000. conserve energy through minimising consumption and The company is in active dialogue with all of its suppliers to maximising efficiency.
ensure that they play an integral role in achieving our business objectives and meeting our social and environmental policies.
We minimise the use of materials which may be harmful to the believe that a shared approach in addressing the issues ensures environment.
the most practical identification of opportunities.
This approach has enabled the setting of some key environmental targets for promote efficient purchasing which will both minimise waste 2004 05, the progress of which will be reported on in the next and allow materials to be recycled, where appropriate.
These include: adopt efficient waste-management strategies which reduce theAn overall reduction of packaging materials used across the amount of waste going to landfill or to other disposable sites.
business of 2% Reduce energy consumption by 5% across the business embrace the use of recycled materials and ensure that materialsReduce water usage across the business by 5% or waste generated by the business are recycled, whereReduce the volume of solid waste into the waste stream by appropriate.
30% by redirecting waste into the recycling stream raise awareness of environmental issues among all of its The environmental policy is reviewed at least annually by the employees and suppliers partners.
board of directors, so as to ensure that it reflects the businesss needs and addresses all current and relevant environmental issues.
ensure appropriate training, in environmental issues, of all employees.
The company once again participated in the annual survey by EIRIS Ethical Investment Research Service and, for the fourth These aims are incorporated and developed within the companys consecutive year, was included in the FTSE4Good index, designed environmental management system which is implemented to identify those companies with good records in corporate social throughout the business.
The main selection criteria cover three areas: Working towards environmental sustainability Developing positive relationships with stakeholders Upholding and supporting universal human rights 16 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
