01681 JJB AR 2004 TEXT 25 5 04 3:52 pm Page 25 Corporate responsibility statement JJB recognises that it has a duty to ensure that its business is conducted in a Community relations socially responsible manner by maintaining high standards of both social and We value the relationships with both our customers and the wider environmental behaviour.
Through its employees, the Company aims to comply communities within which we operate and will behave as a good fellow citizen with all applicable laws in order to meet, and where possible exceed, best practice in all areas of activity.
conditions in both the national and global markets within which it operates.
JJBs main contribution to the community is delivered via its business Corporate responsibility is monitored on an ongoing basis via the Corporate activities.
Our stores and health clubs play an important role in satisfying the Social Responsibility CSR Committee.
The CSR Committee is chaired by B. J. K. needs of our customers allowing the redistribution of wealth back into the Dunn the Property Director and comprises a number of other senior executives: community through the staff we employ and train.
The Company is fully it is tasked with ensuring that the range of controls which JJB has in place to committed to ensuring that both the products and services it offers are manage CSR risks are operating effectively and that responses to changes in delivered by way of focus upon the family and always with value for money in current legislation and regulations are implemented in a timely manner.
As a further demonstration of the commitment to the community, all JJBs indoor soccer centres are available to local schools, free of charge.
Commitment JJB is committed to minimising its negative social impacts and wishes to be At JJB, we recognise the need to extend our people first philosophy beyond recognised as a leading corporate citizen within all areas of its operation.
The our business and deliver something tangible back into the community.
Our Company continues to be selected for inclusion in the FTSE4Good index, community programme provides support to nominated local and national launched in July 2001, which is designed to measure the performance of charities and good causes including Macmillan Cancer Relief and the Variety companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards, Club Childrens Charity.
We also offer support to our employees who and to facilitate investment in those companies.
FTSE4Good is used as a participate in chosen projects.
basis for the creation of socially responsible investment products.
Macmillan Cancer Relief During 2004, JJB strengthened its position in the Business in the Community Macmillan Cancer Relief is dedicated to helping people living with cancer.
We also continue to be included in the They are working towards the day when everybody has equal and ready Business in the Environment index of Corporate Environmental Engagement access to the best possible treatment and care and when unnecessary levels and were delighted to be recognised by them as one of the Biggest movers of fear are set aside.
i. e. companies included on the index with an increase in average score greater than 20%.
This is a clear indication of our continued commitment to In the UK, over a million people are living with cancer and four in ten people corporate responsibility engagement.
will be diagnosed with cancer during their lifetime.
These figures are forecast to increase, and so will the demand for Macmillans services.
JJB was also pleased to be to be included in the Kempen SNS Smaller Europe SRI index, launched in October 2003, which is the first index to track the With that in mind, JJB are pleased to be associated with Macmillan Cancer performance of smaller companies in Europe.
Relief, one of our chosen charity partners.
Through our network of approximately 450 stores and Head Office facilities we have been involved in Inclusion within the indices referred to above will allow JJB to compare and the sale of football badges to customers and staff and have raised assess how we integrate responsible business practices through our approximately 130,000 during the accounting period ended 25 January organisation with those of our peers, identifying opportunities for 2004.
This brings a grand total of over 1 million raised through JJB since improvement, and will also provide further demonstration to current and the campaign began in 1999. potential shareholders that we are compliant with best practice.
The money raised has helped fund Macmillans increasing range of services, Guiding principles of corporate responsibility including the Macmillan nurses and doctors, new cancer care centres, a JJB is fully committed to ensuring its business is conducted in a socially range of cancer information - via publications and its information and support responsible manner and has developed a set of broad corporate responsibility centres and even direct financial help for those who need it most.
principles which will guide its future progress.
These principles relate to community relations, environmental issues and ethical labour standards.
25 01681 JJB AR 2004 TEXT 25 5 04 3:52 pm Page 26 Corporate responsibility statement continued Variety Club Childrens Charity Environmental impacts The Variety Club Childrens Charity provides a wide range of support to sick, JJB assisted by a team of environmental and sustainability services disabled and disadvantaged children.
Whether raising money to build a consultants, has performed a detailed assessment of its environmental paediatric unit, donating a Sunshine Coach to a special school or taking impacts.
The most significant impacts are managed through an Environmental groups of children on fun packed days out, the Charity aims to make a real Management System EMS and the Board is confident that this system will difference to childrens lives.
provide the structure through which it will deliver its environmental policies across the Group.
The EMS consists of detailed action plans with named senior Management and staff from our Golf department, led by the Associate Director executive ownership, together with objectives and targets against which relative of Equipment, Martin Wild, have organised charity golf tournaments for the last progress is monitored and reported as follows: four years and to date, with the monies raised, have purchased 10 Sunshine Coaches and raised enough at this years Golf Day to purchase a further 3.
CO2 emissions have been calculated using DEFRA guidelines and are monitored to minimise atmospheric impact: Sunshine Coaches is a charity that provides children with the opportunity to Energy consumption has risen by 3 per cent against an 8 per cent increase in get out and about in order to enjoy local facilities and discover the world at floor space in use and a 56 per cent increase in the number of health clubs: large through excursions and educational visits.
These coaches are specially Waste generation has increased by 4 per cent against the 8 per cent increased adapted for children with special needs and are donated to organisations floor space but the quantity recycled has risen by over 22 per cent: and which strive to improve the quality of life for young people, something with which JJB are proud to be associated.
Total water consumption has increased by 37 per cent although store efficiency has improved by 2 per cent and there was a 56 per cent increase in the Environmental principles number of health clubs, all of which incorporate swimming pools.
In striving to achieve business objectives, JJB must act responsibly in relation Further details, including details of progress made and future targets, can be to the impact of its activities on the local community and the environment at found within the environmental management section of the JJB website.
large and have accordingly incorporated an environmental management system within our overall risk management framework.
The Company recognises its Ethical labour principles responsibility to minimise environmental impacts and through the effective As a responsible Corporate Citizen, JJB seeks to provide its customers with high management of agreed action plans we expect to achieve this whilst delivering quality, value for money products, sourced from suppliers and manufacturers improved business performance.
JJB will continue to be involved with selected who can clearly demonstrate compliance with both the Groups own codes of indices as described on page 25 of these Financial statements, further practice as well as internationally accepted standards.
demonstrating our continuing commitment to be at the leading edge of current environmental issues.
The overall approach to environmental issues is JJBs Code of Business Ethics, its Supplier Code of Practice and its Factory incorporated within the core business management processes and Code of Conduct, which are set out on our website www.
co. uk, have been encapsulated within the following core principles: accepted by all of our suppliers and source manufacturers.
The Codes are based upon the internationally accepted principles of the Ethical Trading The reduction of adverse environmental impacts arising from our activities Initiative Base Code of Labour Standards and the Model Code of Conduct and operations: devised by the World Federation of the Sporting Goods Industry.
Ensuring effective and efficient use of materials and energy: Maintaining a waste management system strategy which minimises waste We care about the labour standards within our global supply chain and expect arising and maximises waste recovery whilst ensuring responsible disposal our suppliers to demonstrate similar concerns.
In order to obtain assurance that methods, wherever possible: the overseas factories used by our suppliers and source manufacturers comply with the Factory Code of Conduct and so promote sustained improvement in Ensuring compliance with relevant environmental laws, statutory obligations factory working conditions, a factory inspection methodology has been rolled out and codes of best practice: and with the assistance of a specialist consultancy.
Going forward, the continued use Incorporate the principle of sustainable development through a systematic of the consultants is to be complemented with a programme of high-level approach to environmental management in order to achieve continual reviews performed by our buying team when they make supplier visits.
26 01681 JJB AR 2004 TEXT 25 5 04 3:52 pm Page 27 Workplace Within its workplace, JJB applies the same level of commitment across its stores, health clubs, Head Office, Distribution Centre and other facilities ensuring a safe, challenging and rewarding work environment.
The Board recognises its responsibility for the maintenance of a safe and healthy workplace and work environment for employees and others customers, contractors, visitors and the general public who may be affected by its work or undertakings.
The Company policy states that all employees have a duty to act responsibly and to take reasonable care for the health and safety at work of themselves, their colleagues and customers.
Further responsibilities are placed upon senior management and the Property Director is tasked with keeping the Board of Directors advised on occupational health and safety matters.
JJB is fully committed to the core principle of Equal Opportunity within the workplace and adheres to high standards of employment practice.
We have detailed employment policies which are applied in a fair manner so as to reward people fairly and provide appropriate levels of personal development and training within a safe and healthy workplace.
The Groups policies are designed to value the human rights of all employees, whether directly employed, sub-contracted or employed within the supply chain.
JJB is dedicated to the highest standards of openness, probity and accountability.
In line with that commitment, the Group encourages employees and others with serious concerns about any aspect of the Groups work to come forward and voice those concerns without fear of reprisals.
Normally any concern about a workplace situation should be raised with the employee's immediate line manager or Head of Department: in the case of customers, concerns would normally be raised though our Customer Service Department.
However, it is recognised that because of the seriousness and sensitivity of some issues, together with the knowledge of who the employee thinks may be involved in wrongdoing, this may be difficult, especially because the Group has so many places of work.
To this end, JJB encourages employees to report undesirable practices via its confidential notification telephone line.
All of JJBs endeavours and initiatives across the corporate responsibility spectrum are focused towards the provision of ethically produced, quality, value for money products, through a safe and satisfied workforce in a way that benefits the communities within which the Group operates.
JJB has recently updated its Retail Operations Manual, a copy of which is maintained in all retail stores and will also be available online when the JJB intranet is fully operational later in 2004.
The Manual contains comprehensive procedural guidance together with copies of policy documents which spell out JJBs stance on areas such as our Code of Business Ethics, Health and Safety and Equal Opportunities.
