Pharmaceutical Materials Macfarlan Smith Macfarlan Smith, located in Pharmaceutical Materials Division provides a full range of manufacturing services for active pharmaceutical ingredients Edinburgh, UK, is a world leader in the manufacture and sale of controlled drugs, especially opiates.
During the year the business APIs throughout a drugs life cycle.
Pharm-Eco US provides contract chemistry and manufacturing services for drugs in the continued its record of good growth, improving both profits and market share.
Overall, sales volumes of opiate products increased early and middle phases of their development cycle as well as contract manufacturing for low volume and potent APIs.
with particularly strong growth in sales of codeine as well as several key specialist opiate products.
In support of this growth, As products reach late stages of development and commercial approval, both West Deptford US and Macfarlan Smith UK our programme of capacity expansion at Macfarlan Smith has continued this year with the addition of both large scale and provide commercial scale manufacturing services along with regulatory support for active pharmaceutical ingredients.
The small scale specialist capacity.
The business also successfully completed its first product approval inspection by the US Food division manufactures products for both the branded and generic markets.
Cascade Biochem is a world leader in the chemistry and Drug Administration.
This will greatly enhance our US sales forces ability to market several Macfarlan Smith products, including of prostaglandins, and provides a full range of services for these complex niche products.
In addition to achieving good sales some in the late stages of development, in the US market.
and profit growth during 2003 04, Pharmaceutical Materials Pharm-Eco Pharm-Eco, with two facilities near Boston, developed important opportunities for future growth by key USA, is a leading provider of small scale manufacturing and collaborations between its business units.
contract chemistry services in support of the development of new drugs.
Pharm-Ecos manufacturing business experienced West Deptford The West Deptford business manufactures high value APIs, predominantly controlled substances good growth during the year.
To provide additional capacity for future growth, we completed installation of the first two and metal based pharmaceuticals.
West Deptfords products are used to treat cancer, chronic pain and attention deficit hyperactivity reactor suites in the production area of Pharm-Ecos Devens, Massachusetts facility.
The business performance has also disorder and include both generic and proprietary drugs.
Progress was made in key growth areas during the year.
Several improved due to ongoing expansion of its technical expertise.
During 2003 04 we substantially increased our capabilities in the new products were commercialised, including an important new platinum based anticancer drug.
The facility expansion completed areas of chemical, especially chiral, separations, catalyst screening and the handling of highly potent molecules.
Pharm-Eco also last year is now in full production and incorporates the extraction of narcotic raw materials for key opiate products.
These new made a substantial contribution to the development of products for other Pharmaceutical Materials businesses, particularly products, along with the cost efficiencies obtained from the extraction process, will enable West Deptford to improve its prostaglandin products for Cascade Biochem.
market share in the US opiates market.
Johnson Matthey Johnson Matthey 22 22 Cascade Biochem Cascade Biochem, with facilities in Reading, UK and Cork, Ireland, made important progress in the commercialisation of its broad range of prostaglandin products.
Turnover 140m In collaboration with the process development and scale-up 128m 2003 capabilities of Pharm-Eco, Cascade completed development of six prostaglandin products during the year.
Additionally, process Operating profit 42.3m development for its first veterinary prostaglandin product began late in the year and will continue in 2004 05.
It also concluded 36.7m 2003 commercial agreements for the long term supply of several of its products to a major US generic company.
In support of this commercial progress, Cascades Cork facility completed the first phase of an expansion program.
A second phase is planned for 2004 05.
Research Development & Pharmaceutical Materials Divisions R&D is focused on commercial products to be manufactured and marketed by the divisions four business units.
Technology required for the manufacture of commercial scale products includes primarily the development of chemical manufacturing processes and methods for the analysis of these products.
This technology is essential to achieve competitive market positions and to obtain regulatory approval for products.
Pharmaceutical Materials Division Contract drug development services offered by Pharm-Eco include medicinal chemistry, process development and initial produced another set of strong results in 2003 04 scale-up of potential new drugs.
Each of Pharmaceutical Materials Divisions businesses has developed substantial with operating profit 15% up on last chemical know-how in its respective market niches and they collaborate closely on new technical challenges.
Combined with Johnson Mattheys core expertise in catalysis, year at 42.3 million chiral catalysis and organometallic chemistry, the division offers the pharmaceutical marketplace a unique range of R&D capabilities.
23 Corporate Social Responsibility 3 Day Accident Rate per 1,000 Employees 19.60 The application of Johnson Mattheys leading 12.76 technology and its commitment to operational 12.03 11.99 9.22 excellence make significant contributions to sustainable development.
99 00 00 01 01 02 02 03 03 04 Johnson Matthey operates according to well established manufacturing operations.
Our expertise in processing ethical, social and environmental policies.
Over the last year valuable precious metal materials provides us with a core the board has led a number of initiatives to improve our competence in the conservation, re-use and recycling of operational performance in these areas.
Details of these natural resources, principles which are now applied initiatives can be found in the Johnson Matthey corporate throughout our business.
social responsibility CSR review and are presented here in Environment, Health and Safety summary.
The full report can be found at www.
The corporate social responsibility disclosure follows the Johnson Matthey is firmly committed to managing its activities guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers and throughout the group so as to provide the highest level of the format recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative protection to the environment and to safeguard the health has been used to guide the development of the corporate and safety of its employees, customers and the community.
As outlined in the Corporate The companys Environment, Health and Safety EHS Governance section page 31 the board has embedded policies provide the guiding principles that ensure high corporate social responsibility into its risk management standards are achieved at all sites around the world and afford process.
Corporate social responsibility is championed at the a means of promoting continuous improvement based on highest level at Johnson Matthey and the board has reviewed careful risk assessment and comprehensive EHS management and endorsed the full report.
These policies, summarised in the companys policy Johnson Matthey has a culture of constant improvement statement page 26 are reviewed at regular intervals.
This in all aspects of performance.
In this area improvement work has given greater emphasis to formal management is driven through corporate policies, a comprehensive systems, which bring a systematic improvement in management system and the commitment of our staff.
Corporate policies provide a framework for all There are three key policy areas which provide the framework Johnson Matthey businesses to formulate site specific policies for the management of corporate social responsibility: the to meet local requirements.
Environment, Health and Safety policies: the Employment EHS compliance audits are an integral part of Johnson policies: and the Business Integrity and Ethics policy.
Mattheys corporate EHS management system.
69 facilities from our operations worldwide are included in the audit Johnson Matthey Products Many of our programme.
30 audits have been carried out in 2003 2002 products have a particularly positive social and environmental 32.
Formal exit interviews with local site management are a benefit.
They range from anticancer compounds to our feature of the audits and audit reports are reviewed by the autocatalyst technologies, which improve air quality around Chief Executives Committee with routine follow up on any the world.
In addition, our fuel cell technologies aim to make outstanding issues.
During the year further site visits were a significant contribution to the generation of clean energy made to oversee health surveillance programmes by the and security of supply.
Product safety is critical to Johnson Matthey and Over the past year Johnson Matthey has undertaken a sophisticated systems are in place to ensure that a high level number of initiatives to improve environmental and health and of protection is afforded to our customers.
This has included considerable investment Whilst Johnson Mattheys main contribution to sustainable in manufacturing processes to reduce safety risks, improvements development will be through the excellence of our products to planning of site health and safety actions and the installation we also seek to achieve similar levels of excellence in the of new emission control technology.
management of the business and in the quality of our Johnson Matthey 24 Total Acid Gas Emissions Total Global Warming Potential Total Water Supply 3 Tonnes SO equivalent Million tonnes CO equivalent Thousands m 2 2 915 671 0.06 887 861 131 0.39 0.39 780 0.36 718 0.34 1,889 1,847 1,865 0.32 1,714 1,577 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 On an equivalent basis, over the last year, key environmental emissions have reduced.
For the first time the data now includes emissions due to the Synetix and other smaller acquisitions.
This growth in the business has given rise to increases in emissions for the year which are highlighted on the graphs in the lighter shade.
Plans are in place to return emissions to a downward trend.
The environmental data is for the calendar year.
Targets are also set locally by business units to drive ISO 14001 Over the past year significant strides have improvement in environmental, health and safety.
Typical been made in the implementation of ISO 14001.
This progress targets include: has been led by the Environmental Catalysts and Technologies Reduction in waste or emissions to air or water.
business where a programme to certify the entire business has been initiated.
At present 16 sites are certified to the Reduction in energy or commodity use.
standard with a further two sites in the final stages of Training of a certain number of employees on EHS issues.
45% of our staff work at sites with ISO 14001 Undertaking a certain number of inspection programmes.
Reviewing a target number of risk assessments and implementing new controls.
Training Training is vital to ensuring continuous improvements in health and safety at all our sites.
Over the Supply Chains Johnson Matthey supports the past year staff of all grades have received training.
There is principles set out within the United Nations Universal a wide range of courses available to staff including courses Declaration of Human Rights and International Labour on managing safely and site safety practices.
Our major sites Organisation Core Conventions.
Management of supply chains employ health and safety training specialists.
Expert external and contractor activities is a core component of the group trainers supplement in house capabilities where necessary.
Whilst we are confident of the human rights performance of our own operations we Target Setting One of the key aims of Johnson recognise that business practices in the supply chain are not Mattheys EHS policies is to demonstrate continuous always transparent and represent a risk that must be managed.
The group performance against targets is shown below.
The targets are set in line Community Activities The CSR review includes with the UK Health and Safety Executive Revitalising Health details of the community activities carried out by Johnson and Safety initiative with a baseline year of 2000 for our Matthey.
In the UK the charity of the year programme has worldwide operations.
so far raised 30,000 for Diabetes UK.
The company also supports many other charities locally and nationally through 1 Reduction of working days lost by 15% by 2004 and by donations, employee time or loans of company facilities.
As noted in the Directors Report, total charitable giving Target 35,639 working days lost per 100,000 employees in 2003 04 was 313,000.
Actual 30,630 working days lost per 100,000 employees Verication The board and audit committee review CSR 2 Reduction in the incidence rate of major injuries by 5% issues as part of the companys risk management processes.
A review of site based environment, health and safety reporting Target 1,862 3 day accidents per 100,000 employees systems forms part of the group environmental, health and Actual 922 3 day accidents per 100,000 employees safety audit programme.
The board believes that the measures Given current performance we will be revising our future taken to review the CSR information provide a suitable level targets in the next year.
of confidence without external audit.
Johnson Matthey utilises external specialists where specific CSR issues are identified.
A group wide review of environmental performance is undertaken annually.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 25 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Environment, Health and Safety Policy Statement Johnson Matthey is firmly committed to managing its activities Ensure competence on EHS matters through education, throughout the group so as to provide the highest level of training and awareness at all levels in the organisation, protection to the environment and to safeguard the health including creating an understanding of individual and safety of its employees, customers and the community.
responsibilities for health and safety and the environment.
The companys Environment, Health and Safety policies Undertake assessments to identify the risks to health, safety have been widely disseminated and provide the guiding and the environment from company operations and ensure principles necessary to ensure that high standards are that appropriate control measures are implemented.
achieved at all sites around the world.
They also afford a Ensure that new investments are designed and operated means of promoting continuous improvement based on to the latest standards so as to eliminate or minimise careful risk assessment and comprehensive EHS management risks to health, safety and the environment.
systems, against which all sites are audited.
Investigate incidents to identify the root cause and take action to prevent recurrence.
This policy and its associated procedures are designed to achieve the following corporate objectives: Promote programmes to achieve energy and resource efficiency.
That all locations meet legal and group environment, health and safety requirements.
Set key corporate objectives and performance targets that can be measured and assessed, reporting results That the design, manufacture and supply of products is in a meaningful and transparent way both internally undertaken so as to satisfy the highest standards of health, and externally.
safety, environmental protection and resource efficiency.
Undertake regular EHS inspections and internal audits That management systems are effective in maintaining of operations, and review performance to ensure standards and fulfilling the challenge of securing continuous improvement in EHS management.
continuous improvement in environmental, health and safety performance.
The group EHS management system will be reviewed regularly to ensure that it reflects international best practice In order to achieve these objectives we will: and our growing understanding of the practical application Provide leadership and commitment as an expression of sustainable development.
of the importance that the board and the senior management team places on EHS issues.
Ensure accountability by holding corporate management and senior executives within each operating division and business unit responsible for EHS performance.
Provide the financial and human resources to allow EHS issues to be given an appropriate level of priority.
Provide good communication internally and externally and encourage employee involvement and cooperation at all levels in the organisation in meeting EHS objectives.
