For this reason, they each of the Groups operations rests of the half-year results.
These reviews continue to adopt the going concern basis with local experienced Senior Executives include discussion of any control in preparing the accounts.
and the Group has a clear organisational weaknesses or issues identified by structure which includes appropriate the auditors.
The Directors are responsible for keeping delegation of authority.
The Executive proper accounting records which disclose Directors ensure that regular contact is The conduct of risk assessment involving with reasonable accuracy at any time the maintained with all Senior Executives.
all senior managers of the Groups financial position of the Company and The Group Management Committee, businesses in addition to the Groups enable them to ensure that the accounts comprising the Executive Directors, the Executive Directors.
A risk matrix is comply with the Companies Act 1985.
Company Secretary, the Director of reviewed on a regular basis both in the They are also responsible for safeguarding Human Resources and the Business local operations and by the Group the assets of the Company and the Group Development Manager, meets every Management Committee.
One risk is and hence for taking reasonable steps for month to review financial and discussed at every monthly executive the prevention and detection of fraud and operational issues as well as the risks meeting both locally and at Group level.
The results of these assessments are summarised and reported to the entire Internal Control Formal Board approval for capital Board.
These risk assessment sessions The Directors are responsible for the expenditure over 250K and for other will continue at each operation and will Groups system of internal control and for investment decisions.
Approval was evaluate and address the risks identified.
Such granted for all acquisitions and During 2004, the Group Management a system is designed to manage rather disposals submitted.
Committee has focused particularly on than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve organic revenue growth opportunities, an business objectives, and can only provide Formal Board approval of the annual editorial handbook, production workflow reasonable and not absolute assurance budget for the forthcoming financial best practice, management succession, against material misstatement or loss.
This includes detailed and updated disaster recovery plans in all system of internal control has been comprehensive budgets, covering each operations, health and safety designed to meet the Groups particular operating business.
reporting training and disability access.
needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Review by the Audit Committee on a In addition, the Group Management There is an ongoing continuous process of six-monthly basis of the work performed Committee has the ongoing responsibility identifying, evaluating and managing the by the Internal Financial Control to set policies, procedures and standards significant risks faced by the Group, which Committee IFCC based on a as detailed in the Groups policy has been in place throughout the year programme of work agreed in advance.
guidelines, which have been updated as under review and up to the date of approval The IFCC is chaired by the Company appropriate during the year.
The guidelines of the annual report and accounts.
This Secretary who is responsible for the include policies on: process is well documented and regularly conduct of control reviews in selected reviewed by the Board.
The key elements locations by members of the Committee Finance of the process during the period under who are independent of the location Cash treasury controls review have been: visited.
The IFCC is also responsible for Trading the review of detailed financial control Customer service Formal Board reporting on a monthly checklists submitted by each operation Commercial and competition basis by the Chief Executive Officer, to head office monthly.
This work is Technology Chief Financial Officer and Chief strongly supported by the Groups Property management Operating Officer on the Groups central accounting centre which ensures Human resources including pension performance and on any emerging risks a consistent and compliant approach to administration, disability and health and issues.
The monthly management the processing of transactions and and safety accounts break down the results of ensures a uniform control process Environmental issues and energy the Groups operations by individual across the Groups operations.
management business performance and all significant Legal and regulatory compliance variations against budget and the Review by the Audit Committee of the Business continuity.
previous year are fully examined.
The conclusions of the Groups external day-to-day responsibility for managing auditors in their annual audit and review Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200439 Corporate Governance Continued At its meeting on 28 January 2005, the In addition, the meetings consider a report institutional shareholders and meet with Board considered the means by which it on the work of the Internal Financial shareholders to discuss any issues of monitors internal controls and concluded Control Committee.
Its work is described concern and to obtain feedback.
In that it was satisfied with its process for in the Internal Control section and, given addition, they communicate regularly monitoring internal controls and that this the detail and comfort included in the throughout the year with those process complies with the report, the Committee regard this shareholders who request a meeting.
recommendations of the Internal Control approach as an effective way to review the Guidance for Directors in the Combined financial controls in the business rather The Chairman and the Senior Independent Code.
than establish an internal audit function.
Director personally contact the leading shareholders in the Company every year to The Directors also reviewed the need The Audit Committee meetings to consider address any concerns and discuss any for an internal audit department and the financial results of the Group are issues.
The full Board receives a report on concluded that they did not believe it attended by the Chief Financial Officer and any discussion with shareholders and the necessary for the Group to maintain such the Company Secretary, who acts as written feedback that follows the half a department, given the role of the IFCC Secretary to the Committee, with minutes yearly presentations is circulated to the and the current independent review and being circulated to all Board members.
All brokers reports and analysts monitoring procedures in operation.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and briefings are included in the Board papers Chief Operating Officer are also invited to sent to the directors every month.
Audit Committee attend if required to do so by the The Audit Committee is chaired Committee.
Towards the close of both Members of the Board have met with by Mr P E B Cawdron, a chartered meetings, all executives leave in order institutional shareholders during the year to accountant, and also includes for the Committee to have a private consider Corporate Governance matters.
Mrs M A King and Mr S J Waugh.
All are discussion with the auditors.
The All the Non-Executive Directors are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Chairman also has a private meeting with prepared to meet with shareholders to the audit partner during the course of the understand more fully their views.
The Committee has written terms of year to discuss any relevant issues.
reference that outline its authority and Annual General Meeting duties.
This is displayed on the Companys At the meeting to review the Annual The Board seeks to encourage website in the Investor Relations section.
Report and Accounts, the Committee shareholders to attend its Annual General The terms include a review of the formally considers the non-audit services Meeting.
Directors are present to answer arrangements by which staff may, in provided by the Groups external auditors any questions from shareholders.
It uses confidence, raise concerns about possible and the effectiveness of the audit process.
the Annual General Meeting to improprieties in matters of financial These are fully explored and discussed communicate with private investors and reporting or other areas.
and the Committee is satisfied that the encourages their participation.
objectivity and independence of the The Committee meets once during the year external audit is safeguarded.
Any material with the Companys external auditors to fees are discussed with the Audit discuss and agree the audit programme for Committee before being committed.
the forthcoming year, together with any proposed non-audit work.
The two other The Committee oversaw the appointment meetings follow the interim financial review of Deloitte & Touche LLP in 2002 and and the year-end audit.
They cover a have a primary responsibility for the comprehensive report from the external appointment, re-appointment and removal auditors on their work and their conclusions.
The Committee focuses on the areas of financial judgement by the Group.
It also Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders reviews the summary of the Groups key The Board encourages and seeks to business risks and discusses any revisions.
build a mutual understanding of objectives The Committee is actively involved in the between the Company and its institutional annual review of internal controls conducted shareholders.
As part of this process, the by the main Board as a specific topic at its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial meeting each January.
Officer make twice yearly presentations to Johnston Press plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Social Responsibility Business Ethics Whilst recognising that the practices of assisted.
Expert advice is taken on the The Board of Johnston Press has made a recruitment, employment and training are needs of disabled employees and special clear commitment to operating all of the the responsibility of all managers within the equipment is provided where appropriate.
Groups business activities to the highest Group, responsibility for formulating, standards of business ethics and integrity.
updating and ensuring adherence to Group The Group has also formulated a Disability These principles are not only contained in policies has been delegated to the Director Access policy which has been added to the Groups Corporate Social Responsibility of Human Resources who is responsible to our policy and procedures manual.
Statement but it is also policy to include the Chief Operating Officer.
Accordingly, the Group has undertaken them in employment contracts.
access audits of all of its premises prior to Each local Managing Director has the year end to determine what work is The Group Code of Ethics specifically responsibility within their operation for required to be undertaken to ensure that it requires adherence to all legal relationships with customers, suppliers can either remove, modify, avoid or requirements.
It has a clear policy and and the community.
These relationships are circumvent all potential barriers to access procedure for addressing issues such as subject to review by the Chief Operating for disabled customers who wish to bribery, corruption, conflicts of interest, Officer.
interact with our businesses, whether in espionage and the giving and receiving of person or online.
Our training courses for gifts.
The Group opposes all forms of As part of the main Boards review of front counter staff have also been updated oppression and upholds the principles of Corporate Governance at its January 2005 so that all our customer facing employees sound human rights.
meeting, the Directors also reviewed the can deal with disabled readers or Corporate Social Responsibility Policy.
advertisers in an appropriate manner.
An acceptable use policy has been developed for all of the Groups assets, Employee Involvement The Group is committed to a including but not restricted to computer It is the policy of the Group to encourage comprehensive training and development equipment, email facilities and use of the and develop all members of staff to realise programme, creating the opportunity for Internet.
This policy is required to be their maximum potential.
The Groups employees to maintain and improve their signed by every employee.
policy is, that wherever possible, job performance and to develop their potential vacancies are advertised on the Group to a maximum level of attainment.
This The Group has the absolute objective of intranet and internal notice boards so that includes a Senior Management always acting as a fair and reasonable it maximises the number of positions filled Development Programme to identify and employer.
We also acknowledge and are from within the Group and creates coach individuals who may have the keenly aware of our responsibilities to the adequate opportunities for internal potential to lead the future direction of the many communities we serve, our promotion.
The commercial leadership training customers, suppliers, shareholders, and to programme, which was instigated in 2003, the environment.
Because of our key role in The Group supports the principle of equal seeks to identify the highest calibre the community, a separate section is opportunities in employment and opposes candidates, from both internal and external incorporated within this report detailing all forms of unlawful or unfair discrimination sources, and to ensure that the business is some of the many community orientated on the grounds of race, nationality, religion, not constrained in the future by a lack of activities in which the Groups companies ethnic or national origin, sexual orientation, new talent.
The programme has been are involved.
gender or gender reassignment, marital developed further in 2004 with additional status or disability.
The Ethical Code of individuals being identified and recruited.
Board Responsibility Conduct incorporated in all new Coupled with the extensive range of skill The Board has delegated the day to day employment contracts reflects this based training provided by the Group, responsibility for all matters related to principle.
To assist people from deprived or these initiatives are aimed at enabling staff Corporate Social Responsibility and social ethnic backgrounds to undertake training in to make their best possible contribution to issues to the Executive Directors.
They are journalism, the Group has introduced a the organisations success.
assisted by the Company Secretary who is bursary scheme.
generally the first point of contact for any In 2004, the Group has introduced defined issues of this nature.
It is also the policy of the Group to give full people values which emphasise open, and fair consideration to the recruitment of straightforward communication, integrity, Specific responsibility for environmental disabled persons.
Where disabled persons continued success and the importance of issues has been delegated to the Chief are employed, their training, including recognising every employees contribution.
training for alternative work of employees In addition, employee forums have been that become disabled, and development launched at each operating centre.
for promotion are encouraged and Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200441 Corporate Social Responsibility Continued Group personnel policies are designed to Echo led an appeal for 1.4m in support of casualty department in the town: the ensure that all employees are made aware a hospice, the Northamptonshire Evening Dewsbury Reporter is playing a key role in on a regular basis of the Groups policies, Telegraph campaigned for tougher raising funds for laser equipment and programmes and progress.
Extensive use sentences for death crash drivers after a Harrogate Hospital now has an MRI is made of the Group intranet and notice teenager was killed and the Sheffield Star scanner thanks to help from The boards with a newsletter being published lobbied councillors over traffic gridlock.
Readers of the Sussex Express to coincide with the publication of the Peterborough, the Evening Telegraph ran a donated 27,000 as part of a local child Annual Report and Accounts.
The Group Make it Happen campaign to make sure leukaemia fund-raiser organised by the operates a number of share schemes as urgent projects received cash support.
In Scotland, the Fife Free Press outlined in the Directors Remuneration campaigned to save a local hospital and Report on pages 46 to 51.
One of the many campaigns conducted by the Cumbernauld News also fought the Yorkshire Evening Post resulted in the proposed health cuts.
Community Involvement Government approving the opening of a Johnston Press newspapers and websites childrens hospital in Leeds.
In Blackpool, Campaigns to make communities better are at the heart of charitable fund-raising The Gazette prompted action to make it places in which to live were organised by and community initiatives.
Our titles set illegal for under-18s to buy knives.
Military many of our newspapers including the community agendas, campaign on a whole campaigns were mounted by the Shields Driffield Times which ran Were Proud of host of important issues, and lead the way Gazette to award a gallantry medal to a Driffield.
The Wakefield Express teamed in making those areas better places in soldier killed in Iraq and by the Lancashire up with a bank to Make a Difference.
For many people, Evening Post to preserve the threatened The Worksop Guardian spearheaded a the local newspaper is a welcome friend: a Lancashire Regiment.
The Halifax Evening campaign waging war on drug related leading member of the community always Courier also campaigned to save the Duke crime working with police to produce a keen to support them by being an integral of Wellingtons Regiment from MOD rogues gallery of offenders.
An anti-drugs part of their daily lives.
Elsewhere in Yorkshire, the campaign was also run by the Sunderland Scarborough Evening News launched a Echo.
They are also the major source of local loyalty card scheme to support 120 local news breaking exclusive stories that businesses, restaurants and shops.
The Midlothian Advertiser, Southern national newspapers, TV, radio and Reporter, Berwickshire News and Berwick websites can only follow up and covering Health issues were at the centre of a Advertiser joined forces to fight the closure issues of local interest which receive little or number of campaigns.
The Fenland Citizen, of rural schools in Midlothian, the Borders no coverage elsewhere.
backed by a petition from readers, saved and North Northumberland.
The Wigan a local hospital from closure.
The Midhurst Observer also organised opposition to the In the majority of cases, our community and Petworth Observer mounted a similar axing of a special needs school.
focused newspapers have been around for campaign and the Crawley Observer led a a long time: and as mentioned in the Chief successful initiative to have hospital afterThe Garstang Courier backed efforts to Executive Officers Review, a number hours emergency services re-instated after organise a community clean up campaign.
celebrated significant anniversaries during they had been axed.
As a result of a yearIn Hartlepool, lifeguards were restored to the year, most notably the 250th of the long campaign, the Banbury Guardian beaches after a campaign by the Mail.
raised a 30,000 strong petition against a Morecambe, Glen Cooper, the Editor of hospital closure and in Hemel Hempstead, The Visitor, is to receive an award from the The Lynn News was at the forefront of the Gazette encouraged thousands of RNLI for launching the Home for the Hover celebrations in Kings Lynn to mark the readers to join hands around a hospital Appeal, a fundraising activity which 800th anniversary of the town receiving a site to demonstrate their concern over includes a calendar sold through our local Royal charter, presenting a bound copy of proposed cutbacks.
a special historic supplement to the chief guest, HRH The Duke of Kent.
In Milton Keynes, the Citizen spearheaded Many of our titles organise local a 1.5m appeal for a cancer care unit and ceremonies to honour good deeds in their Our daily titles campaigned on a wide a Bury Free Press campaign raised money communities, The West Sussex County range of issues.
The News, Portsmouth, to buy a scanner for a special baby care Times, Louth Leader and Skegness obtained national television exposure as it unit.
Readers of the Burnley Express and Standard were just three titles that challenged the Government to award a Nelson Leader also donated 58,000 to honoured community heroes.
specific Arctic Medal for Second World support a hospice: the Wigan Observer is War veterans.
Northamptons Chronicle & leading a fund-raising effort for a childrens Johnston Press plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 The Spalding Guardian, linking with local Our newspapers led the way in breaking provided and this has averaged 27 pages Rotary members, organised a major big national news stories.
Many of these per week across its titles.
sponsored walk raising cash for 40 were followed up by national newspapers different charities.
The Clitheroe Advertiser a number of them major exclusives.
The Customer Services campaigned for a pedestrian crossing on Yorkshire Evening Post expos on the death It is Group policy to provide the highest a busy road following the death of a of Sgt Steven Roberts in Iraq made national standard of service to all of our customers.
The Knaresborough Post headlines for several days and rocked the Each operating company has staff supported a campaign to improve and Government, the Shields Gazette broke the appointed to respond to all customer refurbish a theatre and the nearby story of the local council which stripped the enquiries.
There are strict procedures for Wetherby News campaigned for branches off conker trees to stop children resolving customer complaints or queries concessionary bus fares for pensioners.
The Sunderland regarding service and these are carefully Echo revealed how special staff had been monitored by management.
The majority of our titles organised brought into a school to show children how Christmas appeals for a wide range to use a knife and fork.
The St Andrews Local management in each operation are of community organisations and many Citizen got a Royal scoop, which was responsible for ensuring that their also sponsored charities with publicity to followed up by all of the nationals a companies and all their employees comply ensure they received extra support from major interview with Prince William who with the requirements of all customer and the public.
One example is the Mansfield is studying at St Andrews University.
It is Group Chad, which in 20 years of backing policy that the interests of Johnston Press various charitable organisations has The Lancashire Evening Post confirmed only ever require strict compliance and no raised more than 1.2 million.
Meanwhile, that the alleged Iraq torture pictures, which one in the Group has authority to give any the Eastbourne Heralds Christmas care turned out to be faked, had been taken at order or direction that would result in a campaign raised 25,000 for charity a Territorial Army base in Preston.
Their violation of this policy.
To monitor this and groups.
Stop the Peddlers of Death campaign, for training purposes, the Group attempting to close suicide chatrooms on undertakes mystery shopping exercises.
Individual and often heart-rending cases of the internet has received the personal illness are also given prominence by our backing of the Prime Minister.
The weekly During 2004, the Group also introduced a newspapers in an effort to support local Fenland Citizen was first with the story that Sales Charter into every one of its communities.
The Suffolk Free Press Tony Martin the farmer jailed for shooting operations to ensure that our customers organised fund raising for an eight-year-old dead a burglar at his home had received and advertisers are always dealt with in a boy with a rare genetic disorder.
The a 7,000 electricity bill, run up by police fair and equitable manner and the terms of Shields Gazette supported another good guarding his home.
The arrest of a senior trade are published in the Groups cause raising funds to help a child judge for child pornography offences was newspapers.
The Chorley Guardians first revealed by the Portsmouth News, and major success during 2004 was to raise the Eastbourne Herald broke the story that Environmental Policy money for the Smile for Emily appeal, a teenager, sent home from hospital with The Group acknowledges that the raising money for patients at a cancer painkillers seven times after complaining of protection of the environment is one of its care centre.
feeling unwell, was in fact suffering from key corporate responsibilities.
comply with all relevant regulations and see Overseas causes also received support the identification, management and control through campaigns in a number of our No event was too trivial for our newspapers of environmental risks as being an implicit titles not least the Tsunami disaster at the to tackle.
The Selkirk Weekend Advertiser, requirement for adherence to the end of the year.
A large number of our one of the Groups smallest papers, found Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
newspapers organised appeals as well as itself scooping the nations biggest daily helping desperate families seeking papers to reveal the name of a local girl Work was started in 2002 by independent information about missing relatives.
who was going to be a Big Brother environmental risk consultants to develop a contestant.
scoring methodology and audit programme The Bognor Guardian and Chichester to facilitate the ongoing monitoring and Journal organised a love in a box scheme Besides the cash donations reported on control of our policies and procedures.
for underprivileged children in the Balkans page 52, the Group has supported Extensive training has been carried out and and Ukraine.
fundraising campaigns which have raised internal audits of environmental impacts are over 4.7m in 2004.
In addition free space now produced, in addition, audits by the to promote similar campaigns has been external independent consultants have Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200443
