corporate social responsibility Hilton and Scandic Sweden has successfully At Hilton Group we strive for high become the first eco-labelled chain in the world with 68 swan labelled hotels.
standards of performance and advocate socially and environmentally responsible To raise awareness of the problems associated with long line fishing and its business practice throughout our global impact on seabirds, Ladbrokes and the Conservation Foundation launched the operations.
Big Bird Race which tracked the migration Our aim is to bring a positive benefit to Ladbrokes employees beat off competition of a group of Albatrosses across the ocean the societies in which we operate, through from over 271 companies, including British from Australia to South Africa.
This highhigh quality services, economic growth, Airways, Virgin, Vodafone and John Lewis, profile event was supported by celebrity environmental management, community to win the Young Customer Services conservationist Professor David Bellamy involvement and, of course, employment.
Professional award and the Retail and Sir David Attenborough.
Customer Services Team award in the 2004 We value our business, our people and UK National Customer Services Awards.
Hilton Group has pledged to dedicate a the communities we serve and are proud The event is widely recognised as the UKs sapling to every shareholder who signs up of our performance to date.
During 2004, gold standard for customer service.
This for electronic shareholder communications.
we have advanced a number of our is a tribute not only to the employees By the end of 2004, nearly 5,000 trees Corporate Social Responsibility concerned, but also to the Ladbrokes had been dedicated.
The forest, in which programmes here are some of the internal customer service training each sapling is located is planted with highlights from across the group programme Serious about Service.
indigenous species and is managed under a 99-year contract by Future Forests.
Workplace Environment Hilton International has appointed two HER is Hilton and Scandics brand new Marketplace disability ambassadors, both of whom Environmental Reporting Tool.
This globally Ladbrokes has continued to develop its are helping to raise awareness of disability accessible system harnesses the best in approach to responsible gambling, and issues across our business.
They assist web-based technologies and links together extensively supports Citizencard, the in the development of our products and over 400 hotels to support a worldwide Responsibility in Gambling Trust and services in order to improve the environmental sustainability programme.
through the Trust, Gamcare and the environment for our guests.
Hilton UK & Irelands Environmental We have also been developing a new CSR Sustainability Training Programme, which Ladbrokes has also linked up with training package which will be piloted by was launched in 2004, has involved the Crimestoppers to support a new initiative the Hilton European Consultative Forum training and consultation of all 15,000 designed to help reduce crime across ECF in 2005.
The ECF includes employee team members in the region to raise the UK.
This also helps to provide a safe representatives from over 20 countries awareness on how to reduce impact on the environment for our employees, customers throughout Europe.
This work is being environment.
In addition, Hilton has publicly and local communities.
A leaflet detailing sponsored by the European Commission.
set a target to reduce utility consumption the Crimestoppers scheme can be found across the UK & Ireland estate by 10% by in all 2,000 of Ladbrokes shops.
In recognition of this achievement, the programme was selected for a Responsible Tourism Award and given an honourable mention at the IH&RA Environmental Awards.
com 11 corporate social responsibility Community Benchmarking and Indices Ladbrokes in the Community Charitable Hilton Group is a member of FTSE4Good Trust has had a flying start to its first full and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index year, having raised over 750,000 through DJSI series.
Both of these schemes the efforts of employees across the UK.
In addition, they have worked with the Coalfields Regeneration Trust to support We participate in the UK National social and economic regeneration Environment Index and the Corporate throughout UK coalfield communities.
Responsibility Index, as operated by Business in the Community.
Our Hilton in the Community Foundation aims performance has been steadily improving to make a difference to local communities over the last four years, having scored where Hilton International operates.
Thanks 77% in the 2003 Environment Index as to support from Hilton staff, guests and compared to 32% in 2000.
In 2003, suppliers, the Foundation has raised over we scored 85% in the CR Index as a 950,000 in 2004 which is currently being first time entrant, and came 36th out disbursed to UK and Irish charities, of all FTSE100 participating companies.
including the Teenage Cancer Trust, The 2004 results will be published in The Royal School for the Deaf, Treloars, March 2005.
The Outward Bound Trust and the Snowdon Awards Scheme.
In addition, all Full CSR Report administration costs of the Foundation are For full details of our CSR policies and covered by Hilton Group, allowing 100% to read our 2004 CSR Report please visit of the monies raised to go to good causes.
Hilton Group has pledged its ongoing support to the people and communities Further information on CSR is included affected by the Tsunami disaster.
Hilton in in the Directors Report on page 53 of the Community Foundation has made an the Annual Report 2004. initial donation of 100,000 as colleagues continue to raise money for the relief effort.
A further 100,000 has also been given by Ladbrokes.
Hilton UK & Ireland has donated nearly 40,000 items of linen to support 15 nationwide charities, including the homeless charity Crisis, the childrens charity Barnardos, and the National Childrens Home NCH in Scotland.
