The Laird Group PLC Corporate social responsibility for the year to 31 December 2004 The Laird Group PLC, its Divisions and businesses The Group involves a wide community of stakeholders, including investors, employees, customers, suppliers and local communities.
During the year the Company was designated a member of the FTSE4Good UK Index, a financial index series that is designed to identify and facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Lairds aim is to improve the quality of life for people around the world through the provision of innovative, value-added products that advance performance and protection across the electronics and the residential and home improvement markets.
Business Ethics The Laird Group PLC believes that high standards of business ethics are critical in todays business world and therefore places high priority on compliance with all legislative and regulatory requirements, and on the maintenance of high ethical standards, within each of the territories and jurisdictions in which it conducts its business.
The Group commits to conducting itself, and expects all employees to conduct themselves, in an honest, ethical manner in all dealings on its behalf and to behave professionally and with integrity and fairness.
The Group applies these same standards to all business dealings with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The Groups policy is that businesses should compete enthusiastically and fairly in the marketplace and must comply with the relevant competition laws of each country in which it operates.
A copy of the Ethics Policy statement which was approved by the Board is available on the Companys website or from the Company on request.
Health, Safety and Environmental The Group is committed to providing a safe working environment for its employees and the Group maintains a proactive communications strategy amongst all employees to stimulate continuous improvement and promote and develop good health, safety and environmental practices.
The Laird Risk Management Group RMG, chaired by an executive director, currently Mr Drabble, and with members drawn from the Groups businesses examines risks within the operations and in particular oversees health, safety and environmental matters.
The RMG, which met four times during 2004, reports to the Board.
During the year comprehensive health, safety and environmental audits were carried out at all the Groups major sites.
The results of the health, safety and environmental audits and their follow up are monitored by the RMG.
Health, safety and environmental training is given to designated employees and reinforced via refresher courses where necessary.
Although each business has its own Health and Safety Committee which has representatives from management and employees it is recognised that there are benets of sharing knowledge within the Group and in the UK a Health and Safety Forum which has representatives from each business meets twice yearly.
In 2005 this Forum will be extended to include the Groups businesses elsewhere in Europe.
Issues discussed during the year included work related safety, new health and safety regulations and accident statistics.
Across the Group, health and safety training is provided focusing on perceived risk within each business.
A number of specic health and safety achievements from 2004 include: Centurion in Lincoln, Nebraska reduced OSHA recordable accidents from 10 in 2003 to 5 in 2004.
Amesbury PPI reduced OSHA recordable accidents from 22 in 2003 to 13 in 2004.
Amesbury Foamtite reduced lost time injuries from 4 in 2003 to 1 in 2004 and OSHA reportable accidents from 7 in 2003 to 4 in 2004.
Amesbury Foamtite implemented a 24 hour Employee Assistance Programme providing counselling services on legal and lifestyle matters to all employees.
In 2004 the Group published the first edition of an employee newsletter, Insight, which was made available to all Group companies via email and intranet sites.
The newsletter featured articles on charity and community involvement, employee achievements and key events within the Group and marks the beginning of an ongoing project with a newsletter to be published 2-3 times a year.
Environmental Policy The Group is committed to pursuing high standards of environmental performance including the maintenance of safe and healthy working environments.
Detailed policies are developed and implemented by the operating divisions and their subsidiary businesses to reect their specic trading activities and the associated risks.
The Groups minimum requirements are for its businesses to comply with local legislation and to operate continuous improvement programmes, to ensure that efficient use is made of all resources, including energy, water and raw materials, and that emissions are restricted to within best practice levels, waste is minimised and accidents prevented through comprehensive training.
In 2004 the Group set the target of achieving the requirements of ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety standards where appropriate by integrating environmental understanding and control into systems and procedures under the direction of senior management, with the full support of employees and the involvement of suppliers and customers.
In 2004 all UK businesses, with the exception of recent acquisitions, were successfully accredited to OHSAS 18001 and all manufacturing sites achieved ISO 14001 Environmental standard accreditation during the year.
All recently acquired UK businesses are on target for health, safety and environmental accreditation to these standards in 2005.
In the USA, eight of the Groups businesses were accredited to ISO 14001 during the year, with the remaining businesses on target to achieve accreditation by the end of 2005.
Elsewhere in the world, audits commenced in 2004 in the Far East and Europe and a second round of audits are scheduled for early 2005.
28 The Laird Group PLC Corporate social responsibility continued for the year to 31 December 2004 The Group undertakes a rolling programme of environmental audits covering all of the Groups manufacturing sites with external environmental consultants.
The formalisation of environmental management systems via the certied Environmental and Health and Safety standards will promote continuous improvement and allow consistent monitoring of energy source reduction, waste treatment and the re-use and reclamation of natural resources.
A number of specic environmental initiatives have been carried out during the year, for example: Laird Technologies in St Louis, USA continued the successful use of its onsite treatment facility: 153,000 gallons of tin and silver waste was processed by the system in 2004.
The treatment of other waste material onsite resulted in the offsite recovery of over 6 tonnes of nickel and copper for recycle and re-use in industry.
The company expects to save $20,000 in 2005 through energy use reduction and onsite waste treatment.
As a result of several initiatives, one of Laird Security Systems UK businesses reduced its solid waste disposal to landll by 10% in the year through the recycling of 60 tonnes of foam woodgrain scrap which was converted into low specication underground cable and, through the setting of targets, increased the recycling of polythene liners bags by 22% in 2004.
The same company is targeting further reduction in landll in 2005.
Initiatives at another site resulted in 16,000 lbs of spent oils being recycled through utilising the material in a fuel blending process, whereupon the blended waste oils were used to re cement kilns.
A US subsidiary implemented a system in its ofces which resulted in reducing paper consumption from 60 reams a month in 2003 to 20 reams a month in 2004.
A copy of the Groups Health, Safety and Environmental Policy statement is available on the Companys website or from the Company on request.
Charitable Donations and Community Affairs The well-being of the communities in which the Group operates is important to its long term development and success.
During the year the Group gave 116,000 to national and local charities.
The Group supported a number of large UK charities for example, Cancer Relief Macmillan Fund, UK Youth and the Royal National Institute for Deaf People.
The subsidiaries of the Group, many of which are long-established in their communities, support a variety of local initiatives and examples of such activities are: The establishment of a mutually beneficial relationship with the Links to Work programme in the UK, which is an organisation that assists those with disabilities to secure employment.
A UK subsidiary skill matches people for light engineering tasks through the Links to Work programme in its warehouse and main factory.
The Commission for Social Care Inspection visited the company and commended the work done.
Donations of used toner and print cartridges to a local elementary school to enable it to get cash from recycling, and the establishment of an aluminium can recycling programme with the Boy Scouts of America group.
Financial support for the Cardinal Wiseman Catholic Technology College in Birmingham, England in October, for which Laird played a key role in helping the school qualify for special school status under the Technology Colleges Trust Initiative.
In addition to financial assistance, a director of Laird Security Hardware acts as a School Governor.
The organisation of, and participation in, blood donation campaigns.
Assistance in the raising of funds for the building of a local Hospice for children and the provision, once construction commences, of locks for the facility.
Donation of money, blankets and clothing to local churches in the US and employee visits along with donations of blankets and stationery supplies to a local orphanage in Ningbo, China.
Following the tsunami in December that tragically took so many lives throughout Asia the Group immediately donated $20,000 through its Malaysian company to relief agencies in that country.
In addition, the Group pledged to match any individual monetary donations made by employees.
