Corporate social responsibility statement LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 36 Corporate social responsibility statement LogicaCMG believes all businesses should be The companys ethos The LogicaCMG Way Every year our communications and human socially and environmentally responsible and emphasises our core principles of: resources teams run a global staff survey, which considers this approach to be an inherent openness, communication and involvement is emailed to all employees and translated into aspect of our business principles.
equality, fairness, integrity and meritocracy several languages.
We use the feedback to professionalism and quality identify areas for improvement and we develop This report gives a brief outline of our initiatives personal development and loyalty internal communications programmes to and policies.
They cover our impact not only on success for our customers, employees address issues raised.
employees and stakeholders but also on the and shareholders.
As the company evolves, The LogicaCMG European Works Council the we will continue to add and refine social policies The objective of the ethos is to support our Council, with elected employee representatives, to reflect the scope of our business.
business goals by attracting, retaining and is a forum for dialogue with group employees in realising the full potential of high-quality people.
The Council promotes the exchange of Our employees We want to be a company in which the best views and information to extend understanding Our mission is to help leading organisations people want to join and build their careers.
and help introduce policy changes.
worldwide achieve their business objectives through the innovative delivery of information All employees are recognised and rewarded for The group is an equal opportunities employer technology and business process solutions.
By their effort and contribution to the company not and our ethos emphasises fairness and respect helping our customers succeed we, in turn, on the basis of grade, status or favour.
We believe for the individual.
During 2005, we will continue enable our company and our people to succeed.
in being open at all times, subject to respecting to roll out best practice across all relevant customer, company and personal confidentiality.
While delivering solutions for our customers is our central objective, as a professional services Our managers are required to be accessible to Share ownership company we recognise that our people are our staff at all levels: communicating with and We strongly support employee share ownership principal asset and a fundamental part of our involving them in the development of the as a way to encourage employees to participate value proposition.
business so that they can be informed, in the progress and profitability of the group.
motivated, committed and better able to Our culture and values, reflected in and through contribute to the success of the company.
This year we are launching the LogicaCMG our people, are therefore critical to our success.
Employee Sharesave Option and Employee Equity Partnership Plans in most of our global locations.
Nej DJelal 25 I initially heard about LogicaCMG through my O2 have an online shop and its a gateway to Team leader peers at university, where I did a degree in selling products like handsets.
If anything O2 Shop project business and then a Masters in computer goes wrong with the software, it comes to LogicaCMG science.
The company had a long-standing our team and we log and investigate the relationship with the university and had an faults.
I applied and discovered after a fairly intensive, exhausting Its a mixture of management and technical assessment process, that Id been work although much more of the former.
I started in 2001. rewards of the job include liaising with so many types of people and problem solving.
I Within two weeks, a position became available like seeing my team progress and I also enjoy I like seeing my in telecommunications.
I have remained in the the technical challenges of the job.
I work same division ever since.
At LogicaCMG, you unsociable hours, which many people would are thrown into a role, based on your skills set, consider a downside, but I dont really mind.
I really like that aspect of working here.
You need good communication skills to get on in this sector, as well as an assertive and confident manner.
You also need to be able to express yourself.
Corporate social responsibility statement 37 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 Most employees have options or shares in the Our business We set up clear lines of internal communication company.
In addition, share options have been that help us respond quickly to customer and awarded to senior managers across the group, Ethical conduct market requirements, and our customers get a through the Executive Share Option Scheme The group demands and maintains the consistent service across geographies, industries and Executive Equity Partnership Plan.
highest ethical standards in carrying out its and technology areas.
This is underpinned by a business activities and all the groups consistent approach to the way we conduct our Fulfilling potential operations have a set of core values and work.
This approach, embodied in our Cortex The company aims to provide a workplace approaches to doing business.
business management system, is based on nearly where staff can develop and fulfil their potential.
40 years experience in the IT industry.
We recognise the obligations we have towards To support this, the company has a common those with whom we interact, including staff, Every member of staff has a part to play in performance management system for all shareholders, customers, suppliers, competitors satisfying customers.
We expect and encourage employees.
Further developed in 2004, it and the community as a whole.
individual employees to contribute to embraces a number of important principles: organisational advancement.
We operate a clear and agreed personal objectives The companys reputation, together with the policy of continual improvement, of both career pathways that identify key capabilities trust and confidence of all those with whom it processes and the skills of our staff, to take and behaviours at different competency levels interacts, is a vital asset and its protection is best advantage of advances in technology.
This across core career paths critically important.
safeguards our operations for the future, personal development and succession ensuring that we continue to add value to our planning to support training and Our company ethics policy has recently customers businesses.
personal growth been reviewed and amended to reflect current annual appraisals to review progress and best practice.
It can be found on the Customer loyalty is very important to the determine pay and promotion.
companys website and is also published company.
We place a lot of emphasis on and incorporated into Cortex, our processconstantly improving our account management The company continues to run its leadership oriented methodology of how we manage procedures, to help strengthen our and succession planning programmes to our customers and our business.
Further details relationships with customers.
develop the talent required within the group at on Cortex can be found on page 9. executive committee and board level.
A thorough training process, combined with Staff are encouraged to promptly report any regular assessments, is used throughout the These programmes are an important potentially illegal, improper and or unethical company in particular with our senior account foundation for growing the business and conduct that they become aware of at their directors and account managers.
workplace or in connection with their work.
This type of coaching improves people skills and Health and safety If staff are concerned that reporting to their line industry knowledge and helps us retain our Our concern for the health and safety of our management may result in harassment, sales and accounts staff, which pays off in our people extends to others we are in contact victimisation or undue distress, they may use an relationships with clients.
anonymous and confidential helpline to report matters to senior management.
We put a lot of effort into improving our We comply with relevant statutory requirements reporting and sales pipeline systems to better and best practice guidelines issued by national Such a policy helps to uphold the reputation qualify our opportunities.
health and safety authorities, implement and of the company and its staff and maintains promote appropriate safe working practices public confidence.
Business partners and suppliers throughout the group and inform and liaise with One of the companys strengths is its approach staff about the companys policies and Customers to alliances and partnerships with customers.
practices to achieve a healthy and safe The group operates a highly effective and working environment.
efficient organisation, focused on meeting Many of our new contracts come through customer objectives.
The contributions our partners provide Because of increasing global security concerns, help us to deliver the solutions required by our we continue to upgrade our policies to ensure To cater for the wide variety of work we do, we customers and the market.
our people operate safely in all countries.
We aim for a balance between flexibility in the way take guidance from organisations such as the we operate and tight control to meet customer The companys alliance management programme UK Foreign & Commonwealth Office and use an expectations predictably and repeatedly.
has developed well and is running successfully.
expert security company to vet our Our global strategic alliances have been arrangements and safeguards as appropriate.
strengthened, particularly our relationships with technology market leaders SAP, Microsoft, IBM and Cisco.
Corporate social responsibility statement LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 38 Corporate social responsibility statement The value to the business has been reflected in To achieve these objectives the company will: The company has provided an initial cash significant joint-contract wins.
allocate management resources to implement contribution of 100,000 and will be and communicate its environmental policy to encouraging staff to work as individuals or in Our clients appreciate the ability to offer, through employees and interested stakeholders groups to raise funds for this valuable cause partnership, the best combination of state-of-thebuild awareness and promote initiatives to during the first half of 2005. art technology, strong customer relations and encourage employees to become fully engaged deep vertical market experience, combined with avoid non-essential travel by using electronic Although the company has established the the capacity to deliver complex, mission-critical communication methods where appropriate, Tsunami Support Fund, the companys policy systems on time and within budget.
such as email, video and telephone conferences is not to make charitable donations.
The use effective design and facility maintenance choice of whether to support particular Directors programmes, including implementing energy charitable activities is a matter of conscience The directors are listed on pages 30 and 31. and water-saving initiatives for individual members of staff and Details of directors remuneration, shareholdings where possible, procure resources and shareholders.
However, the company: and contracts are given on pages 43 to 50. services from suppliers who have a supports staff who volunteer their services to sympathetic approach to the environment the local community and to charitable activities Internal controls and risks where cost-effective, monitor and report the provides, where permissible, commercially Details of the groups internal control and risk progress made against these objectives, and redundant assets such as computer systems management systems are given in the corporate implement waste reduction and management to good causes governance report on pages 39 to 42. initiatives including providing facilities for helps staff to identify and support local charities recycling consumables such as paper, toner through give-as-you-earn schemes, and Community cartridges and computer equipment.
supports participation in corporate events that share charitable objectives.
Environment The company will regularly review its The board has recently approved a revised environmental policy to ensure it continues to Political contributions environmental policy see www.
com, manage and reduce any material adverse Our policy is not to make any donations to outlining our support for the protection of a impact on the environment.
The ratification of the Kyoto Protocol and the However, the UK Political Parties, Elections and The groups operations have, by their nature, successful launch of the EU Emissions Trading Referendums Act 2000 the Act, which came minimal impact on the environment but we Scheme ETS have increased the pressure on into force in February 2001, defines political recognise that day-to-day operations may companies to manage their greenhouse gas donations and political expenditure so broadly inevitably have an effect.
Many use LogicaCMG EMISSIONS that some of our activities may fall within the logic software to help them calculate and report definitions in the legislation.
Developing appropriate environmental standards emissions to the required standard, manage is an important aspect of group policy.
In their portfolio of allowances and model These include seminars and other functions to managing our operations we will endeavour to: reduction scenarios.
The company uses the which politicians are invited, the cost of taking comply with relevant environmental laws, software itself to calculate its own emissions part in industry forums and the cost to the regulations and industry standards of the under the UK Governments voluntary scheme.
company of giving staff time off to take part in countries in which we conduct business municipal political activities.
reduce emissions that may adversely impact on Charitable donations the environment by applying good The devastating tsunami in South East Asia on The legislation requires companies to seek environmental practices 26 December shocked all staff and, such was shareholder approval before making any minimise consumption of energy and water the scale of the disaster that, in January 2005 donations or incurring expenditure to political used in our facilities, and the company established the LogicaCMG organisations within the EU in excess of 5,000 reduce, re-use and, wherever environmentally Tsunami Support Fund.
practicable, recycle consumables and dispose of non-recyclable items in an environmentally The funds objective is to raise money for While we do not intend to alter our normal acceptable manner.
mediumto long-term projects related to the activities, we will be seeking shareholder education of affected children in the region.
authority for such expenditure to ensure that the requirements of the Act are met.
