16 LUMINAR PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Company trades in the late night entertainment market and therefore operates in an environment where it is responsible for the safely of customers and staff.
Particular risks arise with regards to maintaining the safety of premises, prevention of excessive alcohol consumption, prevention of drug use and the management of door stewards.
In the case of nightclubs many customers have visited other bars prior to visiting the Companys premises, which increases the demands on the Company in relation to the management of customers.
The Companys primary activity is the provision of entertainment, to which alcohol is an ancillary activity.
It is not possible for the Company to achieve The Company is a member of the Companys employee handbook, and its objectives unless there is a high FTSE4Good Index, designed to identify anyone found in possession of such standard of control in managing those companies who display good substances will have them confiscated customer behaviour.
The Company records of corporate social responsibility.
and be removed from the premises also operates non-tolerance polices immediately.
Any person attempting over drugs.
Its primary method of Specific policies have been developed to sell or distribute drugs within the protecting customers and staff is in regard to drugs, door stewards, Companys premises will be reported control of admissions.
price discounting, anti-social drinking to and arrested by the police.
The Company has the most experienced Ongoing training provided to its operational management in its sector DRUG POLICY employees reinforces the Companys and operates policies and processes The Company has a zero tolerance policy towards drugs.
The training designed to protect customers, staff towards drugs and makes every effort provides employees with the knowledge and local communities from primary to ensure that its premises are drug to recognise drugs and the use of drugs risks associated with late night free.
The Company does not tolerate and the ability to assist and care for entertaining.
It also maintains the drug handling or use by its employees.
those found suffering from the effects highest possible levels of co-operation of drug misuse.
with the police and relevant authorities The Company policy regarding drug use in all related areas.
within its venues by customers is clearly In addition, the Company employs other communicated to all employees via the methods to deal with misuse, for THE COMPANY HAS THE MOST EXPERIENCED OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT IN ITS SECTOR AND OPERATES POLICIES AND PROCESSES DESIGNED TO PROTECT CUSTOMERS, STAFF AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES FROM PRIMARY RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH LATE NIGHT ENTERTAINING.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 LUMINAR PLC 17 training of management and staff to regular liaison with police and council instance, unscheduled visits to the control drunken behaviour and the officials.
The Company would also Companys premises by trained stringent use of licensees powers not to welcome the introduction of minimum and qualified teams of drug sniffer serve customers who become drunk or tariffs, as have been introduced by dogs.
These teams will search, to refuse entry to those already drunk.
The Company where appropriate, both employees is fully supportive of the Governments and customers.
In line with normal trade practice, price Alcohol Harm Reduction Strategy and Also, the licensee at all the Companys promotions are used by the Company welcomes it and all such initiatives that premises has the authority to refuse in certain circumstances as a genuine encourage safe and sensible drinking.
entry to persons suspected of dealing marketing tool and are generally or possessing drugs.
introduced only after consultation The Company welcomes deregulation of with local police.
The Company also the existing licensing laws and continues DISCOUNTING AND uses, in a competitive market, strategic to work closely with the appropriate ANTI-SOCIAL DRINKING discounting measures: however, authorities to ensure that its customers The increase in the granting of late discounting as a percentage of the enjoy a safe environment when visiting licences in recent years has increased Companys sales has not increased our premises.
competition in many of the Companys over the last three years and the trading locations.
This increased Companys overall gross margin has The Company is optimistic that the competition has contributed to many been maintained at over 80% for the deregulation of the countrys operators discounting the price of their last three years.
In any event, the anachronistic licensing laws will help products and to the rise in promotionparamount concern of the Company in provide a more responsible approach led cost-cutting.
the pricing of its products is its to alcohol abuse by all concerned in responsibility for the safety and wellthe production, distribution, sale and The Government has recently brought being of its customers.
the issue of anti-social drinking to Luminar is committed to using its national prominence.
The link between The Companys employees are trained position in the late night entertainment crime and drunkenness has been to recognise those customers that industry to support all statutory, established in the statistics issued it would be unsafe to allow into its regulatory and other organisations by the Government.
The Company premises because they are already committed to dealing with alcohol abuse.
welcomes the increased profile given intoxicated.
The Company is actively to this important issue and supports an promoting the provision of other safety DOOR STEWARDS industry-wide solution to the problem.
initiatives across its estate, including It is the Companys policy that all door The Company operates the highest the use of plastic bottles and glasses stewards used by the Company are standards of control and security in and shatterproof glass products.
employed by a nominated security its premises to ensure the safety of its company, on a standard contract.
Various methods are used The Company welcomes initiatives to This approach enables the Company to maximise the safety of our customers enhance the experience of all users of to ensure, so far as is possible, that the and these include the use of CCTV busy town and city centres and actively door stewards at its premises meet the cameras internally and externally, participates in this by use of CCTV and highest industry standards.
Security RIGHT: New York, New York, Oceana FAR RIGHT: Chicago Rock Caf 18 LUMINAR PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT POLICIES new legislation imposes an obligation companies employed by the Company The Company believes that the way in on service providers to ensure that must comply with all appropriate local which it recruits, develops, motivates their buildings are as accessible as is registration schemes and any other and retains its employees determines physically possible to disabled persons.
The provisions its ability to serve its customers of the contract require compliance with efficiently and successfully.
The key features of the Groups BSI standards 7960 and 7858, which personnel support systems are: are the Governments best practise guidelines for the security industry.
The Company has continued to adopt a policy of promotion from within, and Board approval of a detailed The standard contract also provides all employees are encouraged to make Manpower and Development that the security company must have a real commitment to the growth of Recruitment Plan.
in place public liability insurance in the the business.
The Company places Continual assessment under the sum of 5m.
great emphasis on, and invests Investors In People accreditation.
significant resources in, the training Publication and constant review of As a consequence of the approach and development of its employees, employment procedures including: outlined above, the Company is believing that this ensures that the Employee handbooks well placed to cope with the ongoing highest operating standards and Award of Merit schemes implementation of the Security service are provided to its customers.
Continuous health and safety Industry Agency licensing scheme.
The Companys in-house magazine Ongoing provision of job related The new licensing regime provides and other methods of communication and management training.
for the vetting, training and regulation continue to ensure that all employees Annual staff appraisals identifying of door stewards, and for the granting are well informed about ongoing individual staff and employment needs.
This is initiatives and any other issues affecting a move welcomed by the Company.
their employment and the progress of SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY the business.
AND PRACTICE SMOKING The Groups policy with regard to the The adoption of a ban on smoking in The Company operates a contributory payment of suppliers is to agree terms work places in Ireland has refocused pension scheme and all new employees of payment at the start of business attention on the possibility of a similar are encouraged to join the scheme.
with each supplier, to ensure that the approach in the UK.
Whilst the Company The Company contributes to the supplier is made aware of the standard recognises the potential health benefits scheme a percentage of the employees payment terms.
Such terms include of a smoking ban, it nevertheless salary.
The percentage contributed an undertaking to pay suppliers within believes that the industry can selfis dependent on the seniority of the an agreed period subject to terms regulate by following best practice individual employee.
and conditions being met by suppliers.
guidelines from Government and by Creditor days at the period end ensuring its premises meet all statutory In addition employees are invited amounted to 30 days 2003: 31 days guidelines in relation to the standard of to participate in the Companys Save of total supplies for the period.
air flow and air extraction in its premises.
As You Earn share option scheme, encouraging a strong involvement RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Company believes that the adoption in the performance of the Company.
All businesses within the Group continue of these measures provides both our to be active in developing new ways of staff and customers with a comfortable The Companys employment policies working for the benefit of the business environment for work and enjoyment do not discriminate between employees and its customers.
or potential employees on the grounds of sex, race, creed, colour or ethnic origin.
CHARITABLE AND It has been the Companys long term Consideration is given to all applicants POLITICAL DONATIONS policy that its premises should possess for employment from handicapped and The Company has established a air circulation and handling equipment disabled persons where the requirement charitable trust, the ECHO Trust, to the prevailing standards at the of the job may be adequately covered by to channel the Companys charitable time of their installation.
All new and those persons.
If employees become activities to those in need.
During refurbished premises comply with disabled, every effort is made to ensure the year, a total of 455,795 2003: CIBSE design guidelines, BSI British their employment continues, with 322,642 was donated by our Standard 5720 and technical standards appropriate training where necessary.
customers in charity collections to for places of entertainment as published ECHO Trust and other local charities.
by the District Surveyors Association.
The Company has considered its training and employment policies in Direct contributions for charitable light of the introduction of The purposes were made during the period Disability and Discrimination Act 1995, amounting to 10,195 2003: 848. the last requirements of which are to No political donations were made be introduced in October 2004.
