06 Corporate and social responsibility W&DB - OUR EMPLOYEES developing our business and we intend to continue with and W&DB is a people focused business and aims to be an employer of develop these arrangements.
choice within the areas that it operates.
The Chief Executive takes responsibility for all employee related matters, which are then Employee attitude survey delegated through the other Executive Directors and the Groups Direct employee feedback is supplemented by data from our confidential Director of Human Resources.
W&DB is committed to treating all employee attitude surveys.
The overall results and trends are reported employees in a FIT manner, an approach that underpins all of its back to employees and significant changes to both employee employee policies.
FIT encapsulates the three fundamental benefits and communication processes have been made as a result behaviours that apply throughout the Group.
This years survey results have shown a significant improvement in employee satisfaction scores across all areas Fairness - Any action, decision or policy adopted within the W&DB monitored and we intend to continue with, and improve on, the Group should be both equitable and reasonable.
It should not result progress made.
in one particular group of employees gaining an unjustified advantage or benefit at the expense of another.
This progress has been recognised on a national basis with the Company receiving a Highly Commended Award at this years prestigious Integrity - If a commitment cannot be delivered or circumstances Human Resources Excellence Awards run by HR Magazine.
change so that an alternative course of action is appropriate this should be clearly explained.
Employee assistance programme The Group operates a free employee assistance programme providing Transparency - Wherever there is the freedom to do so, W&DB confidential support for all employees 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
should act in a manner that is open to the scrutiny of its employees We have also introduced a range of occupational health initiatives for and the wider community.
our head office and production sites.
All employees are based within the United Kingdom and all Diversity and work life balance employment policies comply with or exceed UK statutory requirements.
All employees are covered by the Groups Equal Opportunities Policy.
The Group publishes a full Equal Opportunities Policy and a Public Having predominantly community based pubs means that the vast Interest Disclosure Whistleblowing Policy, both of which are majority of employees are recruited from the communities around them.
available on the Groups website.
The majority of our pub staff are part time with working hours that suit their personal circumstances.
As part of our training and development Listening to our employees programmes, we offer recruitment and selection modules which It is vital that we keep employees informed of our aims and how highlight the benefits of a diverse workforce.
we intend to achieve them.
More importantly, we listen to what employees have to say and respond in a positive, focused and We are aware of our responsibilities under the Disability Discrimination timely manner.
Act and Pathfinder Pubs is a member of the Employers Forum on Disability.
During the year we undertook a comprehensive disability In addition to regular briefing sessions, we publish an in-house magazine audit programme covering all of our licensed retail outlets which resulted designed to keep employees updated on Group events and to record in over 2m being invested in improving access to our buildings and and celebrate employee achievements.
Well attended roadshows and services.
These audits will be repeated on an annual basis.
conference presentations are increasingly seen as an integral part of how each of the trading divisions operate.
Many of the management We offer a benefits package designed to attract and retain the best and support teams are involved in an ongoing programme of back to employees and over 20% of our head office and production employees the floor exercises allowing them to make substantial improvements have been with us for more than 25 years.
We recognise this loyalty from the insights gained at all levels within the business.
and commitment with long service awards for 25 and 40 years service.
Employee consultation This year we have introduced a food discount Pathfinder Privilege As well as Group-led activities we also recognise that any employee scheme offering employees and pensioners 20% off their food bill in may wish to join a trade union or other representative body.
In addition, W&DB pub staff now receive a has a long history of excellent relationships with a number of trade 50% discount on food and drink consumed during work breaks unions, both for consultative and collective bargaining arrangements.
and they also qualify for retirement and long service awards for 15, Employee representatives play an important and positive part in 25 and 40 years service.
18 W&DB 2004 Annual report Developing all of our employees Energy W&DB ensures that development programmes are available for all The Groups aim is to minimise energy consumption by its continued employees and everyone with the desire and enthusiasm to progress use of measuring and monitoring techniques and by setting challenging within the business has the opportunity to do so.
The Group has been targets for energy reduction to ensure continuous improvement continually accredited with the prestigious Investor in People standard in environmental performance.
since 1995 and was re-accredited last year using the most rigorous of assessment methods.
Statistics related to the Climate Control Levy, energy usage and effluent production are collated and analysed to compare production The Companys commitment to employee development has two sites and provide targets for general improvement initiatives.
The great examples to draw on this year.
Karl Czinege, The Union Pub results are also used to assist in the determination of capital investment Companys Business Opportunities Manager, won the Orange Award projects and form part of the post investment evaluation.
for Bright Business, part of the National Business Awards, and Mark Simcox, a Training Executive with Pathfinder Pubs, received a National Pathfinder Pubs now monitor energy usage per square metre within Training Award in recognition of his own outstanding personal development.
all of its Bostin Local sites and similar data will soon be available for its Service that Suits operations.
The Union Pub Company is W&DB - PROTECTING OUR ENVIRONMENT currently formulating a project that will look at setting energy W&DB complies with all relevant environmental legislation, and seeks benchmarks for pubs undergoing development.
to minimise the risk of all forms of pollution and nuisance.
We operate in an environmentally responsible way to protect and enhance our Water usage people, brands, and communities and in so doing, we are committed We use significant amounts of water as part of the brewing process to supporting environmental sustainability and bio-diversity.
We achieve and within our pubs.
We collate water consumption levels at all of our these commitments by meeting measurable standards of performance sites and have instructed an independent energy management group on those key aspects of our operations that have environmental to undertake detailed surveys at our prime usage sites with a view to impacts.
We encourage our business partners, suppliers and contractors recommending ways of reducing usage.
We work closely with Severn to adopt a similarly responsible approach.
Trent Water to meet stringent standards for disposal of our effluent.
The Group is seeking the Integrated Pollution Prevention Control Solid waste IPPC accreditation from the Environment Agency for our qualifying Purchasing agreements are in place with suppliers and contractors to production sites.
The award recognises the best use of available dispose of solid waste in the most responsible manner commercially techniques for energy and waste management.
We endeavour to reduce the amount of waste destined for landfill by the use of reclamation and recycling.
The Board determines the Group environmental policy and the Environmental Committee, chaired by the Group Finance Director, is Grease and cooking oil responsible for policy implementation.
We continue to improve our grease management.
Traps are emptied and cleaned under a regular contract and the material is disposed of in Environmental management a responsible manner.
Used cooking oils are collected and disposed of In pursuit of the objectives outlined above, the Group employs structured by a waste contractor who then recycles the material.
This contractor environmental management systems and processes that allow it to: - has recently completed a large-scale capital investment programme Adopt economic production processes, which minimise which will allow more of our waste oil to be recycled, some of which environmental impact.
will be converted into bio-diesel fuel.
Continue to aim for prevention of pollution at source.
Provide appropriate training so that employees are able to exercise Sewage treatment personal responsibility in preventing harm to the environment.
A number of our sites have treatment plants for reducing effluent.
Contribute to every aspect of environmental protection.
We have a reed bed at our Lichfield Maltings for primary treatment of Provide facilities for environmental auditing.
Maintenance contractors ensure the performance of the treatment plants and compliance with discharge consent limits.
Environmental audits Regular environmental audits are conducted at our production Refrigerants sites with the resulting action points being addressed in the following Particular priority, within defined timescales, is given to the replacement year.
A new environmental action plan has been devised for the of CFCs and hydrogenated CFCs and we ensure that all newly coming year.
installed plant and equipment is capable of meeting existing and likely 19 W&DB 2004 Annual report 06 Corporate and social responsibility enhancements to control standards.
This year our investment of of compliance documentation that has been widely praised by 2.2m at our Burton Brewery resulted in the wholesale replacement Environmental Health Officers.
To further increase the profile of of its refrigeration systems and removal of CFC materials from the health and safety issues we have a Pathfinder Pubs Health and production process.
Safety Committee comprising the Group Health and Safety Manager, members of the Pathfinder Pubs management team Asbestos and employee representatives.
In preparation for the Control of Asbestos at Work Regulations that came into force this year the majority of our pub sites have had detailed In The Union Pub Company tenants and lessees are provided with surveys completed and the balance will be completed by the end of the opportunity to receive health and safety training, and can also the year.
We will continue to manage any remedial work required as obtain examples of best practice for use within their pubs.
part of our ongoing maintenance and improvement programmes.
W&DB - A RESPONSIBLE ATTITUDE TOWARDS ALCOHOL New build programme We are convinced that the provision of quality products served in well We require suppliers to be able to demonstrate sound environmental maintained pubs with industry leading standards of customer service practices and new building programmes require compliance with all creates a positive experience for customers and contributes to the planning consents and building regulations.
overall quality of life within our local communities.
The Group continues to aim to provide customers with a high quality experience, where Low energy lighting is already installed in all back-of-house areas and food and drink can be consumed in a safe and friendly environment.
Pathfinder Pubs are set to commence a large-scale trial of low energy lighting in front-of-house areas.
If this proves successful it will be We are also aware that public attitudes towards the consumption of extended to all managed houses and The Union Pub Company will alcohol are changing and we continue to avoid any kind of promotional consider a similar trial within its own estate.
or marketing activity that is designed to encourage consumption of excessive amounts of alcohol.
Our promotional material carries a clear W&DB - HEALTH AND SAFETY and concise message encouraging the responsible consumption of The Board alcohol.
Marstons Pedigree is the first beer brand to include a The Group has a Health and Safety Policy, endorsed by the Board and responsible drinking message in its television advertising and a used throughout the Group, for all health and safety activity.
The Group programme is underway with the packaging of our own brewed Health and Safety Manager produces a bi-annual report for the Board products involving the use of both a responsible drinking message giving detailed statistics on health and safety issues and the progress and the recording of the alcohol unit value of the product.
The made in improving our performance where required.
These reports are re-packaging changes are being introduced as packaging is reviewed.
actively discussed, debated and challenged at all management levels We will continue to monitor and amend our programme where we to generate practical improvements and new initiatives.
believe that it will further contribute to consumers ability to make an informed choice.
Practical application and employee involvement Relevant health and safety information and guidance forms a part of Our training programmes for our retail staff include significant elements every employees induction process, and many managers have been designed to assist their determination of when it would be inappropriate trained in risk assessment techniques.
The health and safety issues in to serve a customer and how to take positive steps to ensure that the workplace are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
difficult situations are handled in a calm, safe and considered manner.
Within The Union Pub Company we run a customised drinks and All production and head office locations have active health and safety drugs awareness programme through Telford College which our committees which meet regularly and are co-ordinated by the Group lessees and tenants are encouraged to attend.
This, combined with a Health and Safety Manager.
These committees comprise members of the strong emphasis on responsible marketing campaigns and providing management team and trained employee representatives.
Our new alcohol unit information to customers and consumers has led to The occupational health service will form a welcome additional Union Pub Company being chosen as Most Responsible On Trade support and source of expert advice in this area.
Retailer Pub Company at The Responsible Drinks Retailing Awards 2004 run by the Morning Advertiser.
Within Pathfinder Pubs, all pubs undergo health and safety audits by an external contractor and the measures by which we judge a W&DB is also a member of the British Beer and Pub Association satisfactory outcome are continually reviewed and raised.
Each BBPA, and has provided the Chair for the Midlands Section for pub receives a comprehensive health and safety manual as a the last four years.
In this capacity we have been instrumental in source of information, guidance and training together with a set developing the BBPAs code on the responsible retailing of alcohol.
20 W&DB 2004 Annual report Associate membership of The Portman Group extraction facilities for the benefit of everyone in our pubs.
Working in conjunction with The Portman Group, W&DB has become We will continue to increase the percentage of our floor space that increasingly involved in supporting health and lifestyle education is no smoking.
We adhere to the guidelines of We will, as a minimum, comply with our committment to ban The Portman Group, an independent industry body set up to monitor smoking at the bar and within back office areas by the end of 2005. and advise on the responsible marketing and selling of alcoholic products.
We will also ensure that 20% of our trading area will be Pathfinder Pubs and The Union Pub Company divisions are associate smoke-free by this time, rising to 80% over time.
members of this organisation and are committed to complying with the provisions of the code.
We already have seven no smoking pubs within Pathfinder Pubs and we intend to increase this number where our customers indicate Full details of the Code of Practice can be found on The Portman a preference.
Group website either directly or via the link from W&DBs own website.
We will actively encourage our tenants and lessees to consider this Support for alcohol awareness and education programmes issue by seeking the views of their customers.
As a result of our By focusing on educating young people, W&DB believes that it initiatives, over 85% of our tenants and lessees have already agreed can help them to establish a responsible attitude to alcohol and to to consult their customers about this.
socialise in a safe and considerate manner.
Examples of our commitment include: All our sites now display the appropriate signage in accordance with the Clean Air Charter.
Working with a local further education college by providing funding for the student health team to extend their hours to focus on advice W&DB - IN THE COMMUNITY about socialising safely.
W&DB is committed to being an active and positive contributor to the Providing funding for Staffordshire County Youth Service enabling communities it serves.
Our employees often live and work in the same them to give their teenage peer health advisors alcohol area and we are determined to act in a manner that will enhance the awareness training.
Providing financial support for a local campaign by the National Union of Students to provide promotional materials in support of Reflecting the importance we place upon this activity, W&DBs their safe clubbing initiative aimed at new university students.
Corporate & Social Responsibility CSR Committee meets at least quarterly, under the stewardship of the Groups Finance Director who We are keen to explore opportunities to support wider responsible is ultimately responsible for all CSR initiatives within the Group.
drinking initiatives and we will be sponsoring the responsible drinking campaign recently launched by West Midlands police.
We also Charitable donations work with other police forces and provide representatives for all Each year our licensed retail managers, pub staff and tenants raise the Regional Crime and Disorder Partnerships which run within significant amounts of money for many different charitable causes.
In the year ended 2 October 2004 Pathfinder Pubs raised in excess of 260,000 through locally run pub-based activities.
In addition We are the only drinks industry member of Wolverhamptons multialmost 34,000 has been raised by the Pathfinder Local Heroes agency Alcohol Taskforce set up to develop the policy for local Foundation.
This is funded directly from contributions made implementation of the Governments National Alcohol Harm by employees within its head office function which are then Reduction Strategy.
matched by the Pathfinder Pubs division.
All of this money is spent supporting local pub-based charities.
W&DB - SMOKING IN PUBS The Government issued a White Paper, Choosing Health on 16th In addition to providing practical and administrative support for November 2004.
This paper proposes that legislation should be put in the charitable activities of their tenants and lessees The Union place which bans smoking in public places and in the majority of pubs Pub Company has raised over 4,000 for a variety of charities by the end of 2008.
The proposed exemptions are those pubs not including the Queens Hospital Paediatric Unit and Macmillan serving food, and membership only clubs.
The White Paper will Cancer Relief.
be the subject of consultation and consideration.
In the meantime, within our Pathfinder Pubs managed pub estate we have a number WDB Brands makes many prize donations for charitable activites run of specific plans being implemented: by its free trade customers and also supports the W&DB Employee We will continue to increase the use of and upgrade our existing air Charity Fund with charitable donations.
This year a number of the 21 W&DB 2004 Annual report 06 Corporate and social responsibility senior management team, including Stephen Oliver and Alistair W&DB - OUR HERITAGE Darby, completed the New York Marathon thereby raising We consider that being an integral part of the communities which thousands of pounds for Asthma UK, Macmillan Cancer Relief we serve is fundamental to the future success of the Group and we and Yorkshire Cancer Relief.
recognise that we have a part to play in the preservation of our rich and diverse heritage.
Our employees also run their own W&DB Employee Charity Fund, which the Company is proud to support.
Since its inception this fund Many of our buildings are listed or have local historical associations has raised over 140,000 for local causes and in the last twelve and all development work, in our pubs or brewery sites, reflects this.
months has donated more than 14,000 to causes nominated by As well as going through all the normal planning processes the Group employees.
In support of this the Company has introduced Give As will, where appropriate, consult with other bodies such as English You Earn arrangements for employees enabling them to make taxHeritage prior to commencing work.
An example of this is the work efficient donations to this, or any other registered charity of their currently underway to upgrade the brewhouse at Burton.
The administration charges for running this scheme will be consultation was undertaken with English Heritage prior to work borne by the Company thereby insuring that employees donations commencing and the result will be an operation that retains many are given in their entirety to good causes.
original features reflecting its brewing lineage, as well as bringing significant environmental benefits.
Working with The Princes Trust We are pleased to be involved with The Princes Trust.
Placements with The Trust form an integral part of our Graduate Training Programme offering our managers of the future a chance both to contribute to their wider community and develop vital people and project management skills.
W&DB - ETHICAL PURCHASING W&DB has a duty to support and encourage a responsible purchasing policy for all of its goods and services.
As a minimum, all purchasing employees abide by the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supplys Professional Code of Ethics Statement.
This Code requires purchasing professionals to have due regard for their responsibilities in respect of a whole range of issues.
Full details of this Code can be found via the link from W&DBs own website.
