Corporate Social Responsibility Report Improved stakeholder relations, helping us to: 1.
Introduction - attract and retain high quality employees: We believe that Corporate Responsibility is integral to the performance of our business and should therefore be of - improve customer satisfaction: and material concern to our shareholders.
This is why we have - enhance our reputation in the communities in which we work.
taken the decision to report on Corporate Responsibility as Governance part of our annual report and accounts rather than producing a separate report.
We reported in this way for the first time The Board fully acknowledges the Groups responsibilities last year and this years report provides shareholders with an for sustainability.
Gary Day, Land & Planning Director, has update on our progress.
executive responsibility for Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility, reporting directly to the Board.
The Group In addition, we recognise that there is a wide range of has re-established the Environmental Committee as a stakeholders interested in our approach to and performance Sustainability Committee with a wider remit to look beyond in Corporate Responsibility issues and that we may not be pure environmental issues.
The Committee comprises Board able to satisfy all of their queries through this medium.
and operational management from across the business, To this end, we will soon have a section of our web site meets regularly and has responsibility for integrating www.
co. uk dedicated to Corporate sustainability issues into business decision-making.
The company has a Corporate Responsibility Policy Business Profile encompassing environmental, social and economic With a product that is entirely focused on providing purpose responsibilities and will publish this and other relevant designed and built homes for the elderly, there are five policies on its web site.
factors which distinguish us from many other quoted Performance Management Systems housebuilding companies: For a number of years the Group has operated a structured We focus exclusively on the development of new housing planning process linking its strategic and operational for older people.
initiatives together in a single document called Our Future We only buy brownfield redevelopment land in central Plan.
This plan identifies five key goals: urban locations.
Shareholders: To increase shareholder value with sound Our sites are small, with an average of 0.9 acres 0.4 hectares.
We build blocks of low-rise apartments achieving high 2.
Employees: To create an environment in which all notional densities with low car parking provision.
contribute to, and benefit from, the Groups success.
We have a standard product and the approach to all of our 3.
Operations: To deliver growth through cost effective sites is very similar, adapted to suit the constraints and quality processes.
Customers: To be the natural choice for a happy retirement.
These factors underpin the Groups ongoing success and are 5.
Community: To be the UKs premier retirement builder core to our way of conducting the business.
Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy Under each of these five key goals, strategic objectives are The Office of the Deputy Prime Minister states that identified together with a Measure of Success so that we can sustainable communities meet the diverse needs of existing see how we are performing.
Action plans are reported on and future residents, provide a high quality of life and each month through the regular round of Regional and Group provide opportunity and choice.
The Government has also board meetings.
The Measures of Success are reviewed highlighted three key aims of sustainable development: social formally twice a year by the Board and there is a full scale inclusion: environmental protection: and prudent use of review of the whole Plan each year which ties in with the risk natural resources.
management and budget setting process.
Our approach to Corporate Responsibility encapsulates these aims together with the business benefits that we can derive from acting responsibly, which include: Improved risk management.
Successfully acquiring land and securing planning consents to ensure the continued growth of the business.
16 Annual Report & Accounts McCarthy & Stone plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report Corporate Responsibility Key Performance Indicators The table below provides our indicators of performance in relation to our key Corporate Responsibility impact areas.
All data relates to the year ended 31 August unless otherwise noted in the comments column.
Impact Performance Indicator 2003 2004 Comments Product Sustainability Land Use Percentage of acquired brownfield 100 100 land.
Target 95% Development Density Average housing density per hectare du 129 target 50 units Transport Percentage of developments with a du 100 Green Transport Plan target 75% Our Stakeholders: Employees Employee satisfaction Percentage of employees 2003 88% 88% Employee survey is undertaken managers 2004 indicating that they every two years.
In 2004 a are satisfied working for M&S.
separate survey of managers was undertaken.
Employee satisfaction Percentage of employee turnover 17.7% 18.7% Amongst lowest in sector.
Junior and site based employees show higher levels of turnover.
Equal opportunities Percentage of employees aged over 50 32% 33% Reward and Percentage of senior grades promoted 70% 77% The knowledge of the Operational efficiency from within target 50% business helps existing employees deliver results.
Reward Percentage of employees participating 28% 31% in share save scheme target 30% Our stakeholders: Customers Customer Satisfaction Average Customer satisfaction score 77.1% 76.1% target 80% Market Share % of England and Wales new with 71% 74% warden retirement houses registered NHBC Our stakeholders: Community Community Involvement Affordable Housing Provision on 2.1m off 5.3m off planning consents achieved in the year site and site and 44 units 50 units Housing choice Percentage of local authorities adopting 6% 30% for the elderly older people housing strategy.
Community Involvement Total value of donations and contributions 5,000 43,000 in kind using BITC criteria.
Operations The Construction Environment Environmental Compliance No.
of Enforcement actions 0 0 The Group continues to enjoy an excellent record on environmental issues with no incidents or prosecutions by the Environment Agency arising from any of its operations.
Waste Management Average number of skips per dwelling built du 3 Target to be established to measure improvement.
Health & Safety Health & Safety HSE notices 4 0 Health & Safety The number of reportable accidents 8 10 6 involved the activities of i. e. over three days off work occurring on subcontractors.
our sites or in our offices in the year.
The Office Environment CO2 emissions Average CO2 emissions of company car fleet 164g km 153g km Peugeot HDI fuel efficient engines in majority of new fleet cars have helped improve performance du data unavailable 17 Annual Report & Accounts McCarthy & Stone plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report Climate Change: The company recognises climate change as Risk management a critical business issue.
We offer new homes that require less A key element of the Groups long term success in delivering power to heat them because of the use of double glazing and superior returns to its shareholders is our ability to manage high levels of insulation.
This enables our customers to achieve and mitigate risks.
The Group has reviewed its risk affordable warmth.
We also specify energy efficient appliances management processes over the last two years and sought to in our homes all rated A with the exception of the tumble embed them even further into ongoing management dryers in the communal laundry which are rated C. routines.
These include: Car use: The proximity of our developments to local training for Board members : amenities is vital to the reduction of car dependency.
annual reviews tied into Our Future Plan: and Typically we provide one car parking space for every three Audit Committee review of the annual Internal Control apartments: well below the usual ratio for other types of and Risk Review process, taking into account the views of residential development.
We publish Green Transport the external auditors, Ernst & Young.
Plans on all of our new sites and have developed Car Free The output from the Audit Committee review is made schemes at Exeter, Epsom and Purley.
We also include the available to the full Board.
provision of facilities for recharging electric buggies which are increasingly used by older people to get around.
The Group only operates in the UK and the vast majority of its supply chain operates in the UK and Europe.
The main Water: The increasing capacity shortage in surface water social, ethical and environmental risks that the Group has drainage systems is leading to greater need to reduce flows identified are: historic land use risks: planning risks: off site using soakaways and other measures.
We have also operational cost risks: reputational risks: and innovation risks.
implemented a number of measures to help reduce water use in the design of our dwellings.
Product Sustainability storage tanks are positioned close to the taps in our flats in The environmental sustainability of our product is an the majority of cases minimising the amount of energy and essential consideration in the planning and design of our water wasted in running the hot tap before hot water comes developments: out.
Dual flush toilets also help to minimise water use.
Land Use: We consistently achieve a 100% brown field In areas of flood risk we produce Flood Risk Management ratio, well in excess of the Governments target of 60%.
product consists of one and two bedroomed self-contained Domestic waste: All of our developments include purpose-built flats for older people, built to high densities.
In order for waste segregation to The interior design will use standard design modules aid recycling, there needs to be a high level of collaboration standard flat plans and communal areas to maximise the between residents and the refuse collection service.
development potential of the site.
Our developments also As more local authorities provide collection for recycling it release existing under-occupied larger family houses back becomes more feasible to look at waste segregation within into the market.
On a number of sites residents have already started segregating waste.
Victoria Court, Chard main Pre-development inset Ecology: We seek to retain trees and plant attractive landscaped areas for the benefit of our purchasers, enhancing both the visual amenities in the local environment and the local ecology.
The Company gained HBF Daily Mail sponsored Green Leaf awards for a number of developments.
Materials: With the exception of timber, most of the materials the Group uses are manufactured in the UK and supplied direct or through builders merchants.
The Group has adopted a lifecycle approach to its specification of materials for many years.
This has involved looking at the long-term maintenance implications of items such as windows, where there are clear benefits in specifying UPVC so as to reduce the need for painting and replacement.
During the year we have undertaken a survey of our timber usage, the results of which revealed that approximately 90% of the Groups timber is obtained from Certified sources.
18 Annual Report & Accounts McCarthy & Stone plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report As a result we are changing our materials specification to Equal opportunities are regarded as vital to the continued require suppliers to provide timber from a renewable source success of the business and we follow a policy that ensures where possible.
we attract and retain the right people on the basis of ability and experience.
At 31 August 2004, 41 % of the Groups More information about the environmental issues addressed employees were female, which we believe is higher than in during construction is contained within the section below many companies in the sector.
Women hold 12% of entitled Environmental Impacts from Construction management grades.
The lower proportion of women in Operations.
senior grades reflects the general pattern across the industry where the construction discipline is heavily male dominated.
Shareholders - increasing shareholder During the last year, however, Lorena Brown became the value with sound financing Groups first female Regional Managing Director.
Karen Our shareholders are crucial stakeholders in our business.
Grady, a site manager in our South East Region, became one In addition to the usual forms of communication with of the first female winners in the industry of the NHBC shareholders such as this report, the AGM and meetings with Pride in the Job Awards.
Karen has subsequently been analysts, we also engage with our shareholders on Corporate promoted to Contracts Manager.
Responsibility issues through the completion of Sustainability The Group has a confidential grievance procedure and a indices and one to one engagement with Socially Responsible Whistle Blowing Policy.
Investment interests through interviews and surveys.
Our Training and Development: All employees are given a participation last year in the WWF Insight One Million thorough induction in the job which includes the benefits Sustainable Homes survey is a good example of this.
and opportunities available for training and career 5.
Employeescreating an environment in development.
We encourage the setting up of buddy arrangements for new employees and coaching is also which all contribute to and benefit from offered for those seeking to enhance their skills or gain the Groups success promotion.
We have established a Graduate Committee to The Groups ability to achieve its commercial objectives and promote and oversee our efforts to attract students.
In July to meet the needs of its customers in a profitable and this year the Group employed 20 14 placement students as competitive manner depends on the contribution of all well as many new graduates.
In addition to induction employees.
The Groups approach is encapsulated in its training we undertake a comprehensive range of IT, Health Personnel Equal Opportunities Policies.
Through the and Safety, customer care and sales training programmes.
application of these Policies the Group strives for sound In the year, our Midlands, North London and South East Regions ethical standards in carrying out its business achieved Investors in People accreditation.
As all our Regions activities and, together with its Whistle Blowing Policy, follow the same procedures, these accreditations provide a endeavours to create the climate in which employees may positive endorsement of our approach to developing our people.
voice genuinely held concerns about behaviour or decisions.
At the 31st August 2004 the Group employed 1043 2003: All staff participate in bonus and award schemes.
Incentive 905 people, an increase during the year of 138. schemes include a Company Profit share scheme: a prize for the Region that has the best achievement in delivering our Communication with employees ranges from individual Customer Charter: rewards for the achievement of NHBC Performance Appraisals conducted annually by Line quality awards: and sales performance awards.
The Groups Managers, to team briefings, departmental meetings, senior bonus and incentive arrangements take account of a number management conferences, the staff magazine Signpost, of key financial and operational goals relating to the short Regional rallies and numerous seminars and presentations.
and long term success of the business.
A total of 3.3m The Group undertakes a regular Employee Satisfaction 2003 3.6m will be paid in bonuses and profit share to Survey.
In the most recent 2003 survey 88% of employees senior managers and employees excluding the Board reported that they were happy working at McCarthy & through the Groups performance against objectives.
In the last year we have launched an Ask Keith cost of remuneration for all employees, including Directors, Lovelock email facility for employees to raise concerns or for the year amounted to 36.5 million 30m.
offer ideas for improving the business.
The Group places great emphasis on the experience of its Health and Safety is addressed under Operations below as long serving employees and rewards employees who have the majority of Health and Safety issues relate to our achieved 10 and 20 years service with an additional weeks construction sites where labour is predominately subconholiday and a cash bonus.
The average length of service is tracted rather than directly employed.
of days per employee lost in the year to sickness was 4.9.
19 Annual Report & Accounts McCarthy & Stone plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report Last year we instigated the largest independent study of our 6.
Customers - to be the natural choice particular form of housing the impact it has on the quality for a happy retirement of life of our residents and the wider social, economic and Three years ago the Group implemented a comprehensive community benefits.
The Report on this research A Better Customer Satisfaction Strategy.
More recently, the Barker Life: Private Sheltered Housing and Independent Living for Review identified customer satisfaction as an area of Older People was launched in the House of Commons on weakness for the industry.
We will contribute to the 4 November 2003 and has contributed to the wider debate development and implementation of a Customer Charter on the needs and well-being of older people.
drawn up by The House Builders Federation in response to In providing an independent lifestyle and helping to maintain the Review.
health and general well-being for older people, our schemes Based on discussions with customers, the Group has developed also: a charter of key issues.
All existing and new sales, construction Reduce demands on health and social services and other and customer service employees attend a Frontline Training care facilities hence contributing to a better and more course to brief them on what our Customers expect.
We cost effective use of public resources.
regularly seek our Customers feedback on all aspects of the Increase security through warden control systems and, by product and the service we and our partners provide so that seeking to achieve Secure by Design standards, reduce the we can strive to improve our business.
potential for crime, enabling the police to re-allocate their Twice a year we use an independent consultancy to send out resources elsewhere.
questionnaires, our Homeowner Survey, to new purchasers.
Benefit the local economy - 65% of residents travel no This covers their views on our product, the sales process, any further than 2 miles to shop and over the lifetime of a ongoing construction work, the service provided by the typical development an extra 2.3m will be spent in the management company, and our after sales performance.
local economy compared with a conventional high-density We select sales staff who are sensitive to the needs of older housing scheme Source: A Better Life: Private Sheltered people.
We provide our Customers with a wide range of Housing and Independent Living for Older People.
support including a Purchasers Information Pack and Create local employment through the construction and Welcome to Your New Home Guide.
The House Managers long term management of our developments.
employed by an independent management company meet all We are involved with the Government and new residents, help to settle them in, organise social events non-governmental organisations in promoting the special and generally help to build up a sense of community within housing needs of older people.
Gary Day, Land and Planning the development as an active part of the local Director, is a member of the ODPM DoH Housing and Older community.
People Development Group HOPDev which is charged with Other notable achievements include: taking forward the objectives set out in the Governments In the 2004 Daily Express British Housbuilder Awards Quality and Choice for Older Peoples Housing: A Strategic McCarthy & Stone won both its volume category award Framework, published in January 2001.
We are also a and the Best National Builder award.
member of the DoH Learning and Improvement Network for McCarthy & Stone is one of only six companies to be Housing Based Models of Care.
Gary Day also sits on one of awarded a full house of star credits in a customer the task groups of the 50 50 Vision North West Forum on satisfaction test run by the Housing Forum.
Ageing set up by the Government Office for the North West, NHBC spot checks testing workmanship, compliance with and is a member of the Royal Town Planning Institutes building regulations and health and safety standards, Ageing Population Working Group.
We are also a member of demonstrated that McCarthy & Stone had the best record ERoSH the Emerging Role of Sheltered Housing.
In the year we sponsored the Chartered Institute of Housings Annual Conference on Sheltered Housing and have 7.
Community - to be regarded as the agreed to be the main sponsor of the Institutes revised Good UKs premier retirement builder and a Practice Guide on Sheltered Housing.
We have actively participated in various seminars and conferences concerning good corporate citizen the health and well-being of older people, including a Promoting the well being of older people presentation by Gary Day at an All Party Parliamentary The most important contribution that we make to the Housing Care and Support Group Conference on Housing communities in which we develop is to ensure the well being Based Solutions for Delayed Discharges.
In February we of older people by providing housing choice and integration hosted a round table discussion in the House of Commons, into the local community.
chaired by our non-Executive Director, Sir George Young, on 20 Annual Report & Accounts McCarthy & Stone plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report Housing and Care for Older People: Priorities for an Ageing Population.
The Junior Minister for Housing, Yvette Cooper MP, attended the event with senior representatives from various public and private sector organisations having an interest in the well-being of older people.
Local Communities The Group is involved in the provision of affordable housing as part of the process of securing planning consents.
In the last year on sites that have achieved a planning consent we have agreed to nearly 5.3 million 2.1m in off site contributions towards the delivery of affordable housing and to provide 50 44 units of affordable housing on-site.
In North East Region took part in Cancer Researchs Race for Life in July this year particular the Group has, through a Joint Venture, pioneered on-site key worker and intermediate affordable housing Community & Charitable Involvement without the need for any public subsidies.
However, given Gary Day has overall responsibility at Board level for the confined nature of our sites it is difficult to achieve a Community Involvement and developing appropriate sustainable sheltered housing development alongside on-site initiatives.
The Groups Community Involvement and affordable housing.
Contributions Policy is to consider requests for support of We have also participated in the ODPMs Focus Groups, registered charities that are directly related to the retired exploring the best means of undertaking Housing Market elderly.
We have valued contributions of time and gifts in Assessments as part of the Governments objective of kind at 43,000, In addition, 17,000 was raised by increasing the supply of affordable housing without prejudice employees in charitable contributions.
to meeting other housing needs.
Examples of charitable & fundraising activities include Wear The views of the local communities on our proposals are an Pink day for Breast Cancer Research collections organised by important consideration in the design of our schemes.
Social the employee Sports & Social Club, a Sportsmans Dinner Services are a vital consultee when planning to develop our held by Midlands Region and the use of the Groups sites for schemes.
We also have an active programme of communication Macmillan Cancer Relief worlds biggest coffee morning with local residents during the construction process.
Work in the Community The Group operates a Give as you Earn scheme enabling The Group provides work experience opportunities for 14-15 staff to make charitable donations direct from their pay.
year-olds to help with the requirements of the school There were no political contributions during the year.
curriculum and we work with schools and colleges to assist 8.
Operations - to deliver growth with projects wherever possible.
The Group played an active part in this years Construction Week, enabling through cost effective quality processes schoolchildren to visit our sites to learn more about This section identifies the Corporate Responsibility issues construction and hopefully encouraging some into a career in which result from our operations, such as Environmental the sector.
Work experience and placement opportunities are impacts, Health & Safety issues and our relationships with our also available for older students and we have a wellpartners who support our operations through the supply chain.
established programme for year-out students studying for university degrees or professional qualifications.
The Group Environmental Impacts from Construction Operations is also encouraging and supporting its sub-contractors in the We aim to make our construction process as efficient as provision of apprenticeships.
Key environmental initiatives include: We have been keen to play our part with Business in the All demolition contracts are awarded on an all risk, clear Community and agreed to join their Market Towns Initiative site basis, meaning that the contractors re-use salvageable as the leading business in its New Milton Town Project.
was in New Milton that the Group was founded.
We have Where space allows, we operate on-site waste segregation contributed senior management time to provide a business and we have trialled the BRE Smartstart waste monitoring input for the review.
tool on a number of our sites.
We focus on working with waste disposal contractors with specialist equipment to segregate waste off-site at waste transfer stations.
21 Annual Report & Accounts McCarthy & Stone plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report We have issued Best Practice Guidelines to site staff on Partners Suppliers minimising and managing waste and have introduced a The Group recognises the major contribution that its suppliers system for assessing our waste contractors to emphasise and sub-contractors make to the success of its construction environmental issues as well as regulatory, performance operations.
In addition to subcontractor seminars and toolbox and cost aspects.
talks, the Group holds an annual competition to select its Minimising fuel use and noise during construction by Supplier and Subcontractor of the Year.
This year for the first arranging for mains power to be installed as soon as time we awarded a prize for environmental performance.
The Group believes that the adherence to fair payment terms The use of pre-fabricated concrete products and, is important to the maintenance of good relations with increasingly, mortar silos, further reduces on site water use.
Unless other terms have been agreed the Group will usually ensure that all creditors, where the goods or We aim to be a good neighbour during the construction works have been of a satisfactory quantity and quality, are process and have a Considerate Construction Policy.
This paid by the end of the month following the month in which involves minimising noise at unsociable hours and a constant the invoice is received.
The amounts owed by the Group to focus on site presentation.
its trade suppliers and sub-contractors at 31 August 2004 Health & Safety represented 26 28 days worth of the amounts invoiced during the year.
Construction sites are naturally dangerous places and so it is vital that Health and Safety is given a high priority.
Office Environment a Health and Safety Policy that ensures that issues are Although only a minor part of our overall environmental addressed on a regular basis at all levels, and have signed up impact, our own offices are an important expression of our to The Housebuilders Federation newly established Health & commitment to Corporate Responsibility and are essential in Safety Charter which promotes industry wide improvement.
embedding Corporate Responsibility within the Group.
Health and Safety issues are on the agenda at all Board Environmental Co-ordinators for each office have been meetings.
Initiatives include: The Group employs a full time Health & Safety Manager who Communication through our staff magazine, Signpost, liaises internally and externally on Health & Safety issues and through Our Future Plan and policy.
As part of his function he carries out spot audits.
The Group uses Hurst Setter as external safety advisers who A competition to seek employees ideas to contribute to carry out regular inspections and ratings of each the safeguarding of the environment.
Hurst Setter report to us that we perform Installation of non-water flush urinals and lights-off consistently well compared with other companies.
Safety representatives are appointed by each of the Groups Installation of an Environmental Energy Management operational units and they meet regularly to discuss Health & System at the Head Office and SW Region offices.
Recycling office waste such as scrap paper, plastic cups, Each accident is thoroughly investigated internally and printer cartridges with a donation going to charity in procedures modified where appropriate.
We are always many cases and drink cans.
We recycle all mobile seeking to reduce the risk of accidents and so any increase is phones.
of concern, but needs to be seen in the context of an Green Transport Plans are to be introduced in all of our expanding organisation.
During the year we have revised offices.
Staff are encouraged to share cars and to use systems of passive fall protection and now use inflatable air public transport when practical.
bags and decking rather than nets.
In the next year we will be reviewing our working practices in the light of the new Working at Height Regulations.
To promote greater management accountability and year on year improvement in health and safety performance a system of internal fines has been introduced.
We are pleased to report that no HSE Notices were served during the year, compared with four in the previous year.
The Group is working with Hurst Setter to compile an overall average score for the Group based on ten key perfomance indicators and also to establish a target for future progress.
22 Annual Report & Accounts McCarthy & Stone plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 10.
Initiatives The table below shows our targets for 2004 and our progress towards these, together with our targets for 2005.
These are included in Our Future Plan.
2004 Initiatives Progress 2005 Initiatives Product Sustainability Instigate a competition in each Region for best Actioned Review feasibility of waste segregation for residents.
environmentally friendly idea Seek to maximise number of Green Leaf Ongoing Revise materials specification to facilitate more use Awards achieved of recycled materials and source timber from certified sources.
Establish a working party to review the EcoHomes standards and identify the feasibility of improving the assessment.
Our key stakeholders: employees Offer matching shares through Share Incentive Plan Actioned Increase the participation in the Plan by 10% Our key stakeholders: customers Frontline training and coaching programme rolled out Actioned Implement refresher Frontline course for exiting to train employees in delivering excellent customer service employees Review specification of kitchen Our key stakeholders: communities Use A Better Life to promote wider appreciation of the Actioned Identify and implement a community initiative housing needs of older people.
Participate in the New Milton Market towns initiative Actioned Our key stakeholders: suppliers Establish a new category at McCarthy and Stone Supplier Award instigated Increase the number of Regional agreements in our of Year Awards for the subcontractor or supplier who has newer Regions.
done the most to help us enhance our environmental credentials Construction Environment Work with Bournemouth University to investigate how Project undertaken Implement software to identify the optimum site the Group can most cost-effectively obtain useful levels to reduce the amount of earth disposed off site information on the types of waste generated by its sites.
Establish vendor assessment criteria for skip waste Criteria established Work with waste contractors and target increased removal operators to encourage recycling use of those who have waste transfer station or other waste recycling facilities.
Identify cost effective, best practice waste Guidance established management guidelines for sites and implement on new sites Assess the opportunity to use re-cycled aggregates on our Issue considered on a sites site by site basis Office Environment Prepare Green Transport plans for offices In progress Consider use of green electricity providers 23 Annual Report & Accounts McCarthy & Stone plc
