Melrose PLC 12 Annual Report 2011 Chief Executives review On all measures of performance, whether it be sales and operating profit growth, profit margins, cash generation or order intake, the result has been very good.
Revenue I am very pleased with the trading results of the Group in 2011.
On all measures of performance, whether it be sales and operating 1,153.9m profit growth, profit margins, cash generation or order intake, the result has been very good.
up 11% 10 It is gratifying to see the sales growth momentum in the business increasing in the second half of the year, reflecting continuing market improvements and the benefits of the active programme of 09 10 11 capital investment, supported by a healthy pipeline of new product introductions.
2 Headline operating profit margin The Energy division had another excellent year in 2011.
Order intake in the year was very good and continued to build through the period as the benefits of the competitiveness and energy efficiency 15.7% of Brush Turbogenerators main product, the gas turbogenerator, up 1.5 percentage produced good gains in market share.
Significant capital investment 10 continues to be made in both Brushs new build and aftermarket points facilities in order to increase capacity to meet projected demand and to achieve productivity gains.
The absorption of Hawker Siddeley Switchgear into Brush will produce significant operational 09 10 11 savings and in addition will result in a more targeted and focused sales function, given the customer overlap between Hawker Siddeley Switchgear and Brush Transformers.
Marelli reported healthy increases in sales, orders and operating profit in the year, with a greater proportion of higher margin, more specialist business feeding through in the second half.
The new plant in Malaysia is now operational and is an important step in reconfiguring Marellis manufacturing footprint.
In the Lifting division, Bridon performed creditably in 2011, underpinned by good demand in its onshore oil & gas and mining markets.
In view of the favourable prospects in most of its markets, Bridon invested heavily in 2011, with capital expenditure of 1 Restated to include the results of Dynacast, Brush Traction, Logistex UK, Madico and Weber Knapp within discontinued operations.
2 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
net Stock code: MRO 13 The visibility and positive momentum of our order books, supported by an aggressive capital investment programme, together with a strong pipeline of new products, give us confidence for another good year in 2012. approximately 13 million 2.8 times depreciation.
This, together OUTLOOK with a strong commitment to new product development, is a key Although conditions in the world economy remain uncertain, albeit part of Bridons strategy to be the leading global solutions provider with some signs of improvement, a large proportion of Melrose for high specification rope applications.
Group companies sales derive from good market positions in the global power generation, oil & gas and mining sectors which are Crosby reported very strong results in 2011, nearly matching its forecast to remain strong.
record year in 2008, with good demand in its core oil & gas and mining markets, supported by its excellent relationships with its The visibility and positive momentum of our order books, supported distributor base.
In addition to its investment programme in the by an aggressive capital investment programme, together with a US to increase capacity and efficiency, Crosby continues to invest strong pipeline of new products, give us confidence for another actively in its European and Chinese operations to enable it to take good year in 2012. advantage of its market-leading brand name and the promising opportunities that have been identified in these markets.
In the Other Industrial division, the trading performance overall was satisfactory, reporting increased revenue and operating profit in the year.
While Truth struggled in the face of challenging conditions in its markets, Harris performed well as demand for scrap recycling David Roper machines recovered in the year.
MPC reported a strong trading Chief Executive performance as the results of its investment in the highly successful 7 March 2012 Range Rover Evoque programme started to come through.
Strong end markets Revenue by end market - year ended 31 December 2011 1 Energy 31% 1 2 Oil & Gas 16% 6 3 Mining 7% 5 4 Industrials 21% 5 Hardware 7% 2 6 Other 18% Pictured: Slots are machined into a rotor at the Brush facility in Loughborough, UK, 4 3 in preparation for receiving the rotor coils and air cooling circuit for a DAX designed generator.
