Business review Misys Leading technology and innovation NGOXSGTY YZGZKSKTZ Y G LUI[YKJ VXU OJKX UL YULZ]GXK ZU ZNK TGTIOGR YKX OIKY YKIZUX ZNKXK OY YOMTOIGTZ VUZKTZOGR LUX L[XZNKX GR[K IXKGZOUT GZ 4OY Y Transformation Robust performance The first post acquisition revenue This has been a year of transformation Last year, Misys delivered robust contribution from the Misys Sophis for Misys.
We completed three significant operating performance, with a good division for the fourth quarter, included transactions: the sale of Allscripts, the end to the financial year as revenue in our financial results, was encouraging, capital return to shareholders and the growth improved to 8% in the second showing impressive growth of 32% on acquisition of Sophis.
Group revenue for the whole year the previous year.
We are very pleased repositioned Misys as a pure play was 370m, an increase of 4% on the with the energy and enthusiasm of the financial services software company.
previous year on a pro-forma, constant Misys Sophis employees.
More importantly, strong market currency basis.
Adjusted operating profit positions and compelling products for was up 12% with the adjusted operating Together, the Treasury and Capital both the capital markets and banking margin 1.3 percentage points higher as Markets and Misys Sophis divisions sectors mean that Misys is now well management made further savings in occupy a leading position within the positioned for future growth.
the back-ofce whilst sustaining our capital markets and Misys is now ideally investment in product development and placed to win more deals in this sector, Shareholder value customer-facing resources.
Adjusted as well as being able to take advantage In June 2010, we announced our plan pro-forma basic earnings per share rose of cross-selling opportunities and more to sell the majority of our stake in by 22% to 15.1p.
Allscripts and the intention to return the majority of the net proceeds to Strengthening our position in In our Banking business we continued shareholders through a tender offer.
financial services to invest in the development of our With the overwhelming support of our As a newly focused financial services innovative BankFusion platform.
This shareholders, we sold the entire stake software provider we see acquisitions was rewarded both by sales success and completed the return of 670m to in our chosen markets as a key way of that exceeded our expectations and shareholders by way of a tender offer reinforcing Misys prospects for future the emerging consensus amongst and B Share scheme.
In November, we announced market commentators as to the special the proposed acquisition of Sophis, capabilities BankFusion can unlock The stake in Allscripts was acquired a leading provider of portfolio and risk for its customers.
in late 2008 through a significant management solutions which are largely investment that involved purchasing complementary to our existing offerings.
Improving customer satisfaction shares in, and merging Misys US We see Sophis as an exciting engine Nothing demonstrates the power healthcare business with, Allscripts.
for growth, in particular through its of Mike Lawries turnaround strategy In just two years this investment yielded leadership position in the buy-side: for Misys more than the dramatic a return of around 130%.
providing solutions to organisations improvement in customer satisfaction ranging from global asset managers achieved each year.
Last year was no The divestiture of our stake in Allscripts to start-up hedge funds.
exception with significant improvements and the capital return to shareholders across the business, with the strongest were complex transactions and in many scores recorded in product reliability ways without precedent.
They involved and customer relationships.
a complicated, three-way transatlantic set of transactions with many US and UK legal and regulatory requirements and the distribution of four shareholder circulars.
18 Annual Report 2011 Business review Misys Leading technology and innovation James Crosby Chairman Rewarding the creation of Your Board believes that Mike Lawrie shareholder value and the Misys team can justiably Last year, a series of major and complex be very proud of the Companys corporate transactions challenged transformation.
Aside from creating our remuneration committee to make significant shareholder value, they changes to incentive arrangements have undoubtedly made Misys a more that struck the right balance between attractive place to work and a better fairly rewarding management for their company to do business with.
The achievements and securing value for Board has great confidence in Misys money for shareholders.
Throughout the on-going strategy and its ability to year, we actively consulted shareholders continue to generate significant growth on matters as diverse as recalibrating and value for shareholders.
existing long-term incentives, resetting dilution limits and the creation of a new It traditionally falls to the Chairman to incentive arrangement for our Chief record the Boards thanks to the CEO Executive.
We were particularly grateful and their entire team.
Rarely can such for shareholders consistent support, thanks be more richly deserved than in all the more so as our remuneration respect of last years achievements by committee had to be innovative in the Misys team.
Throughout the year, its proposals.
their effort and persistence has been extraordinary.
I would also like to thank Board succession our shareholders for their active interest I am pleased to welcome Stephen and consistent support, without which Wilson and Timothy Tuff to the Board as this very critical year in Misys executive and independent non-executive transformation simply wouldnt Directors respectively.
Together, they bring have happened.
greater international and direct experience of our industry to the Board.
James Crosby Chairman confidence in our future The strength of Misys prospects for future growth recently prompted an approach with a potential bid for the Company.
We will evaluate any and all such approaches thoroughly to ensure the best possible outcome for our employees, customers and shareholders.
For more information on our approach to Corporate Governance please go to pages 50 to 61 Annual Report 2011 19 Business review Misys Leading technology and innovation NOKL, KI[ZO KY XK OK] KRO KXOTM GR[K ZU YNGXKNURJKXY 20 Annual Report 2011 Business review Misys Leading technology and innovation This has been a year of great progress with our strategy and corporate structure.
We completed the acquisition of Sophis to create the leading capital markets platform and delivered significant value to shareholders from the divestment of Allscripts.
We have great confidence in the future opportunities for Misys to continue its path to leadership in our industry.
Mike Lawrie Chief Executive officer Annual Report 2011 21
