MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Chief Executives strategy overview Ruby McGregor-Smith Chief Executive Responding to changing client needs This has been another good year for MITIE, with double-digit growth in revenues, operating profit and EPS.
But you probably know that already.
The gures are well reported in the media and feature prominently throughout this report for all to see.
In this statement, I intend to focus on the story behind that success and how as an aspirational company, we achieve aspirational goals.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 At all times, the markets are driven by Overview ourclients, as are we.
The evolution of the MITIEs strength is that we never forget outsourcing market is neatly encapsulated thatwere a service company in thechart below and what it shows, Join the discussion, wedeliverthe everyday outsourced inanutshell, is that the industry is on a long services that clients need in order to build or keep up-to-date!
journey, from providing single services to Social media gives our people a 06 their own businesses.
Our broad scope bundled services and then, in some cases, forum where they can discuss the and capabilities mean that we are the more integrated services.
things that matter most to them.
07 people responsible for everything from But what the chart doesnt show is that managing property estates and each client is on a journey of their own.
reducingenergy consumption to Theyare all at different stages, and they providing engineers, cleaners and security all have dramatically different needs officers, controlling pests, gritting roads which are changing at their own and much more besides.
Life at MITIE is never dull We can do these things very efficiently, because every day somebody asks us to which is how we can save our clients do something different.
Our approach starts with getting those needs, as and when they change.
the specication exactly right, and agreeing service levels with the client.
Where our clients go, Then, with contracts in place, we mobilise wego our teams very effectively.
People transfer Were there for our clients and support them with everything they is complex and made even more so by need as they progress and develop.
legislation but it is vital to get it absolutely See what we did for Rolls-Royce spot on.
Then we blend our experience 1819 and skills, innovative IT processes and industry-leading training and Spr Sp Sp pre re re re re eading our w ad ad ad ad adi in ing g ou ou ou ou ur r r r r w w wi wi wi ings ngs development to deliver exactly what The international side of our business is growing as our clients want support wesay we will deliver, exactly how we beyond the UK.
Thats why MITIE clients tend tostay MITIE clients, and why our business has grown for 23 consecutive years.
Outsourcing market evolution 1980 1990 2000 2010 2015 In-house Single service Bundled services Integrated FM Strategic outsourcing Security Broader cost savings Integrated delivery Buildings management and services M&E engineering Single point contact Management information systems Business process outsourcing Catering Standardised provision Property Management Technology Cleaning Best practice Overseas Data management Maintenance Asset investment Pest control Shift Add-on specialist services Energy carbon Consultancy Supply chain Project management Price Value Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Chief Executives strategy overview Im glad Im part of the MITIE staff group.
@leondinzy Twitter comment, February 2011 The acquisition of Dalkia FM in Ireland, The more things change the more they stay the same which was nalised in June, is an The recession has been a major driver for Entrepreneurial spirit has always been one important stepalong this pathway.
Clients are of the qualities that makes MITIE different.
Dalkiaprovides outsourcing solutions restructuring and rethinking to reduce Itis part of our DNA and goes right back toclients in several different sectors and costs and they are turning to us for tothe birth of the company.
Examples theirexperience hasgiven us proven assistance.
At the same time, they are ofthat entrepreneurship in action are FMcapability in a newterritory.
looking to improve the way they manage everywhere not only in the creative way In the public sector, budgetary pressures energy, and taking advantage of our we approach contracts, but also in the remain, which will create further energy services offering, which helps cut practical support we have given people opportunities for MITIE in the coming carbon while also reducing costs.
This is to help them develop their careers and months and years.
We are well-placed to ensuring that in the UK, our core market, grow successful outsourcing businesses.
support our public sector clients and have attractive opportunities for growth remain.
Since 1988, we have consistently backed close working relationships with the the idea of equity and opportunity with 75% of our contract awards this year have Cabinet Office and other bodies.
Local funds and support, and have helped come from the private sector and we government, justice and health are just over80 successful start-ups in that time.
areseeing a lot of activity at the moment.
three of the sectors where we can see Infact the acronym MITIE stands for There is also a move towards more great opportunities.
Indeed, several Management Incentive Through integrated facilities management ofthese have already come to fruition, Investment Equity.
notonly in the UK but also overseas.
including the contract to provide a full Whenclients tell us that they would like During the year, we refreshed this idea custody and detention service at the theMITIE services they enjoy in the UK to bylaunching the MITIE Entrepreneurial Campseld House immigration centre.
beavailable in other countries, we will Programme, a 10m fund to back teams Thisis our first contract in the prisons sector doeverything in our power to make it with innovative ideas for starting mutuallyand I am confident that we can go on to happen.
Our relationship with Rolls-Royce owned businesses.
The MITIE model win many more.
is a case in point, where during 2010 we givesmanagement teams an equity The need for all organisations to use went from being a UK supplier to one stakein a business, which they then grow fewernatural resources is changing our whopartners with them across Europe.
overave to ten-year period and which marketplace, as our clients rethink the iseventually acquired by us in full.
The international opportunities for waythey supply and consume energy.
ourbusiness are growing fast and Energy management is, and should be, willcontinueto do so as we help more integral to facilities management and clients like Rolls-Royce be more efficient wehave invested considerably in these outside the UK.
Around 40% of our top capabilities we are now one of the 100clients are multinationals, so the toptwo energy services companies in opportunity is clear, and we are actively theUK.
We believe energy services will, looking at how we can support them.
intime, bepart of every contract we operate, and are well-positioned to takeadvantage of this opportunity.
42% of our top 100 customers aremultinational businesses Public sector Moving into opportunities new sectors Budgetary pressures will create We continue to identify 10m further opportunities for MITIE in the opportunitiesin new markets, Entrepreneurial fund to attract coming months and years.
dynamic management teams toourbusiness nd out more at www.
com entrepreneurs MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Acquiring new skills building our offering and providing new solutions Read about how we use woodchipsto provide the energyfora supermarket saying hello to all the #cardiff airport goes green!
08 20 newest European and UK 75% of waste now being colleagues who join us #recycled with the 09 tomorrow, MITIE 1 team for helpofpartner company Rolls-Royce EMEA 6th Dec @MITIE-Group-PLC.
2010 What an exciting @Cardiff-Airport future ahead.
Twitter comment, Leon Jones March 2011 Facebook comment, October 2010 Our strategy Sustainable profitable growth strategy: A strategy to deliver stakeholder 1.
Clients valuethrough a focus on sustainable, Provide world-class services to attract new clientsand retain and expand profitable growth lies at the heart of our contractswith existing clients business and has done so for five years.
People The strategy has worked well and is largely y Recruit, motivate, retain, train and develop thebest talent in the industry unchanged, although each year the areas of focus can change.
Risk Take a long-term view to protect our business and manage risk As we introduce new services and waysofdelivering them in order to 4.
Responsibility Act responsibly and build a reputation that enhances our brand to all stakeholders meetthe changing needs of our clients, there will be an increased emphasis 5.
New markets onentering new markets.
In particular, Expand our capabilities in complementary markets and different countries and weanticipate that energy-related increase theproportion of our energy services revenues serviceswill be a growing focus for 6.
Operational excellence usoverthe next few years, as will our Improve the operational efficiency of everything we do presence in overseas markets.
Just as ourclients are seeking tomake their 7.
Acquisitions operations more efficient, sotoo are we, Support our growth with selective acquisitions which is why we have added operationall excellence as an element that underpins our strategy.
Wehave made some changes to the KPIswe report to reect A s A st tr ra at te eg gy y w wh hich ich under underpins pins ourcus our c cus ust to to omer pr mer proposi oposit tion ion these changes, and these can be found WhyMITIE?
We have an entrepreneurial culture that isembedded in our DNA We motivate our people by developing their careers and rewarding excellent performance We provide the essential services ourclientsneed to run their buildings and infrastructure We have the largest range of both hard and softFacilities Management services and broadest coverage across the UK, plus a growing European presence We are experts at mobilising contracts We have sector specialists to tailor our services tospecic industries We use the best technology to provide themost efficient services We develop energy solutions that offer a secure and sustainable decentralised energy supply We develop, secure and maintain critical technology infrastructure We manage energy with our end-to-end CarbonCare offering Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Chief Executives strategy overview Focused on our people Our new HR director, Katherine Thomas, is putting aspotlight ontalent.
Sustainability Supporting our people MITIE has always been a responsible The other way we build trust is through business and we focus our sustainability ourpeople, all 61,906 of them.
Most are activities in seven areas which are aligned based on-site and work at the sharp end toour profitable growth strategy.
Whether they are facing explained in detail on pages 3638. our clients each day, or working behind the scenes, we work hard to engage and develop all of our people.
Investing in technology MiTec Communication with so many people Our new technology centre in We approach all our contracts from the Northern Ireland is a totally secure onso many different sites, many of them perspective of partnership we want to hub for remote monitoring.
working shifts, can be a real challenge.
work with our clients, not just for our clients, Just as we deliver services in the way and to win their trust in all that we do.
thatour clients want them delivered, Technology plays a key role here, sowe also communicate with our people because it enables us to show clients in the ways that theyre most comfortable exactly what we are doing and when with.
In addition to all of the traditional weare doing it, in real time.
methods of communication, that For example, our MiWorld system allows meanssocial media and in particular aclient to see everything from the Facebook, Twitter and YouTube.
temperature of a factory to the current Ourviewis that these sites give our status of an engineer visit or when the peoplean important forum where they security guard last clocked on and off can discuss the things that matter most itisall at the click of a mouse, on a tothem.
We take on board what people dashboard on his or her PC.
Such are saying, and when issues are raised knowledge can highlight inefficiencies wealways respond.
and duplications and create further In October 2010, we appointed opportunities to manage costs.
KatherineThomas as our new group Giving our people a voice Handheld PDAs personal digital assistants HRdirector.
She brings a wealth of We communicate with our are now used across our business, over a people inthe ways they are experience to the role, having previously mostcomfortable with.
large number of sectors and service lines.
worked at BT as group talent and The technology is designed to meet the leadership director, and has already diverse requirements of all our different begun to formalise our people agenda.
contracts and is quick and easy to deploy.
We now have a more structured PDAs allow us to do operational tasks, approach to HR issues, with a clear vision including the scheduling of our mobile for where we want to be in 2014, with an workforce, in a much more efficient way.
emphasis on issues such as recruitment For example, each month we use PDAs and retention, talent management, toconduct in excess of 1,400 audits and succession planning and leadership toschedule over 25,000 planned and development.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 In 2010 we launched the first MITIE Looking Forward graduate programme.
We also These are very good results and this established aDiversity and Inclusion yearwe have been awarded a number Steering Group with the purpose of 6.8bn of transformational contracts.
We have strengthening our commitment to 2012 order book secured some significant work in the achieving equality, diversity and inclusion 10 private sector where we have excellent in the workplace and community.
relationships with our clients and are 11 The consistent hard work of our people differentiated by our energy services was recognised in the form of a number capabilities and use of technology.
Our Real Wehave been appointed to several 11.4bn Apprentice scheme was the winner in the largepublic sector frameworks and Sales pipeline innovation category at the first European havea strong pipeline of opportunities Employee Volunteering Awards.
The inlocal government, social housing, groundbreaking programme helps to justiceand health.
break down barriers and get the longThe opportunities in outsourcing and term unemployed and people with energy services in the UK and abroad aphysical or mental disability back into aresignicant.
Our strong balance theworld of work.
At the other end of the sheetand excellent cash conversion, spectrum, we were recently awarded aswell asa record order book and sales Global Supplier of the Year by Rolls-Royce.
pipeline, will enable us to achieve our These are just a sample of the enormous growth aspirations.
The business is well achievements of our people which positioned for continued sustainable, regularly attract industry recognition.
Finally, Id like to place on record my very excited about the hello all.
I have just thanks to all the people who have new MiTec ARC Building realisedI have broken madeMITIE what it is today.
Its your drive, inNorthern Ireland.
myown recordby being expertise, passion and, at times, great anyupdates would employed bythe same rm bemuchappreciated.
So MITIE or I must sense ofhumour that underpins what be doing something right.
Ithasbeen a real privilege towork Facebook comment, Joy Mutlow alongside you all during the year.
October 2010 Facebook comment, October 2010 Ruby McGregor-Smith Chief Executive www.
com user MITIEGroupPLC Heres what all this means forourperformance Accounts Governance Business review Overview
