Chief executives review David Hathorn CEO the past few years and we will continue to regularly assess Setting the context for our performance our product and asset portfolio to ensure maximum value is Mondis focus on leading positions, primarily in low-cost, achieved.
Although selected growth clearly remains an option, high-growth markets, has enabled us to deliver record results we will continue to be disciplined around acquisitions and despite challenging market conditions in the second half of expansionary capital expenditure, with a focus in 2012 on the year.
Fundamentals for each of the Groups core grades energy ef ciency improvement projects.
remain good, with limited exposure to grades suffering sectoral decline as our strategic portfolio is weighted towards Overview of Mondis performance in 2011 markets that continue to enjoy structural demand growth.
In The Groups robust financial position, low-cost operating terms of packaging, demand dynamics are favourable as, model, and focus on performance enabled Mondi to aside from sack kraft, there are no major substitution threats, deliver record results in 2011.
The Groups return on capital while emerging markets enjoy particularly robust demand employed ROCE of 15% for the year was signi cantly above growth.
On the UFP side, although the market is structurally our through-the-cycle target of 13%.
The year was one of mature in western Europe, emerging market expectations two halves, largely driven by the changes in the European remain encouraging.
macroeconomic environment in the second half and the In the second half of 2011, broader macroeconomic consequent impact on our order books.
Our results clearly weakness and destocking gave rise to some slowdown in re ect this, with our performance in the second half somewhat demand and moderate pricing pressure across certain of the weaker than our record first half performance.
We responded by taking production In the first half of 2011, our strong results were delivered in downtime to manage inventory levels.
Our operations ran well and the we have recently seen an improvement in orders and all major investments at Syktyvkar in Russia and Swiecie in operations are expected to return to full production during Poland contributed signi cantly to pro tability.
The demerger the first quarter of 2012. of Mpact was approved by shareholders on 30 June 2011 and It is important that across the paper and packaging industry, was effected on 18 July 2011, with Mpact having commenced restraint is shown in managing capacity to ensure that supply trading as an independent listed entity on 11 July 2011.
The is in line with demand, particularly in those grades that are in related consolidation of Mondi Limited shares was concluded sectoral decline in the mature western markets.
Mondi has during August 2011 with the total number of shares in issue already completed a number of restructuring actions over Mondi Limited and Mondi plc reducing to 482 million.
18 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 18 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 18 2 2012 03 02 9:46 AM 012 03 02 9:46 AM Mondi is delighted to have had investment grade credit ratings con rmed by both Moodys Investors Service Baa3 positive outlook and Standard & Poors upgraded to BBBstable outlook during the period.
In the second half of 2011, most parts of our business continued to perform well, albeit against a backdrop of more challenging market positions, ultimately delivering a full year underlying operating pro t of E622 million.
Basic earnings per share alternative measure increased by 57% to 71.8 euro cents per share.
Cash generated from operations of E917 million in 2011 enabled us to ensure that our asset base continued to be appropriately invested, net debt was reduced to E831 million at the end of the year, and returns to shareholders were increased.
The directors have recommended a final dividend of 17.75 euro cents per share, bringing the total dividend to 26.0 euro cents per share for the year.
The Groups safety performance in 2011 left me deeply concerned, with two people losing their lives while at work in our operations one in the US involving an employee conducting maintenance work to equipment and the other a contractor in South Africa at one of our forestry operations.
Thorough investigations were undertaken following these incidents to ascertain the factors contributing to their occurrence, and to ensure that suitable management action plans are in place.
On behalf of everyone at Mondi, I extend our sincere condolences to their families and colleagues.
Notwithstanding these tragedies, we are encouraged by the outstanding safety performance in so many areas of our business and we are more determined than ever to make zero harm more than just a goal across our business.
As leaders, 15% ROCE significantly exceeds Syktyvkar, Russia target Mondi Group 19 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 19 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 19 2 2012 03 02 9:46 AM 012 03 02 9:46 AM DIRECTORS REPORT Chief executives review continued we consider the safety of our people as our top priority and The most signi cant sustainability challenge for the business we know that our own behaviour and every decision we take remains our need to secure access to sustainable bre in the must be consistent with our safety culture.
We do not tolerate short, medium and long-term.
Not only do we believe that unsafe behaviour at Mondi, and we have reinforced the operating the business in a sustainable, responsible way is the right thing to do, we rmly believe that there is a fundamental message to all employees and contractors that it is everyones business case for sustainable development.
right and responsibility to stop working if they believe conditions are unsafe in any way and to challenge colleagues TM Mondi is committed to FSC certi cation of all our owned, who they believe are acting unsafely.
leased and managed forests in Russia and South Africa: and to no wood being procured from controversial sources, as Creating long-term value well as all mills being certi ed to Chain-of-Custody CoC We aim to create and sustain long-term value for our TM standards from FSC, PEFC or a credible alternative.
We stakeholders by transforming renewable resources into are very pleased to be able to report again that we have innovative product solutions that meet customer needs in a achieved this.
responsible, cost-effective and sustainable way.
To achieve We acknowledge that our operations can and do have this, we rely on our competitive strengths, our people, our an impact on our surrounding natural environments and well-developed business systems and our relationships with we have implemented strategies to minimise the extent of customers and other stakeholders.
We do not want our this impact.
We have commitments and targets in place business to pro t at the expense of the environment to reduce our consumption of resources, minimise our or society, and therefore acting with integrity is one of emissions and increase our share of renewable energy our key values.
We are committed to engage actively with our stakeholders through multi-stakeholder dialogue at a Group and industry Sustained delivery on Group strategy level.
Our stakeholders are many and varied shareholders, Mondis strategic positioning continues to demonstrate the customers, employees and suppliers as well as governments, required combination of focus and exibility to deliver results NGOs, academic institutions, local communities, certi cation across the business cycle as we: bodies, regulators and the media.
We report more on 1. build on leading positions in packaging and UFP, stakeholder engagement on page 11 of this report.
particularly in high-growth emerging markets: 2. maintain our low-cost, high-quality asset base by Managing our risks selectively investing in production capacity in lower-cost Risk is an inherent part of our business, and identifying and regions and realising bene ts of upstream integration managing risk is critical to our success.
A Group-wide risk including forestry : and management framework ensures the effective governance 3. focus on performance through continuous productivity of signi cant risks, which are those with the potential to have improvement and cost reduction, delivered through an impact on the achievement of commitments or strategic business excellence programmes and rigorous plans.
The competitive markets in which we operate, and the asset management.
current macroeconomic challenges, are our most signi cant risks.
These risks are pro-actively managed through a exible The Groups ability to continually assess market conditions and dynamic approach to changing market and operating and then react decisively, often ahead of competitors, allows conditions and a deliberate investment strategy to mitigate Mondi to manage risks responsibly and take opportunities to regional and country speci c risks to limits considered strengthen our position when they arise.
We report in more detail on our We use the Mondi Way to visualise how our purpose, strategy risks on page 24. and Mondi Diamond operational framework t together, all In 2011, we put more emphasis on structuring our reporting built on a foundation of our culture and values.
This simple in line with the material sustainable development issues yet effective approach is in essence an integrated strategic we have identi ed.
We incorporated inputs from various roadmap that guides the way in which we all work and allows sources including shareholder feedback, media requests and our people to understand how meeting their objectives coverage, peer report reviews, issues raised by NGOs at an contributes to delivering on our strategy in a sustainable way.
international and local level, as well as community concerns.
In 2011 we also made progress on shaping our culture, with The result has been the determination of six material issues the objective of creating an environment where our people for the business, and our sustainable development reporting respect our culture, live our values and feel motivated to is structured accordingly.
See page 34 for further details.
contribute to their full potential.
20 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 20 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 20 2 2012 03 02 9:46 AM 012 03 02 9:46 AM To create solutions for our customers success, Purpose delivering exceptional value in a sustainable way Leading market positions Strategy High-quality, low-cost asset base Focus on performance Operational excellence Cutting edge products People development Customer focus Mondi Diamond Sustainable development Dynamic Entrepreneurial Culture Respectful Empowered Responsible Transparent Passion for performance Caring Values Acting with integrity in its high-quality, low-cost asset base and our state-of- 1.
Leading market positions the-art operations are delivering superior returns across Mondi continues to focus on achieving the right product the cycle.
and geographic mix in order to promote sustained pro tability.
The Group bene ts from our exposure to Mondis UFP business is reaping the rewards of its faster growing emerging markets such as eastern Europe, integrated low-cost positioning, while the recently Russia and South Africa, with 71% of the Groups net restructured Corrugated business delivered strong results.
operating assets and 50% of revenue by destination The Bags & Coatings business enjoys good, and in many based in these geographical areas.
cases leading, market shares in its key markets and bene ted from the very strong market recovery in the first Our bias towards emerging markets is in line with our half of 2011. vision of focusing on low-cost, high-growth regions and on businesses offering leading market positions and The Group has approved certain energy related operational synergies with existing businesses.
While our investments across a number of its operations, strategy clearly focuses on emerging markets, Mondi including a bark boiler in Syktyvkar, a steam turbine and continues to enjoy a uniquely strong market position recovery boiler economiser in Stambolijski, a steam turbine in the Bags & Coatings business in both eastern and in Richards Bay, and a new recovery boiler in Frantschach.
western Europe, where the coatings and consumer The focus of these and other projects still under packaging segment enjoys very attractive growth rates consideration is to improve energy ef ciency and selfand returns.
We will therefore continue to support our suf ciency whilst providing opportunities to capture market position in Bags & Coatings with our existing additional bene ts in the form of electricity sales.
addition, a fide-bottlenecking project has been approved to invest in a 100,000 tonne per annum pulp dryer in 2.
High-quality, low-cost asset base Syktyvkar to further exploit the bene ts of the recently Both Mondis recent major capital investments, the completed mill modernisation programme.
modernisation of the Syktyvkar mill in Russia and the new lightweight recycled containerboard paper machine The approved projects, totalling approximately at Swiecie in Poland, are running well and contributed E170 million in capital expenditure, are expected to signi cantly to the Groups pro tability in 2011.
Over the generate signi cant bene ts with returns in excess of past 10 years, Mondi has invested more than E4.5 billion 40%, from 2013 onwards.
Mondi Group 21 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 21 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 21 2 2012 03 02 9:46 AM 012 03 02 9:46 AM DIRECTORS REPORT Chief executives review continued A number of other similar projects are under consideration at several of the Groups operations.
If approved, these projects are expected to be completed over the next three to four years and the total estimated capital expenditure of about E250 million is expected to deliver returns well in excess of the Groups ROCE target.
Focus on performance Our relentless focus on cost containment ensured that the Groups xed cost increases remained within in ation in the countries in which we operate.
Ongoing initiatives are directed towards ensuring ef cient procurement of our most critical raw materials and operational ef ciency.
The energy related projects mentioned above will also provide bene ts through a reduction of procured energy.
Our working capital levels are well contained within the Groups target of 10-12% of turnover, following active inventory management during periods of decreased demand in the second half of the year.
Overall, from an operational perspective, 2011 was an extremely successful year.
We continued to improve production ef ciencies across the business and we again set full year production records in a number of key operations including Ruomberok, Swiecie, Syktyvkar and Richards Bay where for the first time we achieved annual saleable production in excess of 750,000 tonnes.
We also achieved new speed records at Frantschach, te ti and Ruomberok.
Mondis strategic positioning, as outlined above, and the actions we have taken provide a stronger base, both nancially and operationally, than we have ever previously enjoyed.
During the down-cycle of recent years, we successfully completed our key Russian and Polish investment projects and we permanently shut a signi cant proportion of our high-cost operations, thereby further improving our cost position, while at the same time continuing to deleverage the business.
As a consequence our balance sheet is now notably stronger and, I believe, Mondis intrinsic value has increased.
Furthermore, the capacity closures made both by Mondi and the industry in general during the crisis have improved demand supply fundamentals in most of our core grades.
Mondi is now widely considered one of the lowest-cost producers in our industry, enabling us to generate superior returns relative to competitors.
Our strong position is further supported by our well-invested, high-performing asset base and our exposure to product grades that are more resilient across the business cycle.
As a Group, we have a proven history of delivering returns in excess of our weighted average Mondi Diamond Awards exhibition cost of capital WACC.
We set an internal hurdle rate of 13% ROCE across the cycle which is two to three percent above 22 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 22 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 22 2 2012 03 02 9:46 AM 012 03 02 9:46 AM our pre-tax WACC and, pleasingly, with a ROCE of 15% in Mondis future strategic direction and 2011, we are delivering well in excess of this target.
objectives The stability and proven record of Mondis strategy provides Acknowledgement of our people a clear sense of direction for the Group in 2012.
Mondi has Our people are at the heart of our success and I believe that now been independently listed for nearly five years and over we have an extremely talented workforce, made up of people this time, we have clearly demonstrated our ability to act who are committed to achieving our strategic objectives in a decisively and deliver results, even in uncertain conditions.
We are certain that our strategic direction is sound and we are con dent in our ability to adapt and execute it Mondis performance in 2011 is a testament to the passion successfully across the business cycle.
and dedication of our 23,400 people across the Group.
During the course of this year, I have visited many of our operations Outlook and personally found it very motivating to experience the way Looking ahead, while macroeconomic risks remain, it is in which we have all worked together to respond to changing encouraging to note that in recent weeks order books have market conditions, meet our customers expectations and improved and prices have stabilised, with price increases drive performance in all areas of our business.
This should allow some recovery The commitment our leaders and employees show to of price declines experienced over the course of the second delivering results in a sustainable way makes me extremely half of 2011, although recent strengthening of emerging proud and I would again like to express my thanks to all our market currencies is impacting margins.
people for the part they play in making Mondi a successful Supply side fundamentals in our core grades remain good organisation.
In particular I would like to thank Ladimir following further announcements of capacity closures in the Pellizzaro and Peter Machacek, who both retired in 2011, for industry.
Mondis integrated low-cost operations, emerging their invaluable contribution to the Mondi Group over 17 and markets exposure and unrelenting focus on sustainable 30 years respectively.
We are very pleased that we have been performance ensure that the Group remains well-positioned to able to ll Peters position internally, con rming the depth of continue generating strong cash ow through the cycle, and talent we have at Mondi, and we welcome John Lindahl as our adding value for shareholders over the longer term.
I am con dent that the time we are investing in re ning our culture and making Mondi a more inspiring place to work will result in a productive environment where we can further David Hathorn improve our performance in 2012.
Chief executive of cer Mondi Group 23 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 23 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
