Previous Page View Contents Next Page 12 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Chief Executives Report Peter Plumb Chief Executive Officer Due to our strong online natural search positions and robust Review of the year customer relationship management CRM capabilities, we 2011 has proved to be a strong year for the Group, with internet continued to spend the least amount of the four key industry revenue back to our pre-credit crunch peak in 2008, a result of players on offline advertising during 2011. the implementation of the Groups strategy and forensic marketing programmes over the past three years.
However our sponsorship of Britains Got Talent coupled with our new differentiated Youre So MoneySupermarket TV advertising 2011 was also a year of continued structural market growth.
campaign meant that once again we delivered the most efficient More and more customers turned to online aggregation as their marketing campaign of the four key industry players in 2011. preferred way to shop for financial products.
There is no reason for this trend not to continue, driven by ease of use, whole of market view and of course a need to search out the best prices Review of the Groups strategic progress during 2011 to save money during tough economic times.
Turning to our strategic plan described in last years Annual Report, I can confirm that it has worked well for us during 2011 as Despite slowing motor insurance inflation, historical low interest outlined below and will continue to be our road map for 2012 and rates and a tight credit market, our core channels all delivered beyond.
Our strategy has ensured that the Group has remained double digit revenue growth.
Revenues in our travel business completely focused as one team on building a successful however, despite investment in both our website and marketing long-term business.
campaign, declined on the back of a third year of torrid market conditions for the travel industry.
Best shop Our mission is for MoneySupermarket.
com to be the best way for After concern over significant motor insurance premium inflation people to shop for products.
Much of our investment programme during 2010 11, in September, the Office of Fair Trading decided to of 2011 was focused on improving our IT systems and our core take a closer look at the motor insurance industry.
Good progress has been made with our motor encouraging to see that the outcome of the study acknowledged insurance, home insurance and credit cards channels again being that price comparison sites have intensified price competition voted by customers as market leading at the end of the year.
between motor insurance providers and brought about greater price transparency which has helped prevent premiums from Our systems upgrade programme enabled us to pioneer the increasing further.
availability of price comparison services on mobile and tablet devices.
In September our motor insurance renewal service Our providers benefited from, and our customers enjoyed, a step became mobile optimised, followed in October by the launch of a change in our marketing activity during 2011.
As an industry, fully functional motor insurance iPhone App: existing customers offline advertising increased by 25% during the year whilst each of can now renew their motor insurance with just three taps of an the four key players continued to consolidate their positions in this iPhone screen.
With industry observers predicting that over 50% growing market.
of all internet searches will be performed on mobile devices by 2015 this is technology in which we will continue to invest.
Previous Page View Contents Next Page Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 13 Annual Report 2011 Our aim is to help the UK save 1bn on their household bills in 2012.
This would be a major achievement for our business, but most importantly clarifies our business objective of being known by customers as a brand that can save them money on much more than just motor insurance Early in 2011 we formalised our working partnership with HD Our customer research tells us that the biggest barriers to Decisions.
Their data analytics capability powers our credit cards continued rapid adoption of price comparison services are that Smart Search service, allowing customers to select from a range customers think it might be cheaper going direct and worry of cards they are most likely to be accepted for based on their that only the highest commission products are pushed by price credit rating, rather than just seeing a list of market leading cards.
comparison players: something that is certainly not the case at This technology is in the process of being applied to unsecured MoneySupermarket.
We have therefore launched our loans, a channel that has experienced strong growth during 2011. customer charter, which lays out clearly for our customers both what we as a business stand for and what we strive to be: MoneySupermarket.
com will be the only player who offers customers the ability to search for personal loan deals they are We make it easy to find the brands you expect to see We strive to ensure a product cannot be found cheaper likely to be offered based on their credit score.
by going direct We let you remain in control of your personal data Our IT investment programme will continue through 2012 13 in line with our strategic road map.
The focus of this years investment We are independent and impartial We make it easy to switch and save will be on sharing common technology between all of our channels, making searching for different products a more We strive to always show the most competitive product available seamless experience for customers.
Best product Data To be the preferred way to shop for customers, we recognise that As our business grows, so does the number of customers who MoneySupermarket.
com must have all of the brands and products open personal accounts with us to store their data, historical a customer expects to see and wants.
During 2011 we continued quotes and personalised product searches.
We now manage to build our relationships with product providers which enabled us data for more than 10 million individuals and talk on a regular to develop and secure tailored products specifically for our basis to many of them through our weekly More Money email customers.
communication and personalised marketing campaigns.
We continue to invest in making it ever easier for our customers to This in turn increased the range of products available through our search for new products and services.
coms position as the leading price comparison website.
Most notably we were pleased During 2011 we worked closely with a number of product to welcome both Tesco and Aviva Quotemehappy to our motor providers to understand how we could get the best possible deals insurance channel, leaving Direct Line as the only major brand not and product range available on the market, and in some cases available through our service.
deals that could not be found anywhere else.
By working together with product providers we were able to design tailored and market leading products that could be made available to our customers through our website.
Previous Page View Contents Next Page 14 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Chief Executives Report continued Our team at MoneySupermarket.
com are at the heart of driving Brand growth in 2012 and beyond.
Over the past three years we have We started 2011 with Omid Djalili working with Jedward, David invested significantly in building new skills across our business.
Soul and John Prescott in some of our most entertaining TV The passion of our team continues to be a core strength of advertising ever as we concluded the haggle hero campaign the business.
The campaign had successfully grown our consumer awareness ratings and cemented our position as We will continue to build stronger and deeper relationships a major player in motor insurance price comparison.
with our providers sharing our knowledge to ensure we deliver a valuable and cost effective service to them.
In return we However, as can be seen from our results, our ambitions are expect to develop innovative and market leading products bigger than motor insurance.
We therefore made the decision for our customers.
to launch a new TV advertising campaign from which we can build our brand beyond motor insurance.
The Youre So Outlook MoneySupermarket TV advertising campaign launched in July 2011 with Geoff feeling so epic with his 200 saving that he surfed We start 2012 with a backdrop of market changes for our core a blow up crocodile to the delight of a crowded Californian beach.
This was followed by Dave who interrupted a quarrel between two gorillas and felt like the king of the jungle with his 200 saving.
Motor insurance premium growth has slowed but for 2012 and 2013 the backdrop of increasing personal injury claims will In 2012 the campaign has started to demonstrate its breadth with continue to challenge the profitability of the industry.
Brian saving his family over 1,000 by switching his credit card, home insurance, loan, energy and motor insurance.
This new In retail banking we see the launch of Virgin Bank who we expect creative will help to further raise consumer awareness of the broad to develop innovative products focused on challenging the industry range of financial services products available through and taking share from some of the more traditional players.
In energy, the government has been clear that it intends to During the year we continued to optimise our marketing spend challenge the costs now experienced by consumers for their gas and investment in paid search through our bid management and electricity.
During what is shaping up to be a really tough year for customers, we expect the opportunity for households to be able to save at 2012 strategy least 1,000 to grow as competition for customers intensifies The Bank of England estimates that 2012 is going to be an even across our core channels.
tougher year for British households with the average family being around 1,000 worse off than in 2011.
com, our free to use service, our trusted brand and our talented team mean that we are well set to achieve Our aim is to do our bit and help the UK save 1bn on their our objective of saving UK households 1bn in 2012. household bills in 2012.
This would be a major achievement for our business, but most importantly clarifies our business objective of being known by customers as a brand that can save them money on much more than just motor insurance.
Peter Plumb Chief Executive Officer Therefore, for the year ahead I see no reason to change our strategic road map, but as our Youre So MoneySupermarket campaign demonstrates, we will step up our communications so that UK households know that they can save 1,000 on their household bills through MoneySupermarket.
Our IT investments will increase to support our best shop strategy.
Our ambition is that customers will experience a more seamless journey when shopping on multiple channels, but it is likely to be our providers who will experience the biggest changes, with simpler product loading and maintenance capabilities.
