Overview Business review Governance Financial statements chieF execUtive OFFiceRs Review are playing a growing role in the supply of products to our markets in the United states and increasingly other parts of the world.
there have also been some significant improvements to our operating efficiencies in western world plants, most notably in the new high-temperature products from our Morgan AM&t Business as we ramp-up into larger commercial volumes and, in doing so, find additional ways to improve our manufacturing processes.
Overall therefore, the healthy levels of top-line growth achieved in 2011 allied to continuous improvement initiatives on our cost base meant that our profit increased substantially, with Group underlying PBt up by 58.1% compared to 2010.
Mark Robertshaw Chief Executive Officer Divisional highlights the Morgan ceramics division had a very strong year in 2011 with reported revenue up 12.5% versus 2010 13.7% on a constant i am pleased to report that 2011 was currency basis.
Both the technical and thermal ceramics Businesses registered a record breaking year of revenue and double-digit top-line growth rates with excellent performance in the dynamic growth operating profit for the Group.
economies and healthy growth also in the western world.
technical ceramics revenue grew by 14.0% 16.1% on a constant currency basis compared to 2010 with thermal Group results recent years.
the strong levels of revenue ceramics delivering 11.4% growth the Groups continuing strategy of focusing on growth in 2011 are the commercial results of 12.2% on a constant currency basis.
the right growth markets and the right growth seeds planted in previous years now beginning geographies with innovative, differentiated, to blossom and bear fruit.
i am also pleased to report very good progress added-value products drove revenue and during 2011 in realising the benefits of the operating profit to record levels in 2011.
Our continued expansion into the dynamicmerger of the technical ceramics and thermal As one of the worlds leading advanced growth economies of the world such as china, ceramics Businesses that was announced materials companies, innovation and india and latin America also made significant in the summer of 2010. this was undertaken differentiation in our product offerings are strides in 2011 with our revenue to nonwith the aim of increasing the potential top-line the bedrock of our long-term profitable western world markets growing substantially growth rate of each business through growth aspirations.
i am therefore very year-on-year, up by nearly 20% versus 2010. leveraging their respective strengths: that of encouraged by the success we achieved in At the same time, our western world thermal ceramics deep and well-established 2011 in commercialising an increasing number businesses also delivered good growth presence in the dynamic growth economies of new products and technologies, such as our with revenue to north America and europe and that of technical ceramics in identifying growing range of offerings to renewable energy excluding nP Aerospace up by 7.5% and distinctive advanced material competencies markets, our environmentally friendly range of 9.8% respectively.
whilst we strongly believe in secular growth, higher margin end-markets.
low bio-persistent superwool high-temperature that the true test of a long-term, sustainable, insulating fibres, and our piezoceramic high-quality business is one which is able to Revenue growth initiatives are by their components being sold into the hard disk drive deliver profitable long-term organic top-line nature focused on a mediumto longer-term hdd end-market.
each of these new growth, we are equally committed to a timeframe but the early signs are encouraging products and technologies, along with the mindset of continuous improvement to from both Businesses.
For example, we have many others which are highlighted in case drive year-on-year operational efficiencies.
now put in place dedicated technical ceramics studies throughout this Annual Report, reflect As a result, during 2011 we continued to sales and application engineering expertise into the benefits of the investment in research and increase our production in low-cost locations thermal ceramics locations around the world development, innovation, and differentiation to improve our unit costs of manufacturing.
to open up new potential geographic markets that Morgan crucible has been making over in particular, our three factories in Mexico in both Asia and latin America, with a resultant 22 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements increase in the flow of new business prospects the Morgan engineered Materials division the combination of robust revenue growth coming into our pipeline.
On the thermal also delivered good divisional eBitA margin allied to the cost efficiencies has driven strong ceramics side, significant progress has been progression during the year from 11.2% divisional eBitA margin progression from made in our strategy and plans for global in 2010 to 13.4% in 2011. in this division, 9.0% in 2010 to 12.7% in 2011 for Morgan high-temperature insulating fibre products.
the top-line growth was 1.9% 2.8% on a AM&t excluding nP Aerospace with eBitA Fibre products represent some 20% of total constant currency basis as the anticipated increasing 58.4% over the period from Group revenue and i am delighted to say reduction in Ministry of defence spending 22.1 million to 35.0 million.
that our efforts in research and development on personal and vehicle ballistic protection now mean that we are have a full range of following the surge of troops and equipment similarly strong performance has also been low bio-persistent fibres superwool products into Afghanistan during 2007 to 2009 was delivered in the Molten Metal systems MMs to offer to the market.
we believe that the continued from 2010 into 2011.
As a result, Business, where revenue increased 15.9% environmentally friendly credentials of the nP Aerospace, which provides ballistic year-on-year 17.6% at constant currency new superwool range combined with their protections solutions into this market, with good growth across all regions with the technical performance leave us well-placed saw revenue decline from 120.9 million in Asian businesses performing particularly well.
to deliver profitable growth in this important 2010 to 93.0 million in 2011. encouragingly MMs divisional eBitA improved 22.2% from business area over the coming years.
our initiatives to take nP Aerospaces 6.3 million to 7.7 million with divisional differentiated, light-weight vehicle armour eBitA margins rising from 15.6% in 2010 to the cost synergies of the divisional merger solutions to international markets made 16.5% in 2011. which relate primarily to shared management progress during the year.
having established and administration costs have been delivered an nP Aerospace office in the UsA in the Looking forward as planned during the year with circa 6 million summer of 2010 nP Aerospace won a first the macroeconomic outlook as we enter of benefits in 2011 which we anticipate will prototype order for vehicle armour in the 2012 remains uncertain, particularly with the rise to a full-year benefit of 8 million pa from early part of 2011 which was then successfully on-going risks to the eurozone and indeed the 2012 onwards.
converted into a full production order later global economy due to sovereign debt issues in the year for delivery in the first half of 2012. in several countries.
however we believe Another highlight of the year in the Morgan whilst only small scale at this point, this first that, unless there is a major and pronounced ceramics division has been the successful production order reinforces our view that global downturn, Morgan crucible remains commercial ramp-up of our hard disk drive nP Aerospace has an attractive range of well-placed in 2012 to make further progress hdd business.
the operational demands of technologies and solutions with commercial against the three-year financial goals that we such a significant step-up in volumes have been potential well beyond the traditional UK market.
announced in early 2011. we have an exciting handled admirably by the technical ceramics pipeline of innovative, differentiated new team with excellent global co-ordination of the rest of the Morgan AM&t Business products and technologies.
we have a strong production activities both in north America delivered healthy revenue growth in 2011, and growing presence in the dynamic growth and Asia.
Revenue from this product increased up 11.9% versus 2010 at reported rates economies of the world.
Above all we have from circa 6 million in 2010 to over 13.1% on a constant currency basis.
the most a talented and committed workforce around 15 million in 2011 and we are optimistic notable driver of this was strong performance the world who have shown themselves to be about further revenue growth potential in from our growing range of carbon-graphite nimble, imaginative and tenacious in driving this business during 2012. insulating materials for high-temperature the Groups business forward once more in applications such as photovoltaic and led 2011. i would like to take this opportunity to the combination of strong top-line growth processing markets.
sales into these markets thank them all for their efforts in making 2011 allied to the benefits of cost reduction initiatives have benefited from significant research and a record-breaking year of revenue and mean that divisional eBitA for the Morgan development initiatives to develop innovative, operating profit and know they will be equal ceramics division increased by 34.7% from differentiated products that set industry-leading to the challenge of trying to make our 2012 68.8 million to 92.7 million, with divisional levels of performance in terms of their energy performance even better once again.
eBitA margin improving from 11.3% to 13.5%.
As a result, divisional eBitA for the technical ceramics sales of high-temperature products increased Mark Robertshaw Business was up 26.8% from 34.0 million from circa 12 million in 2010 to circa chief executive Officer to 43.1 million with the divisional eBitA 27 million in 2011.
As production levels have margin improving from 13.6% to 15.1%.
ramped up in the high-temperature business thermal ceramics divisional eBitA we have been able to drive operational was up by 42.5% from 34.8 million to improvements in our manufacturing processes 49.6 million with operating profit margin to improve yields and reduce our unit costs improving from 9.7% to 12.4%.
elsewhere the Morgan AM&t Business has continued to increase the use of low-cost manufacturing locations which has also had a beneficial impact on our operating costs.
Annual Report 2011 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 23
