Chief Executives Review Record results for revenue and profits, the acquisition of Figleaves and the launch of Simply Be in the USA demonstrate that this has been another exciting and positive year for the group.
Revenue for the 52 weeks to 26 February 2011 is up by 4.2% to 718.8m in total, and by 1.3% on a like-for-like basis, excluding the impact of the acquisition of High & Mighty and Figleaves.
m % Financial Highlights 2011 Growth Revenue 718.8 4.2 Operating Profit 102.6 5.1 Adjusted Pre-Tax Profit 98.2 5.5 Profit Before Tax 94.5 10.3 Total Dividend Per Share 12.41p 15.0 Adjusted Earnings Per Share 27.02p 9.1 Net Borrowings 180.9 6.3 Net Assets 360.4 13.0 Excluding fair value adjustments to financial instruments Revenue These results have been achieved in a period when consumer confidence has been at very low levels so to deliver positive like-for-like growth is encouraging.
It has required us to focus on the areas of our business with the highest growth potential and allocate the marketing investment accordingly.
All of our brands have a very clear proposition and points of difference which encourages customer loyalty.
In addition we have concentrated on driving sales through the online channel recognising that multi-channel customers spend more and cost less to service.
We have continued the overseas expansion of Simply Be, launching in the USA in addition to our German operations.
Finally, we have continued to rejuvenate High & Mighty and the acquisition of Figleaves in June 2010 has enhanced our strong position in the online lingerie market.
10 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Adjusted earnings per share up 9.1% to 27.02p Customer Groups the year on a high with encouraging results fashion online collections and sportswear, The younger brands, targeted at customers from the refreshed Spring 2011 catalogues.
Customers have opted to aged between 30 and 45 years of age buy the exclusive branded or celebritycontinued to be the fastest growing part Customer Base inspired ranges relative to the core of the overall portfolio.
Sales, including the We have a customer base of over 6m who lines.
This suggests that customers first time contribution from Figleaves, were have purchased at least once in the last are extending the replacement cycle on up by 11% to 240m, or 4% on a like-fortwo years.
The sales per customer from basic clothing, such as jeans, trousers, like basis accounting for 33% of group the established customer base was up knitwear, outerwear and jersey tops, and sales.
Simply Be reached revenues of by a healthy 4%, a function of the sales concentrating their disposable income on 100m for the first time with growth in the mix favouring higher value clothing and pieces with an impact factor.
Even within UK and international markets.
The number of active established the basic categories the mix of sales has offers a mix of branded and unbranded customers fell by 3% as we switched some moved towards garments with unique fashionable menswear, all in a very wide of our marketing activity from reactivation features such as our Magifit control range of sizes through to 5XL, and was the of lapsed established customers to new jeans, trousers and skirts.
The situation fastest growing brand with total revenue customer recruitment, where the sales was similar with lingerie sales.
Figleaves up by 66%, backed by substantial rose by 4%.
saw like-for-like sales growth to the expenditure on customer recruitment from younger, more affluent customers but the television advertising and online search.
Product Categories sales of core basic bra packs were below A number of the younger brands, such We have a very high number of stock last years level.
"as Fashion World, lost sales due to options in order to accommodate more conservative credit policies, which womens clothing from size 10 to 38, In contrast menswear sales were strong particularly impacted the higher-priced in all areas, recording a 25% increase in lingerie from A-L Cup and 34"" to 58"" home and leisure products."
"back size, menswear from 38"" to 70"" aggregate."
The strongest growth was in the younger menswear and sportswear chest measurements, and footwear in Sales from the mid-life brands, targeted a vast array of width fittings as well as where sales were up over 40%, but even at customers aged 45-65 grew by 2% the core menswear range was up by 9%.
lengths, up to size 9 for ladies and 15 to 431m, accounting for 60% of group for men.
Our ability to have clothing and sales.
J D Williams, the traditional core of Footwear sales rose by 10%, with good footwear to fit our customers, regardless the business, had revenue slightly below growth in all areas.
We saw exceptional of their size or shape, is a fundamental last year but this was more than offset by growth in footwear sales from our younger point of difference to our competitors.
good performances from the menswear brands as we expanded the range in The range has been expanded even more brands, Premier Man and Williams & response to the demands of our Simply this year as, using the online integration Brown, and growth of 16% in sales at Be customers.
Mens footwear has software we have developed internally, House of Bath, which sells unusual home previously been under-represented in the we have enabled our suppliers to upload and garden items.
Marisota continued its mix of sales but is now growing rapidly.
a further 30,000 product lines onto our strong growth by attracting customers to websites.
All of these extra products are its ladieswear and footwear ranges based Home and leisure sales were flat on last delivered directly by the supplier to the on our expertise in sizing and fit, as well year.
There were strong performances customer, giving incremental sales without as fashionability, for the 45-plus woman.
in gifts and homewares but the impact increasing working capital.
of asking for deposits on higher value The older titles declined by 9% to 48m, furniture and electrical items reduced Revenue % of % although this now only represents 7% of sales by 4m.
The benefit of this policy Category m Total Change group revenues.
We switched much of the is seen in the increased rate of gross Ladieswear 361 50 1 recruitment activity from Heather Valley, margin from lower bad debts.
Footwear 80 11 10 Special Collection and Nightingales to Menswear 84 12 25 Julipa, which has a more comprehensive One of the notable features last year Home & Leisure 194 27 range of products.
However the target was the 7% increase in average selling customer is finding economic conditions Total 719 100 4 prices.
Whilst some of this is a function of tough and this age-group has been an increased prices from our suppliers in the underperforming part of the retail sector Ladieswear sales have been mixed.
Far East, much of it was due to the mix of Fashionable clothing for our younger generally.
Gray & Osbourn struggled in sales favouring higher value lines.
2010 for this same reason but finished customers, including our own brand fast N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 11 Group revenue up 4.2% to 718.8m Total dividend up 15% to 12.41p Sales from mid-life brands up 2% to 431m Online Sales default risk have been effective.
In the 52 higher-priced ranges which will increase The value of sales transacted online weeks ended 26 February 2011 the charge the average selling price even further.
totalled 324m, up by 19%, maintaining for bad debts fell by 9.1m to 53.1m, our position as one of the top online reducing the net bad debt charge to We have finished the year with stock retailers.
We are ranked number one online sales ratio from 9.0% to 7.4%.
Inevitably levels up 18.1% on last year, excluding for ladies clothing in size 16 and above, the credit restrictions have reduced the stock acquired for Figleaves.
There for the 50-plus age group and for ladies sales growth but we believe the balance was a conscious decision to bring Spring underwear.
One of our key corporate between risk and reward on the credit Summer 2011 stock in earlier than in 2010 objectives last year was to drive up the book is now about right.
because of the volatility in the supply proportion of online business as we chain we experienced in the autumn, to achieve incremental sales and reduced The overall rate of gross margin is 53.8%, ensure high levels of stock availability for operating costs.
To this end we invested up from 52.5% last year.
The bulk of this customer orders.
As commodity prices 10m in upgrading our online systems, the improvement is the result of the lower bad settle down we would expect a return to benefits of which will be realised over the debt rate, although the margin on product normal lead times.
For example we re-wrote is also slightly favourable despite a higher the registration and checkout pages level of promotional activity in the sector Overheads which resulted in increases in attributable from our competitors.
Costs have been contained at the previous conversion rates.
In addition we have years level with the exception of marketing reorganised the buying and marketing Supply Chain costs where we spent 9% more to increase functions to give greater emphasis to The last year has been the most challenging customer recruitment, promote Simply Be online trading relative to the catalogues.
our buying team has faced for many years.
abroad, and support the growing brands There has been a step change in the like Jacamo and Marisota.
Distribution costs benefited from higher average order Online sales now account for 45% of price of goods from the Far East, driven total revenues, compared with 39% last principally by a reduction in capacity in values due to higher selling prices and the switch to online.
We have moved all our year, and they have overtaken the value of China, a 160% increase in the price of orders taken in our contact centres, with cotton during the year, and significant parcel deliveries to Hermes resulting in improvements to both service and costs.
the balance coming by post.
In the coming price rises in other raw materials, year we expect online sales to account especially those linked to the price of Customer Service for the majority of all sales.
The growth oil such as polyester and acrylic fibres.
is coming from all age groups but in the This has led to a squeeze on capacity in The vast majority of our key performance indicators were positive with improvement next few years we are aiming to grow the markets, such as Bangladesh, as retailers proportion of online sales from our mid-life looked for alternative, lower labour cost in the contact centres, online service and distribution.
This was despite the customers, currently 37%, as the younger markets to offset the price rises.
Some of customers are already at 64%, including the rises in commodity prices are cyclical disruption in December from the bad weather and the mailing delays to some brands which are almost at 80%.
and we expect to see the price of cotton moderate by 2012 but the changes in the catalogues and statements experienced subsequently.
We are now asking Gross Margin and Credit labour markets are structural and signal Credit is an important part of the offer to the end of the regular deflation in clothing customers to submit product reviews online which will give us early indicators our customer, and the income of 195m prices we have enjoyed for the last 15 up 2.5% derived from our debtor book years.
We have been doing everything of any quality issues, but so far the vast majority of comments posted are highly accounts for 27% of total group revenues.
we can to mitigate the price increases Approximately two-thirds of sales are for our customers through negotiation complimentary.
We will continue to focus on further improvements to the quality made by customers who use the credit with suppliers, moving between markets facilities, although in customer numbers and garment re-engineering, but we still of our service and increasing the options available to our customers.
expect to see price increases of around 9% in 2011.
However we also expect to International Bad debts rose during the recession but see customers continuing to focus their the changes we made to credit policies spending on the clothing lines which clearly Our international strategy is based on utilising existing product lines and images on customer vetting, credit limits and make a fashion statement, which will collections in the wake of this increased favour branded, celebrity-designed and from our Simply Be brand, and distributing 12 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Menswear sales up 25% to 84m Younger customer sales up 11% to 240m Online sales up 19% to 324m Ladieswear sales up 1% to 361m direct to the overseas customer from our good progress for the first full year, with However, we have a loyal and experienced UK warehouses.
This should allow us to like-for-like store sales up by 8%.
It was management and workforce, and everyone break even by year 3 or 4 assuming we can a busy year with three of the fourteen who works in the business can take recruit reasonable volumes of customers stores relocated, three more refurbished immense credit for producing increased at an acceptable cost per customer.
and three new stores opened in Liverpool, revenues and profits for a seventh Newcastle and Belfast.
We have migrated consecutive year, despite the unhelpful Revenues from our Simply Be brand in the website onto the N Brown platform economic environment.
The current year Germany and the USA totalled 4.2m and we are now seeing positive growth will be at least as challenging but I am 2010, 2.4m, over 70% of which was in online sales.
confident that our strategy will develop transacted online.
In Germany sales were new areas for future growth and deliver up by 41% and we reduced the rate of Outlook and Current Trading another good result.
returns by two percentage points but at We will continue with our strategy of 61% it is still higher than we would like.
focusing on our core home shopping The new season has started well and we business in the UK whilst establishing the anticipate a further increase in revenue, Simply Be brand in the USA and Germany which, coupled with cost efficiencies, and turning Figleaves and High & Mighty will reduce the losses this year.
The combination of lower disposable incomes and cost Alan White We launched Simply Be in the USA inflation will put consumer spending under through the distribution of 1 million severe pressure, but we believe our catalogues to targeted customer lists strategy of focusing on niche customer during the autumn of 2010.
Revenues in the and product groups, coupled with our USA were just under 1m, and the low rate credit offer, is the right one.
of returns and high gross margin are both encouraging.
Based on these early positive Within the core business we expect to see indications we are planning to despatch continued high growth rates from Marisota 3 million catalogues in Summer 2011 and and Jacamo, and we have launched a new have started to increase the online activity.
brand, Fabrici, which offers a range of We will be accelerating our recruitment clothes with natural fibres, such as linen plans further in the autumn campaigns.
and silk, at higher price points.
We will again be working with a number of Acquisitions celebrities and designers on capsule Figleaves, the leading online lingerie ranges, including an expanded range retailer, was acquired in June 2010 for a from Arlene Phillips.
Since then we have achieved revenues of over E-commerce remains fundamental to 16m, a 4% like-for-like increase for the growth of the business and we will the business, on which we incurred an be continuing our investment program underlying loss of 0.9m.
The strategy to upgrade and exploit the online platform.
is to build up the proportion of own brand We will complete the new content sales from the current 17% level and management system by the summer to expand the product ranges offered which will provide a platform for greater to the customer, either through organic personalisation of the websites in development or alternatively from those the future as well as speeding up the products already within the group.
publication of new offers, products and promotions.
High & Mighty was acquired out of administration in September 2009 for N Brown Groups extensive portfolio of a consideration of 1.6m.
Sales of over brands, allied with the credit offer, means 7m and losses of 0.8m represented it is a complex business to manage.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 13 Footwear sales up 10% to 80m
