Business review Group Chief Executive Business review Group Chief Executive 3 Dean Finch In just two years National Express has moved from reporting losses to the record profits we have announced for 2011.
We carried more passengers than in 2010 and are now the best performing operator in many of our markets.
Overview of 2011 financial platform, with over 500 million of Building on our operational success over In 2011 we completed our Business undrawn committed facilities and cash at the last two years, with four of our divisions Recovery programme.
We delivered: the end of 2011, a secure funding structure delivering industry leading margins, there of primarily non-bank debt maturing are still many opportunities to further record statutory Group profit before between 2014 and 2020, and a debt reduce costs and improve efficiencies.
tax and amortisation of 180.2 million gearing ratio below two times EBITDA.
Our existing diversified portfolio of bus and 2010: 97.3m : coach businesses has excellent growth Successfully managing austerity three-fold increase in statutory profit potential and we are well on the way to During 2011 we dealt effectively with before tax, up 89.2 million year-on-year replacing earnings from the East Anglia the challenges of economic austerity.
In to 129.4 million: rail franchise.
Organically we will grow Spain we saw little impact on our public through new products, better marketing concessions.
We saw some extension revenue and profit growth in and improved service delivery.
At the same of receivable balances during the year every division: time we are investing in new business and have managed them closely.
In opportunities such as the acquisition record profits in our UK Coach business: North America we met the challenge of the Petermann school bus business in of reduced state funding by delivering industry leading operating margins in North America.
The Group is also investing more outsourced conversion contracts Spain, North America, UK Coach and in commercial development teams to to school board customers.
We are less Rail North America achieved 10% target exciting US and European markets.
exposed to UK Government funding than margin: Group margin has almost many of our peers.
Our UK and Spanish doubled since 2009: and Delivering our strategy in 2011 coach businesses benefited by delivering Last February I set out the first phase end of year contract order book revenue excellent value for money services to of our strategy, which was to complete of 3.7 billion in existing concessions cash-strapped customers.
Economic the rebuilding of National Express and to and tendered contracts.
austerity continues to drive as many establish a foundation for profitable and opportunities for public passenger sustainable long-term growth.
In 2011, Strong increase in profit transport as it does challenges.
I believe we have achieved this not only Group revenue increased by over 5% have all five Group businesses reported to 2.2 billion, despite the backdrop of Core strengths in place to drive difficult economic conditions and austerity shareholder value measures.
Normalised operating profit National Express is now well positioned increased by 10.3% to 225.2 million to capitalise on new value enhancing 2010: 204.2m and we achieved a record opportunities.
The executive management statutory Group profit before tax and team is well established and the Group I believe our portfolio of amortisation, delivering no exceptional has been restored to its position as a businesses and track charges in 2011.
Statutory profit before tax leading international operator of public rose more than three-fold to 129.4 million transportation.
we are also well placed We are now focused on the following core Secure financial platform initiatives to drive our progress: to target emerging Our basic earnings per share EPS delivering operational excellence, increased 14.4% to 27.0 pence 2010: growth opportunities.
with consistent service performance and 23.6p and we have increased our full year ongoing cost efficiency improvements: proposed dividend to 9.5 pence 2010: 6.0p : this is an 8.3% increase in the final securing organic growth from our dividend.
We generated over 80 million existing portfolio of businesses: and in free cash flow in 2011, supporting the reintroduction of the dividend and developing new contract investment in organic growth to drive opportunities in targeted businesses future profitability.
We maintained a strong and geographies.
Business review 4 Group Chief Executive continued increased profits, with four at industry We have seen passenger volume growth in leading margins, but all have achieved response to service improvements in both profitable revenue growth.
the UK Bus and Coach operations.
More effective marketing strategies have targeted Achieving margin improvement student travel in bus, coach and rail, Over the last two years we have delivered together with commuter travel in coach.
significant improvement in every business.
We are investing heavily in new fleet, having UK Bus and North America have both spent 132 million across the Group in nearly doubled profit since 2009 and have 2011.
In UK Bus we will have introduced increased operating margins over the over 250 new buses onto the network two years UK Bus achieved a margin over a 12-month period, along with 160 of 12.4% in 2011 and North America new vehicles introduced to our third-party 10.0%.
In 2011 UK Coach delivered operated UK Coach fleet in 2011, and 300 a record profit and a 13.5% margin.
In North America Carlos Chiesa, Rail margin rose from 5.3% to 6.3% we added over 600 new school buses painter and coachbuilder a very strong performance in this high in 2011 and cascaded over 900 existing ALSA revenue, low capital business.
Spains buses across the fleet, driving better Carlos Chiesa works as a painter margin has remained stable, at an industry capital efficiency.
and coachbuilder in ALSAs leading 16.4%.
Both Securing targeted expansion This has been achieved through a clear jobs can pose health hazards.
During 2011 we have begun to secure focus on operational performance Ever since he joined ALSA in 1991, targeted expansion, adding revenue and delivering an efficient cost base.
Carlos has been aware of the across the Group through contract wins With new management teams in North importance of safety in his daily and bolt-on acquisitions.
This leverages America, UK Bus and UK Coach, as well routine, and has always made the Groups strong market positions as new leadership in UK Rail, we have sure that he uses the proper and proven expertise in winning new delivered cost efficiency savings, removed safety equipment.
As a result contracts, to deliver sustainable revenue unprofitable mileage, secured global he has never had an accident.
procurement savings and ensured that The Group has an existing order book capacity has adapted to meet demand.
of 3.7 billion in its contract businesses, In North America alone, as promised, across North American school bus, Spain, we have delivered US$40 million of cost and UK Rail.
This represents over three savings over two years.
years of contracted and concession-based Delivering organic growth revenues for the Group: six years in Spain, We have complemented margin two years in North America and one year in improvement by increasing organic rail franchising.
Every division has grown revenue rate in existing school bus contracts, in 2011, either in line with or outperforming North America also secured 1,000 industry peers.
With overall Group new routes in 2011.
The conversion of revenue up 5% year-on-year, UK Bus saw contracts to outsourcing is an increasingly For more information on passenger revenue up 3%, UK Coach important part of North Americas growth, our vision and values go to grew passenger revenue on the core reflecting lower capital requirements and nationalexpressgroup.
com ourway National Express network by 5%, Spain opportunities to tailor a specific service grew passenger revenue by 6% and package to the new customer.
In 2011 North America revenue was 8% higher.
we secured ten conversion contracts and integrated the Vogel business in Fares have been rebalanced in UK New Jersey, a bolt-on acquisition that Bus, the average passenger yield has consolidated our position and efficiencies been improved, yet our West Midlands in the local market.
fares remain amongst the lowest for comparable conurbations, offering In Spain, ALSA won the tender to operate excellent value-for-money.
UK Coach the Madrid City Tour service and added eliminated heavily discounted promotional a further concession in Agadir.
Two fares in favour of everyday value pricing.
small acquisitions were made, creating In its regulated business, ALSA adapted a foothold in a new territory, Navarre, and fares and services to market conditions.
adding a further concession in the south Overall, we continue to deliver great value of Spain.
Contracts and opportunities to our customers and are focused on such as these provide profitable revenue driving greater volume growth with some growth to complement and enhance the customers switching from other high cost core transport operations at ALSA.
modes of transport, such as rail.
Business review Group Chief Executive 5 Growth through larger scale acquisition is Customers also considered against specific criteria We place customers at the heart of in the same or similar modes of transport, our business and our goal is to be the Our vision in overlapping geographies, where scale customer service leader in the mass To earn the lifetime gives immediate synergies and only transport sector.
With a new Group where clear financial criteria will be met.
Customer Service Director in place, we loyalty of our customers In September 2011 we announced the are investing in our front line station staff, by consistently acquisition of Petermann, a school bus our contact centres and our drivers.
In business in the United States that met 2012 we have launched Master Drivers, delivering frequent, these criteria.
With a strong reputation a programme embedding advanced high performing public for customer service, a very experienced driving skills.
These factors will help transport services which management team, annual revenue differentiate National Express in delivering of around US$150 million and annual our customer experience.
offer excellent value operating profit of US$13.5 million, People Petermann is a high quality business.
Our employees are core to enabling Strong synergies will complement the National Express to consistently deliver geographic coverage it adds to our high performing services of which we Durham bus operation, whilst adding can be proud.
With a highly experienced a contract in our targeted para-transit Executive team established in 2010, this market.
The acquisition is expected to year saw the introduction of global HR complete during the first half of the year.
standards, talent development and a new Our values Looking forward performance management scheme with key investment areas clearer accountabilities, responsibilities and Safety Our vision, set out at the start of 2011, is pay for performance.
We are significantly More than anything else, to earn the lifetime loyalty of our customers strengthening employee engagement, we value the safety of our by consistently delivering frequent, high education and capability development, customers, employees and the performing public transport services and innovation.
We are investing to drive public generally.
During the last our commercial business development 12months, we have strengthened our core capability in rail, where we have Customers values to deliver this vision.
In addition assembled a small team of experienced to improving the social, environmental industry experts to secure new profitable We will place customers at and economic conditions of the franchises: in North America, where we the heart of our business.
communities in which we operate, these will drive new transit opportunities: and in Nobody will try harder for our values will deliver three differentiating Continental Europe, in selected bus and customers than we do.
areas for National Express safety coach markets.
leadership, customer service and people Developing mass transport markets People development, particularly in commercial We believe public transport has a positive development expertise.
Enabling all our people to future.
Social, environmental and economic reach their full potential and to Safety trends will mean its core strengths give their best as individuals More than anything else, we value the will increasingly become competitive and in teams.
safety of our customers and employees.
We believe public transport Last year we launched our Driving Out is distinguished by four crucial Cs: Community Harm programme across the Group, a cost: at a time when household comprehensive five year plan to upgrade budgets are increasingly pressured, We will advance the social, our entire safety management approach.
the value offered by public transport environmental and economic We have adopted 12 global safety is increasingly attractive: conditions in the communities standards, including setting enhanced where we operate.
requirements for vehicle safety: all senior convenience: in addition to its managers have completed formal safety traditional strengths, the ability to training, and comprehensive driver work on the move increasingly using safety management has retrained poorly smartphone and similar technology performing drivers and implemented builds on the convenience public defensive driving techniques.
With transport offers: significant improvement in our Marrakesh congestion: congestion will continue operation, and UK Bus and Coach leading to pose a challenge to policymakers the industry in low accident rates, we are and the public for years to come, targeting a 70% reduction in lost time strengthening the case for investment injuries and a 50% reduction in vehicle in public transport: and accidents over five years.
Business review 6 Group Chief Executive continued carbon: public transport already has a Next steps in delivering the strategy significant carbon advantage over private The next phase of the Groups strategy will and air transport, with the adoption of see implementation of the following steps: new technologies further reducing its delivering operational excellence in our carbon footprint.
existing businesses, to drive continued Strength of the National margin progress: Express portfolio securing organic growth opportunities National Express is now well positioned for in existing businesses: and the future, as a distinctive mass transport contractor.
Its combination of geographic developing new contract opportunities presence and passenger transportation in targeted markets.
expertise will deliver long-term, sustainable Delivering operational excellence growth in markets with good potential.
in our existing businesses Renate Carrington, driver Our portfolio of perpetuity owned We will continue to focus on opportunities Durham School Services businesses UK Bus and Coach to enhance margins and profitability in and strong contract operations North When Renate Carrington started the four core bus and coach divisions.
America, Spain and UK Rail provides driving a school bus, Jimmy Leveraging our international portfolio an excellent platform for future value Carter was challenging Gerald and scale, procurement savings, worth generation.
This platform reflects: Ford for the US presidency and over 12 million year-on-year in 2011, Apple was a start-up.
That was the strength of our core existing bus will continue to bring benefits.
At the time she was driving and coach businesses a unique, Bus we are targeting to further increase for the school board, in Lewisville geographically diversified group with margin, through improved costs, depot near Dallas, Texas.
When Durham a balanced requirement for capital: improvements and growth.
In North won the contract in 1988, she American school bus, already the industry demonstrable resilience in business came to us and shes stayed leader in margin, further improvements performance despite the economic ever since.
Thats 35 years of will be delivered through improved challenges significantly less serving her community.
maintenance schemes and the use of uncertainty in Spain proven by results technology: GPS is already delivering in both businesses, growth in North better control of wage and fuel costs.
America and plans in place to mitigate Spain and UK Coach are focused on UK austerity: minimising the impact on 2012 margins of flexibility to adjust to stretched public concession renewal and subsidy reduction and consumer budgets, whilst providing respectively.
Each business will continue to a core public service: deliver cost savings and productivity gains, while keeping networks optimised.
rail opportunities, with limited downside Securing organic growth opportunities in existing profits and cash flows Organic growth is a key target for each compared with peers: business.
Austerity will continue to drive a stable financial structure substantial, value services such as bus and coach.
long-term, committed debt funding, In North America, the school bus business primarily sourced from non-bank markets: presents significant opportunities to maintain our recent rate of winning market substantial self-help opportunities share, converting outsource tenders and to drive further margin improvement, selective market consolidation.
The school including in UK Bus and North America: bus market of 530,000 vehicles remains market leading positions offering good little over one third outsourced and there organic growth potential: and are 4,000 participants in the market, few of whom have the resources to significant market opportunities compete nationally.
mandated Continental Europe deregulation: US development into ALSA will continue to explore domestic transit and para-transit, leveraging market opportunities in concession and existing strong capabilities and contract bids, together with selected management experience.
Morocco remains an exciting market as other major cities look to modernise their urban bus For more information on our portfolio go to operations, following ALSAs success in nationalexpressgroup.
com aboutus Marrakesh and Agadir.
UK Coach will continue to exploit the growth potential Business review Group Chief Executive 7 from modal shift away from higher rail already secured four star accreditation ticket pricing.
under the European Foundation for Quality Management EFQM We are also investing in technology that will assessment for c2c.
We are seeking to make it easier for our customers to access pre-qualify in the current round of UK rail our services and so increase travel.
The franchise tenders, with around 6 billion UK Coach business now has real-time of revenue to be tendered over the next fleet location data which is being used to four years.
improve customer information and vehicle routing.
UK Bus is trialling smart card Outlook for 2012 technology across its fleet to improve We operate in markets that combine ease of customer use.
to offer long-term growth, strong cash generation and scope to generate good Developing new contract opportunities returns for shareholders through dividends, in targeted markets Sue Gibbs, station announcer capital return and reinvestment for growth.
The Group is building strong commercial c2c Our core business of international bus development teams to develop a small and coach services is robust, sustainable Fenchurch Street station links number of target markets.
The Group has and defensible.
south Essex to the City of London.
identified selected markets in Europe and Around 30,000 customers use it A discounted travel scheme alongside the North America representing 60 billion of every day.
But over the years you introduction of new services in UK Coach, annual addressable revenue.
The majority get to know them and they know investment to stimulate passenger growth of those opportunities are in the contract you, says station announcer Sue in UK Bus, and the integration of targeted transport market, where the Group can Gibbs.
Sue, who was recently acquisition opportunities are all expected utilise and further develop its contract awarded an MBE for her work, is to drive profitability.
This will help to mitigate bidding and concession management known as the voice of Fenchurch the reduction in concession income in capabilities.
We will focus on new markets Street and is proud of the fact UK Coach and a lower rail profit, following in North America and deregulating markets that we have no recorded the handover of the East Anglia franchise.
in Continental Europe: announcements here.
ALSA has an excellent track record of in North America we now have contract retention and is well positioned access to profitable additional markets, to renew upcoming intercity concessions including transit and para-transit.
This is over the next 18 months, and to develop a US$5 billion market, with low capital new opportunities in both Spain and requirements complementary to the Morocco.
In North America we expect contract expertise we have in school economic constraints to continue to lead bus.
The senior citizen population in the school boards towards outsourcing, whilst US is expected to double by 2040, with the integration of the Petermann acquisition disabled ridership also increasing.
With will drive profit growth and synergies.
the Petermann acquisition, our plans Finally, future participation in UK Rail are well developed to target a greater may offer additional upside opportunity presence in this market: for the Group.
in Continental Europe we are well Following a strong end to 2011, we expect placed to meet the needs of a market passenger revenue to continue to grow deregulating under EU rules.
As Europes in each of our bus and coach divisions.
leading scheduled coach operator, In 2012, as austerity measures, fuel and we will seek to leverage our proven fare increases make passenger travel by skills and capability, along with the other modes relatively more expensive, National Express, ALSA and Eurolines National Express provides attractive, value brands.
We will also explore bus and for money alternatives.
We believe that rail opportunities that meet our rigorous our portfolio of businesses will provide investment criteria: and sustainable earnings growth, continued in Rail we retain our expertise and cash generation and exciting opportunities knowledge alongside our industryfor growth in selected markets in the leading c2c franchise, winner of medium term.
Suburban and Metro Operator for the last two years.
Franchises have attractive characteristics, providing a stable cash flow and strong capital return, as long Dean Finch as the risk is acceptable.
We have Group Chief Executive assembled a team of experienced rail 29 February 2012 professionals to lead our work.
