Directors Report and Business Review 4 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OVERVIEW A New Normal NEXT has had another good year with record profits, earnings per share and dividend.
We believe that this is a reflection of the approach we have taken to coping with a new economic landscape.
Retail in the UK is going to be different over the next few years.
The consumer environment is likely to be dominated by the challenges of global inflation, public sector cuts and limited growth in consumer credit.
These factors mean that retailers cannot plan for never-ending growth in like for like sales that many have enjoyed over the last fifteen years.
Yet NEXT and the retail industry can still deliver very healthy returns for their shareholders, but we will need to think differently about how we manage and grow our businesses.
New avenues of growth, innovative ways to control costs and careful management of the healthy cash flows that retailers tend to generate will become increasingly important.
NEXT has a clear and consistent financial objective: the delivery of sustainable, long term growth in earnings per share.
We believe that whatever the short term vagaries of the stock market, in the long run, it is the growth in earnings per share and dividends that will create shareholder value.
Despite the difficult retail environment, this year we achieved 18% growth in EPS and increased our dividend by 18% a performance that would be creditable in a sunnier economic climate.
New sources of revenue continued to support sales.
In this respect, profitable new Home stand alone stores and growth in the NEXT Directory Online have been particularly important.
As a result, despite the NEXT Retail like for like sales decline, NEXT Brand sales excluding VAT were up 0.3% on last year.
This growth figure is a little misleading and understates the increase in the amount our customers spent with us.
The year ending January 2010 was a 53 week year and the increase in VAT reduced reported sales by 1.4%.
Adjusting for these two factors, 52 week VAT inclusive NEXT Brand sales were actually up 3.1%.
Operating profits rose faster than sales as a result of continued operational cost savings.
Profit before tax was 9% up on last year at 551m.
This is towards the top end of the range we gave in our trading statement in January 2011, it is in line with market expectations and consistent with the guidance we have given throughout the year.
NEXT continues to deliver strong cash flows, generating 92m of surplus cash after capital expenditure, interest, tax and dividends.
We expect this inflow to double in the year ahead.
Surplus cash has been used to buy back 10 million shares, and the combined effect of cash generation and share buybacks both this year and last has been to boost EPS by 7.5%.
Dividends have risen in line with EPS, up 18% to 78p per share.
There were a number of factors: n Consumers and banks have both acted to limit growth in consumer credit.
n As the year advanced, the awareness and then reality of necessary public sector cuts began to impact on consumers.
n Towards the end of the year rising inflation, particularly in food and fuel, began to act as a drain on consumer spend.
n In December severe weather hampered sales.
indd 5 11 04 2011 11:02:32 Business reports Directors Report and Business Review 6 STOCK AND SUPPLY ISSUES In the second half of the year we experienced increasing difficulty getting stock into the business on time from our suppliers.
This was mainly as a result of manufacturing capacity constraints in the Far East, especially China.
Production constraints in China came from a combination of increasing domestic demand and the fact that some suppliers exited the industry during the 2008 9 downturn.
We have taken steps to secure capacity through the addition of new suppliers and booking fabric and production earlier.
Currently stock intake has been in line with our requirements and we expect stock levels to be at least 10% ahead of last year throughout the season.
Over and above the issues with supplier deliveries, we had problems in Womenswear keeping in stock of our best-selling lines.
This was mainly as a result of not buying enough different colourways of best-selling styles.
This problem has been rectified for the current season, and we have increased both the breadth of colours and depth of buy on lines we believe will be important.
So far the results of this approach have been encouraging.
NEXT RETAIL NEXT Retail increased its full year profit, in spite of a small decrease in overall sales.
Retail Sales Retail finished the year 2.3% down on last year though this figure is distorted by the fact that last year was a 53 week year.
On a 52 week basis, total VAT exclusive sales were down 1%, sales from new space contributed 3% and like for like sales excluding online sales were down 4%.
Revenue at the tills was 1.3% higher than reported sales due to the increase in VAT.
Retail Profit Analysis Retail profitability improved as achieved gross margins edged forward and overhead savings offset increases in occupancy costs.
The table below details the margin movement in the major heads of costs.
Net operating margin last year 14.2% Increase in bought in gross margin 1.0% Increase in markdown -0.4% Increase in achieved gross margin 0.6% Change in store payroll 0.0% Increase in store occupancy costs -0.6% Decrease in central overheads 0.6% Net operating margin this year 14.8% Bought in gross margin increased by 1% as a result of better sourcing and price negotiations which more than offset the adverse impact of the rise in VAT.
Markdown costs increased, reducing margin by 0.4%.
Stock for Sale was 4% up on last year and clearance rates were lower.
The lower clearance rates reflected the fact that we did not open on Boxing Day this year as it was a Sunday.
Store payroll costs were flat as a percentage of sales as we managed to offset our 1% annual pay award with efficiency savings in the branches.
Occupancy costs increased as a percentage of sales by 0.6%, with rents and rates rising as like for like sales declined.
Underlying rent increases were up 2%.
Rent increases incurred in any one year are the result of five yearly rent reviews, so this number represents the compound annual growth over the last five years.
A reduction in central overheads increased margin by 0.6% mainly due to lower staff incentive payments, which were high in the previous year.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 29 January 2011 20183.04 07 04 2011 Proof 6 20183-04NEXTPLC FRONT.
indd 6 11 04 2011 11:02:32 Directors Report and Business Review 7 New Space and Refits Our programme of extensions and new store openings continued to provide additional sales and profits for the Group.
We increased total trading space by 310,000 square feet, an increase of 5.4% during the year, increasing our portfolio by 8 stores to 525.
The payback on net capital invested in new space is forecast to be 17 months.
The net store contribution store profit on the new portfolio is forecast to be 19%.
These forecasts are comfortably ahead of our financial hurdles of 24 months payback and 15% contribution.
We opened a further 11 Home stand alone stores, taking our total Home stores to 29.
The returns on new Home stores were in line with Mainline returns.
Ft. Change Numbers 000s % January 2010 517 5,763 New 8 69 Closed -11 -79 Re-sites 9 106 Extensions 19 53 Home stand alones 11 161 January 2011 525 6,073 5.4% In the year ahead we have the opportunity to accelerate our space expansion programme, driven by further Home stand alone stores.
We expect to open at least 440,000 square feet in the year ahead, included in this number is 240,000 square feet in 15 new Home stand alone stores.
In addition, we anticipate that we will spend circa 18m on cosmetic refits in order to keep our existing store portfolio up to date.
Store Portfolio Profitability Despite like for like sales declines we have actively managed our store portfolio to keep it highly profitable: we closed 11 stores during the year.
The table below sets out our Mainline store portfolio, showing the number of stores in different profitability ranges and more importantly the percentage of our turnover taken in those branches.
Store Percentage Store Profitability Numbers of Sales 15% 413 90.7% 10% 15% 42 6.1% 0% 10% 27 2.9% 0% 5 0.3% NEXT DIRECTORY NEXT Directory had an excellent year advancing sales, operating margin and profit.
Directory Sales Directory remains well positioned to take advantage of the general growth in online shopping.
Sales ended the year up 7.1% on last year.
This number is also distorted by last years 53 week year and the increase in VAT.
The 52 week growth in VAT inclusive sales was 10.5%.
The engine for sales growth has been the increase in active customers, which is set out in the table below split between credit and cash accounts.
The dramatic increase in cash accounts is a result of more online customers choosing to pay up front by credit or debit card.
indd 7 11 04 2011 11:02:32 Business reports Directors Report and Business Review 8 Directory Profit Analysis Directory net margins continued to make good progress, advancing by 2.7% to 23.7%.
Net operating margin last year 21.0% Increase in bought in gross margin 1.3% Markdowns 0.0% Increase in achieved gross margin 1.3% Improvement in bad debt 0.6% Reduced service charge income -0.6% Decrease in warehouse & distribution costs 1.0% Decrease in central overheads 0.4% Net operating margin this year 23.7% Bought in gross margin increased by 1.3%, this was slightly higher than in Retail as a result of the different mix of products in Directory.
Bad debt continued to improve partly as a result of improved credit approval procedures and partly because consumers are managing credit more carefully.
Transfers to debt collection agencies were down 22% on last year and margin was improved by 0.6%.
Service charge income decreased as a percentage of sales, reducing margin by 0.6%.
This was a result of the increase in cash customers see above, and the tendency of credit customers to pay down their balances a little faster.
Distribution and warehousing costs decreased as a percentage of sales, improving margin by 1%.
This was driven by an increase in third party client contribution to fixed overheads and an increase in the number of returns being made through our stores.
Central overheads reduced as a percentage of sales, improving margin by 0.4% due to the reduction in staff incentive payments which were high last year.
BRAND PROFIT MARGINS Retail and Directory operations have become increasingly integrated over the last five years as more opportunities have been identified to reduce costs and enhance the Directory service offer.
When NEXT appraises any new store opportunity, it does not include any potential benefit it might realise from the synergies of integration with Directory operations.
The Retail cost base is justified by, and incurred for, Retail operations alone.
However, an increasing number of Directory customers use Retails stores, not only to buy goods using their Directory account card, but also to collect and return goods they have ordered at home.
To illustrate, we estimate the profit made on items ordered online, but collected in store, is 47m in the last year.
Where customers have bought goods in store using their Directory card, there was circa 16m of service charge earned by Directory on the resulting debtor balances.
In addition, by allowing Directory customers to return unwanted goods through Retail stores, there have been estimated savings of around 9m compared to the cost of routing those returns through the Directory courier network.
These benefits would not have been achieved if NEXT was simply a High Street retailer or a home shopping business.
It is important to understand the benefits this integration provides as it puts the differences in net margin between Retail and Directory into context.
Taken together, the net margin of the combined Retail and Directory businesses is 17.4%.
INTERNATIONAL Retail overseas Franchise income to NEXT from our franchise partners increased by 2.3%, although partner sales in local currency were down 3.2%.
Underlying like for like sales were down -4.4%, partly offset by 1.2% from new space.
We work on a cost plus basis and the difference between our rising income and partners decline in sales is explained by increased franchise markdowns.
Sales in our wholly owned stores were up 12.7%, with like for likes down -1.0%.
Overall underlying International profit was up 14.3%.
Net margins increased by 0.8% to 10.4% mainly as a result of the closure of a loss making store in Denmark.
Operating profits were substantially up on last year due to significant write off charges made on unprofitable stores last year.
indd 8 11 04 2011 11:02:32 Directors Report and Business Review 9 2011 2010 m m Franchise income 49.9 48.7 2.3% Wholly owned 17.4 15.5 12.7% Total revenue 67.3 64.2 4.8% Profit excluding write offs 7.0 6.1 14.3% % to revenue 10.4% 9.6% Write offs 1.2 4.9 Operating profit 5.8 1.2 Overseas Online NEXTs online business overseas is a small but potentially important growth business.
It is expanding rapidly and, despite the rate of growth, it remains highly profitable.
Currently these sales and profit numbers are included within the Directory results, but for clarity we have split them out in this section of the report.
At the year end we were trading online in 38 countries outside of the UK, the most important of which are Eire, USA, Australia, Germany and Poland.
All of our sites apart from Germany trade as English language websites and most are denominated in US Dollars or Euros.
We intend to commence trading online in Pakistan and India within the first half, and later in the year in Russia, China and Japan, once we have developed our systems to cope with the complexities of dealing with non-Roman e. g. Cyrillic scripts.
Early this year we made an important breakthrough in two of our overseas markets.
After many failed experiments, we have now found limited but profitable methods for the recruitment of new customers overseas.
This will allow us to accelerate growth in the year ahead and we anticipate that by January 2012 revenue from overseas markets will be at least 20m, from which we will make around 20% net margin.
The move away from natural growth to marketing driven expansion will reduce margins by around 4% from the current level of 24%.
The table below sets out the sales and profit for our online business outside the UK and gives an estimate of the figures for the year ahead.
m 2012 e 2011 2010 Revenue 20.0 10.1 4.7 Annual growth 100% 115% Profit 4.0 2.4 1.7 Profitability 20% 24% 35% NEXT SOURCING NEXT Sourcing has had a difficult year.
It faced increased competition from independent suppliers who improved their game, and as a result sales to NEXT were down 4.6% from 530m to 506m.
In addition to lower sales, NEXT Sourcing faced intense pressure on its margins, caught between stronger manufacturers, who themselves were experiencing cost pressures, and a retailer ourselves!
determined to limit increases in prices to its customers.
In order to remain competitive, NEXT Sourcing lowered its commission from 8% to 6% and took a step back in profit.
The table below sets out sales and profits internal sales do not appear in our consolidated accounts.
m 2011 2010 Change % External sales 4.1 3.5 16.9% Internal sales 505.7 529.9 -4.6% Profit 26.7 35.7 -25.2% Operating margin 5.2% 6.7% In the year ahead we expect NEXT Sourcing will still suffer from the reduction in margin, which will not annualise until August.
We expect a profit in the region of 20m for the year ahead.
indd 9 11 04 2011 11:02:32 Business reports Directors Report and Business Review 10 VENTURA Results for the year were ahead of our expectations and Ventura achieved a profit of 8m against 6m last year.
Turnover rose 7.2% to 156m, with new business more than offsetting those activities which declined.
Further business has been won with new clients, which will start contributing in the current year.
Our wholly owned call centre in India now provides services to non-UK, as well as UK, clients and we expect it to be operating towards full capacity by the end of this year.
The market in which Ventura operates is very competitive, on both price and service, and it is well placed to succeed on both counts.
We anticipate that Ventura will increase sales and profits in the year ahead, with full year profits in the region of 9m.
OTHER ACTIVITIES The Other Activities charge of 7m compares to the 12m charge last year.
Lipsy, our young female fashion brand, achieved its targets.
Sales were up 61% to 45m and trading profit was 3.4m.
Amortisation and deferred performance charges were 2.4m, resulting in a first time net contribution to group profits of 1m.
Lipsy now trades from 27 stores and has important channels in wholesale, concessions and through its own website.
In the year ahead we aim to open 20 new Lipsy stores and grow sales through all these channels.
We are budgeting to increase sales by 25% and trading profit by 50%.
Our Property Division had fewer costs for properties we no longer occupy and reported a net profit of 2m.
Our associated companies of Choice and Cotton Traders also contributed 2m.
Central costs of 12m were down from 13m last year.
The 12m employee share option charge includes a first time charge for the share matching plan introduced last year following approval by shareholders at the AGM.
As expected, the 6m unrealised foreign exchange loss booked in the first half reversed in the second half: the full year was a net gain of 2m.
INTEREST AND TAX The interest charge of 23m was less than last year as a result of lower interest rates.
We expect a similar charge for the year ahead on debt which we estimate will average 550m, after taking into account further share buybacks.
The effective cost of debt is currently around 4%, based on our mix of fixed rate bonds, interest rate swaps and short term borrowings.
Our tax rate of 27.3% was lower than last year, the main factor being resolution of prior year items.
We expect our rate for the year ahead will be no higher than the year just ended.
BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW In the year the Group generated 92m of cash before share and bond buybacks but after capital expenditure, interest, tax and dividends.
Capital expenditure for the year amounted to 144m and we are planning a similar figure for the year ahead as we continue to invest in Home stand alone stores.
Stock levels were tightly controlled through the year although they did end the year 59m up: half of this was due to earlier shipments ahead of Chinese New Year and the balance due to earlier deliveries generally.
We plan for stock levels during the coming year to increase by an average of 10%.
Directory debtor balances rose 16m to 500m, we retain robust provisions against potential defaults and remain comfortable with our management of this consumer debt.
Net debt at the year end was 530m.
This is comfortably financed by the 206m of bonds maturing in 2013 and 250m in 2016, together with 295m of bank facilities committed until 2013.
We believe that NEXT will continue to generate cash from its trading operations in excess of that required to fund growth in the business.
We currently estimate a surplus inflow of around 180m for the year ahead after tax and dividends, but before share buybacks.
SHARE BUYBACKS We have continued our longstanding strategy of using surplus cash to buy back NEXT shares.
During the year we acquired 10 million shares 5.2% of those in issue at the start of the year at a cost of 205m.
Since the year end we have purchased a further 1.4 million shares at a cost of 28m.
indd 10 11 04 2011 11:02:32 Directors Report and Business Review 11 As we expect the consumer environment to remain subdued for some time, our strategy of buybacks from free cash flow will deliver EPS growth without adding operational risk.
As an example, if we generate 180m of cash and use 160m to buy back shares at 20, then EPS would be enhanced this year by around 5%.
It is our intention to maintain investment grade credit rating and we will not pursue buybacks to the detriment of developing the business.
Given these principles and subject to market conditions, we intend to continue buying back shares in the current year.
In this scenario, we expect net debt will fluctuate between 500m and 600m for the majority of the year and will again be around 500m by January 2012.
DIVIDENDS We have proposed raising our final dividend to 53p, taking the total dividend for the year to 78p.
This is an increase of 18% and is in line with growth in EPS.
Dividend cover remains a healthy 2.8 times.
Given our prospects for further cash inflows and the current level of cover, we expect to raise dividends in the year ahead.
INTERIM MANAGEMENT STATEMENT Our next statement will cover the first quarter to the end of April and is provisionally scheduled for Wednesday 4 May 2011.
OUTLOOK FOR 2011 12 Cost Price Inflation and Price Elasticity In August last year we alerted the market to the fact that we would experience a significant increase in input prices in Spring Summer 2011.
So far this year the average selling price of the stock we have bought is 8% up on last year as per previous guidance, however the average selling price of the stock we have sold is slightly lower than that at around 6%.
The difference is explained by customers trading down our price architecture in certain categories.
Measuring Price Elasticity The effect of rising prices on consumer demand is tricky to gauge, few products are identical from one season to another, and it is difficult to distinguish the effects of price rises from the impact of the deteriorating economic environment.
Where prices have risen on identical products the consequences have been varied.
Opening price points have proved to be the most sensitive to change, but we have worked hard to re-source and maintain these where possible.
On average, the effects of price rises appear to have been marginally negative on cash sales, as we predicted last September.
Taking a basket of items which do have a direct equivalent last year, our research indicates price elasticity of around -1.1.
So an increase in price of 8% would cause a decrease in sales of around -1.5%.
Autumn Winter Prices The outlook for clothing prices in Autumn Winter looks slightly worse than Spring Summer: wage rates continue to rise in the Far East and, more importantly, commodity prices especially cotton have continued to climb to record highs.
However, we have made good progress finding new cheaper sources of supply and continue to place large orders earlier in order to get better prices.
We are currently negotiating prices for fourth quarter product and our best guess is that we will be able to contain overall price rises to between 8% and 10% during the second half.
We will issue more detailed guidance on this subject when we issue our IMS in May.
Looking further forward towards the back end of 2011 there is evidence that cotton supplies will increase as the year progresses and the price of cotton futures is at a very significant discount to current spot prices.
It therefore seems likely that we will see some easing in inflationary pressure as we move into 2012.
Outlook for the Wider Consumer Economy In the year ahead we expect the consumer environment to be somewhat more challenging than it was in 2010.
It seems likely that recent worldwide inflation in fuel, food and other essential commodities will further add to the financial pressure on the consumer.
We believe inflation is exerting a greater burden on our customers finances than Government cuts or lack of credit.
So, current levels of inflation are bad news for 2011.
However inflation is perhaps less worrying in the medium term, commodity price inflation would appear unlikely to compound, and if that is the case then pressure will ease when price rises begin to annualise towards the end of 2011.
indd 11 11 04 2011 11:02:32 Business reports Directors Report and Business Review 12 Sales, Profits and EPS in the Year Ahead Despite the gloomy prognosis for the economy, we believe that NEXT can continue to grow new sources of revenue and that total sales can be maintained or possibly advanced on last year.
We estimate that total Brand sales in the first half will be in the range -0.5% to 2.5%.
Our cost base remains well controlled and we believe that inflationary pressures in our cost base can be more than offset through saving initiatives.
It is too early in the year to give a sales estimate for the full year.
However it is helpful for us to indicate the range of profit that we believe could be achieved for a given sales range.
We would stress that the sales and profits set out below are not forecasts and are only to illustrate what profits could be achieved if sales are within this range.
Estimated profit and EPS outcomes for possible sales range Brand sales VAT exclusive Down -0.5% Up 2.5% Estimated group profit before tax 520m 570m Profit before tax growth -5.5% 3.5% Share buyback estimate 160m 160m Estimated growth in EPS -0.5% 8.5% So we believe that if total NEXT Brand sales for the full year fall within -0.5% to 2.5% then profit before tax would be between 520m and 570m, representing growth on last year of between -5.5% and 3.5%.
This estimated profit range is in line with current market expectations.
We anticipate the Group will generate around 180m of surplus cash after allowing for capital expenditure, interest, tax and dividends.
We currently intend to use surplus cash to buy back shares.
In this event, the combined effect of cash generation and share buybacks will be to enhance earnings per share by around 5%.
So given the sales scenarios set out above, earnings per share growth would be in the range -0.5% to 8.5%.
SUMMARY The year ahead will be yet another challenging year for retailers and, if anything, things are likely to get worse before they get better.
Retailing will feel like walking up the down escalator we will have to work hard to stand still!
However, NEXT is well prepared for the current environment: our cost base is under control, we have an efficient well-financed balance sheet and continue to generate strong positive cash flows.
We can afford to continue investing in the NEXT Brand and new avenues of growth, whether that be new Home stores, UK online or Directory overseas.
Over and above that we are likely to generate surplus cash, which will allow us to further enhance earnings per share through share buybacks and grow our dividend.
Lord Wolfson of Aspley Guise Chief Executive 24 March 2011 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 29 January 2011 20183.04 07 04 2011 Proof 6 20183-04NEXTPLC FRONT.
