06 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Chief executive officers review This review highlights our business activity during my first year as CEO of NWG.
It has been a hugely enjoyable year, and also a very interesting one, as I took time to understand the business, listen to its stakeholders and employees and work with them to develop a way forward.
07 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk I joined a company which already had a good Environment is critical to us and our stakeholders reputation and I was impressed immediately by the and we acknowledge our responsibilities to protect loyalty and commitment of the workforce.
It was the and enhance the natural environment.
Our carbon start of a new five year investment period for NWL and management plan will help reduce our carbon footprint I have taken the opportunity to couple that plan with and we will adopt good environmental practice in all a review of our strategy, vision and values.
NWL had previously stated its vision to be the national Communities are important to us and we want to leader in the provision of sustainable water and waste build strong relationships with the communities we water services, and our commitment to this is serve.
We will ensure that corporate responsibility is reaffirmed.
We want to continue to deliver value to embedded in performance management and that we customers and other stakeholders by focusing on benchmark ourselves against the best companies.
our core competencies of water and waste water management.
We underpin our drive to be the best We have agreed specific goals to help us achieve with five strategic themes containing goals and targets our vision against these themes, and have clear that, when reached, will see our vision and our values accountability for their achievement throughout delivered.
In the autumn, Our Vision Our Values Our the company.
These are measured in a balanced Way was introduced to all our employees during a scorecard which assesses our performance against series of interactive roadshows and, as a result, there key performance indicators KPIs.
This is reviewed is clarity and energy throughout the company which by the Board, management team and all employees is driving the business forward.
The five themes described below are mutually I believe that clear direction and goals are key to supportive and achieving the right balance between success, but just as important is a clear sense of them is essential to our success and reputation.
values, and how we do things around here.
So at the same time as reviewing our vision, we have Customer focuses on delivering industry-leading made a clear commitment to five core values.
Our relationship with customers is core to the success of our business and it is essential One team we work together consistently, promoting that they trust our service.
Customer service is at the co-operation, to achieve our corporate objectives.
heart of the company and all employees have a clear focus on getting things right first time every time.
Customer focused we aim to exceed the Although we are required to meet regulated standards expectations of our external and internal customers.
for customer service, this should not define our aspiration as the quality of our service must go Results driven we take personal responsibility for beyond that.
Competitiveness will drive us to greater efficiency Creative we continuously strive for innovative and and, indeed, to be the most efficient water company.
better ways to deliver our business.
It is not just about driving cost down but using innovation to support our activity.
Ethical we are open and honest in meeting our commitments, with a responsible approach to the People are our greatest asset and we want to be environment and our communities.
recognised as a great company to work for with high levels of satisfaction from our employees.
We will provide support and training and promote excellent employee relations.
Vision Reputation Values Customer Competitiveness People Environment Communities 08 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Chief executive officers review continued 2010 11 We continue to be actively involved in the business The company was successful in meeting many of the community in all operating areas through direct targets in its balanced scorecard during the year.
Out membership and involvement in the councils boards of 26 targets we improved in 18, which is a very good of the Confederation of British Industry CBI, Chambers start.
Most notable were the improvements in sewer of Commerce and other similar organisations.
For flooding, our SIM score for customer service as well as my part, I have been getting involved in a number of the reduction in the number of interruptions to supply.
organisations which I believe can influence the future We were also very proud to retain our industry-leading of the company and locally I am a member of the position in sewage treatment.
Our independent CBI Council and have been asked to join their customer satisfaction scores still show that customers national Infrastructure Group.
I have also joined the are satisfied with the service we provide as well as value Governments Green Economy Council as the water for money although we were disappointed that this industry representative and I hope that the Council was not reflected at the same level in the research can bring a real influence to the development of undertaken by the Consumer Council for Water policy relating to a low carbon economy.
This year, industrial demand has stabilised and we were The report will also focus on many highlights throughout particularly pleased with the signing of the agreement the year but the development of our work to extend by SSI from Thailand to secure the future of the Corus Abberton reservoir and commence our second plant on Teesside.
There is evidence of some industrial advanced anaerobic digestion plant at Howdon, after growth particularly with the confirmation that Hitachi will the successful operation at Bran Sands, are particularly develop a site in Durham to assemble its high speed notable.
The worst winter for over 100 years challenged trains.
Metering of our domestic customers continues our employees but they responded magnificently to increase, although at a different pace in our various ensuring that no supplies were interrupted.
This was a areas of supply, and domestic demand is also steady.
fantastic achievement and I am very proud and grateful The collection of income remains a key focus for us, for the commitment and hard work of so many of our particularly in a difficult economic climate.
employees in truly dreadful weather conditions.
Private drains and sewers The company also continued to receive external One of the major challenges we face in 2011 12 is the recognition for its activity.
This year, Ethisphere listed transfer of private drains and sewers to the industry in NWG in its top 110 most ethical companies in the world, October.
This will almost double our sewerage network one of only five companies chosen in the UK.
This overnight and much work is already in hand to assess recognises the impact we have on underpinning the what is needed in terms of staffing, building effective communities in which we operate and also recognises data, information sharing and communications to our longstanding relationships with key industrial and customers.
We dont fully know the impact of the commercial customers.
transfer yet, but it will lead to higher costs, in the order of 20 million a year initially, which we will need to recover in this five year investment period.
The industry has worked well in partnership, via Water UK, to come up with the most practical cost effective way forward for customers.
09 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Legislative changes We strongly support the move by Ofwat to significantly We look forward to publication of the Governments reduce the burden of regulatory reporting and move White Papers on Water and the Natural Environment later towards risk-based regulation.
A useful start was this year.
The former should bring greater clarity in areas made in the simplified 2011 June Return reporting such as water resource planning, metering, social tariffs requirements but we support the proposal for more and broader market reform.
We have worked with the radical change in 2012.
We have been working in industry, through Water UK, to set out a vision of how the partnership with Ofwat to pilot a set of high level KPIs Government can achieve many of its objectives without to be reported by companies in place of the current legislation or with only minor legislative changes.
NWL detailed and prescriptive reporting requirements.
has held frequent meetings with Defra and contributed ideas on water trading and abstraction reform including Ofwat has published a series of consultation and a joint project Trading theory for Practice with Anglian discussion papers on the subject of Future price limits.
Water, Cambridge Water and Veolia.
We remain We have responded to these papers and also engaged committed to any moves that can deliver clear and in a range of workshops, meetings and informal demonstrable improvements for customers, other discussions with Ofwat.
We believe the more focused stakeholders and the wider environment.
approach to regulation should be reflected in the approach to future price reviews as well as the annual The Water White Paper will be an opportunity to end reporting cycle.
We welcome Ofwats intention to adopt unhelpful speculation around the future regulatory a more outcome-focused approach to price setting and regime and provide a clear vision for the future of the have made suggestions as to how the price setting water industry that retains the confidence of customers methodology could be simplified and made more and investors alike.
We look forward to responding to Ofwats formal consultation paper outlining its proposals for In addition, we await the publication for consultation future price reviews later in the year.
of draft Regulations from Defra to introduce a duty on landlords to provide water companies with relevant The Office of Fair Trading has announced a market details so that accurate bills can be issued to tenants.
study looking at whether the market for treatment of This should assist in collecting income from the organic waste is working effectively to deliver the best private rented sector where bad debts have been outcomes for customers.
NWL was an early investor relatively high.
in advanced anaerobic digestion technology and we welcome this review as it should provide the clarity Regulatory reform required to inform investment decisions.
We welcome the conclusions of the Defra review of Ofwat and CCWater conducted by David Gray.
We Summary also welcome the view that the overall regulatory This has been a very good year for the Group.
We are framework, including the continued role for a separate reporting a strong set of results, we have a clear vision customer body, is generally fit for purpose.
We support and goals to deliver and have made good progress in the call for regulatory simplification and a reduced performance in many areas.
There is a strong sense of reporting burden which is already being championed energy, commitment and accountability in the business enthusiastically by Ofwat.
We also support further and I am confident of further success in 2011 12. clarification of the respective roles of Government and regulators and a call for more transparency in consultation processes.
Heidi Mottram Chief Executive Officer 31 May 2011
