04 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Chief Executive Officers review against the backdrop of a weak uK economy, we have continued to see material growth in the online grocery market.
we believe this is evidence of a structural shift in consumer behaviour: we expect continued expansion of this market in the future.
Tim Steiner Chief executive Officer during the past year, Ocado has made significant progress in as i have said in previous updates on the business, increasing growing sales and increasing capacity to support future growth.
the capacity of CfC1 to cope with increased sales demand against the background of the weak uK economy, gross sales has presented operational challenges.
during the year several have grown by 16.6%.
we are very grateful to our customers major construction projects were completed in CfC1 while for their loyalty and support.
the picking of groceries continued.
that we were able to do this is a credit to the planning and execution skills of our engineering and CfC1 teams.
we temporarily reduced our Market development product range to under 20,000 lines during the year to create the importance of the online grocery market in the uK, while space for construction of additional automation.
in h2 2011 we still in its infancy, is now recognised by most major grocery hired additional temporary staff and reintroduced some manual retailers.
Customers continue to migrate from shopping in trolley-picking to provide a short-term increase in operational stores for groceries to shopping online.
this is borne out by capacity.
as a result of these changes, CfC1 efficiency measured average orders per week at Ocado in 2011 increasing by 18.6% in units per hour uph dropped by 8.2% from 121 uph to from 92,916 to 110,219. a recent report from the institute 111 uph.
as new equipment becomes operational in CfC1 of grocery distribution forecast that the uK online grocery over the next 12 months, we expect to see a rise in efficiency market will reach 11 billion of sales by 2016. we believe the towards our long-term target of 180 uph.
biggest threat to the growth of the online market is underinvestment: retailers will not be able to fully service increasing customer demand unless they invest in online sales capacity.
Ocados marketplace Competition in the online grocery sector is already as strong as the traditional store-based sector, and will almost certainly COverage: Over 70% Of uK increase.
we believe the best way for Ocado to acquire new hOusehOlds and grOwing customers, as well as retain existing customers, is to continue to develop and improve the Ocado offer.
we have worked to improve this on many levels for the benefit of our customers.
Capacity expansion this year we developed CfC1 towards its ultimate capacity CfCs of 180,000 orders per week.
investment was made in major upgrades to our proprietary software running the warehouse spokes leeds operation: in additional storage, picking and tote conveyor manchester capacity: and in the power infrastructure of CfC1.
in 2012 we are planning further investment in CfC1 to take capacity to around 160,000 orders per week by year end.
CfC2: dordon Coventry CfC1: hatfield Oxford dartford bristol weybridge Over 30,000 litres Of milK southampton are delivered daily tO Our white City hatfield CfC fOr next day delivery tO Our CustOmers wimbledon 21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 Chief executive Officers review faCt Stock code: OCDO www.
com 05 Delivery Productivity drops per van per week 2008 2009 2010 2011 long-term target Construction is advancing well at CfC2 in dordon, the increasing scale of the business, combined with warwickshire.
work on the building, services and ancillary ongoing upgrades to routing software and van design have infrastructure is substantially complete and equipment contributed to deliveries per van per week dpv week installation has started.
it remains on budget and on time to increasing by 8.7% to 145 dpv week.
during the year the open in Q1 2013. systems testing is currently planned to start peak was 165 dpv week.
the on-time delivery performance in mid-2012, with initial operations scheduled to commence was 92.3%, down from 94.9% in the previous year, largely due in early 2013, giving us a six month testing and commissioning to the impact of significant development works in CfC1.
we believe CfC2 will represent the single biggest increase in capacity by a grocery retailer serving the online Grocery range market in the uK.
it is a key part of our drive to secure we have continued to develop our grocery range and Ocados leading position in this fast growing market.
Ocado now offers a grocery range equivalent in size to our largest store-based competitors.
Our investment in CfC1 Customer demand will enable us to grow this from the level of around 20,000 more customers are shopping online, and doing so more products we had at year end, to over 30,000 products over frequently.
this is causing a slight decline in basket size, and we the next year.
the Ocado own-label range has more than have seen the average order size at Ocado during the year doubled during the year to 620 products.
Our own-label fall by 1.7% from 114.06 to 112.15. most of this decrease range is comparable in price and quality to similar products of is due to the shift of customers towards the Ocado delivery our major competitors and has proved very popular.
70% of pass Odp, one of our key customer loyalty schemes.
there all Ocado baskets now contain at least one Ocado own-label are two reasons for this: the majority of Ocado orders are product.
in addition, we have a growing number of specialist now placed using the Odp scheme, and these customers ranges such as Carrefours reflets fide france range of have a higher overall spend as increased shopping frequency authentic french produce, as well as leading organic suppliers more than offsets the lower average basket for this customer such as daylesford Organic and laverstoke park farm.
nevertheless it is also clear that Ocado customers are feeling the same budgetary pressures that are affecting british Non-food business consumers elsewhere and towards the end of 2011 we began in line with the objectives we set out at our ipO, we continue to to see a slight change in product mix and baskets that were on expand our range of non-food items.
we recruited a dedicated average one item smaller.
non-food team to drive this expansion forward.
we plan to increase significantly our non-food range by the end of 2013.
Operating efficiency Our delivery networks performance continued to improve throughout the year.
we opened new spokes in bristol and wimbledon and after the period end, in Oxfordshire.
the bristol spoke has enabled us to expand our service coverage into the south west of england and south wales.
whilst we already operate in wimbledon, this new spoke increased our capacity in the london area by around 17,000 orders per week.
the opening of these spokes increased the operational efficiency of our existing delivery network.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 106 121 133 145 175 Chief executive Officers review Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance 06 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Chief Executive Officers review continued we will continue in 2012 to pursue our core strategy of improving our offer to customers and increasing capacity to meet growing demand.
it is our mission to ensure that customers continue to regard Ocado as the market-leading offer in online grocery shopping.
Tim Steiner Chief executive Officer Value we continue to focus on offering greater value to an ever widening customer base.
we have done this by investing in price in four main ways: increasing the number of products on promotion, continuing our tesco price match on all identical products not on promotion to approximately 7,000 products by the end of 2011, expanding the Ocado own label range, and launching the Ocado saving pass.
the Ocado saving pass enables our customers to make at least a 10% saving on over 600 leading branded products.
this includes products that are already price-matched to tesco, in return for a small annual fee.
all these initiatives were achieved while delivering the freshest produce to customers through our shorter we enhanced the functionality and usability of the existing supply chain, accompanied by our product life guarantee.
Ocado apps available for the iphone, the ipad and the android platform, and developed Ocado apps for the Technology and innovation blackberry and the windows phone 7 mobile devices.
website and mobile interfaces the launch of Ocados latest webshop was completed in Other software developments included our One-Click Q1 2011. it has proved to be very successful, receiving additions feature, allowing customers on mobile devices excellent customer feedback.
the webshop enabled to amend an existing delivery without needing to check out customers to shop up to 25% faster than before.
Ocado is the only uK supermarket to offer customers regularly make enhancements to our webshop and use our full shopping functionality on all leading smartphone devices.
technological base to improve the customer experience and we also implemented a new Crm platform to improve the service.
we launched shop in shop, allowing suppliers to efficiency of our call centre and provide substantial benefits showcase their specific ranges in their own dedicated section to customer service.
Ocados software development of the webshop.
achievements were recognised with Ocado being awarded a grocer gold award for Consumer initiative of the year Checkouts via mobile devices grew to 18% of checkouts by in 2011. the end of the period, up from 12% at the beginning of the year.
OCadO CfC COmputers a reCent study revealed maKe Over 10 milliOn that 69.5% Of Our basKets COnveyOr-belt rOuting Of branded prOduCts were deCisiOns every day Cheaper than tesCO.
COm 21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 Chief executive Officers review faCt faCt Stock code: OCDO www.
com 07 in 2012 we will continue to pursue our existing strategy People and recognition to improve what we offer our customers, to complete the key to our success is the energy and commitment of the capacity expansion work at CfC1 and to continue the nearly 6,000 employees in different areas of the business.
build, commissioning and testing of CfC2.
we will focus on i would like to recognise the tremendous efforts made by improving the levels of service, beyond that which we gave them throughout the year.
Our customers and industry our customers in the second half of 2011. observers regularly comment on the outstanding service provided by our delivery team of over 2,000 Customer it is our mission to make sure that customers continue to service team members.
the measures taken by Ocado to regard Ocado as the market-leading offer in online grocery make its delivery vehicles safe were again recognised in 2011 shopping.
we will continue to provide for and capture the by Ocado winning for the second year running the safe growth of this market sector.
the operational leverage we vehicles award at the fleet safety forum awards, organised have in our business positions us strongly to benefit from by road safety charity brake.
Ocado also won the fleet van increased scale to achieve a level of profitability that satisfies Operator of the year at the fleet transport awards.
all stakeholders in the business.
the overall standard of the business was again recognised with our selection as a finalist for the etailer of the year award at the Tim Steiner 2011 Oracle world retail awards, and being voted the favourite Chief executive Officer online supermarket in the which?
in november 2011, we signed a voluntary union recognition agreement with usdaw for Ocados hourly paid employees at all our current operational sites.
usdaw representatives will participate on our existing Ocado Council to voice the views of the employees they represent.
the Ocado Council continues to be the forum that we use to consult with our employees.
Current trading and outlook against the backdrop of the weak uK economy, we have continued to see growth in the online grocery retail market.
we believe this is evidence of a structural shift in consumer behaviour and we will see continued expansion of the market.
Ocado is well positioned to capture this growth as the market-leading offer in online grocery shopping.
Ocado achieved gross sales growth of 16.6% in 2011, during a period of capacity constraints at CfC1.
Our growth has continued into 2012: sales growth in the first quarter was 10.9%, similar to Q4 2011. given the sales growth profile we experienced in 2011 as a result of capacity constraints, we expect our growth rate to improve as the year progresses.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 Chief executive Officers review Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance
