Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 02 Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Joint Review mitigated through a series of farm out agreements.
In 2012 the Group is undertaking the busiest drilling programme in its history, with drilling continuing in Tanzania, a rig procured for an imminent programme in Equatorial Guinea and nine wells expected to be spudded by the end of the year.
The Group has recently announced the results of the Jodari-1 well drilled during January and February 2012.
This was the first well drilled with BG as operator and resulted in the Groups fourth successive, and largest in the Groups history, gas discovery in its Tanzania blocks with a recoverable resource estimate of 3.4 TCF.
Preparations are also underway for a 12 well programme in 2013.
Ophir ended 2011 with net contingent 2C resources of 210 mmboe and net risked prospective resources of 1,882 mmboe.
Portfolio Management Ophir continues to actively manage its portfolio to best deploy its 2011 was dominated by Ophirs IPO, which raised a capital resources against the most total of US$384 million inclusive of the greenshoe.
The IPO provided the Group with a strong cash position In 2011 the Group farmed out interests in the Mbeli and Ntsina of US$396.6 million at year end.
licences in Gabon to Petrobras and an interest in the AGC Profond Corporate Overview the Groups portfolio in East Africa licence to Noble Energy.
The Group 2011 saw Ophir successfully list via the addition of five exploration acquired interests in the East on the main board of the London licences, with three being Pande licence in Tanzania by Stock Exchange.
Ophir joined the complementary to Ophirs way of a farm in agreement with FTSE 250 in November 2011.
As RAKGas and acquired five further IPO was set against a backdrop a result Ophir now has one of the exploration interests via the of turbulent capital markets and largest portfolios of operated Dominion transaction in Block 7 relatively low levels of new equity and non-operated acreage in the Tanzania, Blocks L9 and L15 issuance and Ophir ended the year exciting emerging offshore East Kenya, Area 4B Uganda and as the best performing IPO stock African play.
Ophir currently for 2011. has interests in 22 licences in 11 Operationally, 2011 saw two wells countries and jurisdictions, 14 In October 2011 Ophir announced completed.
The Chewa-1 well in of which are operated, 18 of a proposal to acquire the share Tanzania was the third in a series which are offshore and 4 of which capital of AIM-listed Dominion of back-to-back gas discoveries in are onshore.
Petroleum Ltd in an all-stock Tanzania.
The Kora-1 well in the transaction.
The acquisition closed AGC joint development area was in February 2012 and expanded unsuccessful but costs were BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 03 This last year has seen the team raise the bar once again.
Their tireless efforts might sometimes pass without comment but they are always appreciated.
On behalf of the Board and shareholders we would like to offer them our thanks and admiration for another outstanding year for the Group.
This year of performance has been delivered without compromising on safety and we are pleased to report no lost time accidents or Financial Ophirs senior management team reported incidents across the diverse 2011 was dominated by Ophirs was expanded in June 2011 with range of operations undertaken IPO, which raised a total of $384 the appointment of Dr Nick Cooper across the African continent in million inclusive of the greenshoe.
as Chief Executive Officer, replacing often challenging conditions.
The IPO provided the Group with a Dr Alan Stein who held that position strong cash position of $396.6 since formation of the Group in Corporate Responsibility million at year end.
Alan remains an active Corporate Responsibility forms a placing in April 2012 raised an member of the executive team but key part of Ophirs operating culture.
has signalled his intention to step The Group strives to make a positive We are fully funded to finance the down from the Board after the impact in the development of the planned exploration programmes Annual General Meeting AGM countries in which it operates.
In December 2011, Ophirs goal is to establish a Yvonne Holm resigned from her sustainable, balanced approach to Board, Management and Staff position of Chief Financial Officer its business which includes assisting The evolution of Ophirs Board and Director, and in January 2012, local communities wherever possible during 2011 reflects the transition Lisa Mitchell, previously Ophirs through such initiatives as education, to being a public company.
During Group Financial Controller, was protection of the environment 2011 Dr Nick Cooper, Mr Ron appointed as CFO.
and the creation of broad, lasting Blakely and Mr Patrick Spink joined economic development.
We the Board while Mr Rajan Tandon At the heart of our Group is a small understand that by taking a appointed Mr Jaroslaw Paczek as yet dedicated and extremely pragmatic, long-term, positive his alternate.
At IPO Mr Michael professional group of staff and approach to corporate responsibility Cohen, Mr Mikki Xayiya left the associates who have consistently it will provide lasting dividends to Board, Ms Yvonne Holm and Mr delivered outstanding performance.
the Group and the countries in John Morgan left later in the year.
On behalf of the Board and shareholders the Chairman has thanked those that served on the Board for their contributions and has welcomed those that join the Board as we embark upon the next stage in Ophirs growth.
Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 04 Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Joint Review continued In Equatorial Guinea, Ophir continued its support of a nursery school in the village of Ebein Yenkeng.
The Group also donated funding for a training seminar on social content which was provided to members of the Ministry of Mines, Minerals and Energy MMIE in Malabo.
In addition, Ophir contributes to the Equatorial Guinean Hydrocarbon Technological Institute Educational At the heart of our Company is a small yet dedicated Programme ITNHGE, a and extremely professional group of staff and collaborative educational initiative run for the benefit of adult associates who have consistently delivered students in Equatorial Guinea.
Outlook In Tanzania, Ophir has continued to the development of the Mtwara The oil and gas industrys focus to be actively involved in the region.
There has been a large on African exploration has risen development of Mtwara port positive impact in the local economy dramatically in 2011 and early 2012. and its attendant services.
Ophir as the community shares in this The pace of activity on both the was responsible for the initial development through training, East African offshore gas play and development of this facility in employment and improved the West African pre-salt play have partnership with the Tanzanian infrastructure.
In December 2011, increased as major oil companies authorities.
In 2011 the port parts of the main city of Dar es have entered the region and made development scheme expanded Salaam suffered severe flooding, significant discoveries.
This has rapidly as more oil and gas operating making many citizens homeless.
had important implications for companies joined Ophir, resulting Ophir assisted relocation efforts Ophirs portfolio.
in the transformation of a previously by swiftly donating 30 large water underutilised port into a thriving storage tanks to the victims In the East African gas play Anadarko operations base which has resettlement site.
This initiative and ENI are reported to have subsequently received Duty Free secured adequate sanitation and discovered more than 40 TCF of gas status to underscore its importance was vital to reduce disease risk for in Mozambique with the majority the flood victims whilst in their being found in extensive basin temporary accommodation.
This play has not yet been tested in Ophirs Tanzanian acreage but it is thought to potentially extend into Block 1 and possibly Block 3.
A new 3D seismic survey is currently being acquired in Block 1 to test this concept and initial results are anticipated mid-year.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 05 In the adjacent Tanzania Block 2 Statoils recent Zafarani-1 discovery appears to have fide-risked elements of the deeper Cretaceous play potential within Ophirs acreage.
Some of the wells in Ophirs 2012 drilling programme will also test these deeper plays.
The industrys appetite for the East African offshore gas play has been clearly demonstrated by the competitive bidding to acquire AIM-listed Cove Energy which has an 8.5% stake in the Anadarko operated block in Mozambique, to the south of BG Ophirs Block 1.
If this appetite is sustained then it affords Ophir a degree of flexibility both in the way that it finances its exploration and appraisal activities in the play and in the way that it secures value for shareholders.
The Group now has one of the largest offshore acreage footprints in East Africa.
In addition to the In 2012 Q2, the Group will commence wells currently being drilled by the Ophir BG joint venture in Blocks 1, a three well programme in Equatorial Guinea targeting further 3 and 4, offset wells with relevance to Ophir acreage will be drilled in gas discoveries to aggregate into an LNG development.
Already the the next few months by Petrobras and Statoil in Tanzania, Anadarko Group is planning for a further 12 and ENI in Mozambique and Apache well programme in 2013 in Kenya.
In West Africa, considerable recent The outlook for Ophir in 2012 is success has occurred in the promising.
The Group enters 2012 deepwater pre-salt play with notable with an extensive portfolio of successes by both Cobalt and Maersk interests across some of the most in Angola.
Ophir has a strong acreage interesting exploration plays in position in this deepwater play, Africa.
The Group is well placed to with four licences in Gabon and one meet its exploration and appraisal in Congo-Brazzaville.
In Gabon, the forecast expenditure for at least Group has recently completed two the next 12 months.
seismic programmes that will support both a pre-salt well with Petrobras in late 2012 on the Mbeli and Ntsina licences and also potential farm outs of the Manga and Gnondo licences.
