08 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Pearsons strategy: Marjorie Scardino, Chief executive Dear shareholders, The outside By the time you start to read this letter and please forgive the presumption that you do, its subject environment has 2011 will be ancient history.
Pearson will be more than one quarter of the way through the next year, inspired us to move andmaking plans for the next five.
Like us, you may be more concerned about the future more quickly, to than the past.
But we all know that what has happened is the best guide to what might happen, soId like to be more radical in give last year a little time in this report before I talk about our plans.
our approach, to be What happened in 2011?
After several tough years in the world economy, webegan the year hoping for a change for the better.
But it turned out to be more of the same: slow economic growth in the developed world: austerity measures taking their toll on spending by governments and consumers: a crisis of unemployment especially among young people that played its part in social unrest.
If that reads like a downbeat assessment of our world this past year, thats how it felt.
The wind was not in our sails.
Even so, Im anything but downbeat about Watch an interview with Marjorie Scardino, the resilience and creativity Pearsons people showed Chief executive: www.
com ar2011 marjorie-scardino through those troubled and troubling waters.
Despite the gloom, they ground out another set ofnancial results to be proud of, and they achieved some goals that we believe will set us up for the future and maybe even make the world a little better in the process.
KEY FINANCIAL MEASURES: FIVE YEAR RECORD ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE PENCE OPERATING CASH FLOW m 11 86.5p 983m 11 10 77.5p 1,057m 10 09 65.4p 913m 09 08 57.7p 796m 08 07 07 46.7p 684m OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 1 Overview 09 You can see all the countable details in the charts on Economic turbulence these pages, but to pick out a few of the high notes: The prospects for the world economy look dim for Sales up 6%, and just shy of 5.9bn: theshort term.
Any recovery from the 2008 financial crisis was faint and short-lived.
Europe is now Operating profits up 12%, to 942m: ploughing through one urgent economic crisis after Earnings per share also up 12%, to 86.5p: another: austerity measures around the over-indebted world are having a deep impact, and growth appears A proposed dividend increase of 9%, taking our tobe slowing even in some emerging markets now.
full-year payment to 42p: and Still, the big shifts in economic growth and power are An encouraging verdict from the stock market, accelerating.
Developing economies are growing on whichat year-end had pushed our shares 20% average 3% points a year faster than the US.
And if higher than last year and almost 90% higher over that gap continues, those so-called emerging markets thepast three years.
will account for two-thirds of the worlds output in That share price ended the year just over 12, a tenless than 20 years.
China may overtake America as the year high.
And on most of those financial measures, worlds largest economy within the next ten.
Thats an we set all-time highs for Pearson.
exciting and sobering prospect for a company like ours that today makes around two-thirds of its profits So, we can take one last look back at 2011 with some in America and just 2% in China.
But we cant spend any time congratulating ourselves.
Another quick glance at the Social turbulence past tells us why.
Economic turbulence generally builds to social Back in 2007, as the financial crisis was taking hold, upheaval.
So those economic shifts are playing a part the best consumer book company on the planet in protests across the Middle East, demonstrations that would be Penguin published the memoirs of inWestern Europe and on Wall Street and riots in Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the US theUK.
In the financial crisis that followed, his legacy came under re, but looking back, the title Our attening world is becoming more unequal.
of his book was remarkably prescient.
He called it This past October, we reached a world population of TheAge of Turbulence.
More than half of them are living on $2 a day or less.
Thats a perfect description of what Pearsons future holds, and what we have to plan for now.
And theres The world of work is one of the sources of profound more than one kind of turbulence thats going to disruption and anger described by the Financial Times require our vigilance and imagination: as the din of inequity.
KEY FINANCIAL MEASURES: FIVE YEAR RECORD ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m RETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL % 11 11 942m 9.1% 10 10 857m 10.3% 09 09 710m 8.9% 08 08 641m 9.2% 07 07 522m 8.9% 10 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Pearsons strategy: Marjorie Scardino, Chief executive continued Around the globe more than 200 million people are Political turbulence unemployed.
The young have been hit especially hard.
If we needed someone to tell us, former US President In America, the youth unemployment rate has Bill Clinton did in the FT Magazine back in October: increased almost 70% to 18% since 2007: in the UK the Successful countries are ones where economic forces rate is even higher, at more than 20%.
In rich OECD and government work together to raise job growth, countries, one in five young people is out of work: in lower unemployment, and narrow inequalities in much of the Middle East its one in three: in parts of income, health care and education.
But that kind of Southern Africa one in two.
collaboration seems elusive right now.
And those who are no-longer-young but still need In addition, our environment, both physical and social, towork cant nd it either because they dont have is ever more political and ever more sensitive to theright skills.
Creating new jobs and helping people political intervention.
Managing those forces has come learn the skills that theyll need to secure them and to be a requirement of every organisation.
In our case succeed will be one of the most pressing priorities that runs from consideration of media regulation and for governments around the world.
reform of education to copyright and intellectual I recognise the inherent dangers of raising such property protection.
matters as someone in a very fortunate position The publics scepticism of financial institutions is also whose remuneration is there for all to see somewhere provoking more scepticism of companies in general, in the pages of this report.
But Im convinced that large and especially of those that make a profit out of companies and the people whorun them are going providing a public service, such as journalism or to have to understand and respond to these kinds education.
A climate of suspicion will be a critical of issues.
challenge for a company that is large, global, successful and heavily dependent on the publics trust and the public purse, as we are.
OUR STRATEGY 12 Long-term organic investment in content Digital products and services businesses Over the past five years, we have invested more than 4bn in our Our strategy is to add services to our content, usually enabled by business: new education programmes: new and established technology, to make the content more useful, more personal and authors for Penguin: the FT Groups journalism.
We believe that more valuable.
These digital products and services businesses this constant investment is critical to the quality and effectiveness give us access to new, bigger and faster-growing markets.
In 2011, of our products and that it has helped us gain share in many of our digital revenues were 2bn or 33% ofPearsons total sales.
EDUCATION AND PENGUIN PRE-PUBLICATION PEARSONS DIGITAL REVENUES EXPENDITURE AND AUTHORS ADVANCES $m % OF SALES 11 33% 11 $794m 10 29% 10 $816m 09 25% 09 $794m 08 22% 08 $775m 07 07 21% $741m OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 1 Overview 11 Technological turbulence This environment doesnt provoke us to change course, or to throw our strategy overboard.
We think The death of Steve Jobs, the leader of Apple, was a it remains a sound fundamental strategy, one that has moment to reect on the remarkable technological proven it can enable the company to prosper through changes in our times.
At the start of his life, the good times and bad.
In 2006, before the financial siliconchip hadnt been invented.
By the end of it, crisis and the subsequent recession, our sales were only56years later, two billion people were using the 4.4bn.
In 2011, still in a downturn, they were more internet and five billion were using mobile phones.
In that time, our Not all of them by a long shot were using Apple profit rose from less than 600m to close to 950m devices, but that company did play a special role in and earnings per share from a little over 40p to thecreation and growth of new consumer forms about86p.
It helped open fresh possibilities But the outside environment has inspired us to move formany, including our company, and has made more quickly, to be more radical in our approach, fundamental changes in what we do and how we tobe more courageous.
The areas well be changing doit.
Those changes will only speed up.
centre on themes that are familiar, but on which were either moving faster or taking a different approach.
What does that mean for our future?
Heres a summary of them: So these are turbulent times for any company, but especially for one like ours.
And this turbulence is not 1.
Investment: Were an aggressive, long-term a freak storm at sea that will soon give way to calmer investorin our businesses.
This past year, we made waters.
This kind of disruption is our new reality.
Its some 0.5bn of organic investment: new learning the environment we have made our plans around for programmes and technologies, new authors, taking the next five years at least.
our assets into new markets.
34 International expansion Efficiency We are already present in more than 70 countries and Our investments in content, services and new geographic weareinvesting to become a much larger global company, markets are fuelled by steady efficiency gains.
Since 2007, withparticular emphasis on fast-growing markets in China, India, our operating profit margins have increased from 13.7% to 16.1% Africa and Latin America.
In 2011, Pearson generated $1bnof and our ratio of average working capital to sales hasimproved revenue in developing markets for the first time.
account for 11% of our total sales and 22%of our people.
RAPID GROWTH IN EMERGING MARKETS PEARSON MARGINS % PEARSON REVENUES $m 11 11 $1,036m 16.1% 10 10 $834m 15.1% 09 09 $648m 13.8% 08 08 $513m 14.6% 07 07 $471m 13.7% China Hong Kong India Africa Central Latin America Middle East 12 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Pearsons strategy: Marjorie Scardino, Chief executive continued In addition, we have over the past five years invested Finally, as we encounter the future weve been 2.5bn in acquisitions, all of which have been additions preparing for, we will stand by some principles or ll-ins to build our existing business.
Our very that have long been part of Pearsons DNA: strong balance sheet just 500m of net debt at the 1.
We want to follow our always learning motto end of 2011 allows us to contemplate more of the inside as well as outside our company with our same, should we see good opportunities.
ownpeople as well as with our customers.
Technology: Todays Pearson is a technology want to educate our workforce for the needs of company as much as we are a newspaper or book today, and, more importantly, for the needs theyll publishing company though those dont go away in the have throughout their working lives needs to digital age they are more exible.
Digital businesses change skills, to teach themselves, and to excel last year contributed about one-third of our sales, or rather than merely get by.
We want our work to be effective in tackling some about 720m.
This represents a fundamental shift in big problems.
That means helping people learn who our business, our culture and our growth have not had access to education: helping change the opportunities.
face of business through new ways of learning and 3.
Fast-growing markets: For many years, Pearson was making decisions: measuring ourselves by whether primarily an Anglo-American company.
Though were what we do is effective, not whether its used.
still very much at home and working in those two 3.
We want to be a company that has a strong sense countries, Pearson is now a truly international of social purpose helping people make progress in company with market-leading businesses from China their lives through learning and high standards of to India to Brazil to southern Africa.
Emerging ethical behaviour which we summarise markets last year added up to 11% of our sales and in Pearsons values: brave, imaginative and decent.
22% of our people because were generating rapid growth there and getting ready for more.
As we strive to achieve these goals, we want our shareholders to know and understand our direction.
Efficiency and scale: While weve been growing, Ihope you are enthused enough about it to support afeature of Pearson has long been steady efficiency us into this future that weve planned and practiced gains also.
Our margins reached an all-time high of forand now are taking head-on.
16.1% this past year, and our cash generation was more than 100% of profits, as it has been for the last Thank you for the support youve given us up to now.
Still, we see more to go for and more ways togo, especially as we accelerate our transition fromtraditional print-based activities to digital and services models.
What Ive talked about in this report are the themes that have brought us to where we are, and made us Marjorie Scardino Chief executive a more durable company.
We think they, too, are durable.
But that doesnt mean that our plans and programmes arent both innovative and brave.
