Petrofac 08 Annual report and accounts 2011 Interview with the Group Chief Executive Ayman Asfari talks about the highlights of 2011 and how Petrofacs new two-divisional structure and strong values will stand us in good stead to meet our strategic goals.
Performance highlights Petrofac Our services and business model Annual report and accounts 2011 09 Chairmans statement Interview with the Group Chief Executive Leadership team Vision and values Creating sustainable growth Engineering, Construction, Operations & Maintenance Integrated Energy Services 22 41 50 65 107 153 Q: Q: 2011 has been another challenging year What were the operational highlights both politically and economically, yet of the year?
Petrofac has delivered strong results and good operational performance.
To what A: During 2011, our teams effectively and efficiently progressed would you attribute this?
several multi-billion dollar projects simultaneously: thisinvolved our largest ever contract, in South Yoloten, Turkmenistan, for A: Turkmengas, which was awarded late in 2010 and got off to a very Despite the continuing economic slowdown and debt crisis, good start in 2011: our continuing work on the onshore Asab oil theglobal requirement for hydrocarbons continues to increase.
eld and NGL4 integrated gasdevelopment projects in Abu Dhabi, Asa result, demand for our services is robust and we are seeing for the Abu Dhabi Company for Onshore Oil Operations and our customers, the oil & gas resource holders, maintaining or GASCO respectively: and our ongoing work with Sonatrach and increasing expenditure plans and, accordingly, the need for its partners in Algeria, for the El Merk central processing facility services to support their operations.
and the In Salah Gas project.
Our operational performance has been achieved through the combined efforts of our exceptionally talented employees, who are Q: focused on executing projects effectively and are guided by and What was the years key strategic focus?
A: Q: The launch of the IES division in June was the primary focus.
During 2011, Petrofac has made some It was very satisfying that it was validated almost immediately changes to its organisational structure.
with the award, in August, of two significant integrated services Can you explain what these are?
contracts by PEMEX in Mexico.
A: Q: We have reorganised the Group into two focused divisions: Although IES was launched in 2011, Engineering, Construction, Operations &Maintenance ECOM, is it true to say that Petrofac has actually ledby Chief Executive, Marwan Chedid and Integrated Energy been building up its integrated services Services IES, led by Chief Executive, AndyInglis.
At our Capital Markets Day in June, we presented the strategy and organisation structure for IES which, webelieve, will be a key A: driver of the Groups future growth.
Towards the end of the year, Yes, over the last two decades we have been continuously we launched ECOM, whichcombines our onshore and offshore widening the scope and increasing the scale of our offering, engineering, procurement and construction capabilities with our so we can bring deeper capabilities to customers operations.
operations management and consulting services.
Althoughthe divisions will offer services on a stand-alone basis, we recognise The exible commercial structures, through which IES delivers that additional value can often be achieved through integrating our services to customers, have also been part of our offering for some services and the new structure will facilitate this approach across time.
We already have a strong track recordfor integrated service the Group.
delivery, on both greeneld andbrowneld projects, tailoring the commercial models tomeet the needs of our customers.
Q: The articulation of our IES strategy in June was, essentially How does the new structure benefit anidentication of more potential markets and growth opportunities.
Andy Inglis joined us in early 2011 to become customers and the business?
Chief Executive of this division and is an excellent leader with the skills to deliver these opportunities and, under the framework of A: our IES strategy, will seek to deploy our human capital to deliver It is more streamlined: simpler for customers to understand: even higher earnings and a greater return forthe Group.
allows us to be more focused on our strategic goals: and makes collaboration and service integration easier.
Overview ReRi view off operattions i Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements Petrofac 10 Annual report and accounts 2011 Interview with the Group Chief Executive continued Q: Q: You have set yourselves the ambitious This year, Petrofac is re-emphasising its goal of more than doubling your recurring values of being safe, ethical, innovative, 2010 Group earnings by 2015.
Why are responsive, quality and cost conscious you confident you will achieve this?
Whyare the values so important to you and thebusiness?
We are in a market that is growing A: and where our customers are continuing to invest, both due We are a people business.
The values of our people are the brand to increasing demand and the difficulty of producing oil & gas.
of our business and are what unite 15,000 individuals across our Production is not getting any easier: in fact, its getting harder operations.
They are the common link of the business and make by the day, particularly from mature assets.
They are essential to achieving our strategic goals.
One reason for our confidence, and something that I believe Our values are important for external stakeholders too.
Our differentiates Petrofac, is our focus.
We are a focused business: customers have to know what we stand for and what they can focused on oil & gas, predominately upstream, andfocused expect from us.
They need to be confident that, whatever part of geographically as we concentrate on areas where we have, the business and whichever of our people they work with, they will or can build, a strong presence and know we can execute experience the same high quality service and consistent approach.
effectively on the ground with local resourcesand partners.
Another factor is our passionate belief in the need for building Q: world-class competency in oil & gas operations.
Through our How can you ensure that you maintain this Training Services business we can help transfer knowledge and values-based culture as you grow?
build capacity in national workforces and build strong relationships with local supply chains.
This is a key part of our IES offering: aswell as supporting resource holders to unlock the value of their A: assets without requiring them to give up reserves ownership The best way is through the leadership living the values and or control, we also enable them to access and develop local usingevery possible opportunity to articulate them.
For example, resources, thereby supporting thesustainability of their operations.
in2011, we launched a global campaign to recognise employees who embody our values in action.
The efforts of all short-listed Our strategy, with its focus on expanding our existing business into individuals and teams were acknowledged at our annual leadership new geographies, developing our EPC operations offshore and conference in Abu Dhabi, in November.
We intend to continue implementing our IES plans, addresses all these points.
We are not, these annual awards in recognition of the outstanding contribution however, complacent.
We know we will only achieve our goals if we of our employees.
retain quality of execution and excellence in delivery and ensure all Most of all though, the Petrofac difference is rooted in the our employees embrace our values and continue to live them.
exceptional nature of our people and their continuing commitment and dedication to our customers.
They are what make us successful and I would like to thank each of them for their contribution in 2011.
Q: Apart from your business focus and values, what else differentiates Petrofac?
A: The breadth of our capabilities which give us the ability to deliver integrated services with exible commercial structuresthat meet our customers needs, along with our commitment to working with and developing local workforces, our competitive cost structure, and a robust approach to risk management, enabling us to generate better returns for our shareholders.
Performance highlights Petrofac Our services and business model Annual report and accounts 2011 11 Chairmans statement Interview with the Group Chief Executive Leadership team Vision and values Creating sustainable growth Engineering, Construction, Operations & Maintenance Integrated Energy Services 22 41 50 65 107 153 Q: Our strategy for growth In 2011, Petrofac launched a new Corporate Development & Strategy Group to ensure It is our aim to become the worlds most the Company had the right organisation and admired oileld service company.
approach to achieve its 2015 goals.
What will We help customers develop their energy resources: bringing be its main focus?
world-class capability and delivering it locally.
We promote commercial arrangements that are aligned to our customers needs allowing us to deliver more value to the customer A: whileincreasing the returns from our most precious asset If we are to continue growing, to 2015 and beyond, we need ourpeople.
to have efficient cost structures, systems and business processes, During the year we have progressed three key initiatives which to demonstrate excellence in delivery, to continue strengthening will help us to achieve our vision: our customer relationships and to keep growing our capabilities.
Expand existing business into new geographies The new group, headed by Maroun Semaan, President, ispart of Continue to expand our offering into new countries and regions our strategy to make our whole organisation sustainable.
It will help that offer exciting growth opportunities, particularly where they us improve our operational performance and achieve our are in close proximity to our existing operations.
We are building objectives, by building the righttype of organisation and accessing upon our positions in Turkmenistan, Iraq, Mexico and Nigeria.
Our case study on the Rumaila oil eld inIraq, page 17, illustrates this initiative.
Continuing to build our workforce is essential to our growth.
One of Marouns main strategic priorities will be to ensure we have the right Develop our EPIC business offshore mechanisms inplace to become an employer of choice and to Develop our engineering, procurement, installation and construction EPIC capability offshore.
Initially, our attention attract, develop and retain the very best people in our industry.
willbe on existing markets, focusing particularly on the UKCS, Middle East and Malaysia.
Our case study on SEPAT, Malaysia, Q: page 30, illustrates thisinitiative.
To close, how would you sum up Petrofac Implement our Integrated Energy Services strategy as it enters its fourth decade?
Implement our Integrated Energy Services offering, which helps customers develop their resources either through thedevelopment of new elds or by enhancing production A: frommature reservoirs.
This offering is characterised by We are a growing business, with more than 15,000 people who are acommercial exibility that ensures alignment with our united by a passion for what they do, strong values and a common customers and differentiated engineering and execution culture.
We take immense pride in being exible and responsive strategies that deliver enhanced value.
Our case study on the to changing customer needs, and will continue to differentiate project for PEMEX in Mexico, page 20, illustrates this initiative.
our services while staying focused on achieving excellence in We are, therefore, growing our capabilities and expanding our execution.
As we enter the new financial year and our fourth geographic reach in order to deliver our financial target a decade, we are confident that we are on track to meet the doubling of our 2010 recurring Group earnings by 2015. ambitious targets that we have set ourselves and our Company.
Ayman Asfari Group Chief Executive Overview ReRi view off operattions i Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
