Business review Chief Executives review In shape for long-term growth in metal prices during the year 2011 was a year to remember pushed the revenues up 43% to a for Polymetal.
Our listing on record US$1,326 million.
While cost the London Stock Exchange pressures in Russia and in the mining in November and achieving industry in general remained high, record production volumes we nevertheless believe we have been successful in managing our represent milestones of which cash costs.
Our cash costs were we are particularly proud.
at US$701 per gold equivalent ounce, up 26% as a result of some operational challenges and low volumes due to the ramp-up of significant new operations at Albazino, and further influenced by Russias domestic inflation and the Rouble strengthening against the US Dollar.
Record production levels quarter of 2011.
This was supported In 2011, we produced a record in particular by the full ramp-up of the Adjusted EBITDA, which is a key 1 810 Koz of gold equivalent ounces.
Albazino plant and stabilisation of metric of our core cash earnings, This was achieved despite some grades at our Dukat hub.
increased by 47% to US$624 million, grade decline at mature operations, in line with revenue growth, and the which was more than offset by As a result, we are now firmly on adjusted EBITDA margin increased production from new operations track to deliver on our target of to 47%.
Bottom-line net earnings and the successful expansion 1.4 Moz gold equivalent production were up 21%, driven by EBITDA of existing mines.
per annum by the end of 2014. growth, growth in non-cash expenses, and change in the Annual gold production was essentially Strong financial performance effective tax rate.
flat at 443 Koz, with a further 28 Koz 2011 was a very successful year for of payable gold contained in Albazino the Company.
The increase in gold As a result of the cash raised at IPO concentrate prepared for processing equivalent production and the growth and robust growth in operating cash at the Amursk POX plant.
Silver production increased by 15% to 19.9 Moz, a record for Polymetal.
Copper production was 6.9 Kt, up 73% on 2010.
The early months of the year were particularly challenging, with various issues relating to grade quality and production processes resulting in an initial operational underperformance.
However as these issues were resolved, the business subsequently performed well, and we achieved our revised targets reaching a run-rate of 1 Moz annual production in the last 1 Based on 1:60 Ag Au and 5:1 Cu Au conversion ratios.
10 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 A secure demand flows, we have significantly reduced I would also like to highlight a marked The global demand for gold leverage to 1.41 net debt adjusted improvement in safety at work last is secure and dynamic.
EBITDA, with the majority of debt year.
We had no fatalities, and our 65% being long-term.
Both these lost time injury frequency rate was Key categories include: factors give us and our investors 63% lower than in 2010.
This very comfort as to the Companys liquidity successful outcome was achieved Investment and funding.
as a result of great efforts throughout Gold will always play a vital role in our operations to improve safety any long-term savings or investment Robust project delivery policies and working practices.
It is a foundation asset I am very pleased to report that all our These new policies have been offering a hedge against currency key projects are now progressing to strictly implemented to ensure full and asset price volatility.
The Amursk POX compliance across all locations, and facility was completed in December are supported by extensive training and has entered the commissioning and relevant incentive arrangements.
In 2012 it will start processing Jewellery accounts for over 50% refractory concentrates from Albazino, Looking ahead of the market for gold.
Growing and in 2013-14 will reach design Our teams are firmly focused on affluence in the major markets of capacity with the inclusion of delivering further growth in 2012.
India and China will continue to concentrate from the Mayskoye mine.
This will be driven by the start-up drive demand for gold jewellery, of the Amursk POX facility and the not just a decorative item but Much development and construction achievement of full production also as a key component of work has been completed at capacity at Omolon.
Mayskoye, our most remote mine, with mills installed and the power In the year ahead we expect to substation nearing completion.
produce 590-640 Koz of gold, 21-23 Central banks and Underground development has Moz of silver and 6-7 Kt of copper.
reached a steady rate of 1,100 m We aim to increase our total annual government agencies per month.
gold equivalent production to over Gold reserves held by central banks 1 Moz in the coming year and to have increased over the past two The Merrill-Crowe circuit was 1.4 Moz by 2014. years.
The factors that motivated successfully commissioned at the these purchases will remain relevant Kubaka plant Omolon hub, and We continue to focus on operational for the foreseeable future.
is ready to commence full scale excellence, commitment to our processing of high grade Sopka ore. strategic objectives and proven business model.
With our talented Industry and technology Commitment to safety and and dedicated workforce, I am Gold is used in an increasingly responsible development confident that we will continue to wide range of consumer and During the year we continued to deliver sustainable value as we industrial technologies.
It has demonstrate a strong commitment continue to grow.
unique technical properties of to responsible corporate citizenship.
high conductivity, resistance to We have maintained high corrosion, malleability and ductility.
environmental standards both at existing and new operations.
We have also continued to provide meaningful support to local communities wherever we operate.
Vitaly Nesis Chief Executive 24 April 2012 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 11 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
