Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Chief Executive Officers Review Summary of Priorities We are now 12 months into our 24 month self-help programme to restore value, to strengthen our foundations, and build a path to future sustainable and profitable growth.
The following priorities have been put in place: Focus Extracting value from the portfolio Cultural transformation Building a more competitive culture Strengthen the balance sheet Enable longer-term options For more information go to www.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3 Business review Chief Executive Officers review Leo Quinn Chief Executive Officer The Group made significant progress in the year.
Its programme Update on priorities of self-help resulted in increased competitiveness and a strong In May 2010, QinetiQ set out a 24 month self-help programme with foundation for the future.
Throughout what was a difficult period three priorities: to refocus the businesses, to transform the culture in the markets, all our businesses have worked closely with their and to strengthen the balance sheet.
customers to ensure that QinetiQ is well-positioned to create value Focus over the medium term.
The Groups new structure of three divisions US Services, UK Through a relentless focus on our key priorities, we rebased Services and Global Products aligns its expertise and technology the business and put it on a strong foundation for the future.
Each division made progress I am particularly pleased that we achieved a number of our goals on implementation in the period: ahead of schedule, principally the refinancing.
This major milestone, full integration of the US Services businesses is underway to completed 12 months ahead of schedule, culminated in a reduce duplicated overhead, improving the ability of the division strengthened balance sheet and the confidence to reinstate the to compete effectively: dividend.
In addition, the Group has no debt maturity until 2016, providing a strong foundation to fund future growth.
While we are the realignment of UK Services with specific customer segments making good progress, we remain focused on the next 12 months, was completed in the first half, with further refinements likely to build on our progress and deliver a more agile, commercial and to reflect evolving customer requirements: efficient business for the future.
the Global Products framework is now in place and delivering a common approach to development of the product portfolio: Trading environment for example, the development of E-X-Drive for the US Ground QinetiQs principal markets remain challenging, with defence Combat Vehicle programme.
budgets on both sides of the Atlantic under pressure in light of The portfolio is reviewed on an ongoing basis to address both government programmes to reduce fiscal deficits.
performance issues and key focus areas.
During the year: In the US, after six months operating under a Continuing Resolution, the Group completed the disposal of the S&IS business and President Obama signed the Defense Appropriation Bill on 15 April acquired Sensoptics Ltd to support development of the 2011, which funds the Department of Defense for the remainder OptaSense business: of the US Government 2011 fiscal year.
Work within the US Government now turns to the budget for the 2012 fiscal year, existing UK synthetic training and simulation capabilities were accompanied by a review by the Department of Defense DoD to brought together as one business within UK Services: evaluate long-term spending plans.
Over the medium term, budget a common US UK cyber platform is under development to reductions are expected in order to generate efficiency savings.
globalise the Groups cyber capabilities.
Against this backdrop of fiscal austerity, customer behaviours are changing as they look to do more with less.
Cultural transformation The world-class domain expertise and innovation of QinetiQs In the UK, it is anticipated that budgets will be reduced to meet scientists and engineers, together with its deep customer the Governments target of an 8% cumulative reduction in relationships in both the UK and US, provide the potential for defence spending over the next four years.
In December 2010, the longer-term profitable growth.
Delivering this requires the right Government published its Consultation Paper, Equipment, Support leadership, measurement and processes to enable empowerment and Technology for UK Defence and Security, on the role which and accountability, as well as a more flexible and competitive cost industry will play in future defence programmes and the resulting base.
The following steps were taken to achieve this: White Paper is scheduled for this summer.
In April 2011, the MOD also implemented its Comprehensive Commitment Control more than 80% of the Groups executive team has been Regime, which requires the approval of senior civil servants for new upgraded, as well as approximately half of senior management expenditure, except in key categories such as those which support in the UK and a third in the US.
New performance-related current operations, the strategic deterrent and safety.
Overall, remuneration was introduced for the UK leadership team, the imperative for change within the MOD is likely to continue to replace legacy terms and conditions: to restrict and delay the authorisation of new contracts.
Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary.
The gearing ratio is adjusted net debt: EBITDA calculated in accordance with the Groups credit facility ratios.
4 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements US Services UK Services Global Products Aerospace operations Air engineering Survivability Engineering Test and evaluation Unmanned systems management Training and simulation Energy from waste Information services Cyber security and C4ISR Vehicle power Mission solutions cyber Programme and management Software and systems procurement support OptaSense engineering common business review processes have been implemented in February 2011, the Group signed a new five-year revolving across the Group to ensure transparency and the ability to credit facility, totalling 275m denominated in sterling and manage outcomes and react quickly: dollars, which is currently undrawn: two programmes My Contribution and Fit 4 Growth have in May 2011, the US$135m private placement note, due to been introduced.
Together, these engage all employees in raising mature in 2013, was repaid from surplus cash.
performance and provide a single end-to-end process, from bid As a result of these actions, the Group has no debt maturity until to project delivery, driving ongoing improvements in productivity 2016, providing a strong foundation to fund future growth.
and value delivered to customers: Ongoing priorities in the UK, a more commercial way of working was needed to Over the next 12 months, the Groups key goal is to complete its improve performance.
Sales leadership was upgraded, new 24 month programme to build a leaner, more agile QinetiQ, focused incentive plans introduced and over 3,000 employees trained on and competitive in its areas of core capability.
The initiatives in value-based selling, negotiation and project delivery.
During which are transforming the Groups culture and processes must the year, the business saw a 9% improvement in MOD customer be sustained and embedded.
Improvements in productivity will satisfaction scores, while a recent employee survey showed be extended, as will the drive to strengthen the balance sheet.
higher engagement levels and a 14% rise in the leadership The portfolio will continue to be aligned with customers needs, score since 2009: both through non-core disposals and by funding carefully selected changes to UK employee terms and conditions, including revised areas in which QinetiQ has a clearly established position and, redundancy arrangements, came into effect on 1 July 2010 after therefore, a base for value creation over the medium term.
a 75% favourable vote by union members.
The combination of introducing a new performance management system, restructuring the UK businesses and rationalising the technology portfolio, resulted in a 15% reduction in UK headcount, a reduction in layers of management and in overhead costs, and Leo Quinn addressed areas of systemic under-utilisation with minimal loss Chief Executive Officer of key capability.
Further reductions to the UK cost base have 27 May 2011 been achieved through structured procurement of goods and services including IT and facilities management and the streamlining of UK suppliers.
Balance sheet A key goal for the 24 month programme was to restore QinetiQs balance sheet to strength through self-help.
Significant improvement was made in the first 12 months: rigorous Group-wide processes and the engagement of employees at all levels drove strong underlying operating cash conversion of 183% 2010: 145% : the Groups net debt at 31 March 2011 improved to 260.9m 31 March 2010: 457.4m : the gearing ratio was reduced to 1.4x net debt: EBITDA 31 March 2010: 2.5x : The gearing ratio is adjusted net debt to EDITDA calculated in accordance with the Groups credit facilities.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5
