Chief Executives Statement th 2011 was Reckitt Benckisers 12 consecutive year of high quality growth, and another year in which RB beat its targets.
1 Total net revenue grew 13% to 9,485m ahead of the 12% target.
Excellent growth in emerging markets and Powerbrands Dettol, Nurofen, Mucinex, Strepsils, Gaviscon and Harpic.
1 Like-for-like growth, excluding acquisitions, of 4%.
1 Recently acquired SSL grew net revenue by 6% to 843m like-for-like.
Suboxone film captured a 48% volume share of the US market.
1 Adjusted net income grew 11% to 1,818m ahead of the 10% target.
Strong cash flow took net debt down to 1,795m.
In 2012 we are targeting total Company net revenue growth excluding RB Pharmaceuticals of 200 basis points bps above our market growth rate.
We expect the market to grow at 1-2%.
2012 will be a year of higher investment, but we still aim to maintain our 2 operating margins.
Rakesh Kapoor Chief Executive 9,485m our net revenue in 2011 2,487m adjusted operating profit in 2011 1 At constant exchange rates 2 Excluding RB Pharmaceuticals 125.0p Includes final 2011 dividend of dividend per share 70p recommended by the Board 2 2011 2011 3 Chief Executives Statement Strong foundation.
2011 was a great achievement, but we will not be complacent.
The world around us is going through seismic shifts in consumer and economic terms, and we must reshape our strategy to be ahead of these changes to ensure continued out-performance.
To deliver tomorrow, we need to reshape today.
The new RB strategy is anchored in a vision of a Rakesh Kapoor Chief Executive world where people are healthier and live better.
This gives RB a compelling purpose: to make a difference by giving people innovative solutions for healthier lives and happier homes.
RB has a brand portfolio and a footprint that makes it uniquely placed to do this and, in so doing, to deliver great growth and continued strong Shareholder returns.
A reshaped strategy RB has been a great growth story over will continue doing so over the coming much of the past decade, consistently decade.
With it, hundreds of millions out-performing our market growth of new consumers are entering the and delivering one of the best results consumption economy consumers in our industry.
As the world changes who are now financially capable and we need to make sure that we have ready for our products.
The health the right strategy to continue our and hygiene of the family and the out-performance track record for the home as a germ-free safe haven is a next decade.
big and growing consumer need.
Our brands are trusted icons all round the Global economic development is world in this sphere.
Countries once the changing demographics we see viewed as developing markets are now great opportunities in health, hygiene showing rapid and stable GDP growth and home.
that outstrips the developed world and 2 2011 2011 3 Chief Executives Statement continued HEALTH Good health is the key to happiness.
RB health care brands provide trusted, innovative solutions that help people live healthier, more fulfilling lives.
HYGIENE Hygiene is the foundation of healthy living.
RB hygiene brands help promote both personal hygiene for wellbeing and home hygiene to create a safe haven for you and your family.
HOME Home is the centre of family life.
RB home care brands help you take pride in creating a home that your family will love being in together.
4 2011 2011 5 Powerbrands focus HEALTH, HYGIENE, HOME Higher focus on Powerbrands in Brand equity building is paramount Health and Hygiene RBs relentless focus on building brands The core of RBs strategy will continue with great equity will increase with an to be our focus on Powerbrands, additional 100m being invested in 3 new disproportionately supported with high innovation and brand equity building Powerbrand categories rates of innovation and brand equity in 2012.
We believe the media spend investment.
Within this, we will be percentage of net revenue metric no intensifying our investment behind longer portrays the complete picture BRAND EQUITY our Powerbrands in the higher growth, of brand building activity.
Therefore higher margin categories of health in 2013 we will be introducing a new and hygiene.
Since these brands enjoy brand equity building metric, which 100m greater trust and consumer loyalty this will cover traditional media plus digital incremental investment in innovation focus will also be financially attractive and social media, and education and brand equity building in 2012 and more sustainable over time.
Therefore, while our past identity was based on household cleaning, our future will now be in health, hygiene and home.
FOOD Frenchs remains an important Powerbrand inspired by our new vision and purpose.
The food business will continue to be run as a broadly stand alone business.
RB PHARMACEUTICALS RB Pharmaceuticals remains a key contributor to growth and profit.
It will continue to support conversion to Suboxone film in the US, progress the new product development NPD pipeline and maximise the growth of Suboxone around the world.
Both RB Pharmaceuticals and Food will be reported separately from the core categories.
Core is health, hygiene, home and portfolio brands 4 2011 2011 5 Chief Executives Statement continued Powermarkets focus are also very significant.
The Europe regions and North Higher focus on Powermarkets created two new Area organisations to America will report into one Area In addition to our highly successful manage these high-growth emerging lead to drive increased speed to market Powerbrands strategy, we have market clusters, instead of just one.
and to get scale efficiencies to drive identified 16 Powermarkets for The first Area is called LAPAC and higher growth.
increased focus and investment, most covers Latin America, North Asia, of which are in emerging markets.
This new geographic focus will be South East Asia, and Australia and These are markets where we see the driven by a redeployment of investment New Zealand.
The second Area is highest absolute growth potential and and management abilities.
Currently we called RUMEA and covers Russia & CIS, where we already have a good platform have 36% of our management focused Middle East, North Africa, Turkey, and on the ground to take advantage of on the 6 billion consumers in emerging Sub-Saharan Africa.
These markets will markets, versus 64% focused on the be the spearheads of growth in the Developed markets remain important, 0.9 billion consumers in developed neighbouring geographic region and will even if the economies are growing markets.
This will shift significantly and attract a disproportionate deployment more slowly.
They continue to represent we have located our leadership of these of talent and financial resources.
significant growth opportunities but Areas in the respective market, effective A new organisation structure will need to be tackled differently.
We 1 January 2012, so that we can be drive strategy are seeing increasingly homogenous even more responsive to consumer and To deliver accelerated growth we are consumer, trade and competitive customer needs and faster in execution.
going to substantially increase our focus environments in developed markets.
on six of the worlds highest growth Therefore we will manage them as one geographic clusters of consumers.
These Area called ENA, comprising North are built around the emerging markets America, Central Europe, Northern of Brazil, Russia, India, China BRIC, as Europe, Southern Europe and Western well as Africa and the Middle East the Europe.
North America will now be led latter two market cluster opportunities by a senior, fully dedicated management ENA RUMEA LAPAC North America Russia & CIS North Asia Central Europe Middle East, North Africa & Turkey South East Asia Northern Europe Sub-Saharan Africa Australia & New Zealand Southern Europe Latin America Western Europe 6 2011 2011 7 NET REVENUE GROWTH TARGET bps 200 a year, on average, ahead of the global market growth across RBs categories and geographies CATEGORY TARGET % 72 of core Company net revenues from Health and Hygiene by 2016 GEOGRAPHIC TARGET % 50 of core Company net revenues from LAPAC and RUMEA by 2016 Progress and expansion Medium term KPIs New medium term performance Margin expansion strategy Health and Hygiene to be 72% indicators While we will increase investment we of core net revenue by 2016 To transparently monitor our progress also aim to deliver steady operating against our strategy, we have set margin expansion in the medium three medium term five year key term.
We will achieve this through Home Home 24% performance indicators.
gross margin expansion, fixed cost Hygiene Hygiene Pfolio 43% Pfolio containment and specific projects to 9% 72% Growth in net revenue of 200 bps a Health Health extract cost.
As an example, the newly year, on average, ahead of the global 24% merged ENA Area is expected to save market growth across RBs categories 2011 2016 30m from 2013.
A roll out of an and geographies.
enterprise resource planning system ERP Above average growth in health and Emerging market areas to be 50% is expected to yield savings of at least of core net revenue by 2016 hygiene so that they become 72% 10m per year from 2014 onwards.
of core Company net revenues by Part of this saving will be used to fuel 2016 currently 67% : on average an RUMEA RUMEA reinvestment behind the Powerbrands increase of 1% per year.
In addition, 42% 50% 58% 50% Above average growth in LAPAC and volume leverage and greater scale will LAPAC LAPAC RUMEA so that they become 50% of further contribute to operating margin core Company net revenues by 2016 expansion, particularly in the emerging 2011 2016 currently 42%.
market Areas of RUMEA and LAPAC.
Total Company excluding RB Pharmaceuticals RBP Core is health, hygiene, home and portfolio brands 6 2011 2011 7 Chief Executives Statement continued Results and responsibility Our new vision and purpose is a call 75% of our 2020 Carbon footprint SAVE THE CHILDREN to action to increase our commitment reduction target.
million brighter beyond the commercial, to the planets So, in light of our new vision and environment and those most vulnerable 1 futures purpose we will be reviewing and in our society.
are being created renewing both our commitment to We are about to reach our goal our global partnership with Save the with Save the Children of creating Children in health and hygiene and ENVIRONMENTAL TARGET a Million Brighter Futures through our environmental focus.
We will our fundraising since we started the decide the most relevant and impactful % partnership in 2003.
In the area of programmes for us to pursue in the 75 environment, we have already delivered years ahead.
of our 2020 Carbon footprint reduction target delivered Competitive advantage RB people & culture our to submit to difficult market conditions, sustainable competitive advantage but to excel by responding in innovative Through all of this, I know that it is ways and not to miss a beat of our culture and the passion of our performance delivery even during a people that is and will be our greatest period of considerable change.
RB people I thank our employees for everything are entrepreneurial, innovative, they have done and fully count on internationally diverse, dynamic and them in support of our purpose and the driven by a strong sense of ownership.
The performance of our Company is underpinned by our peoples ability not Confidence in the future RB can look to 2012 and beyond with great confidence.
We have had a strong 2011 despite tough conditions, and our new vision, purpose and reshaped strategy will set us on the right path for continued out-performance in the years ahead.
Rakesh Kapoor Chief Executive 8 2011 2011 9 Report of the Directors Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 8 2011 2011 9
