OvERviEw 4 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT Chief Executive Officers report Organic development remains at the core of our strategy, and in 2011 we increased our investment and accelerated new product launches, focusing on the provision of information solutions that demonstrably improve the economics of our professional and business customers.
The increasing profitability of our business reflects a combination of our global operating approach, aiming to keep cost growth below revenue growth, and portfolio development.
We operate in an environment where global professional employment will grow across industries, information sources and data volumes are multiplying, and the use of technology is evolving.
Our aim is to be a business that sells improved outcomes for our professional customers in information intensive industries, both as individuals and for the institutions or businesses that they work for.
We want to deliver demonstrably improved outcomes to those Erik Engstrom, Chief Executive Officer customers, helping them to make better decisions, achieve better results, and be more productive.
2011 was a year of good progress We want to do this with tools that leverage deep customer understanding, combining high quality content and data with both strategically and financially.
analytics and technology to build solutions that typically cost less than 1% of our customers total cost base but can have a significant Our large subscription and data positive impact on the remaining 99%.
businesses performed well and We want to move towards this business type across all of Reed Elsevier, building leading positions in long term global growth uncertainty in the macro economic markets, primarily through organic investment.
We will do this by leveraging our institutional skills, assets and environment in the latter part of resources across the business to build solutions for our customers and pursue cost efficiencies within our own business.
the year had only a limited impact During the course of 2011, we have made significant progress on some of our more cyclical against our strategic priorities.
We have continued to migrate the business towards online solutions, with just over 20% of revenues businesses.
now still in print, down from over 50% five years ago.
Our geographic footprint is also evolving, with 17% of revenues now generated outside North America and Europe, up from 12% five years ago.
We have actively developed the portfolio in the year with expansion of online data services and the exit from small businesses that are no longer aligned with our strategic direction in all five business areas.
FORMAT TRANSiTiON GEOGRAPHiC EvOlUTiON Percent of revenues outside North America and Europe 2006 2011 Electronic 37% Print 17% 22% 12% Face to face 15% Print Electronic 51% Face to face 63% 2006 2011 12% 57096 SAS p001-006.
indd 4 08 03 2012 07:42 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 5 Financial results with good growth in research and databases.
In Health Sciences On an underlying basis revenues grew 2% in 2011, but excluding revenues were flat, with double digit growth in electronic the negative impact of biennial event cycling in Reed Exhibitions, revenues across all segments offset by declines in print book underlying revenues grew 3%, compared to 1% in 2010, with sales to individuals and pharma promotion.
all five business areas returning to growth for the first time In lexisNexis Risk Solutions, our priorities are to drive growth since 2007. in insurance through an active new product pipeline that improves Underlying adjusted operating profit grew 5% reflecting the carrier economics across their workflows and to leverage our improved revenue growth in the businesses, a continued focus leading database and technology platform to expand into adjacent on operational efficiency, and the disposal of lower margin risk markets and new geographies.
In 2011 we achieved good growth in insurance data & analytics and Despite increasing organic investment in our business and the business services reflecting solid demand for our core products completion of a number of acquisitions, we improved our return and increasing adoption of new products, and we have just brought on invested capital by 60 basis points to 11.2% for the year.
on our first commercial UK insurance customer.
Screening revenues slowed in the second half reflecting US hiring trends, We have also taken our net debt to EBITDA ratio back down into and federal government markets remained under pressure.
a range that we are very comfortable with, ending the year at Underlying revenues were up 4% and adjusted operating profits 2.3x on a pension and lease adjusted basis.
up 12% reflecting cost savings, notably in technology, and from the Business area priorities successful completion of the ChoicePoint integration.
In Elsevier, our priorities are to improve research outcomes In lexisNexis legal & Professional our priorities are to and productivity for researchers and their managers through progressively introduce the next generation legal products, expanded content and integrated analytics & technology to leverage the new platform globally in order to drive print platforms, to drive remaining print to electronic migration in to electronic migration and long term international growth, health sciences leveraging global platforms, and to relentlessly and to upgrade our operational infrastructure and gradually pursue process innovation and efficiency through global rebuild margins.
In 2011 we launched the second release of Lexis Advance in the We made good progress on these priorities in 2011, with our US and expanded our international solutions.
Revenues returned author, editor and reviewer satisfaction and loyalty scores to slight underlying growth in both the US and internationally, reaching all time highs, double digit growth in article submissions, with growth in research and litigation tools and in practice and continued growth in citation share.
We also expanded our management, and moderating declines in news & business global platforms for both science and health content.
Science to corporate customers and in electronic listings.
Margins were & Technology reported underlying revenue growth of 4% in 2011, broadly flat, as expected.
indd 5 08 03 2012 07:42 OvERviEw 6 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT At Reed Exhibitions our priorities are to drive organic growth by Corporate responsibility leveraging global sector groups and technology platforms and We continue to prioritise and make progress against our corporate to prioritise faster growing geographies and sectors through responsibility objectives, beginning with the unique contributions launches and small acquisitions.
we make as a business, including sustainable access to information.
We are also focused on good management of the In 2011 we rolled out our Nova web platform to the vast majority material issues affecting all companies in areas ranging from of our shows.
During the year we launched 43 new shows, and governance and community to supply chain and the environment.
completed a number of small acquisitions.
Underlying revenue growth was 10% excluding biennial cycling, with good growth Outlook across all geographies in 2011.
The net cycling out of biennial The macro economic outlook remains uncertain, but by delivering shows held back overall growth in 2011 with underlying revenues highly valued products and services to our professional and adjusted operating profits flat and up 2% respectively.
customers, and a relentless focus on process efficiency, we expect to deliver another year of underlying revenue and profit In Reed Business information our priorities are to drive expansion growth in 2012. in global data services organically and through acquisition, to reshape the portfolio through organic transformation and I am confident that we have both the management team and selective disposals, and to continue to realign the cost base.
institutional skills to address the opportunities that our professional end markets offer us and to face the challenges that In 2011 we built out data services organically and acquired Accuity todays macro economic environment present.
We have extensive and CBI China, we transformed one of our leading brands with the insight into our customers needs and are focused on delivering combination of Flight with Ascend, and we divested a number of the content and solutions that create value for them and magazines and service operations.
We returned to underlying significantly improve their outcomes and economics.
Our revenue growth of 1% for the year, and adjusted operating profits employees show unrivalled commitment to achieving these were up 15%, with the majority of the margin increase reflecting goals and I would like to thank them for their continued organic development, supported by our exits from low margin enthusiasm and dedication to our customers and to creating businesses.
increasing value for Reed Elsevier and our shareholders.
The business and financial reviews, set out in pages 7 to 28 Erik Engstrom describe in more detail our markets, businesses and the Chief Executive Officer performance and outlook by business.
