Chief Executives review t Grow mature revenues through improved sophistication The business has delivered a robust and diversity set of numbers and I am pleased with t Be in as many new and different locations as we can, our performance.
expanding our footprint according to opportunity, risk At a time of great economic uncertainty and low growth, and return we have made excellent progress and grown both our t Maximise the strengths of our growing network, Mature and New Centre businesses.
brand position and awareness In our mature business operating profits rose by 66% to t Strengthen and decentralise management 107.7m, with free cash-ow after notional tax, finance costs and maintenance capital expenditure improving by t Control overheads through operational excellence, 53% to 117.1m, on the back of revenues up 3.8% to scale and innovation 1,035.1m.
We also had a very encouraging year of growth: customer numbers up 8.7%: new locations up 10.9%: and Board changes new countries on the network up by nine to 94.
This is On 1 September 2011 Dominique Yates joined the Board testimony to the strength of our business and attractiveness as Chief Financial officer.
He replaced Stephen Gleadle who, of our offer to companies of all sizes, in all sectors regardless in August 2011, announced that after six years with the of the economic cycle.
business he was stepping down from his position.
I would like to thank Stephen for the contribution he made to the The year saw the Group make important progress across a establishment of our business as the clear leader in its eld.
number of key business areas, including, but not limited to, further strengthening and decentralisation of our senior The Board notes the publication of the Davies Review on management team: business development and product Women on Boards.
The Board aims to be reective of a innovation: cost control: operational efficiencies: and people broad range of skills, backgrounds and experience.
Delivery in these areas we follow a policy of ensuring that we appoint the best played a key role in our improved performance.
The business people for the relevant roles, we recognise the benets also began to accelerate changes to its revenue mix, a of diversity, including gender, and will continue to take this process which began a number of years ago.
As we continue into account when considering any new appointment.
to widen and deepen our network, develop new and Dividend innovative products and services and forge more strategic It remains the intention of the Board to pay dividends at a alliances, so this trend is expected to continue.
level which it believes is sustainable throughout the economic Whilst 2011 saw an extended period of macroeconomic cycle and is in line with its progressive payment policy.
uncertainty, particularly in the second half, we continued to Reecting the Groups improved trading performance, strong extend our global reach and strengthen in-country networks cash generation, healthy cash position and optimism about on the back of the mega trend of exible, mobile work.
the Groups long-term prospects, the Board is recommending Partly as a result of the strong interest from other large a final dividend for 2011 of 2.0p 2010: 1.75p.
This will be organisations looking to Regus to help them develop their paid on Friday 25 May, 2012 to shareholders on the register third place work locations for their customers, but also from at the close of business on Thursday 26 April, 2012.
This the experience gained from Businessworld and our million represents an increase in the full year dividend of 12% to strong membership, we have established a Third Place 2.9p 2010: 2.6p.
Blue chip organisations we are currently working Douglas Sutherland Chairman 20 March 2012 www.
com investors 5 Business Review Chief Executives review continued with include Shell, SNCF and, since the year end, NS Trains demand may change over time.
This natural process ensures the Dutch railway operator.
Interest has also come from that our mature estate is always in an optimal condition, in areas as diverse as retailers and local government.
Whilst still optimal locations city centre, suburban, transport very early days, this fast growing opportunity, which has been interchanges amongst others.
The absolute aim is to ensure thoroughly market tested, plays to our skills and unrivalled that the business achieves its targeted returns regardless of industry knowledge.
the state of the global economy.
We then endeavour to enhance these through a comprehensive programme of In a world of some one billion mobile workers and growing, product and business development.
the opportunity available to our business remains significant.
The advances in mobile technology, worker demand to The four key facets of our Mature Centres business are satisfy ever more complex work-life balance needs and decreasing cyclicality, maximising yield and diversifying organisations of all sizes looking to reduce cost and increase revenue, reducing cost and network optimisation: corporate exibility mean that this target market will only t Decreasing cyclicality increase.
The larger our network, both globally and nationally We are constantly increasing the number of users across within countries, and the more innovative our product offering all sizes of companies in all sectors.
This is driven by the so the more attractive and compelling we become.
This is general trend toward mobile work, especially as more especially relevant as Regus is the only truly global company companies look to outsource workplace provision and in this sector.
become more exible but also by our offering a wider Our Mature Centres business range of products and services.
Over time we will steadily Our Mature Centres business is well established, with many increase the revenue that we generate from our million locations in existence for more than 20 years.
We have seen plus members especially as we drive more global use, in years of consistent performance and again in 2011 the same part through increased use by large global corporates, but can be said: cash generation was strong and, despite the also into better serving those workers whose permanent challenging macro economy, has shown robust year-on-year base is the home.
Our mature centres are well maintained, t Maximising yield and diversifying revenue through a planned and rigorous series of maintenance capital expenditure improvements.
This means we always look our Our mature centres are constantly refreshed and recongured, changing to meet demand, be that in the best and provide customers with excellent facilities and services.
There is also a degree of network modication as short, medium or long term.
This may lead to a short-term Why companies use Regus The Regus solution allows us to enter new markets The great benefit of being with Regus is its so easy to quickly without taking on the costs and risk of expand.
They increased the size of our workspace by establishing our own infrastructure.
It also makes giving us another room and taking down a wall doing our real estate operation more efficient, since we everything over a weekend.
Every day they evolve their only have to deal with one company to get set up... service as they learn more about how we do things differently in Google.
Fred Franz, Senior Director of Worldwide Real Estate and Facilities Polycom, Inc Dr Paul Barreto, Country Manager, Google Portugal Polycom currently relies on Regus for exible full-time ofces in five Google uses Regus worldwide for convenience.
It provides everything countries: Mexico, Peru, Spain, Canada, and the United States.
needed to set up a business from scratch, with centres that are the same quality anywhere in the world.
We founded the new Heinz office in Regus because the Regus is very flexible to our needs as well as the services, from reception to facilities management, allow attraction of being able to grow or get smaller: it provides us to concentrate on the business and on growth.
We us with a low-cost and fast set-up.
In Spain, I toured also like the atmosphere in the town centre offices and three centres and moved into one that afternoon.
the friendly Regus staff, who help us with small-scale Dave McCarthy, Chief Commercial officer Europe, Molson Coors administrative services.
In six months, the Molson Coors European team has grown to 16 people and they continue to hire and expand the business, with staff based in a Matthias Wilberg, Commercial Director of Heinz in Switzerland Regus centre in Kiev recently coming on board as well.
Regus offered Heinz an established infrastructure that included facilities management and was by far the best quality solution in the right location.
6 6 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 increase in mature maintenance capital expenditure t Network optimisation in 2011 we installed or refreshed some 500 lounges at a Our mature network locations are broadly xed but we cost of approximately 4 million but contributes to the maintain the exibility to adapt where required.
On rare generation of improved returns.
Developing and diversifying occasions, centres become uneconomical: the rent new sources of revenue is also a key priority within the becomes too high: the location is no longer as attractive mature business: for example in the UK we provide a as it once was: or, the building becomes tired and requires location package to Avis at more than 37 Regus locations.
Our response to these and other This enables them to cost effectively increase their reach factors is usually one of the following: with more drop-off and pick-up points.
In return, we are Consolidate the centre into another one nearby: able to offer our customers preferential rates and an Avis service on their doorstep.
Stay in the location and r efurbish the centre working jointly with the building owner: t Reducing cost Just as we can recongure the physical layout so we can Move to a better location in the immediate vicinity: or, actively manage our leases.
Paying the fair market rate Re-negotiate either lower the r ent or reduce the size for our leases is critical for the success of the business of the centre.
and over the year we continued to make great strides in increasing the exibility of our lease portfolio and improving The focus for our mature estate is, therefore, constant and terms.
Our aim is, where practicable, to have all leases active management to deliver continued high occupancy either exible but with built in breaks or structural exibility and usage.
This will achieve stronger pricing which, coupled or variable where the rent is linked to the profitability of the with lower relative overheads and input costs, will lead to centre.
These combined equate to 80% of our mature margin improvement.
Consequently, the business is able to ensure that over the economic cycle our rents track current market rates.
The business also remains mindful of the need to control costs in the wider sense and that the current economic environment presents good opportunities to identify savings.
With a more agile model, we are no longer on the real Any company that is looking for ways to be highly estate roller coaster... We can now acquire just what we productive has to look at their real estate costs.
Real need, when we need it for as long as we need it without estate has been so rigid for the last century that creating risk or excessive costs.
a flexible model takes on a new kind of creative thought.
Coleen Hurley, Director of Corporate Real Estate, Juniper Networks Before Regus we just rented out offices and had to pay for them then they sat empty.
For more than 10 years, the collaborative partnership between Juniper Networks and Regus has resulted in a strategic and uid workplace model John Challenger, CEO of Challenger, Gray & Christmas accommodating the changing needs of Junipers global workforce and For nearly 20 years, Challenger has partnered with Regus to create a real diverse customer base.
estate programme that is completely aligned with its business needs and objectives one that eliminates any excess leases from the balance sheet.
Every time we open a local operation we start with Weve been working with Regus for more than Regus because its easy.
Instead of the complexities of 10 years...
Flexibility is at the heart of Regus, which starting a business in a new country, such as managing means we can enter a new country or region without the facilities, you just start working.
significant cost and risk to our business.
Pankaj Parshotam, Marketing Manager, Consumer, TomTom Portugal Craig Youst, Senior Director, Global Facilities & Real Estate, Red Hat With everything in TomTom centralised in Amsterdam, Regus offers the ability Regus provides Red Hat with a stepping stone approach into new markets for their small team to act like any start-up and get down to business straight and territories.
At any one time, Regus workspace represents nearly 10% away.
TomTom also uses Regus space in Prague, Istanbul and Zurich.
of Red Hats real estate portfolio and is sometimes higher when needed.
com investors 7 7 Business Review Chief Executives review continued Continued improvements to the levels of the business.
As a management team we are focussed on ensuring we are able to attract the best new Mature Centres business model We strive to improve the margins in our Mature Centres talent but also retain key team members in the business.
Over the year we have invested in our human resources team business through a continued focus on key strategic initiatives.
Outlined below are some which played a and created dedicated in-market resource.
Training and team member career development remain central to our approach key role in our strong 2011 performance: to retention.
The business continues to invest heavily in Strengthened and decentralised management training, especially of lower management and centre team I wrote last year that strengthening in-country management members.
We are also increasing the ease with which team was of critical importance to the Group.
The considerable members can move to new countries to help our growth.
As progress that we have made during the year has come about such, we are confident that with the significant opportunities as a direct result of the continual improvements we are arising from growth, staff turnover will continue to reduce.
making to our management team, especially at a country level.
As our organisation continues to grow, day-to-day Our New Centres business capacity expansion The larger our network, both globally and nationally within responsibility is being moved from our regional headquarters to the eld: pushing decision making down into the countries countries, so the more attractive and compelling we become.
As has been previously stated, the business is aiming for a and therefore nearer to the customer improves the speed with which we can respond to our customers and the quality network in the region of 2,000 locations by 2014.
We opened 139 locations in 2011 and plan to open a further 200 by the and accuracy of outcomes.
Whilst this has increased our overheads in the short term, our business has to have end of 2012.
We expect these to achieve similar levels of revenue and earnings as the mature estate in due course, strong, experienced local leaders to manage growth and ensure the appropriate level of returns are generated, and and we tightly manage them to ensure that this happens.
It is important to state that whilst we remain optimistic and we are already seeing the return on this investment coming through as we achieve the desired fide-layering.
confident in our growth strategy, the management team remain mindful of the continued global economic uncertainty Innovation remains a core competitive differentiator in the near term.
We carefully monitor key metrics and are Our ability to attract new customers and increase spend from able to temporarily slow down the growth if we determine existing ones is highly dependent upon the strength of our that conditions have become too uncertain or challenging.
new product and service offers, an approach we call Only at Looking at our 2010 and 2011 openings we nd that: Regus.
Key highlights from this year include the launch of businessLink, a networking platform for Regus customers t Our 2010 centres have performed well.
Totalling which aims to replicate in an online environment some of the 116 locations, these generated 100.0m of revenue physical benets of being in a Regus location, such as and made a centre contribution of 15.0m and an serendipitous meetings in communal areas that lead to EBITDA of 3.8m.
One of the main ways it is currently being used by our customers is to nd new business and t Our 2011 centres, some of which are only a few months suppliers.
MyRegus, our customer group purchasing portal, old and totalling 139 locations, generated revenues of also underwent a major refresh, one element of which now 20.2m and, as expected, made a negative centre allows customers to self-serve and transact with us 100% contribution of 13.4m.
As such, online bookings are at an all-time high and In 2012 we plan to open somewhere in the region of 200 we expect this to continue to increase in 2012. new locations and enter 6-8 new countries.
We have already Strong operational progress opened in Madagascar and others will include Iceland, Nepal Devolving responsibility and decision making to the operations and Fiji.
It is crucial for us to continue to enter new countries.
and especially in-centre teams, moved apace over the year.
This is primarily in response to demand from global but also Our approach to operations is also focussed on reducing medium and small companies as they look to us and our centre workload through a process of back ofce expertise to help them expand and enter new markets.
By the end of the The classic example is how we helped Google expand in year we had automated online more than 90% of in-centre processes up from 70% at the end of 2010.
In doing so we New Centres business growth freed up significant amounts of front-line team members time to spend on customer facing and revenue generating activities.
A strong and dedicated global team Our people are the most important part of our business.
We are making significant improvements to the way that we develop and retain our people.
In any growing organisation there is much opportunity and that remains one of the major attractions to working for our business.
As I have demonstrated above, we have gone to great lengths to nd and empower management within key Group functions and at a country local level.
But to support our accelerated growth programme we need great people at all 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 8 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 670 789 916 978 983 1,084 1,203 1,400 1,650 2,000 the early part of the last decade and continue to support t Missing city locations we refer to this as lling in the them in some 32 countries.
To support our accelerated growth programme and leverage t Growth accelerating in response to demand from end the benets and efficiencies of scale, we have recently users but also as we react to requests from building strengthened the development team.
It is vital that we owners and developers.
automate and simplify as much of this expansion activity Third Place as possible and also ensure that we achieve the optimal In pursuing additional growth opportunities, the business return from our investment capital.
Additionally, the current has been exploring a number of new avenues especially in state of the global economy could well present us with a expanding our network into more third places.
Indeed, a good opportunity to acquire a significant number of excellent commercial offer is emerging which has the potential to be locations at competitive rates.
a major third leg of our business.
There is a clear programme of development to ensure that Third place is dened as not the ofce first place nor the growth is sustainable, achievable and in the places where home second place see diagram below.
So a third place there will be strong demand.
Specically: could be the library or a cafe or railway station, it might be t National networks customers are today more likely to the park bench or a suppliers premises.
Work in the third need access to complete national networks and not just place is increasingly the norm as technological advances individual centres.
We believe there is significant latent mean that anyone can work anywhere.
Our Third Place demand as we open up more of these.
business is creating better quality work locations where people are increasingly likely to work when on the move or t Neighbourhood locations we are increasingly opening when away from the home or ofce, railway stations and in suburban and residential areas.
motorway service stations for example, but the Group is exploring a wide variety of other third place locations.
t Infrastructure locations major motorway junctions, railway stations and other transport interchanges.
This new Third Place business is being built on the Where people travel, they will increasingly work and experience we have gained from Businessworld where we will look to Regus for support.
have created a base of more than a million members in a little Third place work locations Mt Motorway service stations Ht Hotels l Lib Librariies Ai Airport ts Cf Cafes Third place First place Second place Of Offi fice ce Hom Home e Ot Outsid ide B Busiiness spaces centres Ri Raill S Suppli liers stations locations www.
com investors 9 Business Review Chief Executives review continued over three years.
Whilst third place remains at an early With regards to the investment required and expected stage, progress has been rapid in the second half of 2011 returns, we anticipate both to be comparable with our the Group signed a landmark deal with SNCF, the French existing model.
Our approach is global so we expect national railway operator, and since the year end a similar to benefit early from scale.
The concept has been deal with NS Trains, the Dutch national railway operator, comprehensively demand tested, and being heavily has been agreed.
Both will result in multiple Regus locations underpinned by technology, is expected to develop rapidly.
We intend to provide more information on key within these organisations networks, serving a significant number of their mobile worker customers.
The Group is developments in this market in the future.
also in discussions with a number of other similar transport Operational Review infrastructure organisations from around the world, which The momentum of growth achieved in Q4 2010 continued includes a pilot with Shell at their motorway service stations throughout 2011.
Over the year the Group opened 139 new in France and facilities set up and trading within airports centres 2010: 125 with the total number as of 31 December currently Schiphol Netherlands and Zaventem Belgium.
Over the period Additionally we are soon to open a community based customer numbers increased by 8.7% to 983,360 and have business centre which, in addition to the standard Regus since the year end passed the million mark.
Taken together, offering, will house the local ofce of economic this growth resulted in an increase in total workstation development and be put to a variety of different capacity of 8.2% to 204,043. uses at evenings and weekends.
To properly review our business, I will concentrate on our The potential of third place is significant and fast growing.
mature business performance development, which It plays to our skill sets our systems and process, represents like-for-like business: business development expertise and long history of partnerships, our intuitive understanding of work and the Americas needs of exible workers.
We expect to sign many more Our Americas business posted a strong performance, of these agreements in 2012 with increasingly diverse especially in the USA and I offer my congratulations to them partners in many more locations.
Mature revenues were up 2.3% on 2010 to 431.8 million with average mature occupancy of 88.6% Use of third spaces is different to traditional Regus centres during the period 2010: 82.8%.
Mature gross margins and is more akin to how people interact with our business improved strongly to 29.3% 2010: 24.0%.
They are in effect drop-in locations for short-term, we added 62 centres, including our first in Omaha, but frequent use.
Convenience is key and that is why the Nebraska, which contributed to the increase in the average experience has to be seamless, especially if using several number of workstations from 74,265 in 2010 to 80,064 locations over a week or even a day.
The robust nature of our Mature Centres business suited to the needs of the mobile worker: highly accessible: is underpinned by the solidity of this business.
Latin America welcoming and comfortable: local and easy to use: has a number of exciting opportunities for us, not least professional with high quality wiand refreshments: good in Mexico and Brazil where we see tremendous growth value with other services available on a pay-as-you-need potential.
We continue to experience healthy levels basis: and, where you are surrounded by other like-minded of demand across all geographies in the region and individuals.
Membership is key we have recently passed in H2 opened our first location in Uruguay.
the million mark and expect strong and accelerating growth over the coming years: from large corporates such as Yell which take membership cards numbered in their thousands to entrepreneurs who will take just one, possibly purchased via a high street outlet.
10 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 EMEA Outlook Contrary to what might have been expected, our EMEA Regus has delivered a strong set of results.
After executing business had a good year, especially in H2.
The region various strategic initiatives over the last two years, Regus is delivered mature revenues of 274.3m, up 3.0% on 2010 now a more resilient business and our strong growth reects and achieved an average mature occupancy of 85.3% 2010: this.
The current trend toward exible working means that we 79.6%.
Mature gross margins improved over the period to anticipate continued strong momentum in 2012 and current 26.7% 2010: 24.9%.
During the year, we added 45 centres trading reects this.
As such, despite an uncertain economic which contributed to the increase in the average number backdrop we are cautiously optimistic.
of workstations from 36,120 in 2010 to 38,473 in 2011. t Our Mature Centres have significant and fundamental Eight countries were added to the network including Croatia, strengths: strong cash generation, solid like-for-like Uganda and Madagascar.
Although the macro economy revenue growth and improving margins, performances across much of this region is challenging, we continue to which we are focussed on maintaining.
seek and nd good growth opportunities in many markets.
Additionally, much of the initial interest and subsequent t Our New Centres are performing well, and the locations development and implementation of our Third Place activity we have opened are expected to reach our target has originated here.
return on investment hurdle in the expected timeframe.
We anticipate margins in these locations will continue Asia Pacific to improve.
Our Asia Pacic business performed well.
This dynamic region continues to present tremendous opportunities for t Whilst the overall Group performance will always be growth, especially in India and China, but also in every impacted by the pace of openings within our New market where we are present.
Currently operating 108 Centres business, the Board is comfortable with the mature centres across 16 countries, the region delivered progress being made and expects that the strong mature revenues of 139.7m, up 5.4% on 2010 and momentum in our Mature Centres business will achieved an average mature occupancy of 85.7% 2010: continue into 2012.
Mature gross margins stayed broadly at at 30.0% t Regus unique, market leading position provides us with 2010: 30.6%.
During the year we added 29 centres which excellent potential to grow further through our Third Place contributed to the increase in the average number of business due to the burgeoning exible work market and workstations from 23,437 in 2010 to 27,757 in 2011. we look forward to this delivering additional returns over UK the medium to long term.
The UK remains a tough market but nevertheless, the Whilst we foresee the general business environment business, which numbers 135 mature centres, continued to remaining challenging at a macro level in the near term, we improve and delivered mature revenues of 187.6m, up remain optimistic about the long-term growth prospects 7.3% on 2010.
This was on the back of mature gross and strategy of the business.
As such, we are ready and margins almost doubling to 15.8% 2010: 8.3%, a clear capable to invest further to accelerate growth but scale demonstration of the progress made in turning this business back if macro-economic conditions deteriorate.
We remain vigilant as the average mature occupancy has not moved much beyond 80% Fundamentally, the achievement of our goals rests on our 2011: 80.5% vs 2010: 80.8%.
Property and associated energetic, passionate and dedicated team members on-costs remain high consequently only three centres were providing our rapidly growing number of customers and added.
Over the period the average number of workstations partners with absolutely the best possible service.
We have pleasure to lead such a team and it is only right that I end also focussed on refreshing the management team to give by thanking them for their efforts in 2011 and look forward the business renewed vigour and focus.
to sharing further success with them in 2012.
Mark Dixon Chief Executive officer 20 March 2012 www.
com investors 11 Business Review R Ret tail il Our products and services hav haveb e been een av avail ailabl ableo e ont n the he hi high h st treet t ffor more th than a Driving growth yea y r, enabli bling g a conveniient access point.
Building our Third Place Business In pursuing additional growth opportunities, the business has been exploring a number of new avenues, especially in expanding its network into more third places.
Third place is dened as not the ofce first place nor the home second place.
So a third place could be the library or a cafe, or railway station, it might be the park bench or a suppliers premises.
It could also be a Regus business centre.
Work in the third place is increasingly the norm as technological advances mean that anyone can work anywhere.
As the illustration demonstrates our Third Place business is creating better quality work locations where people are increasingly likely to work when on the move or when away from the home or ofce: railway stations and motorway service stations for example, but the Group is also exploring a wide variety of other third place locations.
R Rail ilway st tat tiions Rec Recent ent fide deals als wi with th SNC SNCFa F and nd NS NS Tr Tra ains ins D Dutc utchr h rail ailway ways s will result in Regus opening bus busine iness ss lou lounge ngesw s with ithin in raiillway stt tatiions, oft ften wit ith h pla platfo tform rm acc access ess.
Pa Part rtne ners rshi hips ps Reg Regus us has has bu built ilt a a wid widev e vari ariety ety of partnerships with many of the worlds larges g t brands, iincld ludiing 60 60% % ofl f lead diing airway ays, s, hotel gr go oups ups, business organisations and and ot other hersw s whic hiche h exis xistt t to o sup suppor porta t and nd ser serve five mob mobile ile, ex exibl iblew e work orkers ers.
Ou O r llocatio i ns range g way ys in which it can deepen p its from premium addresses in presence and service to support central business districts, to key the vast majority of business tra transport nsport in infrastructur frastructure e no nodes des tra travellers vellerst that hat no no lo longer nger y y and and and su su suburban bur burban ban co co commuting mmu mmutin tingh g h hubs.
bus bus business ine iness ss cla cla class ss ss.. M Mot torway service stations Reg Regus us has has re recen cently tly ope opened ned a a pil pilot ot wit within hin a a She Shell ll motorway service station.
Ho Home me w wor orke kers rs Mobile workers With a wide array of Wi Wit tha h ana n arra rrayo y ofa f appl pplica icatio tions ns, non-residential products mob mobile ile se servi rvices ces, s, such uch as as ca call ll and d serviices in i creasiingl gly y handling, and self-serve tools available on a self-serve our net twork k can be b easil ily y basis, Regus is able to and d qu q ik icklly y accessed d b by y fully y sup ppor p t any y home those for whom, work is bas based ed wor worker ker, w wher hereve ever r something that happens the theya y are re in in the the wo world rld.
com investors 13 Business Review Branch ofces The ideal way to expand into new markets.
We provide our customers with space to work, business Driving growth support, local knowledge and a customer base, all on their doorstep.
Developing our Mature Centres Our business centres are the heart of our network and Training rooms the place from where all our products and services can Regus are able to provide be accessed.
The assumption is that they are mainly a suite of training room places of xed working but this couldnt be further from environments at all locations the truth with a wide variety of xed and exible work to suit a wide variety of products and services they are thriving hubs of learning styles.
All are entrepreneurial and business activity, engines of served by a dedicated their local and indeed national economies.
Coworking Most Regus centres have open plan space which different businesses share.
Popular with a wide variety of organisations these spaces are a low cost alternative for businesses which are starting to grow.
Day ofces Sometimes all that is required is a Disaster recovery quite private space for a few hours or possibly a full day.
All Regus A variety of xed and virtual spaces to help organisations of any size centres have private ofces, with all the services that go with that, resume operations following a workplace disaster.
available on an hourly basis.
Administrative support Virtual Ofce Available to anyone on a pay-as-youAll the benets of an ofce, need basis from as little as 15 minutes without the ofce an impressive from photocopying or collation through business address and phone to booking travel or accommodation.
number anywhere in the world, as well as a private ofce for a few days each month if required.
Thinkpods A stylish new thinking and working space with room for a laptop and a comfortable, adjustable chair, Thinkpods are dedicated to productivity and unique to Regus.
Designed to be used for any length of time from one hour to a whole day, providing privacy in the shared space of our business lounges.
14 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Collaboration spaces Serviced ofces Regus is able to provide a wide Our workspaces are highly adaptable and fully equipped range of spaces for teams of all with all the furniture, IT and communications technology sizes to meet and collaborate.
our customers need to move in today and start working.
Document and print management Our fully self-service cloud printing solution.
Customers can print from anywhere to anywhere on the network.
This then facilitates other activities such as low cost couriering.
Meeting rooms With more than 4,000 meeting rooms we provide the very best in exible meeting space bookable by the day, half day or even the hour.
Business lounges Our business lounges are the perfect place to work when on the move, convenient work-ready environments providing peace, support Video and dedicated resources.
communication We have the worlds largest network of video communication suites, including state of the art Teleprescence studios, which enable face-toface meetings without the usual travel expense and downtime.
