Chief Executive Officers review of operations It is particularly encouraging that returns from our openings in the last three years have been at some of the highest levels achieved in the past decade.
Introduction 2011 was another year of good progress for The Restaurant Group, achieved against a challenging economic backdrop and an increasingly constrained environment for consumer facing businesses.
The Group traded well for most of the year, achieving like-for-like sales growth in eleven of the twelve months.
The year started very well with a strong bounce back in the early months following the severe winter weather at the end of 2010.
Trade during the spring months was variable and, as we entered summer, it picked up markedly.
From late summer through to mid-November, trading was quite reasonable and for the final six or seven weeks of the year it was strong.
7.25% All of the constituent parts of the Group saw growth in 2011 and, despite having to contend with some significant input total sales increase cost pressures, the Group achieved strong growth in adjusted profits and a modest improvement in adjusted margins.
Total sales were 7.25% ahead of the previous year like-for-like sales 3.25% ahead and adjusted earnings per share increased by 14% - against a challenging backdrop and year-on-year growth for the previous years this represents a good result and bodes well for the future.
Results Results marked as adjusted are stated excluding non-trading items and, unless otherwise stated, reflect the 52 week period in 2011 compared with the comparable 52 week period in 2010.
Statutory results for 2010 were stated on 12% a 53 week reporting period.
Like-for-like information is stated for a consistent number of weeks in 2011 and 2010. increase in adjusted TRGs trading metrics performed well for the 52 week period profit before tax to 1 January 2012: f Total sales increased by 7.25% f Like-for-like sales increased by 3.25% f We sold 39 million meals f Adjusted EBITDA increased by 8% to 89.7m f Adjusted operating profit increased by 8% to 61.2m f Adjusted operating profit margin increased by 10 basis points to 12.6% f Adjusted pre-tax profit increased by 12% to 60.3m f Adjusted earnings per share increased by 14% to 21.86p f Net debt, at 0.48x Group adjusted EBITDA, fell by 5.3m to 41.6m 06 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Open Int inrg ou o cor 2 py00th Frankie & Bennys Our people and our business Chiquito 69 units Throughout our business, we aim to continually evolve and Chiquito delivered a good performance in 2011 with increases improve our offering - food, service and standards.
Menus are in revenues, profits and margins.
We opened four new reviewed twice a year, our seasonal specials menus change Chiquito restaurants during the year all of which are located quarterly and we pay close attention to the nutritional and alongside Frankie & Bennys.
This dual roll out strategy works calorific content of dishes to ensure that we have something to well and we expect it to continue in 2012.
The new Chiquitos match all of our customers requirements.
Particular attention are trading well and are expected to deliver strong returns.
is paid to our childrens offerings to ensure that they afford the During 2012 we expect to open two to four new Chiquito opportunity to form a key part of a sensibly balanced diet.
Much work has taken place throughout our Group in this area and further detail is contained in the corporate responsibility Garfunkels 23 units report.
Our focus continues to be directed towards providing Garfunkels traded well during 2011 delivering good levels our customers with a great dining experience plenty of of margins and profits.
During the year we opened two new choice across the price points, offerings geared towards Garfunkels restaurants these are trading well and are set to specific parts of the day, good value and superb hospitality deliver strong returns.
We are building a good pipeline of new and service.
We strive to employ the best people and to Garfunkels sites and currently expect to open two to four a provide them with an opportunity to develop.
Our staff benefit year for the next few years.
During the first half of 2012 we from a number of training programmes as soon as they join us expect to open at least two new restaurants in central London.
and, as they progress through the ranks, the training becomes more specifically geared to equipping them to become Pub restaurants 42 units efficient and effective managers.
In addition to our management Pub restaurants traded well during 2011 and delivered good training programmes, our staff at all levels have the opportunity levels of margins and profits.
During 2011 the ex-Blubeckers to secure qualifications in several areas relevant to our conversion programme was completed.
The portfolio is now industry, including Food Hygiene, Health & Safety, NVQs operating in line with the Brunning & Price model and the and BII accreditations.
results of the changes made over the past 18 months are most encouraging.
We opened one new Pub restaurant, the We employ more than 10,000 people throughout the UK and Old Hall at Sandbach, which is trading superbly and is set to during 2011 more than 500 new members joined the TRG deliver strong returns.
During 2012 we expect to open team.
2011 also marked the first graduate recruitment between three and five new Pub restaurants.
This attracted a large number of very high quality applicants and we have employed eleven Concessions 58 units graduates who have embarked on a fasttrack scheme Our Concessions business has traded superbly during 2011 towards restaurant management.
with strong increases in revenues, margins and profits.
An absence of disruptions, as experienced during 2010, certainly Our brands helped the performance but, even adjusting for this, the Frankie & Bennys 208 units underlying trend was one of good improvements across all Frankie & Bennys performed well in 2011, increasing revenues of the key metrics.
Passenger numbers at the principal UK and profits: margins were maintained at 2010 levels.
We airports rose solidly and our business benefited from this.
opened 16 new restaurants of which nine were on non-cinema During the year we opened two new restaurants at Gatwick sites.
All of the new openings are trading strongly and they are airport these are trading well and are set to deliver excellent expected to deliver excellent returns.
We are expecting to open two or three new between 14 and 18 new Frankie & Bennys restaurants in 2012. restaurants during 2012.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 07 Chief Executive Officers review of operations continued 10,000 people employed 3.25% throughout the UK like-for-like sales growth As a result of strong cash generation, the Group has continued The TRG business model, capital structure, to significantly reduce its levels of debt.
This has been and rationale especially marked in recent years whilst roll out opportunities Our core objective continues to be growth in shareholder for new restaurants have been limited to around 25 new sites value and our strategy to achieve this is to build a business per annum.
In the four years since 2007, net debt has reduced capable of delivering long-term, sustainable and growing from 77m to 42m.
During this period the Group has invested cash flows.
The Group has a consistent record of converting 106m in opening 108 new restaurants, 48m maintenance profits into cash at a very healthy rate, and delivering capex has been invested in maintaining the existing estate and increasing cash flows each year, and in 2011 this was again 67m has been paid out to shareholders in the form of the case.
TRGs business model enables the Group to grow dividends.
During much of this period the economic backdrop in a predominately organic and highly value-accretive way, has been poor and at times very bleak.
Against such a funded from its internally generated funds.
backdrop we believe that TRGs very prudent capital structure has been appropriate, safeguarding shareholders interests Our touchstones are cash flow and return on investment.
Our whilst allowing the Group to grow profits and cash flow and for business model enables our shareholders to enjoy the dividends to increase.
Whilst economic conditions continue to benefits of high returns on capital, growth in profits and cash be tough, and the immediate outlook opaque, we intend to flow and sizeable income distributions from our progressive continue to adopt this very prudent approach to capital dividend policy.
The Groups capital structure is framed in a structure.
However, once conditions improve we will review the sensible and prudent manner which enables shareholder position to determine what, if any, adjustments to the capital value to grow and which recognises the operational and structure are appropriate.
This review will, of course, take full financial gearing inherent in our predominantly lease-based account of the key considerations listed above and any business model.
In determining the appropriate capital changes would be in line with our policy of maintaining a structure, the key considerations which we keep under sensible and prudent capital structure whilst also growing regular review are: shareholder value.
T he level of free cash flow generated and our expectation for this going forward: 2.
The level of capital investment required to fund our new openings and our expectations with regard to the number of new openings over the medium-term : 3.
The maintenance of our progressive dividend policy and our intention to grow dividends in line with earnings: 4.
Ensuring that we have sufficient financial resources available to take advantage of opportunities to expand the business: 5.
Ensuring that we have sufficient financial resources available to cope with a deterioration in trading conditions as a result of an economic downturn or other adverse Our touchstones are factors: and 6.
Maintaining a good level of fixed charge cover as measured cash flow and return by the Groups ability to meet and service all of its financial obligations.
on investment 08 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements A robust and well proven business model Capital expenditure and TRG opening programme The economic downturn, whilst presenting formidable trading Our key criteria in determining where to invest our capital is challenges, has also afforded to us several new opportunities to operate restaurants in locations with high barriers to entry, and we intend to continue to identify and pursue these where good growth prospects and where we are confident that we we are confident that they will meet our returns criteria.
can secure high returns on investment.
Our focus is on edge of town, out of town, rural, semi-rural and airport locations During 2012 we are expecting to open between 25 and 30 and we occupy leading market positions in these segments.
new restaurants and we are also successfully adding to our The footprint that the Group occupies in edge and out of potential pipeline for the next two to three years.
town leisure and airport locations is comprehensive and, from a market positioning perspective, very formidable.
It Market dynamics and the economy would be virtually impossible to replicate this footprint from Companies operating in the retail environment have found scratch and the Group is well placed to continue to roll out conditions tough in recent years and this seems to have more restaurants.
A deep recession followed by rising taxes, household inflation, a fiscal squeeze with lower Our philosophy regarding capital expenditure remains government spending and higher direct and indirect taxation, consistent we focus on cash generation and on securing a rising unemployment with the equally corrosive, concomitant, return on invested capital at rates ahead of TRGs weighted fear of unemployment and negative changes in year-on-year average cost of capital.
We continue to apply the same levels real wages, have placed significant pressures on many of analytical rigour, commercial analysis, experience and risk consumer-facing businesses.
This has proved particularly adjustment to each capital project that we undertake.
problematic for businesses with poor market positioning, This approach has served TRG well and we do not intend to weak business models and high levels of financial leverage.
This disciplined and consistent approach has Attempts at stimulating the economy through expansionary also ensured that our new openings continue to deliver strong monetary stimuli have had some success, but the economic returns.
It is particularly encouraging that returns from our backdrop remains very tough.
Selling products and services openings in the last three years have been at some of the to the UK consumer has certainly become quite a challenge.
highest levels achieved in the past decade.
In addition to consumers being squeezed as a result of the Our free cash flow generation is sufficient to enable the Group difficult economic backdrop, other factors are also at work to accelerate the openings programme whilst maintaining and some distinct trends, both operationally and maintenance capital expenditure at an appropriate level and behaviourally, have been evident.
Those companies that have pursuing a progressive dividend policy.
As a result of the established strong market positions, with offerings that are tough economic backdrop, currently there are very few new accessible, attractive, convenient, well understood, trusted edge and out of town schemes being built and, in the and are seen by their customers to offer good value have short-term, this situation is likely to persist.
However, there are tended to outperform.
Customers have become more a significant number of new schemes in developers pipelines selective about what, and how, they purchase and it is and, at some point, these are likely to be activated.
In the noteworthy how important a strong and clear online offering meantime, many of our new restaurant opportunities are being and communication platform has become for many parts of secured from a variety of other sources and the work that we the retail marketplace.
The ability to read and quickly adapt to are doing in this regard has had the benefit of widening the customer trends is increasingly important.
potential paths to further future roll out growth for the Group.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 09 Chief Executive Officers review of operations continued Focused on excellent value, 400 choice and service sites With many households experiencing a squeeze on funds In the short-term however, the key risks to growth are largely available for discretionary spend, harder choices between macro-economic.
This time last year the picture seemed to competing consumption wishes are having to be made.
A be getting clearer and there was a real expectation that the propensity to save or pay down debt has replaced the urge economy had started the steep climb out of recession.
to buy on credit that was so prevalent just a few years ago.
Indeed this picture persisted until early summer, at which Consumer-facing businesses have had to work harder to point political paralysis in the US followed by the significant claim a share of this smaller cake.
shocks in the Eurozone brought it to an abrupt halt.
The final part of 2011 was characterised by great uncertainty about the Those companies that operate in the dining out sector have Eurozone, sovereign debt and the pressures on the banking approached these challenges in different ways.
Many have and financial system.
Although the UK is not part of the chosen to compete for customers largely on price and this Eurozone, around half of its export business is directed there has often manifested itself via heavy promotions and deep and its banks and financial institutions have exposure to discounting.
Buy one get one free and other similar, deep Eurozone sovereign and corporate debt.
A collapse of the discounting, offers have been rife, and they still are.
Our Eurozone was, and still is, regarded as being bad for Britain.
Group adopted a different approach, focusing on value, Against this backdrop, increasing uncertainty and deep choice and consistency of service and standards.
We have concern took hold in much of the UK during the latter stages also increasingly harnessed digital media to broaden of 2011 and this is still evident.
This makes life more difficult awareness of our brands and what we can offer.
This has for consumerfacing businesses as many households decide served TRG well, enabling it to continue to grow profits and to rein in their discretionary expenditure even more.
recently a number of steps have been taken to re-structure the heavily indebted Eurozone countries and to provide Eating out has become habitual in the UK and it is an activity liquidity to the banking system in an effort to stimulate the that many people are reluctant to give up.
At our price point it economies of the Eurozone countries.
This has provided represents a small ticket item or, to put it another way, an some breathing space in which to try to secure a workable affordable treat.
In times of fiscal restraint and stretched solution and to work towards a re-balancing.
However, in the finances, it is a pleasure in which many people still feel able short-term it is likely that uncertainty will persist and this will to indulge.
act as a further drag on economic growth during 2012.
This trend to eat out regularly is secular, driven largely by In the UK, 2011 ended with the economic outlook poorer than socio-economic factors ageing population, busy lifestyles, it had been just a few months earlier.
Projections for UK GDP more women in the workplace etc and growth is set to growth were cut and the outlook for employment continue over the longer term.
Whilst this growth may be deteriorated.
As we start 2012, it seems that we will be facing harder to achieve in the current climate, once conditions an economic backdrop just as tough as the one experienced improve, and particularly when people feel more confident during the past year.
There are however several positives about their jobs and incomes, the upward path is likely to be inflation is expected to fall sharply and, whilst money wage re-established.
increases are likely to be fairly modest, it is possible that, as we move through 2012, household incomes available for 10 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements W Ou or a rkiin m i g w s t ito h thd ee ll o iv c e a rl l com ongm teu rm nit y and sustainable profitable growth discretionary spend will rise, sterling is still at a level that TRGs businesses command strong market positions in each makes UK exports attractive and several of the larger of our chosen segments and our brands are well recognised exporters for example vehicle manufacturers are beginning for the quality, breadth and value of their offerings.
We have a to invest and hire more workers and there now seems to be well proven business model, a strong balance sheet and are a new determination within the Eurozone to implement well positioned to continue our expansion.
Just as we did in measures that will avoid a break-up and may eventually lead 2011, during 2012 we will continue to: to a sustainable re-balancing.
Within the UK we are also looking forward to two significant events the Diamond f Stick to our areas of expertise: Jubilee and the Olympic Games.
Both of these will be good f Focus on our customers by providing excellent value, for Britain and could also benefit UK businesses.
choice and service: f Maintain high standards of operational efficiency and From our perspective, the major short-term macro-economic execution: issues are unemployment, job insecurity and squeezed f Carefully control our costs and seek to mitigate and household finances.
Providing there is not a significant further minimise the impact of inflationary input costs.
Where we deterioration in any of these, the UK should, as we move into are able to secure fixed or capped price contracts for key the second part of the year, start to see a gradual re-building purchases, on acceptable terms, we will seek to do so: of consumer confidence.
f Add high quality new restaurants to our portfolio: and f Focus on cash flow, returns and growing Future prospects shareholder value.
We are planning on the basis that the outlook for 2012 will be just as tough as the conditions experienced last year and Our aim is to continue to strengthen our market positions we have framed our plans accordingly.
Over the past four and deliver long-term and sustainable profitable growth.
years, our business has experienced some difficult trading conditions and during that period sales, profits and cash 2011 was a tough year for our sector and it presented TRG flow all increased.
TRG is well placed to cope with with some big challenges.
As always, our team rose to those challenging conditions and, very importantly, to benefit challenges and produced a superb performance.
All of our significantly from the upturn in consumer confidence that people will be working towards replicating this again in 2012. will, in due course, prevail.
The first two months of 2012 have started solidly with total sales 3% ahead of last year like-for-like sales of -2%, and we will be looking to build further on this as we move through the year.
Andrew Page Chief Executive Officer web www.
com 29 February 2012 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 11
