12 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report chief executives review In 2011, against a tough economic backdrop, I am proud to report that we have delivered on our commitments for the year.
As you will see from the detail in the operating and financial results on pages 20 to 33, we delivered strong profit growth.
It was particularly pleasing to see that, despite a deteriorating economic climate and a disappointing performance from a number of businesses within Plastic Packaging, the Group managed to maintain its momentum throughout the year.
In terms of cash, we continued to focus on tight management of working capital and a disciplined approach to investing capital.
We increased capital expenditure in continuing operations to 227m 2010: 189m, 1.2 times depreciation.
Projects included the reopening of the plant in Pouso Alegre, Brazil, a new specialty can line in Mexico, the investment to lightweight can ends in North America and the conversion from steel to aluminium of can making lines in Egypt and Spain.
While we have seen no signs of weakness in can volumes, we are monitoring the situation closely to allow progress on all fronts usto defer spend should market conditions deteriorate.
Free cash flow from continuing operations was 277mbefore dividends 2010: 298m.
In 2010, we set out our plans for creating Our relentless focus on operational excellence helped to achieve value and improving returns going forward.
good cost savings, improve returns and offset input cost inflation.
Three main areas have generated the 35m of savings and At the same time, weestablished the metrics efficiencies delivered this year: reduction in material usage, we would use tomeasure our progress.
especially downgauging and lightweighting of our aluminium cans and can ends: lean manufacturing, which includes investing in new Inshort, we said that while laying the equipment and optimising processes to improve productivity and reduce scrap: and strengthening the organisation and practices of foundations for the future, we would our Group supply chain which has enabled us to capitalise better on our global footprint and manage our metal, resin and other continue tofocus on the management of direct material costs more efficiently.
Early in 2012, we were three main areas of our business cash, cost delighted when our guas Claras beverage can plant in Brazil was awarded The Shingo Prize, generally considered the pinnacle of and return on capital.
We also said that we achievement in operational excellence see case study on page 23. would continue to focus on reducing debt.
Return on capital employed ROCE improved to 13.7% 2010:12.3% thanks to good profit growth and disciplined During 2011, wemade considerable capitalmanagement.
Weare on track to reach the top end of the 12% to15% ROCE target range by the end of 2013.
We expect progress on all ofthese fronts.
themostsignificant uplift towards that target to occur in 2013 as thecontracts signed inNorth America to recover the beverage Graham Chipchase canvolume lost in 2011come into force.
In addition, we continue chiefexecutive tomanage actively the portfolio to improve returns.
Our net debt reduced to 1.3bn and our balance sheet is stronger.
Reported net debt EBITDA was 1.8 times compared with 2.4 times at the end of 2010.
Our credit rating is investment grade with stable outlook with both Moodys and Standard & Poors.
Wehaveno significant debt maturities until 2013.
In the annual report 2010 we highlighted a number of priorities, inaddition to efficiencies, to improve our returns going forward.
Thesewere maximising asset utilisation, focusing on product innovation, managing our business portfolio and capitalising on organic growth opportunities in emerging markets, all the while maintaining strict capital discipline.
13 In 2011, against a tough economic backdrop, I am proud to report that we have delivered strong profit growth... improved our return on capital employed... reduced net debt... and strengthened our balance sheet.
Graham Chipchase chief executive good progress on asset utilisation For the year, the Groups overall growth was in line with ourexpectations, and asset utilisation plans remain on track.
total ef ciency gains 20072011 InBeverage Cans in Europe, capacity utilisation was good as aresult of strong market growth.
In Western Europe, capacity 2011 35m 22m 13m utilisation wasaround 95%.
2010 39m 20m 19m 2009 42m 19m 23m InNorth America, the wider market slowdown meant that demand 2008 35m 14m 21m for standard canvolumes was lower than expected but we saw 2007 32m 17m 15m stronger growth in specialty cans.
Capacity utilisation was around 80% but we expect to see an improvement going forward as most of the volume loss in2011 will have been recovered by 2013 through signed contracts.
Beverage Cans In South America, our specialty can capacity was fully utilised Plastic Packaging asvolumes continued togrow.
The newly installed lines in South America have come on stream andare making cans that last year were imported.
Our overall capacity utilisation rate in the region was about90%.
innovation strengthens customer ties balancing the portfolio for growth and returns Innovation helps to strengthen ties with our customers and stimulate On 1 September, we completed successfully the sale of the demand.
During the year we saw the successful launch of a beverage and specialty Closures businesses to Berry Inc. number of new products in both Beverage Cans and Plastic Theunderlying fundamentals of the business had changed Packaging.
Our award winning Fusion bottle is starting to gain anditwas clear that the return profile going forward was not commercial traction and in Russia we introduced Europes first adequate for the goals we have set ourselves.
Thesale helped 75clbeverage can to fill a gap in that market.
In Brazil, our use of focus our operations and was fully in line with our strategy to innovative technologies such as high definition printing, UV and deliver profitable growth and to improve returns.
fluorescent inks has helped customers strengthen their brands, Following a strategic review of our Personal Care business, which increase their sales andwin awards.
includes the High Barrier food container operation, the board In Beverage Cans, we established a Global Innovation Council recently decided that, given our focus on returns, it should be during the year to support further our customers brand objectives marketed actively for divestment in its entirety.
We also believe as well as to help us align and refine cross regional opportunities, thatthis will improve the range of projects in which we can invest processes and product development.
inboth Beverage Cans and Healthcare.
So, while Personal Care isan attractive, well run business and given that we can generate In Plastic Packaging, we launched new pumps and airless better returns elsewhere in the Group, it is likely to be of greater dispensing tubes to protect fragile formulations as well as a new value to another owner.
spray technology, Panache, designed to deliver an improved consumer experience through the improved spray pattern and thus Healthcare will remain a key component of the Group.
It is a help our customers build their business.
In Healthcare, business with good growth prospects, well established customer Advancia, a new generation of nasal spray pumps specially relationships and long term contracts, as well as high barriers to designed to enhance protection of preservative free drugs, is entry and a strong return profile.
expected to help consolidate our position asaleader in this field.
In 2011, we piloted in our European beverage can operations anew process for measuring customer satisfaction with scores encompassing all areas of interaction from key account management through to fulfilment and including our performance on innovation and, where applicable, sustainability.
This process will be rolled out across the Group in 2012. financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 14 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report chief executives review growth in emerging markets In Healthcare, we are in the process of doubling the capacity ofour In 2011, our sales in emerging markets grew 8% as we continued plant inBangalore to meet continued growth in the region.
At the tosupport our customers, and we see further potential for both our same time we are finalising a contract to manufacture generic drug Beverage Cans andHealthcare businesses.
delivery devices for a customer in India which will, intime, require us to build a plant in Western India.
In Beverage Cans, we are seeking further opportunities for investment as well as bolt on acquisitions or joint venture sustainable thinking partnerships.
We announced in August that we wereexpanding Last year we highlighted the importance of securing Rexams long our existingplant outside Mumbai to increase our manufacturing term future around a sustainability framework based on the three capacity in India.
We were the first to manufacture two piece main areas of products, operations and people.
We have made beverage cans in India and this latest investment will help secure good progress in developing this model during the year, further our foothold and develop the marketfurther.
India offers significant refining and adding specific measures and targets to the growth potential as aresult of increasing GDP per capita as well commitments we set out last year.
You can read more about asthe presence of major global and regional customers, especially thisonpages 44 to 51. from the brewing industry.
Building a winning organisation is critical to our success.
There are a number of regions where we see good opportunities Makingsure that our people work in a safe, fair and enjoyable todevelop new positions or expand the operations that environment is core to our values.
Our safety statistics remain wecurrently have.
In the Middle East and Africa, for example, strong, as youwillsee below, but, although there were a number strong GDP growth and the relatively low penetration of beverage ofoutstanding performances by some of our businesses and cans make these attractive growth markets.
There is alsoa individual plants, Iam concerned that, as a Group, we did not hit favourable movement in the pack mix towards cans supported by our 10% year on year improvement goal.
We are determined to ayouthful population more disposed towards this type of beverage deliver a better performance.
We will be learning from the container.
In addition, the resilience of the can iswell suited to the experiences of our best performing plants and redoubling our often tough conditions that exist in the supply chain.
The Middle efforts to ensure that in 2012 we make further progress towards East market is fragmented with a high degree of vertical integration ourzero accidents target.
and we are confident that opportunities for consolidation will During the year, we also implemented a number of action plans emerge as markets mature andcustomers seekcredible toaddress the feedback of our 2010 employee survey.
suchas training and development, as well as communication and Asia also has attractive beverage can growth rates.
Beverage recognition, were recurrent themes across the Group in the focus cansuppliers are already investing to meet that increased demand.
groups that we held and many of the plans have been targeted We do not directly own any can making facilities in South East Asia atthese areas.
In response, we have made a concerted and but we are exploring opportunities in the region continually.
The successful effort to prioritise the visibility of our leadership teams.
increased internationalisation ofour global customers is an On training and development, one of our objectives is to enable advantage and we are pursuing opportunities arising from existing performance that will differentiate our business.
We saw the relationships and are in regular talks about their expansion plans successful deployment of the Rexam Business School and a good into these regions.
We have decided that China, which is currently uptake of the courses and training on offer, which range from half a highly fragmented market, is not a priority at this time.
Having hour online courses delivered via the company intranet in a range saidthat, weshall monitor the market to ensure that weare in a of languages, to comprehensive, residential courses focusing on position to act on any favourable opportunities should they arise.
specific skills and areas of leadership.
On recognition, we introduced the Blue Chip programme, a cash award equivalent We continue to invest in South and Central American markets tothe value of 50 Rexam ordinary shares, which helps deliver but, as demonstrated by the deferral of the opening of our Belm immediate recognition and reward topeople who show beverage can plant in Brazil until the second half of 2012, we will outstanding performance and excellence.
To date, more than ensure we match capacity with marketdemand.
Wehave one 220Blue Chips have been awarded andthe programme has plant in Mexico where we make both standard and specialty cans proved to be a greatsuccess.
and where the demand for specialty cans is growing strongly.
Mexico has a high per capita consumption of drinks sold in cans.
Around half of the can making market is vertically integrated with the beverage producers and webelieve that there is potential for consolidation over time.
InGuatemala we have a successful 50 50 joint venture with a well established and respected regional packaging company in this high growth region.
We have increased production inrecent years and we see further potential for consolidation in themarket and for bolt on acquisitions.
15 key performance indicators These key performance indicators KPIs are used by management to measure and track performance.
Each KPI relates directly to our long term strategy and additional information on each of them is contained in the various sections of this annual report.
As discussed last year, 2011 was a year for collecting base data for a number of the KPIs.
There are therefore some KPIs where there is no comparable data.
targets 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 best performance 1 Organic sales growth % GDP 4 3 7 7 11 1 Underlying operating profit growth % GDP 8 22 17 3 7 Free cash flow m Note 2 245 316 290 128 24 3 Return on capital employed % 15% by 2013 13.7 12.3 9.5 11.0 11.9 customer expectations 4 Customer satisfaction score 110 To be set 7.8 n a n a n a n a Emerging market sales as percentage of sales % Continuous improvement 32 31 27 27 23 5 Research and new product development m Note 2 17 19 20 19 14 operational excellence 6 Annual cost savings and efficiencies m c 30m 35 34 42 35 32 7 Lost time accident rate LTAR Zero accidents pa 0.28 0.30 0.63 0.76 1.13 8 Carbon intensity ratio 10% by 2013 vs 2010 0.83 0.86 0.91 n a n a winning organisation 9 Employee engagement index favourable score % Continuous improvement n a 62 n a n a n a 9 Values and leadership practices favourable score % Continuous improvement n a 53 n a n a n a 1 Underlying business performance is continuing and discontinued operations excluding Glass which was sold in 2007 and Closures in 2010 and 2011 before exceptional items, theamortisation of certain acquired intangibles and fair value changes in financing derivations.
Organic sales growth and underlying operating profit growth are as reported in thefinancial reviewfor the relevant years and represent the organic change after adjusting for acquisitions, disposals and currency fluctuations.
2 Will depend on investment plans including capital going forward.
3 Underlying operating profit plus share of associates profit after tax from total operations divided by the average of opening and closing shareholders equity after adding back retirement benefit obligations netof tax and net borrowings.
4 Customer referral score out of 10 from externally conducted survey.
This survey was piloted in Europe in 2011 and, from 2012, will be rolled out across the Groups operations.
TheGroup target will be set once we have the Group wide data.
5 R&D spend on a statutory accounting basis, which includes design, construction and testing of preproduction prototypes, models and processes.
Our operations also invest in new product and process initiatives which are not captured in the statutory figure.
Includes spend by discontinued operations prior to 2011.
7 LTAR is the number of lost time accidents times 200,000 total hours worked.
Our long term target is zero accidents pa with a near term target of 10% reduction pa. 8 Kilogram of carbon per kilogram of raw materials converted continuing operations.
9 Scores from the Group global employee engagement survey conducted around every 18 months first one conducted in 2010.
The next survey is scheduled for the first quarter of 2012. financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
