Chief executives statement We have achieved record results in challenging markets during 2011. development can assist us in gaining and maintaining our access to We made good progress during market volatility despite our Australian resources.
Our aim is to be the developer of choice in an increasingly operations being disrupted by severe flooding.
It is to the credit of our competitive environment.
people that, as well as helping their communities in the crisis, they brought When I meet with leaders around the world to discuss the challenges production back on line safely and met or exceeded output targets.
of resource nationalism and the opportunity presented by responsible Our record underlying earnings, mainly driven by an outstanding year mining, I convey to them how we earn our licence to operate through for our Iron Ore business, have put us in a strong position to navigate the Rio Tintos knowledge: the skills we can offer and our experience in both uncertain environment we face.
As Jan has said in his letter, this focus has mining and marketing all of which can help bring prosperity to their demonstrated our commitment to financial and operational excellence regions.
I also highlight the considerable contribution that we make whilst pursuing growth opportunities consistent with our strategy to create to build the social and economic fabric in the communities where we long-term, sustainable returns for shareholders.
operate and how we engage in environmental protection throughout our activities and regeneration when our mining is done.
During 2011, we approved a number of major growth projects.
These include a substantial expansion of our Pilbara operations, investment in some of the Innovation and technology most exciting mining projects in the world, and a commitment to transform Innovative technologies are making a substantial contribution to safety, some of our existing assets.
operational and environmental efficiency and financial performance.
Although our all injury frequency rate continued to improve with a two For example, our Mine of the Future has brought us the Operations Centre per cent reduction in 2011, the achievement is significantly overshadowed in Perth controlling train, truck and shipping movements in the Pilbara, TM by the six fatalities at our managed sites and operations held for divestment our autonomous truck programme and our recently announced AutoHaul during the year.
In a period of prolonged growth within the sector, these automated train programme.
Although innovation is not confined tragedies remind us of the importance of maintaining safety as a primary to technology: there are many parts of our business where innovative focus at all times, particularly during expansion.
management plans, processes and work practices are also improving safety and efficiency.
We will be placing even greater emphasis in 2012 on simplifying systems, identifying and managing critical safety risks and engaging frontline leaders Costs more in communicating safety messages to their teams.
As an industry, we are facing a period of historic cost inflation.
Higher input costs and the strength of the Canadian and Australian dollars currencies Strategy in which we incur many of our costs are putting pressure on our margins.
We remain committed to our vision to be the leading global mining and metals company through a strategy of developing long-life, cost-competitive, Rising costs of exploration, development and extraction are, in part, a expandable assets.
To achieve this we focus on a portfolio of Tier 1 assets consequence of the lower ore grades that our industry faces.
They also diversified by commodity, market and geography.
Please see page 6 for stem from the increasing remoteness of resources, difficult geographies, more information on our strategy and business model.
and increased social and economic commitments such as the Australian Minerals Resource Rent Tax and Australian carbon taxes.
We are a long-term business and our strategy has consistently served us well over the years and will continue to do so in the challenging times ahead.
The year ahead In 2011, to support our strategy, we concentrated on five strategic drivers: During 2012 we have a clear objective to focus on controlling costs and financial and operational excellence, globalising the business, technology improving productivity.
We will achieve this whilst continuing to work on the and innovation, licence to operate, and growth.
We made significant transformation of the aluminium business through the disposal of assets progress in all of these areas.
that do not fit with our core strategy and continuing our efficiency measures.
We will adapt our portfolio to concentrate on delivering our projects.
We will Globalising and growing the business also develop our marketing capability, improving our ability to react quickly Through a combination of growing the business and expanding our and flexibly to our customers requirements.
current operations, we will soon start to harvest the fruits of our long-term growth trajectory: the first copper from the Oyu Tolgoi mine in Mongolia is Our people part of our contribution to the 2012 London Olympic and Paralympic Games As a global company we have the opportunity to develop and rely on the where we take great pride in supplying the metals for the winners medals.
skills and cultures of our international workforce.
We are committed to We have increased our holding in Oyu Tolgoi by raising our stake in engaging with our people to foster diversity and leadership: providing them Ivanhoe, its major shareholder, to 51 per cent in January 2012: first with the best opportunities to learn and develop with an industry leader.
commercial production is due in 2013.
I express my appreciation to our employees for the contributions they The first coal from our Mozambican coalfields, acquired in 2011, will also have made during the course of 2011, to our shareholders for their ongoing be exported this year and our Simandou iron ore project is laying a path support and to the communities and countries who host our operations.
In buying the uranium exploration company Hathor and the proposal announced in February 2012 to double I believe that with Rio Tintos financial strength, its committed workforce our stake in Richards Bay Minerals we have focused on acquisitions that and our long-term projects and operations, we have set the scene for add value and enhance our growth pipeline.
exciting achievements in 2012 and beyond.
Our organic growth is also progressing: our iron ore capacity in the Pilbara, in Western Australia will increase to 230 million tonnes a year in the first quarter of 2012.
Expansion plans to raise that to 283 mtpa have been approved and we have accelerated the target of 353 mtpa by six months to the first half of 2015, subject to board approval.
Tom Albanese Licence to operate Chief executive While rising resource nationalism is creating investment uncertainty, 5 March 2012 we continue to believe that our strategy of improving our stakeholder engagement, transparency in tax payments and a focus on sustainable 2 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report
