4 Business review Chief Executives review Delivering for customers and investing in the business Demand for our products and services in 2011 1.
Delivering the promises we have made With a record order book of 62.2 billion, our customers have placed a remained strong.
Despite the global economic huge amount of trust in us and it is essential we meet our commitments.
turbulence of recent years, Rolls-Royce has This will require a very significant increase in capacity.
To put this growth into perspective, since we started building Trent engines 18 years ago we continued to grow.
have delivered just over 2,000 units.
We will deliver the next 2,000 in just five years which means more than doubling our current rate of production.
To achieve this we continue to invest in new facilities around the world.
In my first year as Chief Executive, I have spent much of my time visiting These investments include our new plants at Crosspointe in Virginia, USA Rolls-Royce sites around the world to meet employees, customers, where we are making discs for civil jet engines and Seletar, in Singapore, suppliers and investors to hear what they have to say about your company.
where we will make wide-chord fan blades and assemble and test Trent Without exception, the employees I have met are dedicated, professional engines.
We are also expanding and renewing our facilities in the UK where and committed to delivering our brand promise trusted to deliver we still invest half of our capital expenditure and more than half of our excellence.
Our customers are supportive and enthusiastic about our research and development budget.
As well as investing in our own technology and, of course, they want even better performance both from facilities, we are working hard with our suppliers and partners to make our products and our team.
Our suppliers are excited by the opportunity sure our global supply chain can support our growth and keep pace for growth and understand our requirement for better quality, on time with demand.
Investors express support for our strategy and naturally share our desire for still better financial performance in the future.
Deciding where we invest for future growth We can see opportunity in all areas of our business but we need to At the 2011 AGM, I confirmed that we will continue to follow the strategy concentrate our resources and decide which opportunities we are going that has been in place for many years, and can be summarised as: to pursue and which we are not.
1. addressing four global markets: civil aerospace, defence aerospace, marine and energy: 3.
Continuing to improve the financial performance of the business Although we are subject to inflationary pressures and tough competition 2. investing in technology, capability and infrastructure: we will benefit from the growth of the business, from investments that will 3. developing a competitive portfolio of products and services: improve efficiency and from an increasing focus on cost performance and 4. focusing on growing market share and our installed product base: and cash conversion.
5. adding value for our customers through product-related services.
In support of our strategy, during 2011 we made three very important This strategy has stood the test of time and has proved itself in battle.
Since 2007, and despite the turbulence of recent years, Rolls-Royce has grown underlying revenue by 44 per cent, underlying profits by 45 per The first was our acquisition of the German industrial engines group cent and payments to shareholders by 35 per cent.
We have doubled our Tognum, our biggest acquisition, that we made in a joint offer with revenues in the past decade and, through organic growth alone, we are Daimler.
It will bring together highly complementary product and confident that we will do the same in the decade ahead.
technology portfolios and creates significant new opportunities for our marine and energy businesses.
While we continue to follow this strategy, in the coming years, I see three main priorities: Second, we signed an exclusive deal with Airbus to power the long-range Airbus A350-1000 aircraft, for which we will develop an enhanced Trent XWB engine.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011
