Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 67 Information not subject to audit rewarded for their contribution to the groups operating and financial performance.
In setting remuneration levels, the committee takes Composition and terms of reference of the remuneration into account industry, market and country benchmarks, and ensures committee that each executives remuneration is appropriate to their scale of During the year ended 31 March 2011, the members of the committee responsibility and performance.
This helps to attract, motivate and were Mr Morland chairman, Mr Armour, Lord Fellowes, Mr Manser retain individuals of the necessary calibre.
Mr Bible, Mr Willard, Mr Santo Domingo and Mr Kahn joined some meetings as observers.
Also present were the Chief The table and charts below show the ratios of performance-related Executive, Mr Mackay, the General Counsel and Group Secretary, compensation to base salary and benefits of the executive directors, Mr Davidson, the Deputy Company Secretary, Mr Shapiro, and the and the relative value of the different elements, including the bonus Group Head of Compensation and Benefits, Mr Scoones, except and long-term share-based compensation awarded in respect of the when their own remuneration was discussed.
Mr Armour joined the year ended 31 March 2011, assuming target or median performance.
Lord Fellowes retired from the board The ratios accord with the committees policy on the balance between andthe committee on 22 July 2010.
Ms Knox joined the committee fixed and variable pay.
The committee considers that alignment with shareholders interests The committee deals with the remuneration of the executive and linkage to SABMillers long-term strategic goals is best achieved directors and other members of the executive committee, as well through a twin focus on earnings per share EPS and growth as approving all awards under the companys share incentive plans, in shareholder value, with a blend of both absolute and relative in accordance with the terms of reference approved by the board.
Hence, for executive directors and senior When setting the remuneration of executive directors, the committee executives, vesting of value share awards are subject to SABMillers considers corporate performance on environmental, social and five-year value sharing performance condition, and vesting of governance issues, and the pay and employment conditions of performance share awards are subject to three-year adjusted EPS employees throughout the group, and ensures that the incentive growth, with targets set according to the committees judgement after structure for senior management does not raise environmental, considering, among other factors, historical and forecast adjusted social or governance issues by inadvertently motivating inappropriate EPS growth for SABMillers peers.
Base pay Advisers The committee reviews the salaries of executive directors at the In the course of its deliberations, the committee considered the beginning of each financial year.
views of the Chief Executive on the remuneration and performance of the members of the executive committee.
The Group Secretary In setting target remuneration levels for the executive directors the and the Group Head of Compensation and Benefits also provided committee has regard to the 30 FTSE 100 companies ranked in the 15 information to the committee on the co-ordination of global pay places above and below the company by market capitalisation, as well policies, expatriate and local pay for international deployments, equity as to pay levels and practices in the companys principal international usage through share incentive plans, and on legal, regulatory and competitors and, where relevant, in companies comparable in size governance issues.
to the companys divisions in those countries in which the company has a significant presence.
The committee also takes into account Kepler Associates is retained by the committee to provide advice on remuneration levels and practices in the groups own operations.
long-term incentive design, information on current market practices, In determining the salaries of the executive directors for the year and metrics on performance conditions, specifically relative TSR and commencing 1 April 2011, the committee took into consideration the other remuneration matters.
Kepler Associates does not provide any 19% increase in adjusted EPS 23% in sterling terms achieved in the other advice or services to the group.
year ended 31 March 2011, and the recommended 19% increase in the full year dividend to 81 US cents per share, compared with 68 Remuneration policies US cents per share for the previous year.
The executive directors As outlined in the introductory letter from the chairman of the willreceive increases averaging 4.3%, which are broadly in line remuneration committee, the committees policy is to ensure that withthe salary increases awarded to other UK-based employees executive directors and members of the executive committee are ofthe company.
