Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 13 Pilsner Urquell Chief Executives review The worlds first golden beer from the Czech city of Plzen, Pilsner Urquell Continued focus on strategic the name means Pilsner from the original source has a distinctive, full-bodied taste that delights priorities drives performance discerning beer drinkers around theworld.
Origin: Czech Republic First brewed: 1842 www.
com Graham Mackay Chief Executive In my report last year, I predicted that the coming year would be atesting one with consumers in developed markets, in particular, stillfeeling the effects of global recession.
True to expectations, the past 12 months have While we will continue to consider further acquisitions produced a mixed trading environment in which where they add value, we are now focusing more on improvements in most of our emerging markets have our second priority.
been offset by constraints on consumer demand in North America and Europe.
Developing strong, relevant brand portfolios that win in the local market Against this challenging background, we The growing emphasis on our organic growth nevertheless delivered very strong EBITA growth of re ectsthe changes in our industry asglobal 15% 12% on an organic, constant currency basis consolidation slows and growth by acquisition with the reported EBITA margin rising to 17.8%.
Adjusted earnings per share grew 19% and our freecash ow rose 23% to US$2,488 million.
These developments play to our strengths.
Rather than depending on a few high-pro le, global brands, Our strategy we seek to win by tailoring our product portfolios Our performance has been due in no small part to our tothe needs and preferences of local consumers continued focus on the groups four strategic priorities.
and providing a superior mix of brands, market by These are detailed on pages 18 and 19 along with the market.
This business model, we believe, is the best key indicators by which we measure our performance route to long-term growth.
It also re ects the nature anda record of our progress in each case.
of the brewing business in that beer remains an inherently local product.
Our determination to build While all four priorities remain relevant, the emphasis brands that resonate locally is a key part of our we attach to each one is changing.
Creating a balanced and attractive global All this requires a rigorous focus on customers and spread of businesses consumers and a set of commercial capabilities that In recent years we have made considerable progress distinguish us from our competitors.
This year weve against this first priority.
Our global portfolio now made good progress against our second strategic covers over 75 countries on six continents and 94% priority in several important areas.
of our lager volume comes from countries in which we have the number one or number two market One way we have done so is by attracting share position.
Our portfolio also gives us high new consumers to our brands, notably by exposure to growth markets, with almost 80% developing and expanding the beer category ofourgroup EBITA coming from developing or so as to encourage consumers to switch to beer emerging economies.
from other forms of alcohol on more occasions.
indd 13 07 06 2011 15:20 14 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Chief Executives review Continued Part of this approach is to make our beers affordable Last years FIFA World Cup in South Africa was for more consumers.
In Africa, for example, many anopportunity to unite South Africans behind our consumers have historically found commercial beers flagship local brand, Castle Lager.
In a country still outside their price range and have therefore been inthe process of forging a national identity, our limited to informal home brews.
In response, were research showed that South Africans take common offering high-quality, affordable alternatives to home pride in their reputation for hospitality.
Castle Lager brews based on locally grown ingredients such as therefore created a campaign to position the brand sorghum.
The fact that these brands sometimes as the countrys host beer.
After a decade of gradual attract excise relief because they stimulate agriculture decline, Castle Lager has not only stabilised but is and so create local jobs helps further in bringing growing at a double-digit rate nearly a year after the down the price.
With the recent launch of our highly tournament.
successful Eagle brand in Nigeria, we now offer 21% beers made from local ingredients in almost all Other mainstream brands to have received attention ourAfrican markets.
are Tanzanias Kilimanjaro, recently repositioned to 21% rise in sales of Peroni express pride in its origins, and Miller Lite in the USA Nastro Azzurro in the UK Another way to make beer more affordable is to which is gaining share in response to an integrated offerit in smaller-sized packaging.
In the hot coastal campaign on the theme of great taste the message region of Colombia, the introduction of guilita in in this case supported by packaging innovations a225 ml bottle has been a great success, both such as the vortex bottle with its spiral neck grooves because each transaction costs less and because designed to enhance taste.
smaller bottles, bought more frequently, ensure a colder drink for the consumer.
Its pleasing to note Along with strengthening our mainstream that 29% of guilitas incremental volume has come brands, weve made good progress in building from outside the beer category.
We recently a differentiated portfolio of premium brands, launched a similar-sized bottle for Pilsener in both local and global.
Despite the ongoing economic 7% Ecuador, againwith strong results.
difficulties in some of our markets, our revenue from the premium segment in total grew by 7% on a 7% revenue growth As part of attracting new consumers, we constantly constant currency basis during the year.
in premium brands research their tastes and preferences.
Where we find needs that are not yet met by our existing brands, One particularly attractive opportunity is for local wecan expand our portfolio to satisfy them.
One premium brands occupying a niche between product developed in this way is the new variant of mainstream and global premium beers and aimed Club Colombia, Roja, which has proved extremely ataspiring consumers looking for affordable luxury.
Also performing well is Cusquea Red The concept has proved very successful in Europe, Lager, a Cusquea variant launched in Peru.
We Latin America and more recently Africa where we continue to look for ways of using our consumer now offer local premium brands in all our markets.
insights to develop other offerings.
A notable success in this segment has been the Although we are first and foremost a beer business, award-winning Laurentina Preta, now the biggest we see opportunities in some markets to expand brand in Mozambique despite selling at a 15% intomalt beverages.
This year our PonyMalta brand premium to the equivalent mainstream brand.
in Colombia benefited from wider availability and the Tanzanias Ndovu Special Malt is also doing well.
launch of a new, smaller pack size the Pony Mini.
In Africa, the traditional maize-based Super Maheu Elsewhere, Castle Lite is now the leading beer in product continues to grow and were now making it South Africas competitive premium sector.
The available in new markets.
recent campaign to refresh the brand and create a new positioning based on its extra cold credentials Another way were developing our brand has helped to differentiate it from the rest of the field portfoliosin order to win in the local market is by and sales continue to grow.
strengthening our mainstream offerings through distinctive positioning and integrated In the USA, the desire for differentiated beers has commercial programmes.
fuelled the growth of craft and speciality brands withclear identities and distinct local provenance.
Mainstream brands make up the majority of our MillerCoors has responded by forming Tenth and salesin most markets.
As consumers become more Blake Beer Company to bring extra focus and sophisticated and demanding, we need constantly to expertise to the craft and import segment.
The polish, refresh and reposition our mainstream brands companys star performer, Blue Moon, grew 25% to keep them interesting and relevant.
inthe year, drawing much of its growth from women drinkers new to the beer category.
indd 14 07 06 2011 10:08 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 15 Snow Brave the World A bright, clean-drinking, well balanced beer, pale golden in colour with a white head and a lacy cling on the glass, Brave the World exemplifies theproud, adventurous spirit of modern China.
Origin: China First brewed: 2002 www.
cn At the top of the market we offer our four global Constantly raising the profitability of brands.
An example of success in the UK has been localbusinesses, sustainably Peroni Nastro Azzurro.
Distributed to selected outlets Our third priority is important in freeing up funds for only, the brand has increased its sales volumes by investment in our market-facing activities.
A good 21% in the year while preserving its exclusivity and example this year has been in South Africa where premium credentials.
thebusiness has reduced its costs in order to put greater investment behind its core brands and the In addition to expanding the beer category and service it offers to retailers.
The result has been strengthening our mainstream and premium stronger marketing backed by product and portfolios, were seeking to optimise revenue packaging innovations and a sharper focus on andenhance our in-trade capabilities so as eachof its routes to market.
As a consequence, tooffer better service to our retail customers.
SABhas succeeded in stabilising its market share and lager volumes have returned to growth with Sales channels can differ enormously in terms of anincrease of 2%.
scale and sophistication between developed and emerging markets and within individual markets.
In Latin America, our focus on cost-efficiency has A key focus for all our businesses is to provide contributed to a margin increase of more than five consistently excellent service adapted to the needs percentage points over the last three years.
year in Colombia, the optimisation of our customer service model and route to market plus the closure In the Czech Republic, for example, discussions of the Bogota brewery and the subsequent with large supermarket chains no longer centre reorganisation of production have led to further onshort-term promotions but on how we can EBITA and margin gains.
worktogether to manage the beer category more strategically and so build value for brewer and retailer In April 2010, we changed our European alike.
Joint business planning ensures that the manufacturing and supply chain organisation from interests of both parties are aligned.
One result has a country to a regional model.
This has allowed been better promotions in support of higher-margin us to optimise production and secure further cost brands and packs.
It has also freed up our general managers to focus fully on the commercial side Recently in North America, MillerCoors has ofthe business.
developed a system called Building Execution Excellence at Retail BEER that allows the field sales While cost reductions are important, we know team to measure and improve the quality of service thatthey cannot be at the expense of long-term itoffers to retailers.
In 2010, as a result, MillerCoors sustainability.
In this connection, our African was category captain in 30% of key account chains businesses have for some time been developing up from 24% in 2008.
In addition, MillerCoors local sources of raw materials as a way of revenue through these outlets is up almost 5%, a encouraging local enterprise and ensuring more winnot only for the business but also for the retailer.
Having historically imported over 80% of our brewing materials in Africa, we aim In Africa and Latin America, many of our retail to reduce the figure to around 50% over the next customers are small mom and pop stores: in three years.
Inpartnership with local governments Colombia, for example, we service some 350,000 and NGOs, we have contracted over 28,000 local of these outlets.
Here our support includes the farmers to supply ingredients for our breweries and renovation of sales outlets to create a more we expect the number to increase significantly in the appealing drinking environment.
In Zambia we have recently become colderproduct and so improve volumes, were self sufficient in barley, while in Uganda we are alsoinvesting in more fridges.
Last year in working towards self sufficiency and have built a Colombiaalone, we placed a further 19,000 newmalting plant.
Another important aspect of sustainability is the While our main focus is on our second strategic groups challenging targets to reduce its water use priority, as detailed above, the remaining two and fossil fuel emissions.
In the past year our water priorities are vital as enablers to our consumption per hectolitre of lager produced was commercialagenda.
Over the same period, our fossil fuel emissions totalled 13.8kg CO e per hectolitre of lager 2 produced, a year-on-year improvement of3%.
indd 15 07 06 2011 10:08 16 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Chief Executives review Continued Leveraging our skills and global scale Addressing risks Our fourth strategic priority gives further support Operating, as we do, in over 75 countries, toour commercial agenda by freeing local leaders wenaturally face a range of risks.
Working to a toconcentrate more fully on their customers and well-developed risk management process see consumers and on winning in the local market.
pages 63 and 64, we continue to identify and monitor the principal risks facing the business and to Through our business capability programme, manage them appropriately.
Given that risks present werecapitalising on our scale by standardising and opportunities as well as threats, we seek to maximise outsourcing many of our processes and systems and the former and minimise the latter in a way that centralising specialist functions such as procurement generates the greatest return for our shareholders.
As well as easing the load on local teams, these projects will boost The recent directors review reveals little significant 67m efficiency, raise standards, create a more connected change in the risks we face see pages 20 and 21. global organisation and extract greater value from We have, however, stepped up our actions to US$67 million net operating benefits our skills and scale.
mitigate risk in some areas.
The risk of changing from our business capability programme consumer preferences is addressed in our efforts to The past year has seen good progress.
Trinity build and enhance our commercial capabilities while Procurement, our new global procurement the creation of the Trinity procurement organisation organisation, is now operating from its headquarters will help mitigate the volatile price of raw materials.
in Switzerland and helping to secure more competitive prices on items such as brewing Looking ahead andpackaging materials.
Looking ahead, we will continue to develop the beercategory, to build leading brand portfolios in Our global IS project has developed an integrated local markets and to capitalise on our global scale.
platform across finance, procurement and human We see strong prospects for increasing our volumes, 461m resources.
In June 2010 the solution went live in revenues and profitability over the medium to long South Africa and the corporate offices in the UK term and our strategies for organic growth remain US$461 million accumulated working andwe are now extending its scope to include clear and consistent.
We have the skills, resources capital benefits from our business manufacturing, supply-chain planning, inventory and capabilities to continue making progress and capability programme management and commercial processes.
Sales look forward to another year of generating value for anddistribution systems were implemented in our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Graham Mackay This year the net operating benefits from our Chief Executive business capability programme were ahead of expectations at US$67 million, the strongest contributions coming from the global procurement programme and the introduction of a regional manufacturing organisation in Europe.
Working capital benefits continued to exceed our original objective of US$350 million by the 2013 financial year: by the end of this year, the figure was an accumulated improvement of US$461 million.
Costs were broadly in line with our expectations with exceptional charges of US$296 million taken during the year.
These charges mainly relate to the design, construction and implementation of major systems platforms notably the sales and distribution systems and thenew back-office platform.
indd 16 07 06 2011 10:08 O Ov five er rv viie ew w B Bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viie ew w G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nc ciia all s st ta at te em me en nt ts s S Sh ha ar re eh ho olld fide er r i in nf fo or rm ma at tiio on n S SA AB BM Miilllle er r p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 11 1 1 17 7 Blue Moon Blue Moon, along with seasonal brand extensions such as Pale Moon and Harvest Moon, is the Tenth and Blake Beer Companys best-selling brand and continued growing at a double-digit rate during the year.
