Overview Chief Executives review These are good results which reflect the strong fundamentals of Sages business Guy Berruyer, Chief Executive From a trading perspective this has been a positive year for within Sage to meet the common challenges that our Sage, with 4% growth in organic revenue, 16% growth in businesses face.
All of these factors have enabled us to underlying earnings per share and strong cash flows.
At make good progress against the four priorities I set out last the same time, from both a strategic and an operational December improving organic revenue growth, driving perspective, there has been significant change we have margins in the medium term, further leveraging the web embedded a new management structure, disposed of and re-engaging in M&A.
our Sage Healthcare business and demonstrated our Whilst there has been a lot of change in the year, we have commitment to enhancing shareholder returns.
We have also remained focused on the needs of our 6 million SME also taken concrete steps better to position the Group for customers.
These customers value excellent service, products growth this involves expanding the range of products and that meet their business needs and a brand they can trust.
services we can sell to our customer base, focusing our We are pleased that our customer satisfaction ratings resources on areas with the highest potential, accelerating remained high and our subscription contract renewal rates the development of our online offers and collaborating more were stable at 81%: a key measure for Sage.
In line with Underlying figures neutralise the impact of foreign exchange movements and exclude amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Foreign currency results for the prior year ended 30 September 2010 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2011 of $1.61 1 and 1.15 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
# Organic figures exclude the contributions of current and prior period acquisitions, disposals and non-core products.
EBITA is defined as earnings before interest, tax and amortisation of acquired intangible assets and is after neutralising the impact of foreign exchange movements.
