uring 2011 the Group commenced a Chairmans and high-grading of its portfolio with the aim Chief Executives review D of focusing on areas where it has large, operated interests with material upside exposure and high quality, anchor assets.
These areas include the The Board believes that Salamander Greater Bualuang area, in the Gulf of Thailand: the has never been better positioned North Kutei area and the Greater Kerendan area, both in Indonesia.
In all of these areas the Groups position to create and capture value for is based around a core asset with upside potential as shareholders and we look forward well as low risk step-out exploration and appraisal to the year ahead with a keen opportunities and the chance to add new acreage in areas where we have a detailed knowledge of the sense of anticipation.
This re-alignment is a natural progression in portfolio development as the Group matures, and follows our earlier drilling programmes across a diverse range of assets in Southeast Asia.
Having identified the three core areas around which to focus the Groups future growth, the second half of the year saw the Group divest small, non-operated interests in the ONWJ and SES PSCs.
These were highly taxed, high cost barrels which generated relatively limited free cash flow and were in long term decline.
The Group used these funds to expand in its core areas with the farm-in to the G4 50 block in the Greater Bualuang area, Thailand and increasing its interest in the Greater Kerendan area, through the acquisition of additional equity in the Bangkanai PSC.
Both of these areas offer higher potential returns and more tangible growth opportunities than the ONWJ and SES PSCs.
With the Groups renewed focus, assets outside of these high-graded areas are now considered non-core and the Group may determine in the future where appropriate to harvest cash flow, divest or withdraw from these positions.
Markets Despite difficult global economic conditions, the Groups principal markets of Indonesia and Thailand continue to grow, with the IMF forecasting GDP growth in 2012 of 6.3% in Indonesia and 4.8% in Thailand.
The demand for new gas-fired power projects in Indonesia remains strong.
This is an Charles Jamieson James Menzies Chairman Chief Executive Officer important market for the Group as it explores for gas in the Greater Kerendan and North Kutei areas.
Demand for gas remains exceptionally strong in the North Kutei area, where the presence of the Bontang LNG plant has led to the growth of a number of local markets for gas, including petrochemicals, fertiliser, power and LNG.
With the oil price remaining consistently above the $100 per barrel level since early 2011, the Groups markets can be described as buoyant.
10 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Highlights engagement and employment practices.
A focus area in 2011 was the implementation of a new code of On the operational side, production averaged conduct reflecting the new ABC legislation and the 18,600 boepd for the year, despite the sale of the roll-out of a comprehensive training programme to ONWJ and SES PSCs in the second half of 2011. educate all employees on their responsibilities in this Production comprised 84% liquids and 16% gas area.
The Group has also embarked on a review of its while average realisations during the year were internal policies and reporting structure with regards $104.45 per barrel 2010: $73.16 per barrel and to corporate responsibility matters in order to $5.47 per Mcf 2010: $5.12 Mcf.
enhance its performance in this area and this will be Even allowing for disposals, the Group grew its concluded in 2012.
More details can be found in the 2P proved and probable reserves by 9.0 MMboe Corporate Responsibility section of this report.
13.6% during the year, reporting a 2P figure of We strengthened the senior management team 75.3 MMboe at year end, representing a reserve during 2011, creating the new positions of Group replacement ratio of 235%.
Alongside this, the Technical Director and Exploration Manager, Groups proved reserve base grew by 37% to 48 Indonesia, reinforcing our position as having one MMboe 64% of the 2P figure, reflecting the of the leading and most capable operating teams in continued successful development of the Groups the region.
We were also delighted to welcome flagship Bualuang oil field.
Dr Jonathan Copus as Chief Financial Officer: the Since the drilling of the play-opening Angklung-1 Board has been impressed by the contribution he well at the end of 2010, our technical teams have has already made in his short time with us.
Since been working hard throughout 2011 to define the the period end we have further strengthened the prospectivity in our acreage in the North Kutei area, Board with the appointment of Dr Carol Bell as a offshore Indonesia.
The well has opened an exciting Non-executive Director.
We would also like to thank new oil & gas play located offshore East Kalimantan, all our staff for their continued dedication, close to the Bontang LNG plant, an area with a strong professional attitude and enthusiasm.
We are therefore pleased to have had an independent third party Competent Persons Outlook Report CPR report commissioned and recently Following the strategic rationalisation in 2011 and completed, analysing the potential of our acreage.
the material growth in the Groups reserve base, This CPR report highlights the potential for over the 2012 drilling programme will see Salamander 676 MMboe of gross mean prospective oil and gas directing its resources to operating in its core focus resources in the top four high-graded prospects in areas where it has discoveries, is looking to progress our acreage.
We are continuing our technical work field developments and conduct low risk step out on our operated blocks and look forward to testing exploration.
We therefore already have a detailed the prospectivity of this new play area.
understanding of the hydrocarbon systems in our On the financial front, the increase in average core basins and this is reflected in the relatively low realisations drove revenue to record levels of risk nature of the programme.
As a result, we are $408.0 million 2010: $323.4 million and we are increasingly confident that we can capture material pleased to report a record post-tax operating value through the drill-bit.
Meanwhile, the core cash flow of $193.9 million 2010: $106.5 million business continues to grow with production and record profit before tax of $112.6 million expected to rise to over 20,000 boepd in 2014.
The Group reported With a more focused approach, the Group will a year-end cash and cash equivalents position, seek to accelerate its plans across its core areas.
including restricted bank deposits, of $85.8 million The Board believes that Salamander has never been 2010: $99.2 million.
better positioned to create and capture value for shareholders and we look forward to the year ahead Corporate responsibility with a keen sense of anticipation.
The Group recognises, and takes seriously, the need Charles Jamieson James Menzies for it to be a responsible corporate citizen.
The Chief Chairman Chief Executive Executive oversees the implementation of the Groups 23 March 2012 23 March 2012 policies in this area from Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC through to Health and Safety, community Further information 11 Business review Financial review.
Page 20 Salamander Energy PLC Operational review.
Page 13 Annual Report 2011 Corporate responsibility.
