CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT Summary Segmental performance We continue to report the business in three operating At SDL our vision is that we believe everyone should segments in 2011, this change was initiated in 2009 and be able to engage with the information they require enables our shareholders to more fully understand the in the way they want and our mission is to enable principal business lines of the group.
Performance by global businesses to engage with their customers in the segment is as follows: language, the media and at the moment they chose.
Our core value proposition is to support businesses in Content Management Technologies contributing increasing brand equity and driving revenues on a global 52.7m or 23% of revenue to the Group and 8.8m or basis and we seek to do this by providing enterprise ready 22% of Group PBTA 2010: contributing 45.0m or 22% of innovative solutions to manage the end-to-end customer revenue to the Group and 7.7m or 22% of Group PBTA experience.
Total segment revenue grew by 17%, comprising -2% Our strategic objective is to deliver superior returns to foreign exchange, a negligible effect from acquisitions and shareholders through execution of a growth strategy on 19% underlying organic growth at constant currency.
five key dimensions: key account growth, cross selling, This is a very strong performance, where the business partner channels and strategic partnership, territory continued to differentiate its products and solutions expansion and technology leadership and innovation.
through a compelling program of innovation which I am pleased to report that we made positive progress delivered significant new product releases in 2011. in all of these areas in 2011 which proved to be a strong year in terms of financial performance and was SDL Web Content Management Solutions performed also an exceptional year for new client acquisition and well, particularly in North America.
The new SDL Tridion for releasing new innovative products to the global 2011 product was launched at the start of 2011.
mobile, targeting and personalisation capabilities, this release was cited by both Forrester and Gartner as a leader Revenue for the year was 229.0m 2010: 203.5m, and has gained significant traction in the global market, an excellent performance against a mixed demand building on the established reputation of SDL Tridion.
environment which varied region by region and segment Our Web Content Management Solutions were further by segment.
All businesses contributed positive revenue enhanced by the small but strategic Calamares acquisition, growth in 2011.
Headline revenue growth of 13% includes a cloud based enterprise solution for managing video and acquisition related growth of 2%, a 1% decrease due other rich media assets.
This new capability, now branded to foreign exchange, and underlying organic growth SDL Media Manager, is fully integrated with SDL Tridion at constant currency of 12%.
Performance in Content 2011 and supports a broad range of media, systems Management continued to be particularly strong, with and devices including web, mobile, internet protocol constant currency revenue growth of 19%, driven by television IPTV and various social media platforms.
We demand for SDL Tridion 2011, a new product release expect the use of live and on demand video to increase to the global marketplace, and continued penetration significantly as we move forward against an environment of structured content products into the burgeoning where consumer preference for video related content as a technical documentation marketplace.
Increased cross preferred media is also growing rapidly.
selling activity has also underpinned growth.
Moving into 2012 the sales pipeline remains robust, reflective of Structured Content Technologies continued to make new win momentum and we see no discernible change exceptional progress, in both the established S1000D and in decision patterns for buying SDL solutions despite an emerging DITA markets.
Important sales were made in uncertain economy.
Asia, a relatively immature market for these products, with interest seeded creating a solid platform for future growth.
Operating cashflow from operations was 32.6m 2010: We are also proud to have released SDL LiveContent 2011 27.1m.
Average DSO was stable which was particularly during the year.
This is a step-change enabling product pleasing in a challenging environment for many which automates the production of smart interactive corporations and ensured that the business maintained product documentation.
We believe that SDL offers the strong cash flow during the year.
At the end of 2011 we most complete end-to-end solution for creating and had 70.4m of cash on the balance sheet which, combined managing user documentation, vital to the end-to-end with 20m of undrawn revolving credit facilities, provided user experience.
a robust base for the completion of the Alterian acquisition on 27 January 2012.
14 SDL OVERVIEW 1 We have confidence in our strategy and execution capability and we have a strong balance sheet which gives us the ability to pursue strategic growth opportunities both organically and through acquisition.
2011 was a year of strong revenue growth for this segment New clients in 2011 include Compassion International, and the business continued to exhibit solid growth GameStop, MCB Group, Sharp, Eva Air, Abu Dhabi Airport characteristics and strong profit and cash generation.
It Company, Brother, Life Technologies Corporation, OSIsoft, was an exceptional year for new client acquisition across TIBCO Software Inc. and Mattel.
the business, which more than offset any individual customer variations as the business further intensified its Language Technologies contributing 40.1 million or account management approach.
The business continued 18% of revenue to the Group and 5.2 million or 13% of to develop its global infrastructure to drive target territory Group PBTA 2010: contributing 33.9 million or 17% of presence and gained new business in Latin America and revenue to the Group and 3.3 million or 9% of Group PBTA Australia.
We are also seeing progress in the Nordic region following organisational changes previously initiated.
Total segment revenue grew by 18%, comprising -1% Headline revenue growth of 9% was achieved, comprising foreign exchange, 11% acquisitions and 8% underlying -1% foreign exchange and 10% underlying growth at growth at constant currency.
The business made constant currency.
significant progress in driving profitability in 2011 and also established a very strong program of innovation to North America was the star performer with excellent continue SDL leadership in the Language Technology revenue growth against a demand environment that space in the future.
Our portfolio of products delivers proved highly resilient: with Europe also growing innovation to users ranging from individual translators positively.
Performance in Asia was mixed and the business to global enterprises.
At our core is a philosophy of introducing technologies that change the way people did an outstanding job of maintaining effective operations work: driving efficiency and consistency in global business through the natural disasters in Japan and Thailand, operations in deriving optimal performance from complex invoking contingency plans to continue to operate language assets.
effectively with our clients in this period.
This is a tribute to the quality of the SDL team in Asia.
Our client portfolio in In 2011, we saw the market and appetite for machine Asia continues to expand and I am confident in our future translation continue to grow and we continued to invest growth prospects and positioning in the region founded in building our fundamental science capability in this on a high quality, wholly owned local operation.
We believe machine translation will have a profound future impact on the global marketplace for We see the market for Language Services starting to language and will form a significant component of future segment.
Quality is an absolute in this market and we translation strategies for some rapidly growing content were very pleased to further expand our quality systems types.
Language Weaver is now fully integrated into the and certifications in 2011: essential components of a Language Technology business unit and has achieved premium offer to our global clients.
Machine translation strong sales growth over the equivalent period last year.
is also having an impact as new content types start to emerge for certain applications.
We see more demand for Demand for our enterprise Language Technology business consulting approaches that target process optimisation as was mixed with stronger demand in Europe than in North companies wrestle with the challenge of how to effectively America.
During the year we saw momentum build for leverage language assets for brand consistency and how to our desktop product, SDL Trados Studio 2011, which we drive innovation though new product release into global released to the global marketplace in September 2011. markets.
We continue to concentrate on ensuring SDL We continued to invest in building our Asia presence, has the most comprehensive solution set in the global which we believe, will be an important future market for marketplace to directly address these needs right through Language Technology products and we see increasing the end-to-end translation supply chain.
interest from Asian corporations in optimising processes for management of language assets.
Significant new client wins during the year included Marks & Spencer, Hotel.
fide AG, Semcon, Springer Healthcare Ltd New clients in 2011 included AGIP, Alfa Laval AB, Nordea and Kosan Crisplant.
Bank Denmark, Tencent Inc, RICOH Company Ltd and Panasonic Business Services Co. Ltd. John Hunter Chief Executive Officer Language Services contributing 136.2 million or 59% of group revenue and 25.5 million or 65% of Group PBTA 2010: contributing 124.6 million or 61% of group revenue and 25.2 million or 71% of Group PBTA.
15 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 2 SDL STRATEGY 16 SDL STRATEGY 2 17 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
