Section 3 | Our performance Chief Executives Statement Overview 2011 has been another successful year for Serco.
We have seen a solid operational performance and contract awards across our portfolio.
This has delivered a strong financial result despite some challenging conditions.
Our markets continue to develop and we have an extensive pipeline of opportunities to capitalise on global demand.
We have successfully entered the global BPO market, and are positioning the Group for the best opportunities and future needs of our customers.
We are therefore confident in the outlook for strong future growth of the Group, achieved through the commitment of our employees to deliver efficient, high-quality and innovative services that matter to millions of people around the world.
Solid operational performance and contract In 2011, contract awards across our wide portfolio of markets and awards across the global portfolio geographies totalled 5.1bn, with signed contracts valued at 4.7bn Serco has seen another year of robust service delivery and and preferred bidder appointments for a further 0.4bn.
We have specific performance metrics included smaller and medium-sized awards which are fundamental in our contracts and the results of our continuous measurement to our growth, as well as significant rebids, extensions, expansions against these have been very positive during 2011.
Many of our and new contracts.
The value of these wins does not include the operations, from custodial services through to transport operations, Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity IDIQ contracts in the US we undergo formal inspections and independent reports, with these won in 2011 as a prime contractor, which have a combined ceiling again showing pleasing outcomes.
Further industry recognitions value of approximately US$2bn among awardees.
These new IDIQs and awards have also acknowledged the delivery of excellence enable us to compete for specific task orders issued under the around the Group.
IDIQ, with the value of the task orders recognised when won and then included within our order book.
The year has seen the development of new service lines and business models.
From 2012 our new Global Services division Among the notable rebids, extensions and new contract awards will bring many of these together such as Intelenet as a leader during the year were: in international BPO, The Listening Company with its UK contact centre expertise, and Excelior covering the Australian market.
Prisoner Escort and Custody Services for London and the Wins, such as Peterborough City Council and being selected East of England, with a potential value to Serco of 420m over to operate the Anglia Support Partnership NHS shared services, ten years: reinforce our confidence in this new area of development.
Growth in AMEAA has included new sectors such as health and HM Prison and Young Offenders Institution Doncaster, valued new countries of operation in the Middle East.
The success of new at around 250m over 15 years: business models, such as joint ventures with customers including ACCESS in Glasgow, or introducing payment by results at Doncaster, Barclays Cycle Hire scheme expansion, valued at approximately have also been highlights of our continuous development.
50m over four years: Our focus on service excellence, building long-term mutually The Helios programme of capital projects and associated beneficial customer relationships and ongoing innovation during support equipment for the Defence Science and Technology a contract underpins our 90% win rate for rebids and extensions.
Laboratory Dstl, valued at around 80m over five years: Our one in two win rate for new bids has also been maintained, with both of these measures driving our revenue growth.
22 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Left: We continued to win logistical support task orders from the US Navy.
Below: We renewed our contract to run Doncaster Prison for a further 15 years.
Bottom: The Barclays Cycle Hire Scheme expanded into new areas of London.
UK Ministry of Defence prime contract for further deployment of innovative radar technology, with a contract value of 27m over two years: Peterborough City Council strategic partnership for shared services, with an initial value of 100m over ten years: A 15-year partnership for support services at two of Sport Englands National Sport Centres, valued at over 100m to Serco: IT support services to a major European banking organisation, with a rebid valued at 20m over four years and a new win valued at 50m over eight years: US Army task orders valued at US$169m under various HRsolutions IDIQs: US Air Force Space Command task orders valued at US$115m under the C4I2TSR IDIQ: US Navy task orders valued at US$33m under the C4ISR IDIQs: Fiona Stanley Hospital near Perth, non-clinical integrated services with a total value to Serco of A$1.3bn over ten years: Acacia Prison in Western Australia extended and expanded contract, valued at A$310m over five years: Court Security and Custodial Services in Western Australia, valued at A$210m over five years: and Anglia Support Partnership, chosen as single remaining bidder to provide middle and back office shared services to the NHS, with an estimated initial value of 120m over four years.
There has also been an encouraging level of contract awards following the end of the financial year.
More details of the above and other contract awards can be found in the Operating Review.
We also signed numerous other smaller and medium-sized contracts during the year, some of which are described in the contract news updates available on our website, www.
Visibility of earnings remains high due to the signed contracts that make up our order book, contracts we expect to extend and rebid, and contracts at the preferred bidder stage which we expect to sign.
At 31 December 2011, our order book stood at 17.9bn, For more details of these and other contract awards, compared with 16.6bn at 31 December 2010.
This leads to see the Operating Review on pages 40 to 43 revenue visibility of 92% for 2012, 80% for 2013 and 70% for 2014.
For details of some of the many smaller and medium-sized contract wins, see our contract news updates at www.
com Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 23 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Section 3 | Our performance Chief Executives Statement Below: We run Prisoner Escort and Custody Services in partnership with Wincanton.
Strong financial result for 2011 Serco has delivered growth in revenues including good organic growth, increased the operating margin, and maintained a strong cash generation profile and financing position.
Total revenue growth was 7.4% to 4,646.4m.
Growth at constant currency was also 7.4%, with the adverse movement on the US Dollar offset by the favourable movement on the Australian Dollar.
Organic growth excluding acquisitions and currency effects was 3.5%.
This growth demonstrated the resilience of our portfolio and our ability to develop capabilities in new sectors and geographies.
This has been achieved at the same time as headwinds have been felt in some UK and US markets.
Revenue growth was exceptionally strong in AMEAA, reflecting growth from both existing contracts and those recently won.
In the UK, performance was varied: Civil Government grew, benefiting from previous contract wins and expanded operations: Defence, Science and Nuclear saw modest growth: while Local Government and Commercial saw strong growth in its strategic markets offset by sharper headwinds from specific austerity measures.
The Americas saw constant currency growth achieved in the first half of the year move into a decline for the year overall as the very challenging conditions for US federal contractors took hold.
Our divisional performance is described fully in the Operating Review.
Market developments and identified opportunities provide an extensive pipeline Adjusted operating profit rose by 31.4m or 12.1% to 290.1m, Our pipeline of identified opportunities around the world has a total with a 26 basis point increase in the Adjusted operating profit estimated value of some 30bn.
We therefore see good prospects margin to 6.2%.
Adjusted profit before tax grew by 30.9m or to continue driving future growth across the Group.
13.4% to 262.2m and Adjusted earnings per share increased by 14.1% to 39.59p.
Ongoing demand is expected for efficient, high-quality and innovative service provision from public and private sector Group free cash flow was 168.3m compared with 185.8m customers around the world.
Demand is driven by the need to in 2010, representing the return to a more usual conversion rate achieve efficiencies and cost savings in services, investment to of profits.
Net capital expenditure increased by 30m, reflecting improve or create new services, and structural challenges including a return towards a more normal underlying level of capital economic development, ageing and growing populations, investment, together with the anticipated investment in SAP unemployment, migration, security, congestion and climate change.
Public service reform continues to increase the potential for our Our policy is to increase the total dividend each year broadly markets.
With only 10-15% of total spend typically currently opened in line with the increase in underlying earnings.
Accordingly, the up to competition in our major government markets around the Board has proposed a final dividend of 5.90p per share, bringing world, we remain confident in the mediumand long-term market the total dividend for the year to 8.40p, up 14.3% compared opportunities and drivers of growth for Serco.
Recognition with the previous year.
The final dividend will be paid, subject is widely held of the benefits such as reducing cost and stimulating to shareholder approval, on 22 May 2012 to shareholders on innovation when public service markets are competed.
Of note the register on 9 March 2012. was the UK Governments 2011 Parliamentary White Paper on Open Public Services, which we expect to deliver upon its stated Our earnings, cash flow, financing and related matters are aim of commissioning more services rather than the state described fully in the Finance Review.
continuing to provide these themselves.
24 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Below left: Providing community health services in Braintree, Essex.
Left: We operate New Zealands only private prison.
Below: We will deliver nearly 30 non-clinical services at the new Fiona Stanley Hospital near Perth, Australia.
In the UK, markets appear to have stabilised and are starting to Successful entry into global BPO market show some signs of improvement: our financial performance was and organisational changes stronger in the second half of the year and the amount of potential 2011 has seen Serco add significant global capability in the tender opportunities appears to be increasing, together with further fast-growing, higher margin, business process outsourcing BPO signs of markets opening up to support growth in future years.
The Intelenet acquisition is strategically important for Some risk, however, still remains that further austerity measures Sercos development in this area.
Firstly, it provides access to may bring additional short-term pressures.
attractive markets: the international and domestic Indian BPO markets are large, forecast to grow around 15% per annum in the In the US, Congresss challenges in reaching agreement on medium term, and have margins reflective of high-value services.
a budget for 2011 created uncertainty for federal government Secondly, it broadens our customer and geographic reach: in line agencies and the inability to fund new programmes.
Economic with our strategy of building a balanced portfolio, Intelenets diverse and political challenges relating to the US debt ceiling and deficit and international private sector customer base will further increase reduction plan will likely result in continued short-term pressure our spread across markets.
Thirdly, it adds to our scale and depth for the US federal outsourcing market, with further delays and the of capabilities: together with our existing BPO-related operations risk of cancellations of bids and awards possible in 2012.
Looking we will have around 40,000 employees providing transactional, beyond, the opportunities in the federal government and wider process and voice support, finance and accounting services, and US contracting industry remain substantial, with strong growth business transformation consulting, making us strongly placed to prospects in certain specific sectors.
provide our customers with a broad range of end-to-end business services.
Other in-fill acquisitions, such as The Listening Company The AMEAA region continues to exhibit the strongest growth in the UK and Excelior in Australia, have added additional specific opportunities.
Whilst not without some potential risk, in general customer contact capabilities and geographic reach.
these areas of economic and population expansion are leading to growth in various infrastructure management markets, as are Sercos existing strength in these areas includes our IT-enabled government programmes specifically targeted to improve social BPO service delivery for local authorities.
We have demonstrated our ability to internationalise here have added both experience and capability.
Of particular our skills and capabilities into this region, and across multiple note is Serco being chosen as the single remaining bidder for markets such as the transportation, home affairs, health and the Anglia Support Partnership ASP, which would add a further defence sectors.
strategic partnership in this instance with the UKs National Health Service to our growing health support services and The global BPO market is also fast-developing and presents BPO operations.
This bid was an opportunity to use the Groups substantial opportunities for the Group.
combined capabilities for an integrated offering to transform public services in this area.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 25 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Section 3 | Our performance Chief Executives Statement Above left and left: The acquisition of Intelenet gives us access to attractive markets around the world.
Above: The Listening Company extends our customer contact capabilities.
To reflect developments in market needs and opportunities such These changes will help us achieve greater economies of scope as ASP, we are progressing with organisational changes that have through closer working relationships, position us better for more already begun in 2012.
A part of this is the creation of a new global integrated and larger service delivery, as well as achieve greater BPO division, our first global business, bringing together all of efficiencies and scale economies for our customers.
Sercos middle and back office skills and capabilities.
The new Serco Global Services division will both improve the services we We also continue to proactively manage our portfolio of contracts, provide to customers and enable us to better target opportunities assessing our operations for appropriate levels of performance, around the world in both the public and private sectors.
Our stated strategy is to reduce risk and increase opportunities by building a balanced business, spread Sercos customers around the world are increasingly looking for across markets.
Where appropriate, this includes disposals and more end-to-end services that combine frontline capability with acquisitions.
This helps to manage our exposure to market middle and back office operations, helping them to drive more fluctuations, enables us to select the best opportunities whichever efficiency and better quality services.
Our Global Services division market they are in, and allows us to transfer expertise from one will therefore work alongside the regional divisions in order to market to another.
deliver fully integrated services for their customers.
While we are primarily focused on organic growth, we will continue As Serco continues to grow we regularly review our opportunities, to acquire new skills and capabilities where they support expansion our structure, the way Serco delivers services for customers and into new markets and sectors.
In the BPO market, there may be how we target future growth.
We are therefore creating a single UK opportunities for in-fill acquisitions of specific areas of expertise and Europe division, to increase efficiency and support the delivery or geographic strength.
While facing short-term challenges, of better services.
As part of achieving this, the Global Services the US market remains fundamentally attractive and may present division will operate a wider-reaching shared service centre for the opportunities in higher growth specialised areas.
These changes are likely to lead to reductions in our presence in vertical markets such as health, or entering new headcount of around 500 people in management and in our own emerging economies such as South America may also yield back office support functions out of our 100,000 employees around acquisitions from which to further develop our operations organically.
the world, including 35,000 in the UK.
26 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Left: We provide personnel and family support services to the US Army.
Below: The Dubai Metro continued to achieve high levels of availability and punctuality.
Outlook supports continued resilience People and encouraging future growth prospects We have a clear strategy for managing and developing our people, The breadth of our portfolio across different markets and economies which, in turn supports our vision to be the worlds greatest continues to provide resilience while at the same time enhancing service company, we have to be the best at managing people.
I am pleased that we have made good progress against each part For 2012, we are forecasting another year of strong total revenue of our people strategy in 2011.
More information on how we growth: this includes the contribution from acquisitions completed achieved this can be found on pages 62 to 65. to date, together with further good organic growth.
At this early stage of the financial year, our forecasts reflect the balance of risks Serco has grown during 2011 and we now have more than 100,000 and opportunities: we expect challenging conditions to remain in people delivering services around the world.
Our success comes the US, but anticipate some further improvement in UK markets and from their hard work and commitment to our values.
I thank them for another strong performance in AMEAA.
We are forecasting a further their contribution to Serco and our customers.
increase in our full-year Adjusted operating margin, similar to that achieved in 2011.
Net finance costs are expected to increase to Christopher Hyman CBE around 45m, driven principally by the incremental cost of funding Chief Executive the acquisitions made during 2011.
The phasing during 2012 is likely to see organic growth weighted to the second half and the contribution from completed acquisitions weighted to the first half.
Organisational changes are expected to have a broadly neutral impact on the full-year margin, but due to the timing of the implementation costs are likely to more than offset the underlying improvement in the first half.
Improving market conditions around the world, should they continue, would allow the Group to anticipate a modest improvement in the rate of organic revenue growth in 2013 and further improvement into the medium term.
This would support the continued delivery of strong financial performance by Serco.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 27 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview
