6 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Chief Executives review Our strategy of sustainable growth through a focus on water and waste water operations in the UK and internationally, continues to deliver significant overall value.
In the UK, Severn Trent Water made a good start to the new five year regulatory period, performing broadly in line with expectations.
In a challenging year, I would like to pay tribute to our people, who professionally handled both difficult operational circumstances and significant internal change.
Our Severn Trent Services business started the year strongly, but was affected by the economic slowdown and political and regulatory uncertainty in the second half.
Fundamentally, we remain well placed to deliver our business plan and to continue to play an active role in shaping the future of the UK water industry.
Tony Wray, Chief Executive Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 7 Business Performance Review Leakage was above target as a result of the and the moratorium on deep well drilling Group profit before interest, tax and severe winter weather.
However, despite in the US, led to lower sales of our highly exceptional items is down 7% due to significant operational challenges we successful electrochlorination product line.
expected price reductions in the first year maintained our leakage at the same level as In the US, in particular, municipal budget of the AMP period for Severn Trent Water last year.
Unplanned interruptions to supply shortfalls have limited infrastructure and a disappointing second half also increased during the year.
spending on products while driving more performance in Severn Trent Services, project opportunities for outsourcing in our Steps are in place to improve the resilience in challenging market conditions.
of our water distribution network, but I would From the new dividend base of 65.09p we like to pay tribute to our people who, faced Looking ahead will grow the dividend by 3% above RPI up with unprecedented operational challenges, At Severn Trent Water, with strong to 2014 15. kept customer supplies running over this underlying performance and the right difficult period.
people, technology and AMP5 contracts Underlying financial performance remains in place, we are well placed to achieve strong and we continued to outperform our That we are able to work in such a exible our business plan and outperform our regulatory targets.
and responsive way is thanks in part to the regulatory targets.
changes we have made to our internal Severn Trent Water operations.
This year we moved to our new In Severn Trent Services, the prospects for With our focus on operational excellence operating centre, Severn Trent Centre in long term growth remain good, but the first and continuous improvement, our goal is Coventry, bringing together under one roof half of the coming year is likely to see the to keep prices low and deliver the highest many teams previously dispersed over same market conditions that prevailed at the customer service and environmental seven older buildings.
We have transformed end of last year.
With a good portfolio of standards.
our technology infrastructure and business and products, we are confident Overall, we achieved these goals in the past implemented the second phase of SAP of returning to profitable and sustainable year.
We delivered industry-leading drinking which will help us to run our business more growth once the public nances start to water quality and reduced the number of effectively.
recover and the political and regulatory incidents of sewer ooding, one of the uncertainty in key markets subside.
Once again, I would like to use this biggest causes of distress to our customers.
opportunity to thank our people for the way In terms of prospects for regulatory and Our customers also benefited from the they have responded to such a significant industry change, Severn Trent remains at lowest combined average water and change in technology and ways of working.
the forefront of industry thinking and our sewerage bills in England and Wales.
ideas for a sustainable future for our Severn Trent Services In these straitened times, weve carried industry have been widely published The economic environment remained on helping customers who have difficulties and well received.
especially challenging for our Severn Trent paying their bills and as a result we have Services business, which started the year Throughout our operations, our goal also been able to reduce bad debt.
well only to experience a market downturn continues to be to deliver long term Environmental performance continues to in the second half.
This strategy, be strong and we are reinforcing our leading underpinned by a clear focus on customers, While the underlying market is growing and position in renewable energy generation, environmental performance, people and demand remains strong, projects are being with 22% of Severn Trent Waters electricity shareholder value will continue.
delayed as project nancing has been less requirements being met by self-generated available and slower to obtain.
Some of that was generated political uncertainty in the Middle East, a key by the UKs first commercial scale crops to market for our water purication products, energy plant, which was opened this year.
