8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:11 Page 8 8 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Chief Executive Ofcers review Angus Russell, Chief Executive Officer Throughout 2011 at Shire, we were thinking about Still, we want to do more.
Were focused on all our value.
About how to do more in challenging times.
stakeholderspatients, physicians, policymakers, payors, investors, and employees.
In 2011, we spent About understanding the complex and interwoven needs of patients, physicians, payors, and time in the company of patients, their families, their communities.
We talked to physicians about the policymakers.
We recognize that patients lives improve only when we understand not just them, but the frustrations they face as they seek to treat symptoms and make diagnoses.
We talked to policymakers entire web of care.
We believe that when we respond thoughtfully to the concerns of others, we perpetuate around the world and we talked to payors about how they measure and reward value.
We talked, we what weve come to call the circle of value.
Were not just interested in advancing our own standing in the listened, and we responded to the benefit of all of our  advancing our pipeline.
Were committed to the basic ideal that when we can help create value for others, We grew both organically and through acquisitions.
we become more valuable ourselves.
We continued to explore the potential application of lisdexamfetamine dimesylate, currently approved Our long-term strategy of delivering differentiated specialty products, focusing on symptomatic diseases, as VYVANSE in the US for children and adults with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ADHD, and making responsible, disciplined investments in research and development produced yet another in conditions ranging from negative symptoms and cognitive impairment in schizophrenia and major strong year.
Our worldwide product sales were up 26% for the year, revenue grew to $4,263 million, operating depressive disorder to binge eating and excessive daytime sleepiness.
These are all conditions for which income was $1,109 million, and diluted earnings per ADS were $4.53.
With some 5,000 people operating there are not, at this time, adequate treatments.
in 29 countries, and a balanced portfolio of products, we continued to leverage a strategy that year-after-year We also made significant headway in our research on the potential application of mesalamine, our ulcerative delivers results, even in turbulent economic times.
colitis medicine sold as LIALDA MEZAVANT in 16 countries around the world, for those diagnosed with Online at http: ar2011.
com Review of our business 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:11 Page 9 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 9 2011 product highlights Product sales were up 26% to $3,950 million with growth generated from across the portfolio, particularly: VYVANSE up 27% to $805 million ADDERALL XR up 48% to $533 million REPLAGAL up 35% to $475 million ELAPRASE up 15% to $465 million LIALDA MEZAVANT up 27% to $372 million VPRIV up 79% to $256 million DERMAGRAFT $105 million, being product sales made subsequent to the acquisition of Advanced BioHealing Inc. diverticulitis.
Two Phase 3 studies will be completed angioedema HAE in adults 18 years of age or this year for this painful and life-altering condition, older in the US.
Throughout the year, we continued which often results in repeated flare-ups and is not to meet with patients and physicians in conferences adequately managed by current medicines.
and at special meetingsall with an eye toward working together to ensure better diagnoses and At the same time, within our Human Genetic Therapies more effective treatments.
HGT business, we continued our exploration of the potential application of intrathecal deliverythe use Our ambition to reach beyond our current expertise of ports to deliver medicine directly to the central also resulted in the acquisition of Advanced nervous systemfor the treatment of Hunter syndrome, BioHealing, Inc. ABH, which brought us a new Sanfilippo, and Metachromatic Leukodystrophy.
As this business in Regenerative Medicineadding to our research program advances, we hope to be able to portfolio DERMAGRAFT, a bioengineered skin do more for patients diagnosed with these often lifesubstitute that assists in restoring damaged tissue threatening and heartbreaking diseases.
and supports the bodys natural healing process.
Created from cultured skin cells and applied via a We made great headway as well for patients depending biodegradable mesh, DERMAGRAFT is approved in on our HGT enzyme replacement therapy products.
the US for the treatment of diabetic foot ulcers.
The The accelerated construction and approval of a new continued growth of ABH within Shire has, we believe, manufacturing facility, in Lexington, Massachusetts, demonstrated the potential that can be made from ensured greater access and a sustainable supply a focused regenerative medicine business.
We are of medication for patients diagnosed with Fabry and excited about the opportunities in this area and Gaucher disease.
Meanwhile, we beat our own are looking forward to bringing DERMAGRAFT deadlines as we worked to expand the manufacturing to more patients and to expanding Shires offering capacity of VPRIV, now available in 30 countries across in regenerative medicine.
Europe and serving patients with type 1 Gaucher disease.
We also launched FIRAZYR, an orphan drug We strengthened our global presence throughout used for the treatment of acute attacks of hereditary the yearexpanding our international hub in Nyon, 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:11 Page 10 10 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Chief Executive Ofcers review Were not just interested in advancing our own standing in the healthcare community.
Were committed to the basic ideal that when we can help create value for others, we become more valuable ourselves.
Switzerland, with diverse and talented people: opening launch of VENVANSE in Europe, advance pipeline offices and finalizing marketing agreements in countries projects, and look for new acquisitionsdefining ranging from Brazil to Japan and keeping an eager eye and assessing the value of such programs as early on new opportunities where we can serve our multiple as possible.
But most of all, we will be listeningpaying acute Throughout the year, we made continuing investments attention to the world around us and continuing in our culturereinforcing, through numerous channels, to address the needs of the stakeholders who make just what it is to be a Shire employee.
Through up our circle of value.
I look forward to sharing our various programs we reinforced our commitment news with you as the year progresses.
to differentiating ourselves as the company that always strives to be as brave as the people we help.
Finally, I would like to acknowledge those who make We worked to ensure that our employees are inspired Shires story so distinct, so vibrant, and so full of by our strategic vision, that they understand the promise: our people.
Many have been helping to drive importance of fostering our brave values, and that our growth for some years now.
Others, such as the they are improving their ability to both listen and 400 or so individuals from ABH and the talent newly respondall of which contributes to our collaborative, hired into positions all around the world, are just responsible environment.
starting to contribute their insights, creativity, and expertise to Shire.
Speaking for the entire Leadership We launched the first of what will become an annual Team, we are grateful for the relentless efforts and external recognition programthe BRAVE Awards, dedication, the ambitions, and the proven capabilities in which non-professional caregivers from around the of all Shire employees.
world were recognized and rewarded for their courage and dedication, and for the difference they make in the lives of those they care for.
Though by many measures 2011 will be remembered as another year of great success for Shire, we also think of it as a year in which we developed new growth Angus Russell opportunities.
In 2012, well continue to invest in our Chief Executive Officer people, pipeline, and valuesin those things that differentiate us as a company.
Well prepare for the Review of our business 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:11 Page 11 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 11 Creating stakeholder value Our commitment to delivering value Weve built Shire into one of the most successful specialty biopharmaceutical companies in the world.
Everyone who works at Shire is committed to delivering value in the broadest sense.
That means creating value for our patients, policymakers, payors, physicians and investors.
Its an approach that brings real, measurable, benefits to our patients, the healthcare system and society.
Effective treatments and services Commitment to superior treatments Improved public for their patients health and societal value Better lives for patients Superior clinical Brave culture driving evidence and clear innovation to deliver economic benets value to all Return to enable further investment
