Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Chief Executive Ofcers statement Olivier Bohuon Chief Executive officer We are building a business that is stronger, growing faster, better balanced andis t and effective for the future 8 8 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Finally, we will Augment our Organic Growth through Acquisitions.
Dear shareholder, We will continue with our successful strategy of adding complementary Smith & Nephew delivered strong results in 2011, despite the prevailing technologies.
We will also now seek to support our Emerging Markets difficult macro-economic climate.
The market is not getting any easier, ambitions by acquiring local manufacturing and or distribution and we are not resting on the successes of the past.
We have great businesses and we remain alert to larger opportunities to support ambitions for the future and are taking active measures to transform our ambitions in advanced woundcare, minimally invasive surgery your Group.
I believe that many growth opportunities exist: that we can secure greater market-share in our Established Markets and be market leaders Sustainability in the Emerging Markets.
Our success will be built through innovation Through our new strategic priorities we are seeking to maximise and efficiency, driving permanent improvements across the Group.
growth and revenue through building a sustainable business.
We These principles are at the heart of our new strategic priorities, embrace the wider responsibilities this brings, and will work to protect announced in August 2011, which we are working tirelessly to embed the environment, our employees and the communities in which we across the Group.
work, as well as to meet our customers high expectations and global compliance obligations, as we deliver on our action plans.
New strategic priorities First, in our Established Markets, we believe we can build upon Progress in delivery existing strong positions and win market share.
We will do this through We have made considerable progress reshaping the business in line greater innovation and being more efficient, liberating resources for with these priorities.
investment in those areas that will maximise both revenue and margins.
Our management teams in our Advanced Surgical Devices and Second, in Emerging Markets, we will build upon our initial success in Advanced Wound Management divisions are now focused exclusively China and expand to create sustainable businesses in India, Brazil and on meeting the needs of our customers in the Established Markets.
These Emerging Markets are enjoying good GDP growth and We have strong leadership to drive us into the Emerging and other there is an increasing demand for high quality medical products from International Markets.
We are investing an additional $300m over amongst the population and an expanding surgical infrastructure to the next five years into R&D to drive our innovation agenda.
And our deliver these safely, the key features required to make a new market programmes to realise efficiencies, liberate resources and reduce attractive to Smith & Nephew.
the cost of goods are well underway.
Our performance in the Established and Emerging Markets will be We are building momentum every day and I am confident that the result driven by an unremitting focus to Innovate for Value, our third strategic will be a business that is stronger, growing faster, better balanced and priority.
Our future success depends upon offering new technologies is t and effective for the future.
designed for each market where we operate.
We are accelerating our rate of innovation by increasing the research & development budget and prioritising projects that will deliver maximum value.
Next, we will Simplify and Improve our Operating Model, streamlining the business and reducing our cost of goods through actions such as optimising our manufacturing footprint.
Olivier Bohuon Chief Executive officer 9 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
