Chief Executives statement Smiths Group has made good progress in a tough economic environment.
These results demonstrate the significant benefits delivered by our sustained focus on operational improvement that have enhanced margins to new highs.
We have delivered strong cash conversion, in line with guidance.
We have delivered across all our key financial metrics: sales growth, Philip Bowman margins, cash generation and return on capital.
Sales benefited Chief Executive from organic growth in John Crane, Interconnect and Flex-Tex and recent acquisitions, partly offset by a disappointing performance from Smiths Detection and the impact of a tougher trading environment and continuing portfolio rationalisation at Smiths Medical.
A detailed performance improvement programme has begun in Smiths Detection and its delivery is a key priority.
Group margins have advanced as a result of volume leverage, better pricing and our continued focus on operational improvement and restructuring.
Cash conversion remains strong and return on capital employed increased 40 basis points to 17.0%.
John Cranes revenues grew strongly with robust demand from its end markets, particularly the oil and gas sector, for its aftermarket services and original equipment.
Margins advanced as a result of the higher volumes and further savings from its various cost reduction programmes, more than offsetting some adverse mix effects from the acceleration in growth in sales of original equipment and the lower margin upstream energy services business.
Smiths Medical delivered further profit improvement to raise margins to 10-year highs, while also increasing investment in the future growth drivers, such as new product development and sales and marketing.
This has been achieved Headline earnings per share in a tough operating environment, particularly the mature markets in the US and Europe, where budget pressures have constrained capital Up 10% purchases and unemployment has reduced medical procedure rates.
A focus on product profitability and SKU rationalisation 92.7p benefited margins but adversely affected sales.
As previously guided, Go to note 9 on page 107 for more information Smiths Detection experienced delays to orders across a number of sectors which caused sales declines and adversely impacted margins.
Statutory earnings per share However, we launched a performance improvement programme to deliver cost savings and operational improvements.
Smiths Up 3% Interconnect delivered overall sales growth despite declines in its military sales as a result of lower defence spending: this was more 77.8p than offset by strong sales of specialist connector components to Go to note 9 on page 107 for more information the medical, rail, automation and test markets, as well as growth in components and sub-systems for wireless telecoms and commercial aerospace markets.
The acquisition of IDI last year also benefited sales Dividend per share and margins.
Flex-Tek delivered revenue growth across the aerospace Up 7% and construction markets, which in turn supported higher margins as a result of its strong operational gearing.
36.25p Go to page 16 for more information 14 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Free cash-flow Strong cash conversion resulting in free cash-flow of: 236m Go to note 28 on page 127 for more information Employees around the world In over 50 countries 22,900 Go to note 11 on page 112 for more information Investing in sales growth Enhancing margins We have maintained technology leadership in many areas through a Margins have continued to benefit from the major restructuring firm commitment to new product development and innovation, which in programme that began in 2008, delivering further savings of 15m in turn is a key driver of future sales and margin growth as new products the period.
To date, we have generated savings of 56m against our typically command higher margins and deliver superior returns.
We total planned savings of 70m when completed in 2012 13. raised company-funded investment in R&D by 5% to 99m and secured We have also launched a performance improvement programme in a further 12m of customer-funded investment to bring our total spend Smiths Detection which is expected to deliver annualised savings of to 111m, or 3.9% of sales 2010: 3.9%.
This long-term investment is 40m by the end of financial year 2014, at a cost of 40m.
It is expected delivering results.
In Canada, Smiths Medical launched a new syringe that 15m of these savings will be delivered in the first year.
This will pump with wireless networking, Medfusion 4000, as well the new lower the fixed cost base and make the business better able to respond CADD-Solis VIP pump which targets the growing alternate site and to variations in demand while improving customer service.
The Medfusion 4000 recently received FDA 510 k clearance for sale in the US and we expect to extend both products to Strong cash generation and financing other markets subject to regulatory clearances.
In Smiths Detection, We have achieved strong free cash-flow which has reduced net debt the development of a next-generation explosives detection system by 108m to 729m.
The Group benefits from high cash conversion for screening airport checked baggage, in cooperation with Analogic and a sound balance sheet.
During the year, we refinanced our bank Corporation, is meeting our programme milestones.
John Crane has facility with a new US$800m revolving credit facility.
The new facility, continued to make progress on its portfolio of environmentally focused which matures in December 2015, is currently undrawn.
Over the past zero and low emission seals and on extending the high pressure three years, we have progressively refinanced all our facilities, giving us capabilities of its compressor dry gas seals.
an average maturity of almost five years and a strong balance sheet to finance our plans.
To support growth opportunities in emerging markets, we established a direct sales and marketing team in India for Smiths Medical.
This Allocating capital to maximise returns builds on an existing distributor presence and supports further direct The Group continues to focus on improving returns on capital across investment to drive accelerated growth in this rapidly growing market.
all divisions by enhancing margins while operating an efficient capital We also made two acquisitions during the period, buying Smiths base.
This has increased headline return on capital employed by 40 Detections existing distributors in India and Brazil, to create a direct basis points to 17.0%.
sales presence in these important fast growing markets.
Smiths Subject to suitable market conditions, we will undertake more active Detection is already prominent in India with its equipment operating management of our portfolio through a combination of acquisitions at more than 125 sites, while in Brazil, Smiths Detections systems are that satisfy our strategic and financial objectives and disposals that deployed throughout the vast country, from airports and ports in major realise additional value for our shareholders.
This will be undertaken in cities such as Sao Paulo and Rio fide Janeiro to remote border crossings the context of continuing to manage the legacy issues of the actuarial in the Amazon.
deficits on the defined benefit pension plans and the ongoing historic product liability litigation against John Crane, Inc. 15 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Chief Executives statement continued There are attractive opportunities to invest in our businesses to deliver The product liability litigation relates to various sealing products superior returns.
After the year end, Smiths Interconnect agreed to containing asbestos that John Crane, Inc. JCI, a US subsidiary of John acquire Power Holdings Inc. a leading designer and manufacturer Crane, ceased making in 1985.
JCI resists these claims based on a safe of specialist power distribution, conditioning and monitoring systems product defence because the asbestos was encapsulated in such a for $235m, subject to regulatory approvals.
This acquisition will manner that, based on tests conducted on its behalf, the products were transform Smiths Interconnects existing power protection group safe.
In our accounts, we disclose details of recent claims experience with a complementary range of products and technologies, as well and of the provisions established for these liabilities.
During the year, as new growth opportunities.
In August 2011, John Crane agreed, the provisioning approach for both the adverse judgments and legal conditional upon regulatory approvals, to acquire the business of Turbo defence costs was harmonised by using the same asbestos valuation Components and Engineering Inc. which services, repairs and builds experts and the same 10-year rolling period for both, compared with replacement bearings and seals used in critical rotating equipment.
up to 16-years for previous estimates of legal costs.
We will continue to This will accelerate the development of John Cranes aftermarket update these provisions every six months.
During the year, the number services offering for bearings.
of claims in which JCI is a defendant continued to fall.
Further details are given in note 23 to the accounts.
Targeting performance improvement In September 2008, we set out ranges for sales growth and margins for Dividend each of the divisions based on what we believed the businesses could Having reached our target dividend cover of around 2.5 times last year, achieve over the medium term in an economic environment consistent the Board has adopted a progressive dividend policy for future payouts with the immediately preceding period.
However, the downturn in while maintaining this prudent level of cover.
This policy will enable us world economies since then has made it harder to operate within these to retain sufficient cash-flow to meet our legacy liabilities and finance targets in the near term: particularly sales growth, which is harder to our investment in the drivers of growth.
deliver than improved margins, where we have greater control over The Board has recommended a final dividend of 25.0p per share giving delivering cost savings and efficiencies.
a total for the year of 36.25p, an increase of 7%.
The final dividend will We are planning to review these targets during the course of the 2012 be paid on 25 November to shareholders registered at the close of financial year, although the recent economic uncertainty and risk of a business on 28 October.
The ex-dividend date is 26 October.
further recession has made this more challenging in the near term.
Outlook In the meantime, we will continue to strive to deliver improvements in The economic outlook remains uncertain and continued pressures on sales growth and margins against our targets.
government spending, which particularly impacted Smiths Detection, Managing our legacy liabilities Medical and Interconnect are likely to continue to constrain revenue We manage two areas of material historic liabilities: actuarial deficits opportunities of some of our businesses during fiscal 2012.
However, we on our defined benefit pension plans and ongoing product liability still see further potential to drive operational improvements, enhance litigation in connection with John Crane, Inc. margins and deliver strong cash conversion.
Outlook statements for the divisions are provided in the Business review.
The net funding position for the pension schemes has deteriorated in recent years as a result of increased liabilities caused by low bond yields and increased longevity, and poor asset performance in weak equity markets.
Over this time, the Group has taken steps to minimise this liability by closing the defined benefit schemes and capping our obligations for post-retirement health benefits.
In addition, the Group has agreed 10-year funding plans with the UK Trustees.
Steps have also been taken to improve the matching of the Schemes assets and liabilities.
In September 2011, the Trustee of the TI Group Pension Scheme invested approximately 147m in a bulk annuity policy as a match for specific pensioner liabilities, thereby mitigating the longevity risk in the Scheme.
This follows similar annuity purchases in 2008 involving assets of around 500m.
16 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011
