CHAIRmAn And CHIeF exeCutIveS StAtement We COntInue tO Apply tHe StRAtegy tHAt mAde OuR bIggeSt eveR pROJeCt SuCH A SuCCeSS million in 2010 to $88.6 million in 2011.
These historic figures reflect the onset of production from the Groups TGT field which produced first oil in August 2011.
The Group saw 2011 out with net entitlement volumes of approximately 14,700 barrels of oil equivalent per day BOEPD compared with approximately 2,600 BOEPD at the end of 2010.
Working interest production net to SOCO averaged 5,437 BOEPD during 2011 compared with 2,257 BOEPD from continuing operations in 2010.
Additionally, the Company was able to benefit from the record high average oil price during 2011 Right: Rui fide Sousa, realising nearly $113 per barrel of oil sold compared Chairman Left: Ed Story, with approximately $84 per barrel in 2010.
President and Chief Executive Officer dear Shareholders Cash flows from operating activities were up from In August of 2011 we reached another significant $12.4 million on continuing operations in 2010 to milestone in adding value to our portfolio as we $90.2 million reflecting the increased oil production brought the Te Giac Trang TGT field, offshore and realised oil prices.
Capital expenditures Vietnam, into production.
Revenues, operating remained near 2010 levels at $152.2 million in cash flow and net profit from ongoing operations 2011 comprising the ongoing work offshore have all reached record levels, providing the Group Vietnam, where the second phase of the TGT with the financial capability to continue to self-fund development continues into 2012, and the foreseeable development expenditures as well exploration programme in the Groups Africa region as to progress and further enhance its where two wells were drilled offshore Congo current portfolio.
The Company took advantage of its significant cash balances by buying 1.5 million of its Delivering a project as complex as TGT on time and own shares into treasury at a cost of $6.8 million on budget is a credit to our team, the Hoang Long and repurchasing convertible bonds at a cost of Joint Operating Company HLJOC, the project $35.6 million.
operator, and to our industry partners.
This accomplishment enabled the partnership to agree Due to the following factors: the early stages of to accelerate the next phase of the development of production from TGT Phase I: continuing work on the field and Phase II development drilling on TGT the Phase II development and another extensive got underway from the H4 platform in the third exploitation cycle: extensive pre-drill expenditures quarter of last year.
It continues on track with a associated with continued exploration activities, further five development wells due on production along with the expectation of adding several new during the third quarter of 2012. ventures during the year, the Board of Directors are not recommending the payment of a dividend.
While the focus for 2011 was clearly on TGT, we 2011 Operations Review also continued with the primarily pre-salt focused exploration programme offshore the Republic of South East Asia Vietnam Block 16-1 Congo Brazzaville, onshore the Democratic Related sections and Republic of Congo Kinshasa and in Cabinda.
Our largest exploration and development project 4 more information evolved into a successful cash generating asset Financial and Operating Results almost exactly according to plan.
The field has now Review of p20 demonstrated performance in excess of 40,000 Operations Revenue earned by the Group in 2011 set a record at $234.2 million compared with revenue from barrels of oil per day BOPD with no significant O ur Board of p44 impact on the main reservoir performance continuing operations in 2010 of $48.4 million.
After Directors tax profit from continuing operations was also at parameters.
Although there remain alignment record levels with a dramatic increase from $12.3 issues with Petrovietnam over the rapidity of raising SOCO International plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information production levels, the evidence from the field is Over the longer term, significant additional compelling in support of that agreed by all partners potential remains yet to be confirmed in undrilled in the Government approved Field Development and un-appraised fault blocks.
Accordingly, we are confident that full Partner accelerate the drilling of these areas.
concurrence of a field production rate of at least 55,000 BOPD will be achieved by Q3 2012.
Vietnam Block 9-2 Production net to the Companys working interest TGT is a highly complex field with three main from the Ca Ngu Vang CNV field averaged reservoir horizons the upper and lower Miocene approximately 2,283 BOEPD during the year.
SOCO 5.2 and the Oligocene C with approximately 55 continues to champion the drilling of an additional individual producing intervals.
Well performance to producing well in CNV in order to efficiently drain date has demonstrated the ability of all wells to the main producing area of the field.
produce oil at high rates with minimal drawdown and field productivity from the reservoir intervals To date sales from the CNV field have included perforated to date has met or exceeded preapproximately 24,000 million standard cubic feet of development model prognoses.
Stable flowing gas which is sold to PV Gas at effectively a dry gas pressures of the initial producers indicate a strong sales price for use at the Phu My power plant level of aquifer pressure support, importantly onshore.
However, the gas stream from CNV is rich deferring the need for water injection.
Similarly, in natural gas liquids which presents an opportunity initial interference tests confirm a high degree to improve field revenues through the installation of of connectivity within the main sands.
Clearly we need information from more than the seven intervals that Work is underway to install a separator and have been perforated to date in attendant metering facilities on the Bach Ho CPP-3 the eight producing wells in platform.
The project is estimated to be complete order to obtain the information by the end of May 2012 and will improve allocation necessary to establish the of CNV hydrocarbons within the complex Bach Ho We have a strong balance most efficient and effective production facilities.
At that time, the CNV partners sheet and strong forward way to fully exploit the field.
will not only enhance their income stream, but also Thus, 2012 will be about have evidence to support attainment of fair value financial position.
accelerating the programme for the gas liquids in the production stream.
in step changes in order to establish the most efficient Africa rates at which to drain the field.
Although we established a large exploration footprint in the Congo Basin in order to exploit what The Companys net entitlements we felt was a lack of exploration below the salt production from TGT averaged layer in the region as evidenced by the lack of approximately 12,300 BOPD since it came modern seismic, the results to date have not on production on 22 August 2011.
It appears that although production was over 40% higher than working imaging below the salt layer was limited, in this interest production as the contracting partners area the pre-salt geology is more complex than recovered those pre-field certification costs originally thought.
carried on behalf of Petrovietnam.
Phase II wells being drilled from the H4 platform in the southern part of the field began in the third quarter of 2011 and continues as at this date.
Production from the H4 platform is projected to commence in July or August of 2012.
The additional capacity provides further confidence of maintaining the plateau rate well into the future.
SOCO International plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CHAIRmAn And CHIeF exeCutIveS StAtement continued Corporate Outlook Republic of Congo Brazzaville Two exploration wells were drilled offshore during Bond Repurchase Commencement of production at TGT means that During 2011 the Company bought back we have more opportunity to enhance shareholder 2011, one targeting the pre-salt on Block Marine XI and the other a commitment well with a post-salt convertible bonds with a par value of $35.4 million value than we have ever had before.
We are representing 14.2% of the $250 million convertible confident that TGT is a world class field.
There is target on Block Marine XIV.
Although neither was successful, with the pre-salt well not encountering bonds that were issued in 2006.
Previously, the no doubt that it will be a significant contributor to Company redeemed $165.9 million 66.4% operating cash flow.
Whilst geologically complex suitable reservoir sands and the post-salt well intersecting sub-commercial accumulations of following the exercise of bond put options on and a multi-horizon reservoir, the field is 16 May 2010.
The remaining $48.7 million of demonstrating excellent performance and recovery hydrocarbons, evaluation of the results is ongoing.
bonds mature in May 2013. characteristics.
We are in discussions with our A third, post-salt well was postponed so results partners over how best to further develop the field.
from this drilling campaign could be factored into The Board of Directors We are and will continue to take a very methodical the well plan.
It is expected that the third As stated in the Annual Report of the Directors approach to determining the most efficient way to exploration well, a post-salt target on Block Marine Mr Peter Kingston and Mr Martin Roberts retired exploit the TGT field.
XI will be drilled at some future date as an add-on from the Board as Non-Executive Directors of the to other exploration drilling programmes planned Company following the Annual General Meeting Having significant cashflow does not mean that in the region.
Mr Kingston served as Chairman of the we will abandon applying the methodology that Audit Committee, Chairman of the Remuneration got us to this point fiscal discipline in a Democratic Republic of Congo Committee and as the Companys Senior self-funded, predominantly in-house generated Kinshasa DRC Independent Director.
Mr Roberts served as exploration led strategy that results in a steadily The final sub-salt well, one of three drilled in a member of the Audit and Remuneration increasing valuation of the asset portfolio.
the Nganzi concession onshore in the DRC, was Committees.
The Board thanks Mr Kingston and plugged and abandoned during the first quarter Mr Roberts for their significant contributions to We will continue to be an exploration led company.
Although encountering good reservoir SOCO.
Mr John Norton has succeeded Mr Our 2012 exploration drilling programme is light in and mature source rocks, none of the wells had Kingston as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
relation to our historic standards simply because sufficient seal.
projects mature at different times.
Our exploration Mr Michael Johns was appointed as a Nonportfolio contains several high potential projects Additional 2D seismic is being acquired over Executive Director in June 2011.
Mr Johns serves and it is our intent to continue to add to this.
several post-salt prospects in the Nganzi as the Senior Independent Director, the Chairman concession, including some of those prospects of the Remuneration Committee and is a member We have delivered the most significant project that previously drilled to test the sub-salt play.
The of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
Mr this Company has ever been involved in both on seismic programme should be complete by the Johns has had a distinguished career in legal time and in budget.
We have a strong balance middle of the second quarter of 2012.
Based on practice with two international law firms and has sheet and strong forward financial position.
the interpretation of the seismic data, the partners extensive experience in a broad range of practice We will continue to execute the strategy that will decide whether or not to engage on a areas, including corporate, corporate finance and made this possible.
multi-well post-salt exploration drilling campaign, energy law.
Mr Johns graduated from Oxford which could commence as early as the fourth University in 1969 and qualified as a solicitor in quarter of 2012.
He was a partner at Withers as it then was from 1974 until 1987 and joined Ashurst LLP Angola Ashurst as a partner in 1987 where he was the Rui fide Sousa Acquisition of the extensive 2D seismic acquisition Head of the Energy, Transport & Infrastructure programme over the Cabinda North Block A Department from 2001 until 2005.
Mr Johns Chairman concession was concluded in 2011.
Interpretation retired from Ashurst in April 2009 and remained of the data is underway, with the expectation that as a consultant to Ashurst until April 2010. a drilling campaign could begin by the end of From August 2006 until February 2011, this year.
Mr Johns served as a Non-Executive Director ed Story President and Chief Executive Officer of Aer Lingus Group plc.
SOCO International plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
