18 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Chief Executives Review We maintained our investment in research and development, with expenditure at 7% of sales, and launched a number of new products, technologies and applications across the group.
John OHiggins Chief Executive Trading in 2011 was strong across all business products, technologies and applications across segments, regions and most end markets, resulting in the group, which are described in more detail in record sales and operating profit.
On a reported basis, the Operating Review which follows.
Notable sales for the year were 23% higher than in 2010. amongst these was the Mastersizer 3000 particle Acquisitions contributed 7% and currency 1%, characterisation system from our Materials Analysis resulting in constant currency organic like-for-like segment, launched in September.
This combines the sales growth of 15%.
highest optical performance with intelligent software, providing greater analysis capabilities in a compact, Regionally, sales in Asia Pacific in the year grew by sleekly-designed benchtop instrument.
The system 17% on a like-for-like basis, with continued strength has been received enthusiastically by customers and in China, where sales increased by 27%.
North has already won a major design award.
America grew by 14% and Europe was up by 13%.
Aftersales, service and consumables, which are an Increasing regional expansion with a focus on important part of our business and provide a large emerging markets degree of resilience, represented 26% of total Sales to Asia increased by 17% compared with the group sales.
prior year on a like-for-like basis.
At 33% of total 75.8m group sales, this region is now a similar size to Adjusted operating margin, at 18.2%, is 2.4pp higher Europe.
In response to the continued growth in Expenditure on than in 2010, as a result of the growth in sales and demand, during the year Malvern Instruments continuing good cost control across our businesses, R&D up 17% opened an additional regional sales office in central with gross margins increasing by 0.2pp to 58.6%.
Shandong province, China, and Beta LaserMike established a direct sales operation in south-east Asia.
Cash conversion was in line with our expectations, The acquisition of the industrial business of Sysmex in with 89% of operating profit converted into the fourth quarter of 2010 has provided us with a 27% operating cash.
Capital expenditure increased direct sales presence for materials analysis systems in during the year, mainly due to an investment in Japan and improved our market position there.
The Netherlands, where we opened a new stateIncrease in sales of-the-art manufacturing facility.
Building our presence in key strategic growth to China areas, both organically and through acquisition Strategy The acquisition of Omega Engineering at the end of We made significant progress on our strategy during September 2011 represents a strategic platform for the year.
Some of the highlights are illustrated below: growth within the Industrial Controls segment, which now represents around 18% of total group sales on a Strengthening market positions through pro-forma basis.
Integration of the business into the innovation Industrial Controls segment is proceeding well and We maintained our investment in research and results for the first three months of ownership have development, with expenditure at 75.8 million, or exceeded our expectations.
7% of sales, and we launched a number of new 21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19 Growing existing businesses through acquisition PANalytical business in Eindhoven, The Netherlands, We made three bolt-on acquisitions during 2011.
The which will bring greater efficiency to the production acquisition of IRM in August extends our gauging of X-ray tubes.
These investments, together with product capabilities in the metals processing market many smaller projects across all of our operations, and the acquisition of Sixnet in October expands our ensure that our focus on the manufacture and supply position in the industrial networking market.
We also of critical components and products is done to the acquired key intellectual property and other assets highest levels of quality and efficiency.
relating to a line of benchtop X-ray analysers for the Materials Analysis segment in October.
The bolt-on acquisitions made in 2010 have been successfully integrated into the business and made a good contribution in 2011.
John OHiggins In the Test and Measurement segment, the acquisitions Chief Executive of nCode, LDS and Lochard, completed in 2008 and 2009, have accelerated sales in the automotive, aerospace and environmental monitoring markets.
Together with the efficiencies achieved following the integration of these businesses, this has resulted in a return on sales for the segment of 15.8%.
Focusing on operational excellence Initiatives to improve operational efficiency across the group continued to deliver benefits.
Our strategic sourcing teams made excellent progress in the year and the value of items sourced or manufactured in lower-cost countries, principally Asia and Eastern Europe, has now increased to approximately 14% of the total spend on materials in cost of goods sold 2010: 11%.
We completed two significant investments in 2011 to improve operational efficiency: the first phase of a new enterprise resource planning ERP system at our BTG business, which will bring greater integration of all operational aspects of the business into a single management system, and a state-of-the-art manufacturing facility for our 21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Business Review
