spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Chief Executive Officers review Growth was driven by our Performance Analysis division which saw strong demand for its wireless, data center, high speed Ethernet and positioning test products, especially in the Asia Pacific region.
2011 was another successful year for Spirent, despite the ongoing economic uncertainty in many parts of the world.
Our business drivers remain positive, as the telecom and IT industries continue to invest in order to meet the demand of consumers and enterprises for anytime, anywhere access to data, applications and services with excellent Quality of Experience.
Focused execution of our strategy enabled us to again deliver profitable growth, increasing sales by 10 per cent and adjusted basic earnings per share by 17 per cent, a financial performance which remains amongst the best in our industry.
Growth was driven by our Performance Analysis division which saw strong demand for its wireless, data center, high speed Ethernet and positioning test products, especially in the Asia Pacific region.
This was partially Bill Burns offset by some weakness in our Service Assurance division as a result Chief Executive Officer of cautious carrier investment in wireline networks, as well as in our Systems division due to changes in US Medicare programmes.
The rapid increase in mobile broadband subscribers and mobile internet traffic is forcing carriers to rethink their network architectures and business models, seeking new revenue streams through the monetisation of services.
As carriers drive the convergence of networks and services using technologies such as IP and Ethernet, network equipment manufacturers are under pressure to accelerate delivery of converged wireline and wireless platforms with everincreasing scale.
A plethora of new mobile devices is also coming to market that allow subscribers to take advantage of the latest applications and services enabled by 4G LTE.
Our uniquely broad portfolio of solutions that test mobile networks, services and devices, as well as the positioning technologies that enable location based services, saw significant growth in 2011.
8 overview business review governance financial statements Global number of subscribers The growth rate for global cellular mobile Source: Infonetics Research, 2011 million broadband subscribers is forecast to be 2,500 almost four times that for wireline broadband.
2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Wireline broadband Cellular mobile broadband Another driver has been the ongoing investment in next-generation Outlook data centers, with virtualization enabling more efficient and Spirent operates in markets where customers have long term manageable infrastructure.
In 2011, we saw demand for investment programmes for the development of data technologies next-generation data centers expand into the carrier space as worldwide, driven by mobile internet, cloud computing and global operators invested in cloud IT services.
Growing interest in Big Data positioning.
This supports continued growth even in times of analytics is also beginning to have implications for the data center.
For parts of our business that are more exposed to prevailing consumer behaviour and government Cloud computing is becoming accepted as a scalable platform for consumption and delivery of services such as software as a service expenditure, such as Systems and Service Assurance, there may be some impact on near term growth rates.
SaaS and infrastructure as a service IaaS.
However, concerns persist over the performance, availability, security and scalability of Performance Analysis, our largest division, has identified more cloud based services.
We applied our innovation to a new generation TM opportunities for expansion through organic investment to bring the of modules for our Spirent TestCenter platform in 2011 to maintain right solutions to market at the right time.
In addition, we will and expand our data center and cloud test leadership and our high strengthen our global reach as we further invest to take advantage of speed Ethernet test capabilities.
Our virtual solutions that provide economic growth in the Asia Pacific region.
We are confident that unmatched visibility into data center infrastructure and cloud these factors will enable Spirent as a whole to deliver further growth applications, also experienced strong growth.
Frost & Sullivan in 2012 and beyond.
recognised Spirent as the Global Market Share Leader in Gigabit Ethernet Test Equipment and Cloud Infrastructure Testing, just two of the many industry accolades we received during 2011.
We successfully integrated our Fanfare acquisition during the year, building it into a solution set for infrastructure test optimization ITO.
ITO is an integrated offering of products, services, partnerships and standards that enable new levels of test efficiency, helping our customers bring their products to market faster and with better quality.
This is just one example of how we help our customers address rapidly growing complexity and time to market pressures with the industrys most innovative solutions.
