Business review Chief Executive Officers review This has been a year of great progress for Spirit.
We have delivered a substantial improvement in performance, 1 with earnings per share up 18%, whilst at the same time preparing for our demerger from Punch Taverns plc, which was concluded on 1 August 2011.
The newly created Spirit Pub Company plc has a high quality estate of over 800 Managed pubs and over 500 Leased pubs, a strong portfolio of brands, an experienced and motivated executive management team and is well positioned to exploit the growing UK eating out market.
The combination of these strengths and the growing operating momentum Ian Dyson in the business gives us a strong Chief Executive Officer platform to move the business forward in the coming years and to maximise long term value for our stakeholders.
Spirit has made great progress Our vision is simple: we want to become this year.
We have delivered the best Managed pub company in the UK.
strong growth in sales and margins and an 18% growth 1 in earnings per share.
Our vision is simple: we want to become the best Managed pub company in the UK.
com 1 Before non underlying items.
10 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011 Over the last year we have made real Our Leased estate is an important progress against this aim.
It is a high quality Our priority is to improved operating discipline, upgraded estate that generates substantial cash build on the progress talent, revitalised the Chef & Brewer flow that is being used to fund the made by continued and Taylor Walker brands and investment in the Managed estate and investment in our developed exciting new brands such provides a source of growth in our as Fayre & Square and Flaming Grill.
Managed estate through Leased to brands, our estate We have invested substantial amounts Managed conversions.
We expect to and our people.
in the estate and begun the process convert up to 100 Leased pubs over of converting some of our Leased pubs the coming few years, a process which to our Managed brands.
Like for like began over the summer.
In the longer Managed sales were up 5.2% in the term, we expect to dispose of the 1 year and operating profit was up 14% remaining pubs that arent converted, and we have consistently outperformed in line with our long term aim to be 2 the market.
Looking ahead to 2011 12, our priority Overall, we have made great progress is to build on the progress made by this year.
We have delivered a strong continued investment in our brands, our set of financial results, substantially estate and our people.
We will refurbish improved our operational performance around 200 more pubs in the year, and successfully completed the which will complete the revitalisation demerger from Punch.
We are well of Chef & Brewer and truly establish positioned to build on this progress Flaming Grill and Fayre & Square as through continued investment, leading Managed pub brands.
We will expansion of our brands and growth continue to improve the calibre of our in our estate to achieve our aim of people at all levels and build on our becoming the best Managed pub industry leading training programmes company in the UK.
such as our Masters Degree and Apprenticeship.
We will also begin the rollout of new systems that will substantially improve our guest experience and operating efficiency.
2 Source: The Peach Factory Tracker.
Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 11 Business review
