Scottish and Southern Energy 08 Annual Report 2011 Chairman and Chief Executive Questions and answers In SSE, the Chairman, Lord Smith of Kelvin, is responsible for the operation of the Board, ensuring it works effectively.
The Chief Executive, Ian Marchant, is responsible for the management of the business, implementing the strategy and policies agreed by the Board.
Here they answer questions about SSEs performance and plans for the future.
Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman left Ian Marchant Chief Executive right It looks like 2010 11 was another for investment by the energy sector over the Were now seeing results, with significant next decade point to some very big numbers new assets being commissioned over the challenging year for SSE.
indeed but investment opportunities next couple of years.
One of the key criteria shouldnt be confused with investment for individual investment decisions, and for Robert k Yes, it was a challenging year obligations.
While there are plenty of the shape of the investment programme but lets keep things in perspective.
SSEs opportunities, its up to us which ones we adjusted profit before tax has continued overall, will always be whether we can pursue.
Discipline will be our watchword.
to grow and passed the 1.3bn mark for the manage individual projects effectively.
Its now 50% higher than it was Robert k You have to get this the right way five years ago.
A key financial question for Does that help explain the round: its not about sacrificing dividends the Board is whether the dividend target can number of projects you seem to be met while keeping dividend cover around to help finance investments we expect have shelved or scaled back over the established range.
returns from investments to help finance the past year and why you turned dividends.
We always remember that your back on some acquisition Ian k We had to handle things including dividends are not some kind of abstract opportunities?
higher than forecast wholesale gas prices concept.
Shareholders rely on them for their and lower than expected output of renewable own financial well-being, and we should Ian k Yes it does.
As for acquisitions, if your energy, and they helped push down slightly never forget that.
business plan depends on them, youve got a operating profit in Generation and Supply.
At problem because eventually youll be forced the same time, our regulated energy networks A year ago, you said you were to pay too much for something.
Thats why we have a confident about SSEs ability should only ever be optional extras and balanced business model.
It makes us more to manage large capital projects.
thats what they are in SSE.
resilient, meaning we can deliver reasonable Has your confidence been borne financial results and annual dividend growth out by events over the past year?
Robert k What the past year has again shown even when the going is a bit tougher.
is the self-discipline in SSE.
The Board doesnt Robert k I believe it has.
It would be wrong to believe in doing things for so-called strategic Can SSE continue to grow suggest it has been plain sailing all of the way, reasons, so even if potential investments or the dividend and finance but good progress is being made both in acquisitions appear to have some business the investment in energy terms of projects currently under construction logic, we wont pursue them if the financial infrastructure that will be and in terms of building up the resources and returns are not there.
needed over the next decade?
skills needed to manage the projects that will come into construction in the next few years.
Do you worry that the energy Ian k Yes.
We have plans to invest between sector is becoming more 1.5bn and 1.7bn a year in the period up Ian k Our capital and investment spend difficult to operate in, with more to 2015.
These plans are consistent with our has almost trebled in just five years and intervention from regulators and financial principles and are designed to avoid we have had to move quickly to make sure any need to issue new equity.
Forecasts we have everything needed to support it.
politicians, like Ofgems energy 09 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Its actually in the interests of both customers How significant are the and suppliers that prices should be more changes in Executive Directors stable than they have been in the past few responsibilities and the formation years.
The reality is, however, that energy is of a new Management Board?
now a global commodity for which there is rising global demand.
Its affected by issues Robert k Colin Hood is retiring later this like political uncertainty in the Middle East year after an outstanding career in the or Marchs dreadful events in Japan.
We do energy sector, culminating in nine years everything we can to moderate the impact excellent service as SSEs Chief Operating of volatile global energy markets on our Officer.
Main Board-level responsibilities will customers, and well continue to do that, be divided between Ian, Gregor Alexander but there is only so much upward pressure and Alistair Phillips-Davies.
They are on energy prices that a supply business can supported by the new Management Board withstand.
The positive news is that all the and by other senior executives throughout energy efficiency investment thats been the business.
SSE has a very able and made over the past few years is starting to experienced management team and there bring down peoples energy consumption.
is terrific strength in depth, that extends This means theyre paying less for their through the whole team of employees, energy than they otherwise would.
Robert k Its easy to attach negative labels Ian k I agree with Robert about the strength to big companies, but one of the things that of the team.
The people in it are constantly impresses me about SSE is the day-to-day being challenged and developed to make work of the customer service teams who are sure SSE will continue to be successful as dedicated to helping vulnerable customers the sector changes over the next few years.
and other people whose circumstances mean they might be struggling to pay for Is SSE sticking with its approach their electricity and gas.
The people in of not publishing a separate those teams are first class professional, Corporate Responsibility Report?
retail market review and the UK governments Electricity Ian k Yes.
A year ago we took the view that SSEs financial objective, strategy Market Reform?
the content of the Annual Report should and business model are very enable people to judge whether SSE is a familiar to people who have been Robert k I understand completely why responsible company, and we still believe regulators and politicians take a close following the Company over the that.
A business should be designed so interest in energy.
Its essential to the years.
Do you ever worry that SSE that everyone is expected to do their job well-being of individual people and the could become too set in its ways in a responsible way.
To put it another successful functioning of society as a whole.
way, its not about managing corporate and unable to cope with the pace If regulators and politicians make decisions responsibility, but about managing your of change in the energy sector?
for the right reasons, and after theyve given corporation responsibly.
Thats our goal in a fair and reasonable opportunity for people SSE, and we maintain a set of core values Robert k The SSE fundamentals have to express their views, you have to respect like Safety and Service against which the remained the same, particularly the them and the job they do.
management team, me included, is judged commitment to real dividend growth, every year.
That doesnt mean Ian k I agree.
Political and regulatory its operating in some kind of time warp.
interventions are a fact of energy life.
There Robert k First on the list of those values The Company is actually very innovative was some pretty lurid language used when is safety.
Its the first item on the agenda for and forward-looking and, on key issues like Ofgem published its retail market review Board meetings, and the most important one.
decarbonisation and reducing dependency proposals in March, but you have to look on fossil fuels, really gets it.
What matters is that the review What are SSEs top priorities way, however, just to get on with delivering results in reforms which genuinely help things and not make a song and dance in 2011 12?
customers and the competitive market in about them.
As for Electricity Market Reform, Ian k I can refer to the answer I gave to a its hugely complex, but Im optimistic well Ian k Sticking to the fundamentals is similar question in the Annual Report last end up with a package of reforms that will important.
That said, performance has year, because its the same: safe working: encourage investment in the types of to be improved constantly if a business excellent customer service: well-run power generation well need in the future.
is to survive in the long term.
Thats why stations and energy networks: good innovation has become a big thing in SSE.
progress on major capital investment How did you feel when SSE Its part of our Excellence value and its projects: and cost efficiency.
was called shameless or innovation with a purpose to deliver cold-hearted for putting up business improvements for the long term.
Robert k Continuity and consistency are household energy prices?
We know that long term means a very really important.
As a long-term business, different energy sector from the one we SSE should have long-term priorities that Ian k Of course I didnt like it, but I accept operate in now, and were building towards transcend any one year, and thats exactly that criticism goes with the territory.
