Chief Executives review The Group has achieved continued strong financial and operational Positive revenue trends are continuing in our commuter and longperformance in the year ended 30 April 2011.
All divisions have reported distance UK rail businesses.
Our South Western Trains and East Midlands increased revenue and operating profit.
Trains franchises have again delivered strong operating performance and high levels of customer satisfaction.
In particular, we have achieved The Group has had a good year, attracting more people to our greener, further improvement in passenger perception on value for money, as smarter bus and rail services.
We are seeing growing evidence of modal well as other key passenger priorities.
This follows our investment in shift as consumers look for better value and more convenient transport passenger improvements on trains, at stations and online, delivering alternatives to the rising cost of motoring and increasing road better information and a better overall travel experience.
The Group is pleased to have been shortlisted for the Greater Anglia rail We are focused on providing value-for-money products, continuing to franchise and, in partnership with Virgin, for the new Inter-city West invest in our networks, and harnessing the power of the Internet, new Coast franchise.
These are very different franchises, each with their own technology and social media to attract new customers and make it easier specific challenges, priorities and opportunities.
We are focused on for people to access our services.
The strong growth of megabus.
com developing sustainable bids to deliver the Governments specification, highlights the potential to continue to grow the market for public improve rail services for customers, and ensure value for money for transport.
The skill and commitment of our people at all levels of the taxpayers.
business have been key to our success.
The recent reviews on the way forward for the rail industry, including the Across the Group, we are progressing well with our sustainability strategy final report by Sir Roy McNulty published in May 2011, present to deliver more energy and carbon efficient businesses.
Our investment opportunities to unlock further growth in the years ahead and deliver a in environmental management systems, regenerative braking on trains, more efficient, more passenger-focused railway.
We will actively work our leading position on hybrid electric buses, and the introduction of with the Government to bring the benefits of our experience to its plans.
eco-driving bus technology are reducing our carbon footprint and supporting our focus on cost control.
The growth engine of our North American business is our budget intercity coach brand, megabus.
We have expanded our network of The core strength of our business means we have been able to manage successful transport hubs and destination cities in North America and the impact of reduced public spending on transport, ensuring we now cover more than 60 locations in the United States and Canada, with continue to offer attractive fares and networks.
At the heart of our success are our core UK Bus operations, which are I firmly believe the improving trends mean the Group can look forward now responsible for nearly 1 billion passenger journeys a year.
We with confidence to the year ahead.
We will continue to consider continue to deliver both good value travel to customers and sectoropportunities in the transport sector to create value for our shareholders.
leading profit margins for our business.
The strong fundamentals of the Group ensure we are well positioned to The growth in the UK Bus business is founded on continued investment take advantage of emerging opportunities for growth.
in greener buses, market-leading value fares, internet retailing, Public transport is central to supporting economic growth and meeting sophisticated marketing, customer insight, the roll-out of smartcard the global challenge of climate change.
In the UK, high quality public technology, and product innovation.
We have recently joined a loyalty transport will be at the heart of the successful delivery of the London card scheme for sustainable products, which allows consumers to collect 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
We believe the outlook for our bus and spend points across a range of participating companies.
We believe and rail services is positive.
I believe we have the people, the products this will open up opportunities to attract new customers, as well as and the passion for public transport that will deliver for our customers gathering data to further understand what drives consumer choices and and our shareholders.
We have made good progress with the restructuring of our London contracted bus operations since we reentered the market in October 2010.
In May 2011, the Competition Commission issued the Provisional Findings and Possible Remedies from its inquiry into the local bus market in the UK excluding London and Northern Ireland and is not proposing Sir Brian Souter any fundamental change to the regulatory structure of the industry.
We Chief Executive will work closely with the Commission in the months ahead on any initiatives that will benefit customers.
At the same time, we hope this will 29 June 2011 act as a springboard for action by local and national government on the issues that matter to customers, such as bus priority and park and ride.
