CHiEf strAtEgy offiCErs rEviEw for the year ended 27 November 2011 I am very pleased to report that, despite This necessitated a review of our new the ongoing macro economic uncertainty, venture risk evaluation processes, which the Group was able to further expand its are essential to protect the existing business in new geographies, opening business as we expand our model, in nine new offices in the year, compared order to increase our risk and compliance with six last year.
In addition, several focus in some of the more complex new offices are already well advanced areas, whilst also working more closely and planned to open in H1 2012.
This, with external partners to facilitate set combined with our ongoing re-branding, up and administration of new ventures, consolidation and lead brand sector supplemented by expert advice.
Gary Elden specialisation initiatives, helps to ensure Each quarter, the Board review completed Chief Strategy Officer that we are continually aligned to our niche new ventures, completed rebrands, market opportunities.
scheduled openings, a summary of post Our strategic development team and the implementation reviews PIR, current cross functional Strategic Implementation research projects business plans, key Group SIG activities have been further strategic initiatives, key risks and agree strengthened during the year to ensure changes to the five year plan.
that that they remain fit for purpose.
This We have also strengthened our strategy structure enables Group-wide experts review and PIR processes, so that the to share and continually evolve best Board can more rigorously engage practice as we move into increasingly in reviewing and testing the Groups more complex and lucrative higher margin strategy on an ongoing basis, whilst also sectors and geographies.
Profile of international growth THE GROUPS EXPANSION HAS FOUR MAJOR DIMENSIONS: The majority of planned growth comes from additional heads in existing locations, in both existing and new Increase headcount sectors.
in an existing ofce into a new sector.
e. g. Sydney Banking Open entirely new regions.
e. g. Sao Paulo 1 2 4 Increase headcount in an existing Increase ofce ofce in an 3 footprint in established sector.
e. g. Munich ICT e. g. Perth 18 SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 ChIEF STRATEgy OFFICERS REvIEw broadening the scope of some of the proposals under consideration.
Accordingly, each new venture is now categorised as set out below, based on the degree of associated risk.
Whilst our tried and tested strategy remains primarily focused on pursuing organic growth, we remain open to and are continually assessing, other market opportunities as they arise.
Despite the current market uncertainties, I am excited by the opportunities available and look forward to creating an even more diversified Group in 2012.
Gary Elden Chief Strategy Officer 27 January 2012 I Complex ventures operationally: will definitely require external resources and n significant competitor analysis c r Ventures in virgin territory: in some cases external resources may aid us e a Ventures where SThree has some experience in the country, but the venture s incurs a higher operational risk than Amber ventures: i. e. complex regulation, a i n European country which we have extensively tested but have no physical presence g Ventures where SThree has a presence in the country but not in the city r i Ventures where SThree already has a presence in the city s k A current SThree ofce under review, may lead to exit SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 19
