Chief Executive Officers Report Chief Executive Officers Report Andrew Tinkler, CEO The Group is now entering an exciting phase of delivering on the full value potential in the various business streams.
6 I am pleased to report that the Group continues to trade well Successes with new business wins and profitability growing in line with We have completed the initial phase of development at the management expectations for the current year and beyond, Mersey Multi-Modal Gateway.
Our aspiration is to make the despite the economic challenges and tough operating site carbon neutral by the middle of the decade, through environment.
The full years figures show an increase in Stobarts new biomass venture with AW Jenkinson, waste turnover, up 11.8%, largely due to the ongoing strength of recycling at the site and by facilitating more collaborations our transport and distribution business, with Eddie Stobart between retailers and manufacturers using the facility.
This Limited ESL winning significant new contracts such as AG will help significantly reduce UK road distribution miles.
We have had a strong year in the development of our The Group has been under pressure from all sides including business in Ireland.
Having recognised that customers wanted both cost inflation and the customer, who in turn has born a logistics solution in Ireland, we bought a trailer business additional costs as fuel prices continue to rise.
However, our from TDG three years ago for 0.25m.
The Irish business is customers have realised how well our business model is suited now one of the countrys leading transport operations with to them as we work together to focus on reducing waste in turnover in the year of 25m.
the system, to mutual benefit.
Developments at London Southend Airport have been At the start of the financial year in March 2010, as well as substantial and we consider it a considerable achievement to winning new contracts, we began our joint venture in have brought the project on as far as we have in the time biomass with AW Jenkinson.
Twelve months later, at the start available.
A large part of the building works, including the of the new financial year, we have successfully integrated the new control tower and the rail station, have been completed new business and have acquired the remaining stake in the and approval of plans to extend the runway was granted in biomass venture.
We have also secured funding for significant April 2010.
Completion of the runway extension, and the investment in our estates and airports businesses.
airport's congestion-free location outside the London air traffic control area, make it an ideal location to meet the Challenges demand for European business and leisure travel.
The runway extension will also allow London Southend Airport to play a One benefit of the recession has been that it has prevented major role in handling visitors to the 2012 Olympic Games.
us from becoming complacent and forced us to concentrate on where we can reduce costs.
This year we have taken The Group continues to benefit from the strength of its significant steps to tighten up on our cost base, pass cost brand and we are fully conscious of the commercial value savings on to our customers and by working with them to inherent in maintaining our brand values across the Group, reduce the waste in the industry.
particularly good service, efficiency and attention to detail.
Our brand reassures clients that we will deliver their goods The recession has also brought with it increased instability in at the right cost, putting us in a strong position with both volumes in consumer buying, with marked peaks and troughs clients and suppliers.
The Eddie Stobart brand in particular putting pressure on our logistics systems.
This has gone some has had a strong year with the success of the Channel 5 TV way to drive our decision to divide our operating divisions into series, Eddie Stobart: Trucks & Trailers.
It has helped to smaller units, allowing us to manage each one more closely showcase the business to a whole new audience and our and in greater alignment with the customer.
Again, this is promotional department has seen associated benefits with allowing us to align our services with customer forecasts, sales of merchandise reaching record levels.
improving utilisation and reducing waste.
Chief Executive Officers Report The new structure will clarify and sharpen the focus, strategic aims and value of each part of the business.
We will be investing in the new divisions and expect to generate a significant return for shareholders.
Outlook Delivering Value The Group is now entering an exciting phase of delivering We are confident that restructuring the company and the full value potential in the various business streams.
We investing in our Estates and Airports divisions, where there is have spent the past three years in a build phase, so we are significant untapped potential, will create the greatest value.
looking at the next three to four years in terms of delivery.
7 Our Transport and Distribution division, including Eddie In transport, we will aim to achieve a better margin than Stobart Limited ESL, will remain at the heart of the Group.
the industry has traditionally managed because of our ESL is a market leading transport business with the best fleet differentiated business model.
It will continue to be the Groups cornerstone.
The model emphasises controlled growth, cost reductions, This division will include all of the forms of transport, storage improved utilisation and increased margins, with additional and handling services provided by the Group, encompassing contributions to the bottom line being generated by new all of the multimodal services currently provided through road, revenue from airports and biomass.
To support the model we rail and ports.
It has achieved a profit growth rate of have put more framework around management and approximately 15% year on year and whilst we will continue developed control mechanisms to deliver it.
In addition, to focus on adding contracts it does not require any we are giving much greater focus to our Management significant further investment.
Development Programme, bringing existing employees up The Estates division will be responsible for the management, through the ranks to support the running of the business.
development and realisation of all Group land and building assets.
The division will hold around 20 properties spread New Structure throughout England.
These include a number of sites that are already in use as part of our multimodal platform, but which Although Eddie Stobart currently represents around 85% of have considerable potential to develop both physically and in the Groups turnover, the Group has diversified in recent terms of their operational value.
For example, we are looking years through the acquisition of further transport businesses, at building biomass plants on some of the sites which will airports, an interest in biomass and other properties.
enhance both the property value and contribute to revenue Following an operational review, we remain committed to generation in terms of both biomass and transport contracts.
the Eddie Stobart business, but we are also forming new Our Airport operations London Southend Airport and divisions with their own management teams.
The new Carlisle Lake District Airport offer significant growth divisions are Transport & Distribution, Estates, Air, Biomass potential.
Our target is to achieve in excess of two million and Infrastructure & Civil Engineering.
passengers annually at Southend and to develop our The new structure will clarify and sharpen the focus, strategic distribution and freight operations at Carlisle to enhance our aims and value of each part of the business.
We will be customer proposition.
Both airports have the potential to centralising certain functions such as business IT systems, deliver impressive yields.
finance analysis, corporate purchasing, business services The Biomass division currently sources sustainable biomass, legal, HR, insurance etc to take the burden off the divisions, primarily life-expired timber and low grade softwood, for the freeing up each business leaders time to focus on developing new generation of minimum-carbon power plants utilised opportunities and performance delivery.
both in large-scale electricity generation and smaller on-site Having raised approximately 115m in additional funding, we industrial power plants.
The strategy is to build the Biomass will be investing in the new divisions and expect to generate division up to between three and four million tonnes per year a significant return.
In particular, we have identified valueover the next few years, all on long term contracts and all enhancing projects relating to properties in the Air division using Eddie Stobart for transport.
and a Biomass related facility in Widnes that will form part of The Infrastructure and Civil Engineering division is split into the Estates division.
two main sub-groups: Rail and Civil Engineering.
Rail is one We also hope that the investment and the divisional reof the UKs leading names in rail network maintenance, repair alignment will help investors develop a better understanding and improvement.
Civil Engineering is responsible for the of the value of the Groups assets.
development and improvement of the Groups property holdings, concentrating on the regeneration of brownfield Chief Executive Officers Report Chief Executive Officers Report sites into valuable business assets, and recycling often contaminated land back into use.
This division will further develop its external offering to increase its client base through improving value to customers and generating growth.
In conclusion, we have set out an ambitious and exciting strategy to take each part of the Stobart Group to the next level and make sure each division meets its targets.
We see nothing in the plan that cannot be achieved and look forward to demonstrating value creation in the near term.
8 Andrew Tinkler, Chief Executive Officer May 2011 Key Performance Indicators Financial 2011 2010 Change Revenue 500.4m 447.7m 11.8% abe EBITDA 57.2m 57.4m 0.0% ce Earnings Per Ordinary Share 9.7p 10.8p -10.2% Environmental Fleet Utilisation 83.0% 83.7% -0.8% Euro 4 5 Compliance 89.0% 88.0% 1.1% d CO2 Per Loaded Mile 1.87kg 1.90kg -1.6% People Accident Incident rate RIDDOR 0.47 0.53 -11.3% a We have shown EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation in the key performance indicators, rather than EAFFC Earnings After Fleet Financing Costs that we showed in the prior year, as we believe that investors and other users understand EBITDA better as it is more widely used.
b Normalised comprising the underlying operating profit of 37.5m 2010: 34.2m adding back depreciation of 18.1m 2010: 15.7m and separately disclosed gains on property assets of 2.0m 2010: 8.2m and less share based payments of 0.4m 2010: 0.7m.
c EPS based on normalised PBT of 34.5m 2010: 36.0m and allowing for a 28% tax charge.
d We have added a further environmental key performance indicator, CO per loaded mile, which reflects our increased focus on our 2 environmental impact.
This is based on the direct CO usage.
2 e The 2010 profit and earnings per share figures have been restated following the reclassification of certain property related assets to continuing operations with the result that EBITDA is now stated after 770,000 of property losses previously treated as discontinued.
