Synergy Health plc 6 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Chief Executives review Our services are mission-critical toour customers, and for thisreason the demand foroutsourcing is growing Synergy Health is an expert in outsourced sterilisation services to the medical device market as well as to hospitalsand other healthcare providers.
In addition, thebusiness provides other outsourced services suchas healthcare linen, pathology and specialist laboratoryservices.
By focusing on niche outsourced services, the Group has the benefit of significant barriers toentry, good cash generation and long term contracts.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 7 Global medical device sterilisation revenue Global hospital sterilisation revenue 70.1m 56.9m 13.9% 13.8% Introduction 1.
Internationalisation During the year we exceeded our expectations in terms of margin Synergy is the leading provider of sterilisation services to hospitals, progression, but the uplift in revenue growth was slower to come having created the market in the UK in 1996.
Today we have facilities through.
We have now seen growth filtering through during the early in the UK, Europe, and China, and our strategy is to continue to part of this new financial year.
increase our total market share in each country as well as to continue our international expansion in Asia and in due course in the The Group performed well during the year, meeting our expectations UnitedStates.
inall areas with the exception of our products based business in the UK.
Underlying revenues were up 4.1% on last year after taking into Following the recent acquisitions of GSP and BeamOne, we are now account currency effects and the closure of non-core businesses.
the second largest global provider of sterilisation services to medical Gross margins were up by 2.0% to 38.2% 2010: 36.2% and device manufacturers.
Our strategy is to continue to expand our adjusted operating margin was up 1.1% on last year to 15.0% 2010: presence in Asia where multinational medical device companies are 13.9%.
Thestrategy is serving the business well with solid underlying focusing their investments, and healthcare providers are focusing on growth, geographic diversification and a focus on niche outsourcing reducing infection risks.
We are targeting a quarter of our income to services, which will enable us to sustain our operating margins at the come from the Asian region.
At the same time we will be extending current levels.
ourpresence in the Americas, with the expansion of our sterilisation services for both medical device manufacturers, and for healthcare There are however still challenges to be faced, and we are taking providers.
In the short term, we are focusing on medical device proactive steps to address these.
Growth in Europe and the UK is opportunities in Central America, with a medium term objective to more subdued as a result of our mature linen businesses operating in develop our hospital sterilisation services in the United States.
In the mature markets, and the general state of the economy.
Our strategy of medium term we expect to see a quarter of our income coming from focusing more resources on Asia is paying off with growth outstripping the Americas region.
Asia and Africa make up 4.7% of global revenues, up from 3.8% last year.
Meanwhile, Europe and the Middle We are leading providers of healthcare linen services in the Easts contribution was steady at 41.3% 2010: 41.0%, and the UK Netherlands and in the UK.
Our intention is to operate these and Irelands share reduced to 53.9% from 55.2%.
Asias share of businesses efficiently but not to expand them outside of these two revenue generation is increasing in line with our strategy.
Similarly our small laboratory businesses, which operate the Americas will provide further opportunity for fast growth within our inthe UK and in the Netherlands, will continue to be developed core services, as well as supporting our Asian business through closer withinthese countries.
links with large US-based medical device manufacturers.
Another We also manufacture infection control and other consumable challenge is our products based business, which faced a further productsfor the international healthcare market.
This business has decline in revenues in the UK this year, holding back Group revenue encountered a number of challenges over the last three years and growth.
We are focusing very heavily on cost leadership within the UK continues to face considerable headwinds.
The business is partway and directing investment into our international markets where growth through a restructuring programme to lower its cost base to support will be stronger.
apredominantly internationally based growth strategy.
Overall, the Group is in good shape with an internationally diversified business providing long term contracted, high value added services 2.
High Value Added Services with a forward order book of 920 million 2010: 850 million.
The Our strategy is to focus solely on niche services that have high business has a strong balance sheet and excellent cash generation.
barriersto entry, significant value added content and a global potential.
Presently just under three quarters of our income is derived from Strategy sterilisation services to the medical device and hospital markets.
We set out a strategy three years ago that has resulted in Synergy Theoutsourcing of these services is driven by an increasing regulatory becoming one of the leading global providers of niche outsourced burden that makes outsourcing to highly specialised providers such services to health related markets.
Our core service is the provision asSynergy economically effective.
ofoutsourced sterilisation for medical device manufacturers and for The barriers to entry within the sterilisation businesses are healthcare providers such as acute hospitals.
In addition, we are considerable.
For example, the service we provide to the global leading providers of healthcare linen services in the UK and the medical device manufacturers requires Synergy to have experience, Netherlands, manufacturers of infection control products and competence and a network to provide mission-critical services.
Synergy is recognised as one of the worlds leading providers of Underlying global revenues excluding non-core businesses for medical device sterilisation services with an extremely positive medical device sterilisation and hospital sterilisation were up 13.9% reputation for the quality of its services.
In addition, we are the worlds and 13.8% respectively.
Our healthcare solutions businesses declined largest operator of radiation sterilisation facilities, relatively protected by 2.9%, reflecting our strategy to direct our investments towards bylicensing requirements which are becoming ever more stringent.
sterilisation services, as well as some difficult trading in the UK There are similarly high barriers to entry for the sterilisation of reusable products business.
The service is again mission-critical, with Looking ahead, our strategic objectives are threefold.
Firstly, we will much of the challenge based on managing the complex logistics of continue to expand the business internationally, making Synergy a supplying thousands of different types of surgical instruments.
Secondly, we will focus on high value added has addressed and met the challenge with our proprietary software outsourced services that have high barriers to entry.
Thirdly, we will systems that manage the logistics and ensure that the inherent risks differentiate Synergy from its competitors through its people, and at inthe service are controlled.
Synergy has an unparalleled record of thesame time maintain a cost leadership strategy to ensure that we service delivery, reflecting its strong position in the UK and its achieve greater levels of efficiency.
expanding services in Europe and China.
Financials Governance Operating and financial review Our strategy Who we are Synergy Health plc 8 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Chief Executives review Forward order book 920m 2010: 850m We have very strong and defendable positions with our linen services Outlook in the Netherlands and the UK, where we are number one and two Last year we decided to make a transition to a regionally managed respectively.
As the markets have been consolidated down to two business, enabling us to have greater strategic oversight of each players ineach case, there are significant barriers to entry with scale region, to improve efficiencies by extracting cost synergies, and to and experience, as well as with customers being contracted on five to build a management structure that would facilitate the creation of seven year terms.
afourth region in the Americas.
All of these objectives were fulfilled during the year, with margins sustainably restored to an appropriate Looking further ahead, we are researching other niche areas where level, improved oversight of both organic and acquisitive growth Synergys core competencies could be used to create similarly opportunities, and, just after the year end, the establishment of the attractive operating models.
We are attracted to services that integrate Americas region with the acquisition of BeamOne.
more closely with clinical service provision and where there are benefits from scale and expertise.
Synergys focus is on the provision of niche outsourcing services thatcreate significant value for our customers.
Differentiation and cost leadership mission-critical to our customers and for this reason the demand Two of Synergys longstanding strategic principles have been to foroutsourcing is growing.
Looking ahead we expect that rising operate a cost leadership programme as well as to competitively regulatory and technical standards will continue to underpin differentiate certain aspects of our services.
We continue to demandtogether with the cost efficiency of Synergys services.
benchmark our performance against competitors including in-house Our strategy to expand Synergys reach with the objective of becoming services, and with our investments in technology and innovation, a global business is also working well.
We are continuing to see wecontinue to lead our markets in the cost-effective delivery of stronger growth in Asia compared to our traditional markets and outsourced services.
weexpect this trend to continue.
Our recent expansion into the In parallel we continue to invest in our teams to expand and deepen Americas also provides a second source of significant growth for atalent pool that will enable Synergy to differentiate itself from its Synergy.
For example, we have agreed an exclusive supply agreement competitors through its people.
Our partnerships with Warwick in Costa Rica for sterilisation services to an important medical device Business School and the Chartered Management Institute are business park, enabling us to double our electron beam capacity as important investments that enable us to create sustainable leadership, well as add EtO services over the next year.
Growth in the Americas, as well as a culture that differentiates Synergy based on the quality of incombination with Asia, will see the Groups overall revenue growth its people.
We have a global senior leadership community that plays an edge up towardsdouble digit rates over the next 12 to 18 months.
active role in the implementation of our strategy.
Inaddition we have Higher revenue growth rates, supported by sustainable margins and anexpanding graduate programme that is recruiting a new talent pool strong cash generation, leave the business well positioned to continue from which to develop our future leaders.
to deliver its earnings objectives.
Dr Richard M Steeves Chief Executive
