Synergy Health plc 16 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Chief Executives review Regional review Last year we restructured the business into three UK and Ireland geographic regions: the UK and Ireland: Europe and The strategy for this region is primarily organically driven: promoting the Middle East: and Asia and Africa.
The creation outsourcing that generates improved quality and efficiency.
ofthese regions has resulted in cost synergies as well asimproving our local market understanding and responsiveness.
Revenue m Following the acquisition of BeamOne in the United 11 154.9 States and Costa Rica, we will be reporting a fourth 10 158.0 region theAmericas.
09 160.3 08 135.0 Despite modest underlying growth in the region of 2.3%, the coresterilisation business has grown strongly at 12.0%.
Reported revenues were held back by the closure of 12million of non-core businesses, poor winter weather, and further declines in our product manufacturing business.
Reported revenues were 154.9 million 2010:158.0 million.
Operating profits increased by 7.2% to 25.0 million 2010: 23.3 million with margins increasing by 1.3% to 16.1% 2010: 14.8%.
Sterilisation revenues for both the medical device and hospital markets were strong, both recording double digit growth.
Within the medical device sector we have seen further capacity utilisation of the new electron beam facility in Ireland, and good underlying growth in the majority of our existing sterilisation facilities.
We anticipate that we will need to add further sterilisation capacity in the region towards the end ofthe year.
Our hospital sterilisation service in the UK benefited from opening the Leicester facility in February, and growth will be sustained with a further three new facilities in the new financial year.
This year we have won new contracts with an annual value of 9.6 million.
The bid pipeline remains strong in the UK, and with the NHS clearly having to seek ways of improving efficiency, we see further momentum in this service particularly once the current political and structural uncertainties are addressed.
An outstanding bid for hospital sterilisation in Ireland is unlikely to proceed at the present time because of the economic troubles in the country.
The UK linen business has focused on restoring operating margins during the year and as a result revenues were flat.
The business is operating well and has been successful in competitively differentiating itself by focusing on quality.
Customer retention is strong and we expect to see some modest growth in circumstances where customers place ahigher value on quality than price.
The laboratory business, which had previously seen a reduction in demand because of its dependence on the UK economy, has returned to growth.
Prospects for pathology and occupational health testing remain positive.
Our Healthcare Solutions business, which manufactures infection control and other consumable healthcare products, has struggled with an over reliance on the UK market, which has seen very challenging trading conditions.
The team is currently restructuring its operations, andlowering the cost base by reducing the number of sites from four totwo.
In addition, changes to the senior management structure are facilitating a much more internationally focused growth strategy that incombination with more progressive cost leadership should seeareturn to revenue growth.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 17 Europe and the Middle East Asia and Africa Our strategy in Europe is to expand the full range of our sterilisation The Asia and Africa region is one of our most promising, with services to hospitals and medical device manufacturers, primarily acombination of very positive macroeconomics as well as an through organic growth.
underlying demand by certain Asian countries to dramatically improve the quality of their healthcare services.
Revenue m Revenue m 11 118.8 11 13.6 10 117.4 10 11.0 09 104.7 09 9.1 08 82.7 08 7.3 Underlying revenues for Europe and the Middle East were up 5.4% Our facilities are located in South Africa, Malaysia, Thailand and China.
Reported revenues were 118.8 million 2010: strategy is to invest in each of thesecountries to support continued organic 117.4 million.
Operating profits were up 15.6% to 20.5 million 2010: growth as well as to expand our geographic presence across theregion.
17.8 million with margins increasing by 2.2% to 17.3% 2010: 15.1%, Underlying revenues in Asia and Africa were up 16.3% before currency reflecting the increased cost synergies from the new regional structure.
Revenues were 13.6 million 2010: 11.0 million with good The Dutch linen business continued to operate efficiently and effectively.
Operating profits were up 25.1% to 2.7 million As the market leader, our scale advantage has enabled us to improve 2010: 2.2 million with operating margins flat at 19.9% 2010: 19.8%.
cost efficiencies and cash generation.
Throughout the year our primary The regions revenues are derived from sterilisation services to both the competitor has been using a price-driven strategy in an attempt to gain medical device and hospital sterilisation markets.
The medical device market share but this is being countered by our relentless focus on volumes have improved again on last year, demonstrating a robust quality and efficiency.
recovery from the impact of the financial crisis two years ago.
We have Revenue growth was primarily derived from the sterilisation business, made progress improving the capacity utilisation of our new facility in principally the medical device market.
Synergy is the leading provider of Suzhou, China, and we expect to have the site operating at near medical device sterilisation services in this region.
We have a particular tocapacity within the next18 months.
The majority of our Suzhou strength in gamma radiation but we have been expanding our services customers are subsidiaries of large multinational manufacturers to include ethylene oxide EtO and electron beam.
Our first Continental headquartered in the United States.
For example, we are contracting with EtO facility in Venlo reached capacity during the year, and additional two of the top ten largest US manufacturers for work with an annualised capacity has now been commissioned.
To support further growth we value of 1.8 million.
The acquisition of BeamOne was animportant have started building a new gamma facility in Marcoule, France, which stepto deepen our relationships with these customers.
We have also will significantly improve our competitive position in southern Europe.
commissioned additional capacity inour existing Malaysian facility and Inaddition, we acquired GSP, near Dresden, Germany, giving us our first weintend to broaden our reach byestablishing capacity in Kuala Lumpur.
Continental electron beam facility in theregion, as well as much needed We have also seen reasonable growth in Thailand although there is gamma capacity to service the eastern European market.
The presently a surplus ofgamma capacity in the country.
We are planning acquisition has integrated well and outperformed expectations to date.
tobroaden our technology offering as a means of further differentiating Synergy and tomeet the requirements of our existing customers.
Our hospital sterilisation business operates from two of the largest hospitals in the Netherlands and Belgium.
Whilst we are operating Our hospital sterilisation volumes have improved in China.
We now successful services, the markets have been slow to develop.
We process equipment through the Suzhou facility for over 30 hospitals and continue to bid on a selective basis for additional contracts with a smaller healthcare institutions.
Our service is widely recognised by the particular focus on Germany, but progress has been slower than we had Chinese Provincial Government as playing a key role in lifting sterilisation anticipated, in part because we have prioritised the expansion of our standards and reducing infection risks particularly in medium sized, class medical device sterilisation network.
However, we are continuing to look two hospitals.
However, we have not been able to make sufficient progress for opportunities to further expand our hospital sterilisation business in expanding our network beyond Suzhou and our plans for expansion will Europe and the Middle East, and we may consider an acquisition to take longer than initially anticipated.
One of the key issues is that the accelerate market entry.
Chinese healthcare market is going through a major transition driven by the Governments new five year plan that will see China become one ofthe worlds largest national health systems by the end of the decade.
Whereas three years ago healthcare policy makers were focusing on risk management, today the focus of attention is on the RMB 12.3 billion 1.2 billion investment to expand capacity.
We are still committed to achieving our medium term objectives of establishing a sizeable network in China and we are increasing our investment to support the project.
Elsewhere in Asia we are developing a strategy to expand our hospital sterilisation services.
In Malaysia for example, the Government has initiated a pilot outsourcing project and Synergy has been actively engaged with local companies that could ultimately become long term partners in the region.
Financials Governance Operating and financial review Our strategy Who we are
