Business review Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 10 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT Overview 2011 was a pivotal year in the development of the Yule Catto Group.
The acquisition of PolymerLatex was announced in December 2010 and completed at the end of March 2011 when we received the relevant clearances.
With the sale of our Pharma 18% business in November 2011, and the increased scale created by the increase in PolymerLatex acquisition, Yule Catto has now become a substantial operating profits focused specialty Polymer business, with a strong and diversified portfolio of products, and well invested facilities in Europe and Asia.
As part of the integration the combined Polymer business has adopted the Synthomer brand name, and we now operate all of our Polymer operations around the world under this well recognised and respected name.
The integration process between PolymerLatex and Synthomer started in April following completion of the acquisition.
This has been an intense process covering all operating regions.
In Europe this has so far resulted in the closure of the Mouscron site in Belgium and the exit from Latex production in Stallingborough in the UK.
In addition to this manufacturing network rationalisation there have been significant changes to the Commercial and Technical organisations with the closure of Synthomers technical service and research laboratories in Frankfurt, Germany and Dispersion research laboratories in Harlow, UK.
Every effort has been made to retain core skills and fill defined vacancies as a result of these changes.
During the year some 200 people left the business as a result of these changes.
The resulting savings will be mainly seen in 2012.
In Asia the operations of Synthomer in Kluang and PolymerLatex in Pasir Gudang have also been brought under one management structure.
In R&D the implementation of a combined innovation process is well underway with the very clear aim of pursuing strong market needs, fast speed to market and delivering added value to our customers.
The integration process absorbed a lot of management effort in 2011.
Clearly much of the focus was on delivering the synergies we committed to on launching the acquisition.
However, and just as importantly, it has been about building a strengthened management team and greater capability throughout the organisation.
Overall this process has been very successful.
In parallel with the integration process, we have remained very focused on driving performance, where we have seen very good results, with Group pro-forma operating profit of 109.7 million, 18% ahead of 2010.
Business review Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 11 When we announced the acquisition of PolymerLatex we anticipated at least 20 million of annual synergies.
As at the end of December 2011 Sales 1,269m by destination 2011 the annualised run rate from synergies stood at 15 million.
We now anticipate that by the end of March 2013 the annual run A Western Europe 56% rate of synergies will be 25 million.
This should result in a benefit B Eastern Europe 4% A F to operating profit in 2012 of some 15 million compared to 2011.
C North America 3% E D Asia 27% The macroeconomic environment deteriorated over the course of E Africa & Middle East 8% 2011 as the sovereign debt crisis developed.
End market demand F Rest of World 2% for our products was generally good through the first half of the year, with volumes ahead 3%, with European volumes broadly flat but strong growth in Asia.
The second half however saw significant destocking.
This arose from a combination of the macroeconomic D uncertainties and customers delaying orders to take full advantage C B of the benefits of falling input costs.
This was most noticeable in the fourth quarter, where demand was down by some 13%.
This was a similar pattern to what we saw in 2009 and, as then, margin management generally compensated for the volume 2011 Divisional operating profit shortfall, resulting in our strong overall financial performance.
118.5m by origination Raw material price volatility in basic monomers created difficulties A Asia & Rest of World 28% through the year, which the business worked hard to overcome.
B Europe & USA 72% Most monomer prices moved up strongly during the first half of A the year and this, combined with a tight supply situation created a challenging environment for the business.
Raw material prices fell sharply in the fourth quarter, creating different challenges as customers destocked.
Throughout this volatile period, the business priority has remained on ensuring a balanced approach to margin B and volume with a continued focus on value delivery, which was broadly successful.
We manage the business in two segments.
Europe & North America and Asia & Rest of World.
The reported results are on an origination basis, meaning the segmental sales and operating profits are reported based on where the product is manufactured.
We export many specialty products from Europe to Asia.
Looking at sales on a destination basis, Europe & North America comprises 63% of Group turnover with Asia & Rest of World accounting for 37%.
41% of total sales to emerging markets 109.7m operating profit Pro-forma basis.
Business review Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 12 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT continued Europe & North America ENA Underlying as reported Underlying pro-forma Sales m Sales m 2011 777.7 2011 913.0 2010 335.8 2010 779.9 Operating profit m Operating profit m 2011 73.1 2011 85.5 2010 36.4 2010 77.6 U nderlying performance excludes special items as shown R econciliation of underlying performance to pro-forma results on the consolidated income statement.
provided in the financial review.
OUR FORMULAS ARE PART OF ALL OUR LIVES Yule Cattos formulas in aqueous and specialty polymers are used in a diverse range of applications that we see around us.
You will find our products all around you.
You will find our products in cars and boats and many other places, such as thin walled medical gloves, Inside the home and buildings you will find them in wall plaster, an essential product in modern health and hygiene.
paints matt, gloss and vinyl, wood stains and varnishes, floor, Even the paper this report is printed on contains tile and wood adhesives, cushions, table cloths, blinds, foam our Latex.
in the sofa, wipes, kitchen gloves, and many many more.
Outside you will see our products in masonry paint, gloss lacquers, mortar, plasters, adhesives, insulation panels, waterproof membranes, PVC products and as a bitumen modifier.
Business review Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 13 Pro-forma operating profit in our ENA business was ahead by 10%.
Some 3 million of synergy benefits from cost reductions came Volumes for the year were down, affected by the destocking activity through in the Group results for the year, and these are almost we saw over the second half of 2011.
The destocking was broad entirely reflected in the ENA segment.
based with volumes down across almost all segments.
Our focus on margin management and benefits from our innovation pipeline The coming together of PolymerLatex and Yule Cattos R&D ensured that overall profitability still increased substantially.
activities has created a stronger R&D capability in Europe.
We now have a broad portfolio of projects primarily focused Alongside the plant closures in Europe we are investing in our on commercially driven projects to develop technically leading Stallingborough Dispersions facility to raise the overall capability products in both key growth segments and traditional business of the site.
During the year we made some modest increases segments where our strong market positions can be maintained.
to our HSSBR capacity by debottlenecking.
These changes The development programme has led to new product launches in have created a much more capable, robust manufacturing a number of segments during the year including specialty adhesives, network in Europe.
construction, paper coating and synthetic grass applications.
06 07 Products Interior 04 01 01 Decorative coatings 02 Carpets and flooring adhesives 05 03 Waterproofing membranes and sealants 03 Exterior 04 Masonry paints 02 05 Anti-corrosion coatings Roof 06 Roof tile coatings 07 Insulation systems Leisure 08 Automotive sealants 09 09 Polyester composites 08 Business review Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 14 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Asia & Rest of World ARW Underlying as reported Underlying pro-forma Sales m Sales m 2011 339.1 2011 355.8 2010 247.0 2010 297.8 Operating profit m Operating profit m 2011 32.1 2011 33.0 2010 23.9 2010 25.5 U nderlying performance excludes special items as shown R econciliation of underlying performance to pro-forma results on the consolidated income statement.
EXPANSION INTO ASIA We have been in Asia for over 100 years.
Leveraging our capabilities there is key to the Groups future growth.
Product development Our R&D facility is heavily focused on Nitrile NBR Latex, which we supply to the medical glove industry a market growing at some 15% a year.
Business review Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 15 Pro-forma operating profit in our ARW segment was ahead by 29%.
This has resolved our near-term Dispersion capacity issue in the Manufactured volumes in ARW were 9% up at the half year, but region, whilst improving our market share in Malaysia.
destocking, particularly in Nitrile, resulted in full year volumes showing no growth.
In Asia, the integration of the R&D activities has been focused on optimising the combined range of NBR latex to ensure the best and In order to maintain leadership in the fast growing Synthetic Glove most comprehensive of offerings to our customers for glove dipping market a 70,000 tonne nitrile latex expansion to the Pasir Gudang applications and also on improvements in product consistency plant was sanctioned during the year and is now under construction.
and quality to deliver improved operational efficiencies.
In parallel, The new capacity will come on stream in Q4 2012.
This expansion to support the changing needs of the market and drive sustained will also be structured to allow SBR production, and we are aiming growth in the region, extensive research and applications work is to build a growing presence in Asia in SBR, leveraging our leading ongoing to develop the next generation of latices.
This development technology, over the coming years.
This was one of the strategic work is focused on improving the strength and feel of gloves, whilst objectives we set ourselves at the time of the PolymerLatex maintaining the key barrier and chemical resistance properties acquisition, taking advantage of our greater financial flexibility of the latex.
Adrian Whitfield Our Dispersions facilities in Asia operated near capacity through Chief Executive most of 2011.
In October we completed the acquisition of Quality 14 March 2012 Polymer, a Malaysian Dispersions manufacturer owned by one of our major customers.
Acquisition In 2011 we expanded our 01 dispersion polymerisation Locations capacity with the purchase of Quality Polymer from 01 Shanghai, China one of our major customers 02 Guangzhou, China in the region.
03 Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam 04 Kluang, Malaysia 05 Pasir Gudang, Malaysia 02 China 70,000 tonnes Our ability to sell into China of capacity was enhanced in 2011 with We are constructing another the creation of our new subsidiary 70,000 tonnes of NBR latex which will promote our high capacity, due for completion value specialty products into by the end of 2012.
allow us to both support the fast growing nitrile market, and sell SBR latex products into the region.
State of the art production 03 facilities Our latex facility in Pasir Gudang is only three years old and will deliver over 200,000 tonnes of NBR and SBR latex emulsion when the new expansion is complete.
