Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 07 Chief Executive Officers statement This was a strong all round performance in a year of major change across the business.
We have made good progress implementing our strategy, by extending our network, driving operating efficiencies, and offering customers consistently best value for money services.
Dido Harding Chief Executive Officer Headline EBITDA TalkTalk delivered a strong all round performance, in a year of major change across the whole business.
In our first year as a stand alone company we added almost 500k customers to our % own network, improved ARPU by 6%, grew Headline EBITDA 25 by 25%, and Operating free cash flow by 31%.
Integration Our priority during the year was the integration of the former 2011 Tiscali business.
This was a complex process that included 276 transferring all former Tiscali customers onto TalkTalk branded price plans, moving them onto our email platform, migrating a substantial majority of them onto our extended network, 2010 221 and moving their billing details onto our upgraded billing m system.
We successfully completed all the major elements of this program by the year end and delivered our run rate target of 55m of annual synergies.
Operating free cash flow During this process a number of customers suffered disruption, which caused higher levels of complaints and churn, and gave rise to a formal Ofcom investigation.
We have worked hard to % mitigate the impact of the disruption on our customers, and 31 to address the specific billing problem highlighted by Ofcom, which we believe has now been resolved.
As customers are migrated onto our own network and systems, their experience improves significantly and churn reduces.
2011 156 Implementing our strategy With 4.2 million broadband customers, and the UKs most extensive and most advanced Next Generation Network, our 2010 119 aim now is to realise the potential of this scale for the benefit m of both customers and Shareholders.
We therefore launched a new strategy in November, and have made good progress implementing this.
The strategy is focused around five areas, and aims to deliver our medium-term financial objectives of 20% Headline EBITDA margin and 2% revenue CAGR.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 08 Chief Executive Officers statement continued HomeSafe Exclusively available to TalkTalk customers free of charge, HomeSafe provides unique network level safety and security for all devices using the internet connection in the home including games consoles and smart phones.
The parental control features, including homework time, help parents make choices about how to keep their families safer online.
Delivering value for money quad play services We ended the year with our own advanced equipment in 2,007 We are committed to providing an expanding range of clear, of the UKs local telephone exchanges, covering over 86% of value for money services for our customers.
More of our the countrys households.
These unbundled exchanges are customers now take both broadband and voice services, and linked to our core national Next Generation Network by our more also opt for our higher value Plus product, which now high capacity, low cost backhaul circuits.
This all IP network makes up 14% of our total base.
We aim to drive this customer enables us to manage multiple services efficiently, control mix improvement further, and introduce more Boosts, which service quality, and develop new services rapidly and give customers extra value and billing certainty.
TalkTalk is all about giving customers consistently the best value Unbundling delivers substantial benefits including higher for money experience in the market, and we have reinforced ARPU and lower churn across the customer base, access to this commitment by recently reducing the Headline price of inbound call termination revenue, lower regulated charges, our Essentials and Plus products for all our customers taking and lower backhaul costs.
Migrating our customers onto our either of these products.
network delivers a better experience for our customers, the Value for money is not just about price, it is also about opportunity to offer them more products and a rapid return what customers get for their money, and we have now on the investment.
added our new, free HomeSafe option to our Essentials and We are now extending our network by unbundling a further Plus propositions.
HomeSafe is the UKs first network-level 700 exchanges.
This will bring our coverage up to 93% of the security product, which works by filtering a customers UKs households, and with 2,700 unbundled exchanges our broadband before it enters the premises.
It allows parents aim is to serve 93% of our customers on our own network.
to decide what internet content they want to come into their home, and protects every internet device in the household.
Improving operating efficiency and effectiveness We have extended our product range by offering great Our target is to generate 40-50m of operating efficiencies value mobile services for our existing customers, aimed over the medium-term, by simplifying our business processes, at families seeking to reduce the costs of calling between eliminating duplication, and in doing so deliver a better service family members, and we now plan to extend the range of to our customers.
Towards the end of the year we launched a major organisation The next major milestone in the implementation of our restructuring that will generate 25m of operating efficiencies quad play strategy will be the launch of an innovative value annually.
Changes include integrating all our technology and for money television service to our customers.
This will be IT capabilities into one organisation and streamlining all our built around YouView, a new, open technical standard for non customer facing business operations.
These changes mass market television being developed by a joint venture will also greatly improve the quality of the end to end that includes TalkTalk and all the UK Public Service experience we deliver to our customers, which will enable Broadcasters, including the BBC, BT and Arqiva.
us to address customer services issues and start to reduce our overall customer service costs.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 09 Always Better Value The services TalkTalk provides are at the very heart of our homes and we believe they should be available to everyone.
This belief defines our commitment to Always Better Value.
Because Always Better Value means a brighter home for everyone.
YouView will bring to our customers all the plug in and watch Brighter basics simplicity they are used to, combined with the UKs leading Successful delivery of our strategy is not just about what we catch up and video on demand services, all instantly available plan to do, its also about how we do it.
The way people work through one simple, intuitive set-top box.
Our customers on together and the culture we develop is a crucial element screen program guide will go backwards in time as well as to our success.
Through the course of this year we have forwards, for the first time allowing them to discover and watch developed our Brighter Basics five core values that define great programs whenever they want, including a choice of pay what kind of team we aspire to be.
They define our aspirations TV channels and on demand programs.
YouView from TalkTalk as a way of daily life, they capture what makes TalkTalk unique, will be in trial by the end of 2011, with a full consumer launch and will guide us in implementing our plans to make TalkTalk planned for spring 2012. a brighter place for everyone.
Growing our range of data services for businesses We are using our Next Generation Network to develop new services to exploit the growth of business data traffic.
These include products based on Ethernet, a technology that delivers symmetrical, uncontended, fast access that is displacing high cost legacy leased line products.
We aim to grow our wholesale, carrier grade Ethernet connectivity propositions for large operators supplying the enterprise market, as well as copper-based Ethernet First Mile solutions for the mid market.
Offering fibre access We are making delivery of our services future proof, and meeting potential customer demand for high speed broadband, by developing our Next Generation Access capabilities.
We have launched a fibre optic Boost product, and are working with BT Openreach to develop this further, and in particular to improve the customer connection experience and reduce costs.
Our other fibre initiatives include a shared research and development project with BSkyB to deploy a small scale Fibre To The Home network to 3,600 homes in north west London, and active support for Fujitsu as it seeks access to government funds earmarked for investment in superfast broadband in rural communities.
For more information visit: www.
com TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011
