Business review Chief Executives review Our objective remains to build a platform on which we can deliver steady and sustainable long term growth and value for shareholders.
We remain on track to deliver on this objective.
Javed Ahmed Chief Executive Results for the continuing operations are adjusted The net finance expense from continuing to exclude exceptional items and amortisation operations decreased from 72 million to of acquired intangible assets.
Except where 58million principally as a result of lower pension specifically stated to the contrary, this commentary interest expense.
Adjusted profit before tax was relates only to the adjusted results for the up 34% 32% in constant currency to 263 million continuing operations.
A reconciliation of statutory 2010 196 million reflecting the strong operating and adjusted information is included at Note 43. performance and reduction in net interest charge.
Overview of Groups financial performance Adjusted diluted earnings per share increased by Tate & Lyle performed well in the year achieving 36% 34% in constant currency to 45.7p benefiting steady volume growth across a number of our from improved operating performance and a lower markets, very strong returns from co-products effective tax rate of 18.5% 2010 20.8%.
and lower sucralose manufacturing costs.
Sales for the year were 2,720 million 20102,533 million, an increase of 7% 5% in constant currency on the prior year.
In Speciality Food Ingredients, In Speciality Food Ingredients, sales increased by 2% 2% in constant currency to 805 million adjusted operating profit 2010 788 million with sales volumes up by increased by 26% 25% in 7%.
The rate of sales growth was impacted by reduced selling prices for SPLENDA Sucralose constant currency.
reflecting our strategy of securing long-term volume incentive contracts with our customers.
Within Bulk Ingredients, sales increased by 10% 7% in constant currency to 1,915million Exceptional items on continuing and 20101,745million.
discontinued operations totalled a charge of 48million 2010276million.
Within continuing Adjusted operating profit increased by 20% operations there was a net 10 million gain on the 17%in constant currency to 321 million sale of the Fort Dodge facility and 15 million of 2010268million.
In Speciality Food costs associated with the business transformation Ingredients, adjusted operating profit increased programme.
Within discontinued operations a by 26% 25% in constant currency to 206million loss of 55million was booked on the disposal 2010 163million, driven by increased sales of the EU Sugar Refining Operations EU Sugars, volumes, operational leverage, improved product which remains subject to closing adjustments mix and lower SPLENDA Sucralose manufacturing and adjudication as discussed in Note 35, and costs.
The effect of exchange translation was to a gain of 12million on the disposal of Molasses.
increase adjusted operating profit by 2million.
In Bulk Ingredients, adjusted operating profit Balance sheet increased by 15% 11% in constant currency to We continue to focus on managing our working 157million 2010136 million, driven by volume capital closely resulting in our average quarterly growth, very strong returns from co-products and cash conversion cycle falling from 45 days an improved performance from ethanol offset to 34 days.
by lower margins in sweeteners and industrial The key performance indicators KPIs of our starches.
Higher corn prices, particularly in the financial strength, the ratio of net debt to earnings second half of the year, resulted in an additional before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 16 million of co-product returns compared to the EBITDA and interest cover, remain well within our prior year.
The effect of exchange translation was internal targets.
At 31 March 2011, the net debt to increase adjusted operating profit by 5million.
to EBITDA ratio was 1.1 times 2010 1.8 times, Central costs, which include head office, treasury against our target of 2.0 times.
Interest cover on and reinsurance activities, increased by 11 million total operations at 31 March 2011 was 6.9 times to 42 million reflecting the costs associated with 2010 5.8 times, again ahead of our minimum strengthening the Groups senior management target of 5.0 times.
team, costs associated with our financing portfolio and one-off costs of 6 million in the first half relating to the review of the Groups activities.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 5 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Business review Chief Executives review The Groups balance sheet was strengthened Focus significantly during the year.
Net debt reduced We have disposed of a number of businesses by 43% to 464 million at 31 March 2011 and assets to ensure that our resources are 31March 2010 814 million.
This improvement focused on delivering our strategy and maximising in net debt, which builds upon the considerable returns to shareholders.
During the year we sold reduction achieved in the prior year, was driven EU Sugars, Molasses, Fort Dodge and, after the by the disposals of EU Sugars, Molasses and year-end, we announced the conditional sale of Fort Dodge, resulting in a net cash inflow of our Vietnam sugar interests.
As a result of these 316million, and the underlying cash generated disposals, Tate&Lyle is a more focused, less by the business.
complex business with a reduced exposure to commodity markets.
Return on capital employed increased from 13.6% to 20.6% as a result of increased profits, Fix a reduction in operating assets reflecting the The new operating model implemented on writedown of Fort Dodge, the reduced average 1 June 2010 based on two global business units, levels of working capital within the business Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients, and exchange rate effects.
supported by a global unit dedicated to driving growth, Innovation and Commercial Development, Dividend and shared support services is being embedded.
The Board is recommending a 5% increase in This new operating model is simple and transparent the final dividend to 16.9p 2010 16.1p making and provides an efficient platform for future growth, a full year dividend of 23.7p 2010 22.9p per both organically and through bolt-on acquisition.
share, up 3.5% on the prior year.
Subject to We have also taken steps to strengthen the shareholder approval, the proposed final dividend customer-facing areas of our business for will be due and payable on 5 August 2011 to example, the commercial organisations of the all shareholders on the Register of Members speciality and bulk businesses have been at 1July2011.
In addition to the cash dividend separated and are now fully focused on option, shareholders will also be offered a Dividend serving their different end markets.
The DRIP replaces the scrip alternative that was previously In May 2010, we announced two major two-year available to shareholders.
initiatives to transform our operational capabilities firstly, to implement a common global IS IT platform and secondly, to provide global support services through the use of shared service centres.
After a detailed and thorough planning process, both initiatives were launched on 1 January 2011 and Our new operating model is are making good progress.
Following an evaluation simple and transparent and of a number of different locations, the decision was made to locate our global Shared Service Centre provides an efficient platform in d z, Poland.
The new centre is expected to be operational by the end of 2011 with the various for future growth.
services to be provided migrated to the new centre in a phased process over a 12- to 15-month period.
Safety The new IS IT platform will also be implemented via We have no higher priority than safety and are a phased process starting in the first half of 2012. committed to providing safe and healthy working conditions for all our employees, contractors and Building a high-performance culture is a key part visitors.
Whilst we are pleased that the safety of the fix phase.
To help achieve this, during the performance at most of our locations improved year we put in place a new global performance in the 2010 calendar year, and that our safety management system, a new global sales incentive performance continues to compare favourably system and established common global metrics in against the industry, the Groups overall safety areas such as working capital, customer service performance as detailed in the KPI table on pages and quality.
Ensuring we have the right skills and 8 and 9 deteriorated in 2010.
Having set ourselves talent in the business is also very important.
We very high standards, we take any reduction in are developing our high potential employees by performance very seriously.
A detailed plan has providing them with more training and opportunities been put in place to drive an improvement in to learn, particularly with international assignments, safety performance which our global safety and are also recruiting new staff both to fill skills teams, employees and contractors are working gaps and to refresh our talent base.
hard to embed across the Group.
The new process for capital investment planning Focus, fix, grow: update and implementation has now been fully embedded As we set out in May 2010, Tate & Lyles within the organisation.
All new investments are strategy is to grow our Speciality Food Ingredients now evaluated against clear strategic and financial business supported by cash generated from Bulk criteria with greater scrutiny and clear execution Ingredients.
To deliver on this strategy, and to milestones for approved investments.
reinvigorate Tate & Lyle, we have taken a number of steps during the year to focus, fix and grow the business.
6 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 Grow In our Bulk Ingredients division, we are looking The Innovation and Commercial Development at ways to diversify our business by leveraging our ICD group, which was formed on 1 June 2010, fermentation expertise and facilities to partner with has made good progress during the year working businesses in the bio-based materials industry.
closely with customers on product development In November 2010, we signed an agreement and innovation initiatives.
ICD is responsible for with Amyris under which Tate & Lyle will produce the innovation pipeline and, during the year, the farnesene at its facilities in Decatur, Illinois, USA processes used by ICD to manage and review the with the end product being distributed by Amyris.
pipeline, and the way it launches new products, Then in March 2011, we signed an agreement were completely overhauled.
During the year we with Genomatica under which we will dedicate a launched RESISTAMYL 140, a bakery cream demonstration-scale production facility in Decatur starch in Europe, and PROMITOR Soluble for exclusive use by Genomatica for the scale-up Corn Fiber 85 in the USA and Latin America.
We also recently announced a five-year strategic partnership agreement with BioVittoria Ltd for the exclusive global marketing and distribution rights for BioVittorias monk fruit extract, marketed under the PUREFRUIT brand name.
PUREFRUIT is the The grow phase is beginning only fruit-based calorie-free sweetening ingredient available today and is a good addition to our to yield some small but sweetener and wellness portfolios.
To enhance how we engage with our customers, and improve our access to them, in October 2010 Costs we announced that we would be establishing a The total costs associated with the delivery of new Commercial and Food Innovation Centre the new Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA.
The centre, which is due to are expected to be 37 million and the common be operational in early 2012, will be the global IS IT platform and global support services to be headquarters of ICD and will feature laboratories, 57 million.
Of the total amount of 94million, a demonstration kitchen, sensory testing, and 40million is expected to be treated as exceptional analytical and pilot plant facilities.
costs within the income statement and 54million as capital expenditure.
During the financial year The underlying global consumer trends of 2011, 6 million of capital and 10 million of health and wellness and convenience continue exceptional costs were incurred and we anticipate to underpin long-term growth in the speciality around 65 million of expenditure in relation to food ingredients market.
Customer demand these projects during the year ending 31 March for both new and existing products that meet 2012.
The remaining expenditure relating to consumers needs in these key areas remains IS IT and global shared services will be incurred strong, particularly for products that can help in the year ending 31 March 2013.
We expect the address rising levels of diabetes and obesity in investment made in the common IS IT platform the developed and, increasingly, the developing and global support services to pay back over world.
Cost optimisation in the face of high and a period of three years.
volatile commodity e. g. sugar prices is also driving demand.
In light of the strong pipeline Risk management of demand for SPLENDA Sucralose both from We have embedded a framework of risk existing and new customers, and having carried management into the various programmes out a comprehensive review of the available undertaking the initiatives to focus, fix and grow the options, we have decided to restart sucralose business, to address the execution risk associated production at our mothballed facility in McIntosh, with them.
This framework has been supplemented Alabama, USA.
The restart of production, which by internal and external risk and assurance we expect to take place during the first half of activities over the life of the programmes.
financial year 2013, reinforces our commitment to the sucralose business, provides further Conclusion resilience in our supply chain and further We have taken a number of important steps during strengthens our position as the leading global the year to deliver on our commitment to focus, manufacturer and supplier of sucralose.
fix and grow the business.
The focus phase is now largely complete and the fix phase is progressing We are also looking to build our business and well, although there is still more work to do.
capabilities in two areas where we see long-term Whilst the grow phase is beginning to yield some growth new customer segments and emerging small but tangible benefits it is still early days.
Dedicated resources have now been Our objective remains to build a platform on which put in place in Europe and the USA to serve small we can deliver steady and sustainable long-term and medium enterprise SMEs and private label growth and value for shareholders.
In emerging markets, we have changed on track to deliver on this objective.
our senior management team in Asia Pacific to provide fresh impetus to our efforts in that region.
We are also building new application laboratories Javed Ahmed in Mexico and Brazil to add to our global network, Chief Executive and have strengthened our sales teams in both Latin America and China.
26 May 2011 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 7 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information
