Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Chief Executives Review :H KDYH QRZ QDOLVHG RXU VWUDWHJ WR RSWLPLVH RXU 8.
EXVLQHVV 2011 has been another year of significant progress for the Group, building on the improved financial performance that we delivered in 2010 and the strengthening of our financial position during 2009.
Following the sale of our North American business and the successful implementation of the strategy for recovery that I set out in the 2009 Annual Report, we have now nalised our strategy to optimise our UK business with the aim of becoming the UKs leading residential developer for creating value and delivering quality.
Sale of North American business As I reported in my Chief Executives Review last year, we received interest in our North American operations towards the end of 2010.
Following a comprehensive evaluation of these approaches, we completed the sale in July 2011.
The total proceeds of 731.9 million represented an attractive valuation for the business and provide us with a strengthened balance sheet and increased financial capacity to Pete Redfern invest in the UK.
Chief Executive As a result of the sale, we are reporting a profit from discontinued operations of 43.1 million in the 2011 results and Ryan Mangold provides more detail on this gure in his Group Financial Review.
Group Management Team $V GHWDLOHG RSSRVLWH ZH KDYH UHYLVHG RXU PDQDJHPHQW VWUXFWXUHV IROORZLQJ WKH VDOH RI WKH 1RUWK $PHULFDQ EXVLQHVV 7KH URXS 0DQDJHPHQW 7HDP 07 ZKLFK LV UHVSRQVLEOH IRU WKH GD WR GD UXQQLQJ RI WKH &RPSDQ FRPSULVHV Pete Redfern Ryan Mangold James Jordan Fergus McConnell Peter Truscott Peter Andrew Maria Pilfold Chief Executive Group Finance Group Legal Director Divisional Chairman, Divisional Chairman, Director of Land Group Human Director and Company North South and Planning Resources Director Secretary Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities As head of the GMT, Ryans role covers James is responsible Fergus oversees the Peter heads our Peter oversees our Maria has my responsibilities all areas of Finance, for our Company 10 regional South Division, Strategic Land team responsibility include key strategic including tax and Secretariat businesses within which contains 14 and is leading our for all areas of and operational treasury, as well department, as well our North Division.
regional businesses, response to the Human Resources, decisions, corporate as Information as overseeing all He is also the project and also has evolving UK including recruitment, responsibility and Technology.
Ryan legal matters from sponsor for our new responsibility for our planning system.
benets, talent and health and safety.
also plays an active plot conveyancing to IT system.
performance part in our Investor land buying.
6 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Enhanced focus on the UK Market data We have already taken a number of steps to deliver the benets of our enhanced focus on the UK, the most apparent of which has been the 7KH FKDUWV EHORZ LOOXVWUDWH WKH F FOLFDO QDWXUH RI completion of the merger of our former Corporate ofce with our former WKH 8.
KRXVLQJ PDUNHW DQG VRPH RI WKH H[WHUQDO UK Housing head ofce into a single team based in our existing High LQGLFDWRUV WKDW ZH PRQLWRU LQ DVVHVVLQJ WKH VWDWXV Wycombe ofce.
Regrettably this has resulted in a small number of redundancies, although in most cases we were able to redeploy people RI WKH PDUNHW whose roles were at risk into other parts of the business.
We have also revised our management structures combining the Mortgage Earnings ratio Gross secured lending previous Executive Committee and UK Management Team into a single Group Management Team, which is responsible for the day to day running of the Company.
As a team we are now able to focus more of our attention on the UK business and have made good progress on a number of operational initiatives, which are discussed in more detail in the UK Housing section of this Annual Report.
The UK housing market cycle In last years Annual Report, we set out our value cycle and the associated strategy in some detail.
The fundamental principle on which this is based is that the UK housing market is cyclical, albeit this is all too easy to forget when house prices are rising and there is an opportunity to deliver higher profits through increasing the number of home completions each year.
Source: Halifax Source: Bank of England The mortgage earnings ratio provides an The correlation between the gross secured indication of the affordability of housing, taking lending chart above and the housing starts Monitoring the status of the UK housing market is a key requirement of into account the underlying mortgage interest chart below reects the impact of restricted taking a more active approach to managing the cycle.
Affordability is signicantly improved as credit availability on the housing market.
a result of recent declines in both house prices expect to be able to forecast the timing of this entirely accurately, we and Bank of England base rates.
are monitoring a wide range of indicators in order to inform our judgement.
As a management team we have in excess of 115 years of experience of the UK housebuilding industry and recognise that there are significant advantages to adjusting the operational tactics Average annual Housing starts, of the business according to the stage of the market cycle.
house price change Great Britain On the right hand side of this page you will see four of these indicators, along with a brief commentary on their relevance to the housing market cycle.
Implementing our strategy Over the course of 2011, we have rened and nalised the strategy to optimise our UK residential development business and have communicated this extensively, both internally and externally.
Our business in Spain is also following this strategy, with some adaptations to reect differences in the market and regulatory environment.
As you will see, this strategy represents an evolution of the strategy for recovery that I set out in the 2009 Annual Report.
We remain focused Source: Average of CLG, Halifax, Source: Communities and Local Government on maximising the value achieved from each home completion rather Land Registry and Nationwide Total housing starts do not exhibit the same strong than looking to grow volumes ahead of underlying improvements in House Price indices growth as house prices in the period from 1997 to There has been significant variation in the 2006, but fell sharply from 2007 to 2009. market conditions.
This is reected in the optimising value component average annual house price change since of our value cycle, which we see as an all-encompassing approach to 1997, with very strong growth from 2001 to 2003 and price declines in 2008 and 2009. continuous improvement.
Given the ongoing changes in the UK planning system, we have also emphasised the importance of managing the planning and community engagement process.
In addition, we have highlighted the significant input required from skilled and committed people to deliver aspirational, high-quality homes and communities for our customers.
The key points of our strategy, along with details of how it relates to our value cycle and our key performance indicators, are set out on pages 8 and 9.
Ryan Mangold provides more information regarding the linkage between our strategy and our dividend policy in his Group financial review on page 26 of this Annual Report.
