OVERVIEW Chief Executives review Building on our success I have inherited a great legacy and I am really excited about the future.
In the end of course, we know its all about performance: thats what matters and thats what we aim to deliver.
Im pleased to report that Tesco has once again achieved a good competitive advantage to our businesses: and finally, to deliver higher set of results with good sales, profit and earnings per share growth, returns on capital employed for shareholders.
despite challenging conditions in some of our markets.
Also, as part of our commitment to communities, we want to widen I am particularly pleased with our progress on return on capital, our contribution from tackling climate change to broader aspects where we have seen ROCE grow strongly to 12.9%, representing an of sustainability.
important first step towards our 2014 15 target of 14.6%, with further increases to come.
Vision and strategy In the UK, we have an outstanding core business.
It made progress in Tesco is a business built around customers and staff, high-quality the year but some aspects of our performance can improve.
Stronger assets around the world and multiple opportunities for growth.
My job sales momentum here is a key priority and I am confident that the is to build on this legacy for all our stakeholders.
Going forward, there focus and energy our new UK leadership team is bringing to the business will mostly be continuity.
We have a sound strategy, a strong team and will see a return to form in the months ahead as Tesco tries to do its the period of highest risk with the diversification of the business is now bit to help customers who face pressure on their householdbudgets.
However, there will also be some changes, because we know that we can do some things better and because, as customers change, The increasing scale and competitiveness of our international businesses so must Tesco.
are now driving strong growth in sales, market share, profits and returns, supported by the generally improving global economic Importantly, there will be no change to the foundations of our business: environment.
We have built some excellent springboards for future our core purpose to create value for customers to earn their growth, and whilst there is still work to do, particularly in the United lifetime loyalty and our Values no one tries harder for customers States, I am delighted with our performance in Europe and Asia, where and treat people how we like to be treated.
I expect further strong growth this year and beyond.
I have set out a new vision for the future of the business.
I would like We have set six immediate team objectives against which we intend Tesco to be seen as the most highly valued business in the world.
First, keeping the UK strong and growing: second, Valued not only by our customers, but also by the communities we we want to be outstanding internationally, not just successful: third, serve, our staff and our shareholders.
as the combination of stores and online becomes compelling for We will win locally by applying our skills globally.
The key word here customers, we aim to become a multi-channel retailer wherever we is locally.
Seven years of running our businesses in Asia and Europe trade: fourth, we will deliver on the potential of retailing services has taught me that all retailing is local.
But increasingly we are of which Tesco Bank is a big part: fifth, by applying Group skill and utilising the skill and scale of the Group to benefit the performance scale we will give our customers even more value and increase the and competitiveness of each of our businesses around the world.
4 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements We will be a modern and innovative company.
Well stay ahead Management structures of the curve, anticipating changes and adapting for the sake of our Weve made some changes to our management structures in order customers and staff.
to equip the business to deliver our strategy and vision.
This means We are, and we will remain a growth company.
We will continue to CEOs for each of our main areas of focus the UK, Asia, Services pursue growth in all parts of the business in the UK, internationally, including Tesco Bank, Europe and the US being supported by the in services and across general merchandise, clothing and electricals.
integrating functions such as IT and Finance to leverage the skill and scale of the Group.
More detail on our new vision can be found on pages 6 to 13.
The biggest part of this change was in the UK, which now has its own To put this vision into practice, our strategy is evolving with a slight CEO and management board for the first time.
This will bring more change in emphasis which builds on the success of our previous focus and energy to our largest business.
Of course, structures dont five-part strategy that has served us so well over the past 14 years.
manage companies, people do and Im confident that at all levels we So our strategy will now have seven parts.
Much of it will be familiar have the very best team working hard to deliver the best shopping trip but with some important new additions around being a multi-channel for our customers.
retailer, creating highly valued brands and building our team: I have inherited a great legacy and I am really excited about the future.
To grow the UK core In the end of course, we know its all about performance: thats what To be an outstanding international retailer in stores matters and thats what we aim to deliver.
and online To be as strong in everything we sell as we are in food To grow retail services in all our markets To put our responsibilities to the communities we serve Philip Clarke at the heart of what we do Group Chief Executive To be a creator of highly valued brands To build our team so that we create more value More details on our strategy can be found on page 14.
TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 5 To be the most highly valued
