OVERVIEW Chief Executives review Building on our success I have inherited a great legacy and I am really excited about the future.
In the end of course, we know its all about performance: thats what matters and thats what we aim to deliver.
Im pleased to report that Tesco has once again achieved a Tesco Bank is a big part: fifth, by applying Group skill and scale good set of results with good sales, profit and earnings per we will give our customers even more value and increase the share growth, despite challenging conditions in some of competitive advantage to our businesses: and finally, to deliver our markets.
higher returns on capital employed for shareholders.
I am particularly pleased with our progress on return on Also, as part of our commitment to communities, we want capital, where we have seen ROCE grow strongly to 12.9%, to widen our contribution from tackling climate change to representing an important first step towards our 2014 15 broader aspects of sustainability.
target of 14.6%, with further increases to come.
Vision and strategy In the UK, we have an outstanding core business.
It made progress in the year but some aspects of our performance can Tesco is a business built around customers and staff, highimprove.
Stronger sales momentum here is a key priority and quality assets around the world and multiple opportunities for I am confident that the focus and energy our new UK leadership growth.
My job is to build on this legacy for all our stakeholders.
team is bringing to the business will see a return to form in the Going forward, there will mostly be continuity.
We have a sound months ahead as Tesco tries to do its bit to help customers who strategy, a strong team and the period of highest risk with the face pressure on their householdbudgets.
diversification of the business is now behind us.
However, there will also be some changes, because we know that we can do The increasing scale and competitiveness of our international some things better and because, as customers change, so businesses are now driving strong growth in sales, market must Tesco.
share, profits and returns, supported by the generally improving global economic environment.
We have built some excellent Importantly, there will be no change to the foundations of our springboards for future growth, and whilst there is still work business: our core purpose to create value for customers to to do, particularly in the United States, I am delighted with our earn their lifetime loyalty and our Values no one tries harder performance in Europe and Asia, where I expect further strong for customers and treat people how we like to be treated.
growth this year and beyond.
I have set out a new vision for the future of the business.
I would We have set six immediate team objectives against which like Tesco to be seen as the most highly valued business in we intend to be judged.
First, keeping the UK strong and the world.
Valued not only by our customers, but also by the growing: second, we want to be outstanding internationally, communities we serve, our staff and our shareholders.
not just successful: third, as the combination of stores and We will win locally by applying our skills globally.
The key online becomes compelling for customers, we aim to become word here is locally.
Seven years of running our businesses in a multi-channel retailer wherever we trade: fourth, we will Asia and Europe has taught me that all retailing is local.
But deliver on the potential of retailing services of which increasingly we are utilising the skill and scale of the Group to 4 TESCO PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 benefit the performance and competitiveness of each of our Management structures businesses around the world.
Weve made some changes to our management structures in We will be a modern and innovative company.
Well stay order to equip the business to deliver our strategy and vision.
ahead of the curve, anticipating changes and adapting for the This means CEOs for each of our main areas of focus the UK, sake of our customers and staff.
Asia, Services including Tesco Bank, Europe and the US being supported by the integrating functions such as IT and Finance We are, and we will remain a growth company.
We will to leverage the skill and scale of the Group.
continue to pursue growth in all parts of the business in the UK, internationally, in services and across general merchandise, The biggest part of this change was in the UK, which now has clothing and electricals.
its own CEO and management board for the first time.
This will bring more focus and energy to our largest business.
Of course, More detail on our new vision can be found on pages 6 to 13. structures dont manage companies, people do and Im To put this vision into practice, our strategy is evolving with confident that at all levels we have the very best team working a slight change in emphasis which builds on the success of our hard to deliver the best shopping trip for our customers.
previous five-part strategy that has served us so well over the I have inherited a great legacy and I am really excited about the past 14 years.
So our strategy will now have seven parts.
In the end of course, we know its all about performance: of it will be familiar but with some important new additions thats what matters and thats what we aim to deliver.
around being a multi-channel retailer, creating highly valued brands and building our team: To grow the UK core To be an outstanding international retailer in stores and online Philip Clarke To be as strong in everything we sell as we are in food Group Chief Executive To grow retail services in all our markets To put our responsibilities to the communities we serve at the heart of what we do To be a creator of highly valued brands To build our team so that we create more value More details on our strategy can be found on page 14.
TESCO PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 5 To be the most highly valued
