Deputy Chief Executives Review of the Year For the year ended 31 December 2011 Proof that our inclusive culture works is evidenced by those employees who have been employed by the business for almost their entire working lives Successfully integrate BSS into the Group: Introduction Concentrate on maximising the benefits from We aim to grow and develop the operating existing initiatives: businesses that make Travis Perkins the largest Maximise the purchasing and overhead and most economically rewarding provider of synergies arising from the acquisition of BSS: building material solutions to anybody in the Target expansion in emerging channels UK wanting to construct, maintain, improve or by expanding our newest businesses and repair the built environment.
We believe that seeking opportunities to add new channels this will ensure that we achieve our overall in areas that are complementary to our strategy of improving returns for the Groups existing businesses.
The business model we deploy In developing our business it is important to execute this strategy is shown on the table that we do not overlook the influence that our on page 29. colleagues, customers, suppliers and other In 2011, the approach we have taken to stakeholders can have on results.
For that meeting our aims has been to: reason it is an imperative that we strive to Increase our investment in colleague training make our work environment a better place to and development: John Carter do business.
Improve our health and safety and Deputy Chief Executive Operationally we measure our success environmental credentials: through a comprehensive balanced scorecard Make many small improvements throughout of key performance indicators KPI, which are our organisation rather than putting all our aligned to achieving our strategy: efforts into large projects: 2011 2010 Like-for-like revenue growth Merchanting 9.4% 7.6% Like-for-like revenue growth Retail 1.3 % 0.9% Like-for-like revenue growth BSS proforma 2.9% 6.2% Like-for-like revenue outperformance 5.0% 3.5% Employee retention 87.0% 86.0% Revenue from expansion 2.0% 2.6% Environment see separate report on pages 38 to 42.
Health & Safety see separate report on pages 43 and 44.
24 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 People Leaders the creativity and inspiration to set candidates, we believe we need to offer a rich Engagement the agenda and facilitate change.
candidate experience and to let candidates Building colleague engagement is of great During the year, in support of our strategy, we know where they are in the process at all importance to the success of our business have undertaken many projects to improve the times.
Our new system allows us to do this.
because committed employees improve abilities of colleagues at all levels throughout Furthermore as part of this investment, we performance, which has a positive ripple-down the Group.
These are designed to give them have added a bespoke recruitment site that effect on customers.
To monitor progress we the confidence and skills needed to exercise colleagues within our business can use to regularly survey our colleagues to seek their the authority they are given to compete in the seek out career opportunities before many opinions about what is working well and what market.
The projects included: of the vacancies are placed on external prevents them from performing at their best Establishing an executive development recruitment sites.
group of senior managers with potential for This year we sought feedback from all of the leadership roles, forging a link with Ashridge, Stay Safe BSS colleagues who joined the Group late last the leading management school, to deliver We have an absolute commitment to year and were delighted when the engagement programmes to this group in 2012: continuously improving our health and safety score matched the 60% registered by the rest Delivering leadership and coaching record, which in recent years has resulted in of the Group in mid 2010.
However, to ensure programmes to up-skill our regional our approach to safety in our business evolving that we remain informed between group-wide directors and their peers: from one which was Stay Legal to one which surveys, in 2011, we launched an online Developing job skills and product knowledge is now Stay Safe.
In achieving this change, survey panel called Voice Box intended to test expertise amongst branch and store each year, our safety team have developed a where we are on issues that might influence colleagues through sales and service large number of initiatives to promote the Stay engagement.
All employees were invited to take workshops: Safe message.
part, and within weeks, 2,700 had registered.
Re-launching, as an apprenticeship scheme, Driven by the business desire to progress We also embrace a variety of two-way our management training scheme, which the Stay Safe journey more quickly and communication channels to maintain many current directors and I went through effectively, we have re-aligned our Stay Safe employee involvement and engagement in on originally joining the Group.
team to our new divisional structure.
These include open forums The success we have achieved in recent will strengthen the awareness and personal for employees to ask any questions about the years culminated in our being positioned as ownership of each business board which in business, colleague liaison forums, employee a finalist in the HR Excellence Awards 2011 turn will accelerate the development of the Stay nominated special achievement awards, and for Best learning and development strategy Safe culture in our branch and store managers.
our popular quarterly magazine, The Bridge.
which confirms that learning and development In restructuring the health & safety team we Proof that our inclusive culture works is activity within the Group delivers bottom line have created: evidenced by those employees who have been business benefits.
Four Stay Safe business partner roles, employed by the business for almost their each supporting one of the four operating entire working lives.
Some employees have Careers and talent pipeline divisions: given 50 years continuous service, whilst The on-going challenge is to build the A Stay Safe central services team, which is more than 80 have been with Travis Perkins capability of the talent pipeline and leverage responsible for reviewing and developing companies for more than 40 years.
internal knowledge, skills, networks and health & safety policy, managing incidents, experience for the benefit of the Group as a and providing advice and guidance to Training and development whole.
The hard work and abilities of many operational management: and The primary objectives for the business over colleagues have been recognised this year A team of Stay Safe training advisors that the past two years have been to maximise sales through promotions and new opportunities will support the business by developing opportunities, protect margin and out perform to work in different parts of the business, but and delivering Stay Safe training across all the market.
To achieve those targets we needed in those cases where we have to seek talent divisions.
a learning and development strategy that gave: from outside the existing internal talent pool Colleagues the confidence and expert we need to be positioned as an employer of Sales and margin management product knowledge to offer the service and choice among candidates.
It is our aim to outperform our main markets advice trade customers expect: During the year we have invested in a new on a like-for-like basis by communicating and Managers the leadership skills and centralised IT recruitment platform to bring delivering a superior offer to our customers.
commercial acumen to motivate our people more efficiency to our recruitment processes Customer service continues to be an area of and drive results: and increase hire quality.
To attract the best focus for all colleagues.
25 REPORTS Deputy Chief Executives Review of the Year One aspect of increasing sales and customer workwear range supplied by Birchwood Price The implementation of a feeder network from satisfaction is ensuring that our prices are Tools.
The new products, which already have larger branches has improved sheet materials transparent, consistent and understandable proved to be very popular, will be introduced to availability by 5% whilst after a year of to our customers.
In our Merchanting brand replace an existing range in the Merchanting operation our heavyside consolidation operation we are trialling new pricing structures with division during 2012.
Furthermore, we are in the Northwest now services 110 branches the intention of rolling them out during 2012. now piloting tool-hire in BSS Industrial with the with an extended range of 3,000 products.
As We have also invested in our sales force intention of rolling it out to more branches later a result our branches can consistently promise and focussed them, through incentivisation, in the year.
customers 24 hour delivery for product that on increasing active trading accounts.
As a Our supply chain operations are wide would otherwise have come direct from result we opened or reactivated a number of reaching with many products now sourced suppliers, on much longer lead times.
customer accounts during the year.
We operate Our performance in supply chain has been In 2011 we saw merchanting gross margins 24 warehouse facilities, covering nearly 3m recognised externally with the team beating come under pressure due to a combination square feet which supply over 1,800 branches many major European retail and merchant of high input inflation and our own strategy that utilise 2,500 vehicles to deliver product businesses to win two prestigious awards in to gain market share.
In the early part of the to customers' worksites and homes.
Over 2011 the Ligenta European Retail Supply year our actions were supported by investing 1,500 colleagues across the Group now Chain award and Retail Weeks Distribution a proportion of the gains from our sourcing support internal supply chain solutions picking Development Award.
However, from quarter 48,000,000 separate items per annum.
Investment this year focused on further 2 onwards, as markets became more difficult Our customers are rightly becoming ever centralisation of our lightside and plumbing we adjusted our stance in favour of achieving more demanding, expecting us to provide & heating product ranges, with an additional a consistent year-on-year gross margin by the consistent and timely access to a broad 500,000 square foot warehouse facility being end of the year.
This provides us with a added to our Northampton campus.
The new The category management team undertook significant sales and margin opportunity as we site has allowed us to extend the number projects to investigate returns on timber can leverage our unique multi brand scale, to of centrally stocked products available to and sheet materials.
This involves looking at improve customer service and reduce costs.
branches and so has improved our overall all aspects of product holding, pricing and Therefore, we continue to invest successfully levels of service and product availability.
Later in 2012 branches will be in our supply chain as a key enabler to our facility is also an enabler to our commercial able to order and stock timber by specific length.
We have started to benefit from new ranges Additional focus on our timber and heavyside As part of our drive to increase direct being cross-sold between BSS businesses and bulky goods supply chains now allows our sourcing we opened a new office in Shanghai the rest of the Group.
A particular success was smaller branches to access a broader range of to manage the flow of product from factories the introduction into Wickes, of the Scruffs products regardless of their space constraints.
Forty colleagues Our performance in supply chain has been recognised externally with the team beating many major European retail and merchant businesses to win two prestigious awards in 2011 Eliot Longhorn at Travis Perkins Bedford 26 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 Our merchanting division has performed strongly with each of our businesses recording impressive growth 27 REPORTS Deputy Chief Executives Review of the Year In BSS we acquired a group that was part Improve return on capital way through a project to implement a new Managing stock levels, whilst improving stock operating system throughout the business.
Our availability, is one of the key initiatives being assessment of the programme resulted in a undertaken by the supply chain team.
At 30 change of course whereby we will implement June, stock levels were higher than we planned new systems into BSS based upon existing due to a combination of holding more stock group systems.
Our IT colleagues have spent due to direct sourcing, advance buying due most of 2011 rewriting system programmes so to favourable pre-inflation increase deals with that they meet the specific needs of both the suppliers and increasing sales levels.
However, BSS and PTS businesses.
We have trialled the by the year-end we had reduced stock from Our local and UK staff, based in Shanghai and Shenzhen, new systems in seven PTS branches during the its peak levels by approximately 50m.
Whilst ensured our fi first Far East team day was a success year.
We plan new systems in PTS to improve we continue to target additional areas where from China and the UK work in Shanghai and the information available to branch managers stock can be reduced without impacting upon Shenzhen to ensure that goods are delivered to to enable them to trade better, reduce credit availability, we are also investing in pre-price our UK warehouses to the right specification, in risk and help collect debts more rapidly.
the correct quantities as efficiently as possible.
We are now trialling stock auto-replenishment This has enabled us to capture the margin Tight cost control and in our Wickes business.
This will yield working previously made by the third party distributors asset management capital and productivity gains and stronger sales and agents.
In these difficult economic times we have through better availability.
Although we are now purchasing 450m continued to place emphasis on finding ways of goods from approximately 90 factories of improving our efficiency, exploiting the External expansion located in 15 countries across five continents economies of scale delivered by centralising The closure of Focus in the first half of the our analysis suggests that as more product is group services and managing our cost base.
year presented us with a great opportunity to direct sourced we could realise a further 25m We have also taken the decision to concentrate expand selectively our store base in a number of annual profits by 2016.
Consequently, we on maximising the returns from existing of new catchment areas that had previously plan to expand further our team in China during initiatives, rather than investing heavily in new proved difficult to penetrate.
In what was the the coming year.
Initiatives where due to market conditions largest project of its kind ever undertaken by The introduction of new product ranges is returns were found to be more marginal have Wickes, a cross-functional team of colleagues fundamental to the growth of the business.
responded magnificently to the challenge of During 2011, we completely re-launched IFLO In Wickes we have changed the store engaging 350 new colleagues and opening 13 our own brand plumbing range.
Supported structure by removing some management new stores within four and a half months.
The by a new fully priced catalogue, sales have roles, but at the same time increasing early results, from what was our largest single increased 22% year-on-year at the same time colleague hours, to facilitate a greater focus investment of the year, have exceeded our as margins have increased.
We predict further on customer service.
Whilst some colleagues expectations with all stores trading profitably.
growth in 2012 when additional ranges and were redeployed into other roles, unfortunately We have continued to leverage our existing a new pricing structure will be introduced.
In the reorganisation has resulted in some 200 estate by seeking opportunities to expand our addition, we are actively seeking new sales colleagues leaving the business towards the smaller businesses by establishing implants opportunities in areas such as fire protection, end of the year.
within our existing merchanting branches.
This renewables, drainage and water recovery.
Our delivery fleet based at branches approach minimises set up costs and improves Our most important project in 2011 has has benefited from further investment in returns through utilising spare capacity within been to deliver the BSS synergies identified at automated delivery planning and scheduling our network.
the time of the acquisition.
A team comprising technology, this improves our 'on-time' delivery Turnover for toolhire rose 22% in the year.
colleagues from across the Group exceeded our performance for customers, while reducing We now trade from 196 toolhire outlets in 2011 expectations of 8m by delivering 15m vehicle costs by optimising the delivery route.
our merchanting business having opened of purchasing synergies in 2011, and putting Our synergy programme was not a further nine during 2011 and we expect in place a process that will lead to our 25m confined only to product purchases.
Through to trial our first toolhire outlet within a BSS initial target being achieved one year early.
In implementing new systems and processes, branch in early 2012 before rolling it out 2012 we will be concentrating on maximising switching suppliers and combining BSS teams further later in the year.
synergies by consolidating purchases where we with those in Northampton we achieved almost Benchmarx opened 27 new implanted currently have multiple suppliers.
5m of overhead synergies during the year.
outlets in 2011 so we now trade from 84 28
