Chief Executives Review of the Year For the year ended 31 December 2011 Execution of our strategy meant we came into 2011 as the largest supplier of building materials in the UK selling opportunities have been realised, the Introduction Over the last dozen years or so the Group has, management team has been strengthened from its original base in general merchanting, and we have invested in expanding the steadily expanded its activities to develop warehousing facilities at Magna Park in businesses and new distribution channels to Leicestershire and Chorley in Lancashire.
serve a greater proportion of the market in The first year of the BSS synergy project the UK.
In parallel, we have augmented that has exceeded our expectations.
The initial strategy with a drive to improve continuously all target of 8m, for 2011, has been surpassed our businesses so that they become the most as we achieved a total of 20m of synergies attractive supplier in their market segment, and in 2011 15m from purchasing and 5m consequently outperform their competitors.
We are on course to deliver Both these initiatives have allowed us to 30m in 2012.
This is one year earlier than we capture economies of scale and synergies anticipated, and 5m more than our original through centralisation of common activities and 2013 target.
purchasing into highly efficient, low cost and We have continued to take opportunities powerful central functions.
where they have met our stringent investment Geoff Cooper Execution of our strategy meant we came criteria and have added around 2.5% to Chief Executive into 2011 as the largest supplier of building revenue from expansion on an annualised materials in the UK, having just acquired BSS.
The administration of Focus, a During 2011 we have continued to make competitor in the DIY market, allowed us good progress on all fronts integrating to acquire 13 new stores in high priority the BSS acquisition, adding our presence in catchment areas.
Also, we have added a new additional channels and stretching our lead in sales channel to the Group by acquiring 25% of market outperformance by making a series of a small roofing supplies company based in the improvements in all businesses.
Should our investment prove The integration project under the leadership to be successful then we have the option to of Norman Bell has progressed well thanks to acquire the entire company at a future date.
the very effective work of a team of colleagues Early in 2012 we completed the acquisition drawn from across the Group.
Their focus of Toolstation by purchasing the 70% of has been to integrate BSS colleagues and issued share capital we did not already own.
businesses into the Group and identify and The company has experienced rapid organic realise synergies.
New operating and financial growth over the last three years and now systems have been developed for our PTS trades from 103 outlets as well as strongly via and BSS Industrial businesses, cross brand the telephone and the internet.
The IT system 14 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 and multichannel expertise of the Toolstation Adjusted operating profit increased by 74m that we follow show that the market remains management makes it a valuable and profitable to 313m 2010: 239m, which resulted in weak.
We believe that market volumes for trade addition to the Group.
adjusted group operating margin of 6.6%, in are still some 30% below their 2007 peak In early February, the OFT contacted us to line with last year on a proforma basis.
Our whilst in retail, the situation is marginally better raise concerns about the acquisition.
Given our trading strategies in 2011 have been aimed at at minus 25%.
agreement with Toolstation has created a new maximising operating profits by sustaining our We track a number of key external and robust competitor in the multi-channel volume outperformance, and using these to indicators, but those most closely correlated market we are surprised they contacted us.
We drive economies of scale.
With market volumes with our performance have shown little are in the process of responding to the initial likely to fall slightly in 2012, we aim to modify improvement in 2011. enquiry and are confident that the issue will be this stance on a selective basis, to reflect Trade market volumes in 2011 declined satisfactorily resolved.
market trends in order to protect margins, as by around 3%.
Towards the end of the year we have done successfully in the past.
property transactions, a good lead indicator for 2011 performance Clearly, the inclusion of BSS contributed our merchanting businesses, were around 11% The success of our business is based upon the major part of the increase in profits on better than the corresponding period last year, having strong operational and financial an adjusted proforma basis, operating profits but they remain stubbornly low at around 70 disciplines, tight controls on both margins and were up by 11m, an increase of 3.6%.
This 80,000 per month compared with 135,000 costs and allocating capital to ensure that increase reflects our ability to drive synergies pre-recession.
our mature businesses have both the highest and outperform.
According to Government statistics private operating margin and return on capital in their After allowing for a 6m reduction in new house starts in England reached almost respective sectors.
financing costs, the trend in operating profits 76,000 in the 12 months to September 2011, Throughout this annual report, consistent was reflected in the 67m rise in adjusted down by 5% compared with the 12 months with our approach last year, the term adjusted pre-tax profits to 284m 2010: 217m.
This level of activity is has been used to signify that the effects Adjusted earnings per share EPS increased substantially below the peak of around 155,000 of exceptional items and amortisation of by 21% to 93.1 pence 2010: 77.2 pence.
in 2007 and the estimated current need in Great intangible assets have been excluded from Again, this mainly reflected the impact of Britain of 250,000 new houses per annum.
Details of the the BSS acquisition.
Taking into account The consumer market was adversely exceptional charges are given in the Finance synergies, this acquisition has enhanced EPS impacted by a combination of low consumer Directors report on page 30.
The term by 12%, with gains in the non-BSS businesses confidence and significant tax increases from proforma is also used in this annual report increasing EPS by 9%.
April, which reduced household disposable to signify that the current year performance is Our strategy of reducing debt has continued income.
Both indicators have fallen during being compared to 2010 adjusted to reflect the during the year with careful control of working 2011, with consumer confidence continuing full year performance of the BSS business.
capital and capital investment resulting in a on a declining trend.
Core market volumes Revenue for 2011 was 4,779m 2010: significant cash inflow.
By 31 December we had declined by around 5%, but the market for big 3,153m, an increase of 1,626m.
Excluding achieved our target net debt of 583m 2010: ticket items contracted by over 10%.
BSS, most of the revenue increase came from 774m, and had reduced the ratio of net debt We have seen further falls in competitor our Merchanting division with all businesses to EBITDA to 1.3 times 2010: 1.9 times.
capacity in both of our markets, although it was and product groups seeing strong growth.
Of more pronounced in consumer following the the 51.6% increase in revenue, like-for-like Markets and our response closures of Focus and Homeform in mid-year.
LFL sales increased by 6.0% with inflation of The market predictions we made for the year Although we benefited from our acquisition 4.7% and volumes increasing by 1.3%, whilst were broadly correct, although the first quarter of 13 Focus stores, the rest of the estate BSS accounted for 43.7% and other expansion of last year proved to be better than expected gained very little from either closure as both provided 2.2%.
One fewer working day reduced and we, like others, did not foresee the full mainly operated in different markets to Wickes, sales by 0.3%.
These gains in LFL sales reflect extent and impact of the Eurozone related supplying different customer bases.
the work we have done to find more ways to uncertainty later in the year.
The latter part of improve further the merchanting and retail the year saw markets slowing as a result of Divisions businesses by continuously improving our offer fewer property transactions in the spring and On 1 January 2012 we reorganised the to customers.
Significant progress has been increasing public sector spending cuts.
Groups divisional structure so that the Group made on customer service, product availability, Our underlying organic strategy has now operates through four distinct divisions: product presentation and improved sourcing in delivered good returns against a background of general merchanting, specialist merchanting, both divisions.
weak macro indicators and the key indicators consumer and plumbing and heating, each 15 REPORTS Chief Executives Review of the Year managed by a divisional chairman.
Combining has been taken where margin has been falling, or as implants into the existing estate.
This similar businesses, under common leadership, whether due to the mix of products being business is now firmly established in our will ensure that we maximise the benefits from sold, the structure of the customer deals or portfolio and competes effectively with more consistently applying best practice.
The following comments are based upon the data interrogation and analysis software and The City Plumbing team have performed divisional structure in place during 2011. techniques have enabled us to develop plans well in a tough environment increasing Our culture of continuous improvement has leading to raised profitability.
Another area like-for-like sales by 4%.
Project Endeavour, driven the business forward again, enabling of focus has been reducing the incidence our initiative aimed at introducing a common us to retain our position as the UKs leading of stock shrinkage, through improved data showroom template and product matrix to CPS provider of building materials.
availability, which has enabled us to target and the general merchanting business, was more rapidly those areas of stock loss and the piloted successfully and is now in place in 11 Merchanting division possible causes.
Plans are in place to roll it out into a Our merchanting division has performed Further progress has been made on cost further 40 branches during 2012.
The heating strongly with each of our businesses recording control to ensure the general merchanting spares business introduced in 2010 now impressive growth and outperforming both division goes into a probably tough 2012 with trades out of 62 sites.
Sales an affordable cost base.
Despite increased increased in aggregate by 231m, or 10.9% turnover, like-for-like headcount at the end Retail division with LFL sales improving by 9.4%, sales from of the year was in line with last year and a Poor consumer confidence and lower levels new branches contributing 2.2% and closures number of initiatives were running to target of disposable income have had a detrimental and one less working day reducing sales by aspects such as distribution.
effect on our retail businesses in 2011.
Volumes increased by 3.9% supported The specialist merchanting businesses, Revenue is up 15m 1.5% to 1,018m by higher than expected price inflation of 5.5%.
operating under the Chairmanship of Arthur 2010: 1,003m, due to the expansion from Adjusted operating profit was up 9.4% to Davidson, had a successful year.
new sites which increased sales by 2.9%.
Keyline management are working hard to Despite having a strong product offering Operating margins fell by 0.2% to 8.6% ensure that the business is the first choice and competitive prices a fall in demand for 2010: 8.8%.
Gross margin for the division supplier for heavy building materials, civils and delivered kitchen and bathroom products fell by 0.8% in 2011, due to a combination of drainage products with industry leading returns caused total LFL delivered sales to fall by mix direct sales improved diluting the gross on sales.
Overall volumes fell by 4.3% whilst margins by 0.4%, limited price investment has outperformed the market, LFL sales have inflation increased turnover by 2.9%.
in the early part of the year and investment increased substantially, particularly in civils and Retail division adjusted operating profit in our warehousing infrastructure which drainage and the UGS business transferred fell by 14m to 45m as lower sales reduced margins by 0.4%.
However, the ratio from BSS has been absorbed, generating and increased overheads in Wickes, due of overheads to sales fell by 0.4% due to the synergies.
New propositions in rail and utilities to investment in store expansion and operational gearing effect of the fixed element were launched and the business Centres of reorganisation costs, outweighed the benefits of our cost base and synergies improved profits Excellence have been rolled out.
of an improved gross margin.
CCF, our specialist distributor of interior We have continued to invest in Wickes, The general merchanting business building products and insulation has performed taking the opportunity to acquire 13 new had a good year with a particularly strong strongly during 2011, improving profitability stores from the receiver of Focus for 8m.
The performance in London and the South East.
and increasing revenue at a faster rate than locations of the sites has meant these stores The difficulty of achieving such good results the market leader.
A number of improvements are already contributing to profits ahead of our should not be underestimated.
They have come to the customer experience are being targeted, expectations, and leads us to believe that the about because of skill and effort deployed including greater stock availability, a higher new branches will be very profitable, which by Joe Mescall and the general merchanting proportion of on-time in-full deliveries and the when taken together with the benefits arising team.
A profit enhancement project has been introduction of a new customer service model, from economies of scale, should result in running since the middle of the year designed which is currently being piloted.
returns well in excess of our cost of capital.
to identify those aspects of the business where Benchmarx, our specialist kitchen joinery In the expectation that consumer markets good practice can be shared, margins can be business, has made good progress during the will be more difficult in 2012, the Wickes team improved and costs can be driven out.
Sales have increased by over 40%, gross under Jeremy Birds guidance have undertaken A greater focus on analysis of customer margin has improved and 32 new branches a detailed review of the Companys cost base.
profitability has yielded positive results.
Action have been opened either as standalone sites Three stores were closed during the year Gordon Forrest at Keyline Bedford 16 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 In 2011 Keyline revenue growth has outperformed the market 17 REPORTS Chief Executives Review of the Year and just over 200 people left our business as management will be a considerable asset to volumes in the boiler market fell around 15% we restructured store operations.
This was the Group as we seek to expand our multifrom 2010 levels when the boiler scrappage a difficult process, but as always the store channel capabilities.
However, in April, the managers undertook it in a professional, but PTS team won a significant contract to supply compassionate manner.
BSS division plumbing and heating materials to British Gross margins in Wickes have improved by Proforma LFL sales increased by 2.9%.
Gas on an exclusive basis.
Two of the primary 1.3% when compared to 2010.
However, the Inflation was 4.5%, but volumes fell by 1.6% reasons for winning the contract are the investment in initiatives and start-up costs for even though the expanded British Gas contract, outstanding levels of customer service that PTS new stores, combined with reorganisation costs during the last nine months of the year, added is able to offer from a countrywide network of incurred to achieve long-term overhead savings 2.4% to volumes.
New branches accounted for sites together with our industry leading on-time has reduced operating profits by 10m.
additional sales of 0.5%, whilst the branches in-full delivery capability.
Other advances in Consequently the divisions operating margins sold at the insistence of the OFT and one fewer PTS came in both the spares and renewables fell by 1.4% to 4.5% 2010: 5.9%.
working day reduced sales by 3.3%.
Tile Giant has consolidated its position in Reported revenue has decreased, on a PTS was named national builders merchant difficult markets with total sales up 9%.
Its proforma basis, by 22m to 1,436m due to a of the year at the Builders Merchanting News like-for-like sales outperformed the market number of structural changes.
In the early part awards, a real testament to the commitment of leader, so gaining market share.
The business of the year, at the insistence of the OFT, 14 PTS our colleagues.
now trades from 107 stores a net increase branches were sold.
In June the trade of UGS The BSS Industrial business has performed of 6 this year.
Under the initial guidance of was transferred into our Keyline business and strongly with sales outperforming the market.
Mo Iqbal, the Companys founder, and more on 30 September the trade and assets of Buck Increased volumes, high inflation in the recently Andy Morrison, Tile Giant has grown to and Hickman were sold to Brammer plc.
first nine months from rising copper prices, be the second largest specialist tile retailer in On a proforma basis adjusted operating increasing gross margins and good cost control the country.
profit, including synergies, increased by have made 2011 a very successful year, which 9.5% to 67m 2010: 61m.
In advance of underlines the strength of the team led by Associate company establishing the new plumbing and heating Managing Director Frank Elkins.
A particular Toolstation performed strongly in 2011.
The division, Paul Tallentire joined us with the focus on the drainage business has seen sales investment in new stores continued, but the intention of becoming its chairman.
He has grow by over 25% year-on-year with eight early losses incurred by immature outlets have come into the Group at a time of significant new drainage implants into BSS branches now been surpassed by the profits of maturing change and we are already seeing the benefits during 2011. stores with the result that the business moved of his experience.
The other businesses in the BSS group into profits during the second half.
The unique 2011 was a more challenging year for the are F&P Wholesale, a distributor of plumbing, business model together with the skill of domestic business, and PTS in particular, as heating and bathroom products nationally to The City Plumbing team have performed well in a tough environment, increasing like-for-like sales by 4% 18 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 The pace of our development and growth requires our executives to continuously improve their skills and impact in their current roles the independent merchants and Birchwood contact with potential new investors from that organisational capabilities, particularly in our Price Tools BPT, which focusses on the continent is an important aspect of our investor new Consumer division and our Plumbing and wholesale market distributing power tools, relations strategy.
These appointments cover hand tools and site equipment.
F&P sales have In the summer of 2011, with the debt crisis all aspects of our business, ranging from been adversely affected by the boiler market, in the Eurozone seemingly worsening, we specialist areas such as sustainability and with like-for-like sales down year-on-year.
decided that it would be better to refinance multichannel to operational functions.
By contrast, BPT has achieved a significant our UK syndicated bank facility early, rather We have also made changes to the roles increase in sales and has been particularly than waiting for the summer of 2012.
From of some people on our executive committee.
successful in introducing new products, in the outset of negotiations, it became clear that John Carters promotion has already been particular Scruffs workwear, to the rest of the European banks have become considerably covered in the Chairmans statement, but it is Travis Perkins Group.
more cautious since we last raised funds in worth reiterating the great contribution he has 2008.
Even so, thanks to the continued support made to the success of the Group.
Norman 2012 Performance of many of the banks in our existing syndicate, Bell was promoted to the new role of Group The year has started satisfactorily with the Group raised a 550m forward start from Development Director, following his successful Group LFL sales for the first seven weeks up April 2013 revolving credit facility, which running of the BSS integration project 1.8%.
LFL sales for the general merchanting secures our funding needs through to 2016. alongside John.
division have increased by 5.4% and for the Whilst the cost of this source of capital has Following our reorganisation of the Group specialist merchanting division they are up increased, it remains an attractive source of into four operating divisions we have been 3.9%.
Delivered sales, on a LFL basis for the funding relative to other sources, and sustains, able to appoint Paul Tallentire, who recently retail division excluding Toolstation since it within prudent financing parameters, an joined the Group following a career as a senior remains non-LFL until 2013 have decreased efficient balance sheet for shareholders.
executive in a variety of trade businesses, by 3.1%, whilst on an ordered basis they are as Divisional Chairman of the Plumbing and up 0.9%.
The addition of Toolstations own LFL Management Heating division.
Jeremy Bird, who previously performance would have increased the retail The pace of our development and growth ran our Wickes business, has been promoted divisions ordered LFL sales to 2.7%.
Plumbing requires our executives to continuously improve to the new role of Divisional Chairman for the and heating division LFL sales are up 0.9%.
their skills and impact in their current roles.
also provides opportunities for them to take up Joe Mescall and Arthur Davidson continue Investors and lenders new challenges often providing promotion to to lead the remaining two operating divisions We place great emphasis on good new roles.
During the year we have continued as Divisional Chairmen of General Merchanting communications with investors, analysts to strengthen our management team through a and Specialist Merchanting respectively.
In 2011, we expanded our combination of promoting top performers within Opportunities for advancement have also road-shows to encompass large investment our business and attracting fresh talent from been given to the people who manage a funds located on the west coast of America.
Approximately 26% of our investor base The new appointments have significantly Ian Church, who has led the Travis Perkins is located in North America so increased increased our strength in depth and business in the Midlands with distinction for the 19 REPORTS Chief Executives Review of the Year last seven years, is now managing director, PTS.
management of very successful community achieve these aims is designed to maximise Simon King, an experienced retail executive programmes to individual businesses, moving over the long term shareholder returns and from Safeway now Morrisons, Tesco and Asda responsibility away from the centre.
Branches involves: where he was most recently Chief Operations are encouraged to fundraise for their business Creation, acquisition and development Officer, joins the Group as Managing Director partner charity and carry out building or repair of businesses that seek to serve all the Wickes.
Kieran Griffin, a former Keyline and related work in their local community.
segments for the distribution of building Travis Perkins manager and regional director, In total, businesses across the Group partner materials in the UK: who enjoyed success in his first managing with 14 charities, with many having chosen Continuously improving the customer and director role at CCF, has been promoted to during 2011 to extend their initial two-year supplier proposition in all our businesses to Managing Director, Travis Perkins Midlands and partnership for a further year.
In addition, become the highest rated in each segment, North West.
businesses in the former BSS Group have as measured by customers, and as tested by Howard Luft, who was until the end of increased their fundraising activities.
They have seeking to outperform markets on a like-forSeptember the Managing Director of Buck all adopted new charities for 2012 or joined like basis: and Hickman and who was responsible for the forces with another business or central function Exploit the economies of scale this creates successful turnaround and subsequent sale to support an existing partnership.
through the centralisation of common of this business, has re-joined the Group to For its work with The Prostate Cancer activities and common purchasing into low become Managing Director of CCF.
Charity, Keyline won Best UK Project at the cost, highly efficient and powerful central We are delighted that we have been able 2011 Business Charity awards.
It was declared functions: to continue to build on our previous success the company that made the biggest difference Sustaining an organisational model that by promoting talented people from inside the to beneficiaries through involvement with a devolves authority to operating managers Group to their new roles.
To achieve a promotion charity project.
The company and its colleagues and allows them to compete with the in these circumstances is truly outstanding.
were also highly commended for their most effective competitors with minimal It is also pleasing to know that both the partnership with the charity.
constraints, but always maintaining very strength of the Group and its prospects are The Travis Perkins business adopted the strong controls: recognised by the new people we have been Breast Cancer Campaign and Together for Operating a performance management able to attract to our Group.
It is a testament Short Lives as its charities in 2010.
Having system, closely matched to arrangements to the success we have achieved, against a re-sprayed 12 of its trucks pink in a charity for incentives, that encourages the backdrop of challenging economic conditions.
supporting publicity campaign in 2010, the right economic behaviour and allows all I am sure that this group of talented individuals pink theme has continued in 2011.
The colleagues to participate in the financial will make important contributions to our inaugural Travis Pinkins charity day took place success of the Group: continued growth.
to complement the continued sale of pink Recruiting and developing people whose products such as wheelbarrows, saws, pencils personal characteristics are consistent with Travis Perkins in the community and tape measures in its branches.
a culture of customer sensitivity, continuous While many aspects of the Group are Wickes continued its support for Leukaemia improvement and a drive for performance: co-ordinated centrally, corporate social and Lymphoma Research, with colleagues yet The table on page 22 shows how we approach responsibility is one area that remains firmly again raising over 0.6m for the charity.
the various dimensions of our strategy, and how the responsibility of the individual businesses, Group-wide initiatives include a lottery where it is integrated with our management of risk.
particularly when it comes to charitable colleagues donate 1 a month from their These relatively dry words are easy to write fundraising and community programmes.
pay, half of which is donated to the partner on a page, but require leadership by example, In 2011 each of our businesses supported charities.
With 70% of eligible employees now active management and considerable thought a charity of their choice and undertook a taking part, more than 100,000 has been in deployment.
Senior managements role is plethora of activities to raise funds.
In 2011 donated to charity since the launch of the to maintain a focus on these strategies.
The through the efforts of the Groups employees, lottery in August 2009. goal, for each of our mature businesses, is that ably supported by customers and suppliers, they achieve the highest operating margin and 1.9m was raised for worthy causes 2010: Strategy return on capital of any business operating in 1.7m including 146,217 2010: 112,083 The statements of Mission, Vision, and Values their segment.
at the front of this annual report set out what The particular themes currently being Given the success of the charity fundraising we exist to do, the direction we aim to take the pursued in executing these strategies are: in terms of motivation and colleague Group, and the way in which we believe we Having recently expanded our asset participation, we have also devolved the should work.
The strategy we are following to base and considerably accelerated our 20 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 The goal, for each of our mature businesses, is that they achieve the highest operating margin and return on capital of any business operating in their segment market outperformance, now prioritise designed to support these themes as well our businesses.
Although we will continue to improvements in operating margins: as drive the impact of our programmes of target outperformance against the competition Add multi-channel capabilities to our continuous improvement.
on a like-for-like basis, we will actively balance businesses, building on the considerable Our summary of principal risks and this objective with maintaining gross margins success achieved via Toolstation and uncertainties is set out on pages 36 and limiting cost growth.
In a weakening Wickes multi-channel activities: and 37.
In summary, our performance is market, we judge this slight modification of our Expand our global sourcing activities, closely aligned with the fortunes of the UK trading stance will yield the best outcome in supported by an expansion of own-label construction industry.
However, it is also terms of absolute profits and trend of operating products, category management activity and possible that we could suffer from the margin.
In 2012, our priorities will be threefold: harmonised product specifications across effects of disintermediation if we do not offer Leverage our self help initiatives including market segments: value, match our customer preferences, or the incremental return from the 13 ex-Focus Improve asset turn and lower property improve our proposition.
In addition, we are stores added in 2011 and the growth in costs via new supply chain capabilities, dependent upon maintaining our IT capabilities, profit from the maturity of the Toolstation concentration of brands on single sites, purchasing and distributing goods effectively stores 100% owned from January 2012: development of our owned trade parks and and recruiting and retaining the best people.
Use our strong cash flow to pay down realisation of spare assets through active debt targeting a reduction of 125m for property management.
Outlook the year, maintain selective expansion Growth prospects for the Group are positive, Our research suggests that market volumes investment and increase dividends: with gains expected from a recovery of activity will remain subdued in 2012.
We expect trade Continue the successful integration of BSS in construction markets, further market market volumes to decline responding to the into the Group by adding trading systems outperformance, operational leverage from decrease in the number of housing transactions to the already integrated financial systems, economies of scale and expansion of our in the first half of 2011 and to the contraction whilst working to realise our increased branch networks and related activities.
Whilst in public sector expenditure, for which we synergy target of 30m for 2012. we confidently expect this to provide several have less than a 20% exposure.
The consumer We therefore look forward to another year of years of good growth in financial returns, we sector is likely to decline by a more substantial solid progress in 2012. believe over the next two or three years we amount as consumer confidence remains low, should begin to cautiously, with a low-risk and unemployment rises and disposable income low-capital approach, explore the prospects remains under pressure.
for expansion in new markets and activities.
Against a backdrop of generally weak lead Our approach to these trials should not indicators including mortgage approvals, Geoff Cooper adversely impact the prospects for profits, cash property transactions, consumer confidence Chief Executive generation and debt reduction.
and pressure on net disposable income we will 21 February 2012 Our management arrangements are further grow revenue by continuously improving 21 REPORTS
