Chief Operating Officers review driving PrOcess and PerFOrmance The underlying performance of each of our assets has improved over the year with three of our four mines achieving production increases.
however, the instability of power supply created a number of challenges to production through the year, something that ultimately led to a reduction of approximately 40,000 ounces in the year against plan.
as such, whilst we made significant strides in improving each of our assets, we ended the year with 688,278 ounces of production, 2% below 2010. our cash costs for the year saw a 22% increase over 2010 to Us$692 per ounce sold.
The increase was primarily due to wide ranging inflationary pressures principally on labour, due to increased competition across the industry for skilled personnel and increased staffing levels, energy, due to higher oil prices and increased usage especially in back-up power generation, consumables and contract services as well as lower than expected capitalised costs and a lower production base.
cash costs of Us$65 per tonne milled for the year have increased from the 2010 figure of Us$55 per tonne, as a result of the above and a decrease in milled tonnes as a result of power related issues and an increased proportion of ore from the underground at Tulawaka.
The underlying performance we continued to reduce our gold product inventory levels and as a result sold of each of our assets has 699,539 gold ounces for the year, 2% above production.
improved over the year with we mined 45.1 million tonnes of ore and waste for the year, compared to 40.0 million in 2010.
The increase was driven primarily by the focus on waste three of our four mines achieving stripping at the gokona and nyabirama open pits at north mara, in order to access high grade ore from 2012 and at buzwagi, which entered stage 2 of the mine plan.
Tonnes of ore processed for the year totalled 7.4 million, a 4% decrease on 2010 marco ZoLeZZI, levels.
The change was predominantly driven by reduced throughput at buzwagi chief oPeraTing officer due to the failure of the sag mill motor, frequent power interruptions and enforced shutdowns for maintenance.
The average grade processed for the year was 3.3 grams of gold per tonne, in line with the prior year.
The increase in grades at Tulawaka and buzwagi were offset by lower grades from bulyanhulu and north mara due to planned mine sequencing.
our copper production for the year of 14.9 million pounds represents a 6% increase on 2010, which reflects improved recoveries at buzwagi due to process plant enhancements.
bulyanhulu delivered another year of production increases, exceeding the prior year amount by 2,161 ounces mainly driven by increased ore tonnes hoisted and milled.
This was partially offset by a lower processing grade of 8.5g t 9.2g t in 2010, mainly due to mine sequencing impacting on the mining grade and blockages in the paste fill lines limiting access to primary stopes.
cash costs per ounce sold increased from Us$539 per ounce sold to Us$610 driven by the increase in direct mining costs.
com 26 overview performance governance financial shareholder sTaTemenTs informaTion 2011 2010 operating results key operational focus areas Tonnes mined thousands of tonnes 45,053 40,016 deliver maximum sustainable production and ore tonnes mined thousands of tonnes 7,013 7,970 cost discipline ore tonnes processed thousands of tonnes 7,409 7,706 maintain focus on best leadership, management Process recovery rate percent 87.7% 86.1% and technical practices complete the enhancement of site security head grade grams per tonne 3.3 3.3 infrastructure and processes attributable gold production ounces 688,278 700,934 build on improvements to health and safety systems attributable gold sold ounces 699,539 724,083 and processes copper production thousands of pounds 14,875 14,093 continue the development of training for workforce copper sold thousands of pounds 15,069 13,370 and local communities cash cost per tonne milled 65 55 Translate strategy into capital allocation, optimise capital allocation and realise key Per ounce data Us$ ounce business opportunities average spot gold price 1,572 1,225 average realised gold price 1,587 1,240 cash cost 692 569 2 amortisation and other costs 184 147 2 Total production costs 876 716 cash margin 895 671 average realised copper price Us$ lb 3.82 3.54 1 P roduction and sold ounces reflect equity ounces which exclude 30% of Tulawakas production base.
2 cash cost per tonne milled, average realised gold price per ounce sold, cash cost per ounce sold, amortisation and other costs per ounce, cash margin and total production costs per ounce are non-ifrs financial performance measures with no standard meaning under ifrs.
refer to non-ifrs measures on page 50 for definitions.
3 reflects the london Pm fix price.
an explanation of mine statistical information is included on page 51. it was deeply regrettable that we suffered an employee fatality at bulyanhulu as a result of a rock fall in march.
we continue to place great importance on sending every employee home safely every day and instigated a thorough investigation into the incident to prevent future occurrence.
as part of ongoing reviews into health and safety reporting during the year, we have maintained lost Time injury frequency rate lTifr as a key performance indicator and have increased reporting on our Total reportable injury frequency rate Trifr, such that we will report this as an additional key performance indicator going forward.
Together, these indicators track the number of overall reportable injuries within our operating environment.
for the reporting period, abgs aggregate lTifr for the year was 0.1, a 10% increase on 2010. we ended the year with a Trifr of 1.2, a 14% improvement on 2010, which is highly encouraging overall.
as ever, we will continue our focus on progressing and achieving further improvements in health and safety in 2012. as a result of the waste stripping programme in the gokona and nyabirama pits, north mara delivered production in line with managements expectations, but 20% lower than 2010. during the second half of the year tonnes mined were lower than planned as a result of Paf waste dumping constraints.
Provisional permits have now annUal rePorT and accoUnTs 2011 27 Chief Operating Officers review continued been granted and construction of further Paf dumps is underway to alleviate the constraint.
cash cost per ounce sold increased as expected to Us$810 per ounce from Us$472 per ounce when compared to 2010 as a result of the reduced production base and increased direct mining costs.
mining operations at north mara were overshadowed by events relating to the illegal site intrusion in may, when approximately 1,500 intruders, a number of whom were armed, stormed the ore stockpile.
in addition to working with the Tanzanian police force as part of their investigations, we have undertaken our own investigation into this incident.
To date, preliminary findings from the police work have led to a number of arrests of individuals suspected of having been involved in provoking or organising the incident as well as other illegal activities in the area.
we also continue to review and implement a number of measures to address key legacy issues, many of which pre-date barricks and subsequently abgs ownership of the operation, in order to promote effective dialogue with the surrounding communities and support dialogue on wider law and order considerations in the region.
These enhancements to our existing programmes are already delivering tangible improvements and we Our focus in 2012 will remain expect to achieve further progress over the course of 2012. on achieving operational we continued to liaise with the relevant government departments for the renewal of the north mara mining licence throughout the year.
at present, the approval process excellence in order to deliver continues to await the formation of a mining advisory board for the purposes of processing our renewal application and until then we will continue to operate under stable production levels.
our existing licence, in accordance with applicable mining legislation, until such time as our application can be determined.
Ultimately, we expect the licence renewal to be on substantially the same terms as our existing licence and for the remainder of north maras mine life.
we have also made significant progress in addressing outstanding issues relating to the discharge of the ePo at north mara and progressing permitting processes for purposes of accommodating future mining activities.
The Tanzanian national environmental council nemc has recently confirmed our compliance with all requirements under the ePo, further to the construction of the water treatment plant: commissioning of the plant is now underway.
we expect to complete this process during the first half of 2012, following which we expect the ePo to be lifted.
from a permitting perspective, we are currently seeking regulatory approvals for life of mine Paf waste rock dumps to accommodate future mining activities: a process we anticipate will be achieved during the second half of 2012. in the interim, we have obtained a provisional construction permit, which allows for dump construction at an extension to the existing Paf waste rock dumps, to provide support for north maras waste stripping schedule in the intervening period.
com 28 overview performance governance financial shareholder sTaTemenTs informaTion buzwagis production for the year was 6% higher than the prior year period, although was around 35,000 ounces below managements expectation as a result of the power reliability issues.
The lower than expected production for the year was primarily driven by the decrease in ore tonnes milled as a result of plant downtime due to the sag mill motor failure, a direct result of increased power disruptions and further power related unplanned maintenance and critical component replacement.
To help mitigate interruptions to power supply, we installed 21 mw of back-up power at buzwagi during the year.
although the addition of back-up power at a cost of Us$19.3 million will have an ongoing impact on operating costs, we continue to believe that the benefits of continuous power significantly outweigh the cost.
we continue to see the positive effects of the operational turnaround at buzwagi due to investment in the process plant, expansion of the mining fleet, optimisation of the drill and blast and load and haul, stringent security measures and ongoing training programmes, and are confident that we are well positioned as we enter 2012.
Tulawaka has continued its good performance with production increasing 40% year on year mainly driven by the increased underground grade delivered.
as the stockpiles from the exhausted open pit ran down, we began the process of opening the west Pit extension in the fourth quarter to provide supplemental mill feed to the high grade underground ore to enable the mill to run at optimal levels.
we will continue to explore and, where feasible, progress opportunities to increase production from this operation in 2012. looking forward, we believe that we are well positioned to deliver on the potential of the companys asset base as we enter 2012.
This year, our focus will remain on achieving operational excellence in order to deliver stable and profitable production levels.
marco ZoLeZZI, chief oPeraTing officer annUal rePorT and accoUnTs 2011 29
