Chief Executive Officers statement Continued progress our core focus for 2011 was to continue to strengthen the business to be able to withstand unforeseen operational challenges and be positioned for future growth.
our operational improvement programmes have begun to bear fruit at all four mines, with bulyanhulu, buzwagi and Tulawaka delivering increased production in 2011.
The importance we place on shareholder returns is demonstrated by the directors recommending a final dividend of US13.1 cents per ordinary Share, in addition to the US3.2 cents per ordinary Share that we paid in September.
with respect to dividend payments in future years, the board has approved the following policy: subject to the capital requirements and cash flows of the company and provided that there are distributable reserves available to the company for this purpose, it is the boards intention to declare an annual dividend of between 15 and 30 percent of profits after tax and minority interests each year.
it is expected that this will be payable in the approximate proportion of one third as an interim dividend and two thirds as a final dividend, dependent on the performance of the company being in line with the boards expectations.
Our core focus for 2011 was we have strengthened our commitment to Tanzania throughout the year, notably to continue to strengthen the with the launch of the abg development maendeleo fund, the largest community development fund of its kind in Tanzania, and our secondary listing on the business to be able to withstand dar es Salaam Stock Exchange.
The site intrusion at north mara in may served to highlight the importance of promoting social and economic integration in all local unforeseen operational challenges, communities in which we operate.
we are committed to effective dialogue with and to position the Company for all stakeholders in the mara region in order to create an environment that allows for better co-existence and provides for improved law, order and safety for all future growth.
we have made encouraging progress in improving relationships in the mara region during the year and have introduced a number of initiatives to promote further integration within local communities.
we will continue to develop projects that support our developing sustainability programme as a part of our approach to responsible mining.
To support our commitments and targets in this regard we have recently appointed a Senior director of Environment and community relations to further enhance and support the existing experience of our specialist teams.
as regards our employees, it is deeply regretful that we had one fatality at bulyanhulu, during the year.
our target for all employees to go home safely greg HAwkins, cHiEf ExEcUTivE officEr every day remains our top priority.
Operating and financial performance GOLD PRICE LEVERAGE positive performances at bulyanhulu, buzwagi and Tulawaka were able to largely Gold price performance over period Up 80% $900 offset the planned reduction at north mara due to the waste stripping programme Operating cash ow $m Up 378% $800 and delivered production of 688,278 ounces of gold, marginally below our guidance EBITDA $m Up 280% Cash margin $ oz Up 213% for the year, at a cash cost of US$692 per ounce sold.
The higher average realised $700 gold price helped us to deliver strong financial results, achieving record revenues $600 of US$1,218 million, generating cash margins of US$895 per ounce sold, $500 operating cash flow of US$498 million, and ending 2011 with a cash balance of $400 US$584 million.
our commitment to exploration has continued to bear fruit with $300 a fourfold increase in the in-pit resource at the Tusker deposit at nyanzaga to over $200 4.0moz and in tandem with our wider exploration efforts we have grown our total resource base by 17% to over 31.5moz, of which 17.1moz are in the reserve category.
com 8 overview pErformancE govErnancE financial SHarEHoldEr STaTEmEnTS informaTion The power situation in Tanzania impacted our operations throughout the year, resulting in an overall reduction in production of approximately 40,000 ounces opTimiSing in 2011.
The impacts of power outages were predominantly felt at buzwagi, where redesign of the flotation tanks and the unreliable power negated the operational turnaround and contributed to the Sag mill motor failure in may.
we have taken steps to address this, firstly in July with installation of oversize pebble ports has the installation of 5 mw of spinning power and then in december with a further helped to increase mill recoveries by 16 mw of back-up diesel power providing full redundancy to this operation.
we anticipate that the sporadic interruptions in power supply will continue into 2012 and we will continue to monitor this during the course of the forthcoming fide-bottlenecking at north mara has year.
in addition, we aim to finalise the installation of full back-up power at all improved plant throughput by 7%.
of our mine sites by the end of Q2 2012, which when completed, is expected to significantly mitigate the effects of future power outages on production levels.
full back-up power installed at buzwagi to mitigate grid power reliability issues.
Addressing costs through optimisation The rapid increase in the price of gold and the number of new projects coming Expanding on-stream across africa has introduced considerable inflationary cost pressures across our industry.
in particular, competition for skilled labour has intensified, which initiation of a feasibility study for the has led to increasing levels of wage inflation and significant movements in skilled expansion of the cil circuit to reprocess personnel across the mining industry generally, both of which must be monitored on the tailings at bulyanhulu.
an ongoing basis in order to assess potential impacts on our business and operations.
Tulawaka mine life extended through one of our key focuses in 2012 is to further increase our localisation efforts to to the end of 2012. reduce reliance on international labour.
This should enable us to reduce a significant element of our cost base, will continue to develop the technical skill sets in the gokona Underground feasibility study Tanzanian gold mining industry and will help us to mitigate fluctuations in concluded positively.
we also continue to invest in continual improvement programmes at each of the growing mines to optimise productivity.
These include the revamping of the hoisting schedule Quadrupled the in-pit resource on the at bulyanhulu, further fide-bottlenecking at the north mara process plant, and the Tusker deposit at nyanzaga to 4.1moz.
redesigned flotation circuit at buzwagi.
declared initial resource at golden ridge.
Expanding our existing resources we have continued to evaluate a number of organic expansion opportunities throughout the year, with a view to developing those projects which could expand our existing reserves and resources, a key element of our strategy for the development of our business.
we focused much of the budget on nyanzaga, our key greenfield project, on a number of targets at our north mara mine and on our major brownfield projects.
CASH COST PER ATTRIBUTABLE 1 nyanzaga has continued to deliver positive drill results, which underpinned the OUNCE SOLD GOLD PRODUCTION US$ Oz Oz significantly upgraded in-pit resource announced in January 2012. we are now aiming to move the project towards pre-feasibility, increasing its potential to become our fifth mine in Tanzania.
at north mara, the progression of land acquisitions around the gokona pit has meant that we have the potential to increase the open pit reserve ounces by up to 300koz through an additional lateral cut back of the open pit, although this would have the effect of reducing the 2010 underground resource by up to 150koz.
further investigation is required but the potential addition of the lower cost open pit ounces 22% 07 08 09 10 11 -2% 07 08 09 10 11 is a positive for the overall north mara mine, while we believe the potential for an US$692 Oz 688,278Oz underground operation remains intact.
annUal rEporT and accoUnTS 2011 9 Chief Executive Officers statement continued at bulyanhulu we continue to rehabilitate the decline to the Upper East Zone and We have continued to evaluate plan to initiate a test stope in Q3 2012, ahead of seeking board approval for the project.
Subject to their approval, our expectation remains for initial production a number of opportunities from the project around the end of 2014. in addition, following the announcement throughout the year for near mine of the mineral resource contained within our tailings facility at bulyanhulu, the feasibility study for production from this resource is close to completion.
expansion, a key element of our during 2011 we twice extended the mine life at Tulawaka, currently to the end of 2012. strategy for the development of The project continues to outperform the original underground feasibility study and generates healthy cash flows.
we will continue to explore in the Upper East Zone and our business.
have recently begun the process of opening the west pit Extension in order to provide supplemental mill feed and are confident we can further extend the mine life.
Elsewhere, we are looking at alternative options for the golden ridge project.
The feasibility work conducted at golden ridge during 2011 focused on the opportunity to truck the ore to buzwagi, and whilst generating positive returns, the project did not pass our internal returns threshold.
we are currently analysing alternative ways of developing the resource, including trucking the ore to bulyanhulu, depending on the outcome of our approval process for the bulyanhulu cil Expansion project.
we also continue to evaluate other opportunities across africa to supplement our organic growth plans and to diversify our asset base.
our balance sheet strength provides significant flexibility from which to leverage our operational expertise.
Taxation given the prevailing industry backdrop and current level of profitability of the mining sector we have proactively engaged with the Tanzanian government and other stakeholders to ensure we make a contribution commensurate with the financial performance of our business.
To that end we have reached a settlement with the Tanzanian revenue authority over US$126 million of indirect taxes owed to us and we paid income tax during the year amounting to US$39 million, on top of the royalties we have always paid and the indirect taxation we bring to the country in the form of payroll and other taxes.
we will continue to work with the relevant authorities in order to consider abgs overall tax status in Tanzania in order to ensure we achieve the optimum long-term structure for our company and all of our stakeholders.
Outlook our focus for 2011 was to continue to build on the foundations of 2010 and to have stable and consistent operational delivery.
we have made significant progress in this respect despite the headwinds we faced, primarily from the unreliable power situation in Tanzania as well as the more generalised industry cost pressures.
as a result of our continued capital investment and the recruitment of further operational expertise, we enter 2012 from a position of strength, having further enhanced our platform for future growth.
we aim to develop the business further in 2012 through the following key objectives: achieving attributable group production between 675,000725,000 ounces: maintaining total cash cost of between US$790US$860 per ounce sold: and direct cash operating cost of between US$740US$810 per ounce sold: www.
com 10 overview pErformancE govErnancE financial SHarEHoldEr STaTEmEnTS informaTion kAtrinA kevin kobus vAn greg HAwkins Peter sPorA Andrew wrAy deodAtus mArco wHite Jennings vuuren cEo vicE HEad of mwAnyikA ZoleZZi gEnEral cfo HEad of prESidEnT corporaTE vicE coo coUnSEl & HUman ExploraTion dEvElopmEnT prESidEnT company rESoUrcES and invESTor corporaTE SEcrETary rElaTionS affairS PG increasing group throughput and recoveries: details of the executives are on pages 78 and 80 completing feasibility studies at our brownfield projects: achieving growth in our overall resource base: improving further our safety record: continuing the development of our sustainability practices: and continuing our focus on opportunities for strategic acquisitions to expand our footprint throughout africa.
given the mine sequencing at each of our operations together with the forecast grade profiles it is our expectation that our production is likely to be split 45:55 between the first and second halves of the year, with correspondingly higher cash costs in the first half of the year and lower in the second.
at mine level, our expectation is for broadly similar production levels to 2011 at our bulyanhulu, buzwagi and Tulawaka operations, with higher production expected at north mara in the second half of the year, with the completion of the waste stripping programme and access to higher grade material.
during 2012, we expect to see additional cost pressures at buzwagi as we will be mining close to the reserve grade of 1.5g t, which will necessitate mining and processing significantly higher levels of ore in order to maintain production rates.
finally, i would like to thank all of my colleagues for their commitment, enthusiasm and hard work throughout what has been an important year in the development of our business.
i would also like to thank our board for their unwavering support, their wise counsel and their commitment throughout the year.
greg HAwkins, cHiEf ExEcUTivE officEr annUal rEporT and accoUnTS 2011 11
