Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 16 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 17 Strategic overview Strategic overview Strategy TUI Travels strategic goal is to create superior shareholder value by being the Independent leading global leisure travel group, providing customers with the widest choice of differentiated and exible travel experiences to meet their changing needs TUI Travel already has market leading positions in independent travel including online accommodation, and maintaining our commitment to sustainable development.
marine, adventure, education, language travel, ski, sport and specialist holidays.
As the demand for independent travel grows, we aim to leverage TUI Travels strong position in the segment and further Our four strategic imperatives of product and content, distribution and brands, enhance our offering and reach.
people and operational effectiveness and growth and capital allocation underpin everything our businesses do.
In addition, the Group is focused on three the backbone of Hotelbeds rapid expansion and Product strategic growth initiatives: product, distribution and operational efficiency.
has also enabled it to outperform the market Increasing our hotel inventory and the range of consistently with 21% growth in total transaction accommodation will be the major growth driver value in 2011.
Bedsonline, the accommodation for our online accommodation businesses in the wholesaler that sells directly to travel agencies, Accommodation & Destinations Sector.
Within the has been rapidly expanding its distribution APAC region, we are looking to expand into new Strategic growth initiatives channels and, since 2009, has entered into 11 new source markets with the AsiaRooms brand and markets including the US, Brazil, Russia, Thailand have already translated the site into five languages and Singapore.
Bedsonline now works with over Traditional Chinese and Simplied Chinese, Thai, Mainstream 23,500 travel agencies and sold 4.6 million roomnights Malaysian and Indonesian.
Sourcing the right hotels in 2011 compared to 3.8 million in 2010. in the right destinations will be a key success factor.
We have redened our mainstream business model from traditional to modern mainstream with a focus Within Specialist & Activity, we are focusing on Within our portfolio of Specialist & Activity on differentiated and exclusive product, being online driven and cost efficient.
increasing the share of direct distribution to reduce businesses there continues to be strong demand distribution costs and increase direct access to for experiential holidays.
We plan to consolidate Traditional Mainstream Modern Mainstream customers.
We have also recently launched the our market leading positions within the Specialist online iExplore portal which aggregates products & Activity businesses and continue to look for Commodity packages Differentiated, unique holidays from 20 UK brands, showcasing 120 activities, 130 innovative products and attractive markets for destinations and over 1500 products.
During the year in the Marine 7 and 14 night durations Flexible durations of the site include the ability to search, lter and division, our inland waterways brand Le Boat compare activity products side by side, plus an launched the new 1500 series of boats, which Brochure and retail led Online multi-media product marketing inspirator travel proler, which matches your introduces a new level of luxury to the inland travel personality to holiday experiences.
waterways markets with a signicantly enhanced Call centre based customer support Online self-service customer experience.
Operational efficiency There is an increased focus on operational Distribution efficiency within our Specialist & Activity efficient use of online distribution channels Product Distribution businesses.
An optimal cost structure for the is at the forefront of our strategy within the Differentiation is one of the central pillars of our Each of our source markets has its own distribution Sector includes a reduction in the number of accommodation OTA and accommodation product strategy within our Mainstream Sector strategy which is tailored to meet different finance and reservation systems together with wholesaler businesses.
In 2011, Hotelbeds, the and we have a clear focus on increasing our customer preferences and market dynamics.
All cost reductions gained by centralising certain international accommodation wholesaler, covered differentiated and exclusive product offering across markets, however, have a goal of increasing their back ofce functions.
over 100 source markets and more than 500 all source markets.
By their nature, differentiated levels of controlled distribution and reducing their destinations.
A robust IT infrastructure has been products are unique in the marketplace and costs of distribution through the efficient operation difficult to replicate by competitors.
They of retail shops and call centres and the effective command a margin premium and attract greater use of online sales channels.
Strong controlled customer loyalty leading to higher repeat booking distribution with a focus on online sales has the rates.
In addition, earlier booking trends for benefit of: 1 making it easier for us to understand Emerging Markets differentiated content enable us to manage customer needs and tailoring our products our capacity and yield more effectively.
accordingly: 2 improving brand and product loyalty: and 3 enabling us to reduce our cost Our Emerging Markets strategy continues to delighted that this year TUI Travel has been one In the Mainstream Sector, the level of differentiated of distribution, thereby increasing margins.
In the focus on Russia & CIS, where we have successfully of the three foreign companies to be granted an product has increased over the last year and Mainstream Sector 65% of sales are now made completed three acquisitions with our venture outbound operating licence, under a new pilot currently represents 41% of total holidays.
through controlled channels 2010: 62% and 30% partner S-Group Capital Management and scheme introduced by the Chinese National We have specic targets to increase the level of sales are made online 2010: 27%.
successfully launched the TUI brand into the Tourism Authority.
This licence creates a new of differentiation and continue to evolve product market.
We are now focusing on increasing our source market for us with extensive growth content.
In the UK we have introduced the Operational efficiency presence from this platform.
We will continue to determine our Thomson Couples concept: all 16 hotels in this One of the key areas of focus for the Mainstream participation strategy in the emerging markets concept are child free.
In the Nordics two new Blue We also have a presence in Brazil, China and business is to be as cost efficient as possible to create long term sustainable growth for TUI Villages were opened in Turkey and Mallorca and, India through our accommodation wholesaler and without making any compromises on customer Travel on a global scale.
in Germany, the Sensimar portfolio grew from five destination services businesses.
In China we are experience.
We are currently in the process of to ten hotels.
building new reservation systems in key source markets which will lower our production and back ofce costs and at the same time improve customer experience.
We are also taking a closer look at our airlines with the goal of making them as efficient as possible.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 18 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 19 Strategic overview Strategic overview Key performance indicators KPIs Strategy Target Performance Key performance indicators Our main strategic objective is to improve the Groups profitability We target continuous To measure our financial progress we have two financial KPIs: ROIC Financial and free cash ow and to deliver enhanced returns on investment.
improvement in Group return i the ROIC: and ii conversion of underlying profit before tax 2011 2010 2009 1 1 We believe that improving our financial performance will allow us to on invested capital ROIC and to free cash ow.
11.3% 9.7% 8.4% invest in the future of our business for the benefit of shareholders, cash conversion of at least 70% ROIC has improved by 1.6 percentage points to 11.3%.
This was colleagues and customers.
Cash conversion driven by improvements in earnings in the year and a reduction in 2011 2010 2009 the dened benefit pension net deficit as a result of measures taken 1 1 to manage future liabilities.
The improvement further justifies our 125% 105% 46% asset-right approach to managing the business.
1 2010 and 2009 re-presented for Jet4You and Magic Life predecessor accounting: Following an exceptional cash performance in 2010 as a result of 2010 profits based on pro forma unaudited underlying operating profit excluding the impact of volcanic ash.
significant improvements to working capital, we are pleased with our cash conversion rate of 125% in 2011.
We expect the conversion rate to fall in the next few years as we invest in order to improve underperforming businesses but that will return to a conversion rate of at least 70% once the business improvement programme is delivered.
Increasing the proportion of our products which are different to We are targeting a differentiated In the year, we increased the differentiated product mix by three Differentiated exclusive product mix as a proportion of total Product those offered by our competitors is key to our strategy.
Differentiated product mix of greater than percentage points across the Mainstream Sector as a whole.
Within Mainstream Sector holidays products have earlier booking curves, higher customer satisfaction and 50% as a proportion of total this, the Nordic region improved by thirteen percentage points and 2011 2010 2009 retention and superior margins.
These products are difficult for Mainstream Sector holidays.
the UK by five percentage points.
41% 38% 37% competitors to replicate and we have a significant competitive advantage due to our existing brand loyalty and experience of designing and operating new concepts.
Increasing our direct distribution mix, with a focus on online sales, is a We are targeting a controlled To measure our progress, we have two Distribution KPIs: i controlled Controlled distribution mix, as a proportion of total Mainstream Distribution key driver of reducing our distribution costs and enhancing customer distribution mix of greater distribution mix: and ii online distribution mix.
Direct distribution typically represents the most than two thirds and an online 2011 2010 2009 Controlled distribution mix improved by three percentage points in efficient distribution method and allows us to provide even better distribution mix of greater than 2011, with a strong performance by the Nordics and Belgium.
In addition, customer trends support a shift 40% in our Mainstream Sector.
improvement in controlled distribution was driven by the online towards the online channel and multi-media product marketing Online distribution mix, as a proportion of total Mainstream channel which also increased by three percentage points in 2011. provides the opportunity to incorporate richer content, driving Sector holidays higher conversion rates.
2011 2010 2009 30% 27% 25% Our aim is to be as cost efficient as possible without compromising We are targeting a further We delivered 63m of turnaround and cost saving opportunities in Turnaround and cost savings delivered Operational customer experience.
We have identied a number of business 107m of business improvement 2011 and were particularly pleased with our performance in Canada, 2011 efficiency improvement opportunities within our Mainstream source markets opportunities over the next which delivered 23m of profit improvement, exceeding the original 63m which centre around legacy airline and systems costs.
Within three years to be delivered target of 11m.
Mainstream, we target overheads of less than 5% in each source in broadly even tranches.
In addition, we are focused on making cost savings in our other Sectors, for example, through centralisation of back ofce functions where appropriate.
The Specialist & Activity and Accommodation & Destinations Sectors We are targeting an average The S&A and A&D Sectors have grown on average by 6% per annum Compound annual growth rate in the S&A and A&D Sectors organic Non-mainstream enjoy higher margin and growth characteristics.
These operations are organic growth rate of since the merger 2007.
The average organic growth rate since profits since merger 2 growth difficult to replicate as we have crucial first-mover advantage.
Having a approximately 10% per annum merger fell from 7% in 2010 to 3% in 2011, mainly due to challenging 2007-2011 2007-2010 2 relevant position in the independent travel markets that are served by in the S&A and A&D Sectors trading conditions in the Adventure and Education divisions of the 3% 7% these Sectors is strategically important and a key differentiator and in the next three years.
growth driver for the Group.
Organic growth will be the key driver of 2 Excluding 10m investment in the OTA.
profit growth in these sectors.
We are experiencing greater consumer awareness of sustainability and We are targeting our airlines to Three years ago TUI Travel airlines set a target to reduce carbon Carbon efficiency, measured through TUI Travel airlines average Responsible believe that creating more sustainable holidays will help protect our reduce per passenger carbon emissions by 6% by 2013 14, against a baseline of 2007 08, both on carbon emissions per revenue passenger kilometre CO RPK 2 leadership product into the future and also support product differentiation, emissions by 6% by 2013 14 a total and relative basis.
In 2010 11 TUI Travel airlines total carbon 2011 2010 2009 brand loyalty, customer satisfaction and competitive advantage.
against a baseline of 2007 08. emissions were 5,467,814 tonnes, i. e. 9% less than in 2007 08, whilst 75.9g 76.1g 78.1g See Sustainable development our relative carbon emissions in 2010 11 were 75.9g per revenue page 28. passenger kilometre CO RPK, i. e. 2.6% less than 2007 08.
CO RPK CO RPK CO RPK 2 2 2 2 Achieved through operational efficiencies, fuel conservation and capacity amendments as well as the emission reductions which occurred in 2009 10 following the strategic venture with Air Berlin.
