Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 14 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 15 Strategic overview Strategic overview Business model In recent years our business model has been redened to address evolving trends in leisure travel.
By dening our customers in one of two ways we are able to anticipate their future preferences and leverage our position to tailor our offering accordingly.
Outcome trends characteristics We actively seek to understand Based on global market trends, we Product driven products satisfy The key success factors form the backbone of our business model Both propositions are focused consumer needs, anticipate what define our customers in two ways.
the increasing demand for and enable us to cater efficiently to global trends while maintaining on our vision of making travel they might demand in the future differentiated, exclusive, exible our leading market positions.
Each of the categories, product driven experiences special.
and move quickly to offer them and experiential holidays that are and price driven, has a unique set of factors that make it thrive.
the right product at the right time.
Price driven There are, however, a few critical factors that transcend both.
products satisfy the demand for a broad range of holidays with competitive pricing.
Unique and innovative concepts Modern Mainstream: Growing and products High volume, Differentiated high margin, Supplier relationships demand for Exclusive product Product High barriers to entry demand driven, Cost relevant leisure travel customer service driven Commitment and yield management Specialist & orientated business Product knowledge Activity products Customers seek value Go online Search, compare, book Leading brands Making and share Leveraging scale travel Online driven Individualisation experiences Experienced management teams Common technology platforms special New business model online travel agencies, search engines, low cost carriers High volume Mainstream: Increased demand for Commodity packages Competitive pricing experiential holidays Price High volume, lower margin Range and diversity of hotel stock and price driven business driven Demand from Online accommodation Lowest cost emerging markets www.
