Chief Executives review UNIQUE COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE Tullow had another excellent year in 2011.
The Groups strong performance was reinforced by the long-awaited completion of the farm-down in Uganda in February 2012.
This has been a period of rapid growth for the Group based on exceptional exploration discoveries and successful delivery of major development projects.
As a result, we are carving out a unique competitive position and evolving to be the leading global independent oil company.
This period of success is another step on our journey and is Further development in Ghana part of the natural evolution of the Group.
Over the years, Tullow Phase 1A development of the Jubilee field was sanctioned has developed a wide range of skills and competencies.
These in January 2012 and drilling of the first production well include managing mature assets, becoming one of the best commenced on schedule in February 2012.
This development deal makers in the sector, building a track record as a worldwill be conducted over an 18 month period and the total cost is class explorer and developing superior operating capability.
expected to be approximately $1.1 billion.
In 2012, the Group expects to deliver total net production of 78,000 to 86,000 boepd.
Tullow also has a number of key attributes that form the bedrock of our success.
While assets and licences come and During 2011, good progress was also made in appraising the go, we have consistently invested in having a great team of TEN discoveries in Ghana.
In February 2012, this was supported people and ensuring we put relationships ahead of short-term by the flow testing of the Owo-1 well which produced at a gains.
This long-term approach has enabled us to be successful combined rate of approximately 20,000 bopd giving confidence in seeking out frontier areas and finding new basins.
in the ultimate commerciality of the field.
The engineering design of this development, which will consist of an FPSO and major This level of success has brought its own challenges as we subsea infrastructure, is progressing and a PoD is expected to seek to manage a business that is growing very rapidly.
In 2011, be submitted in the third quarter of 2012, with first oil forecast we experienced challenges with production from the Jubilee field 30 months after approval.
and in completing our deal in Uganda.
Success in Uganda Material production growth Throughout the year we continued to negotiate with the In 2011, Group working interest production increased 35% to Government of Uganda and finally achieved a successful 78,200 boepd.
While there was a strong performance from the outcome with the completion of the $2.9 billion farm-down in Jubilee production facilities overall, with average FPSO uptime February 2012.
We are investing in the success of Uganda, of over 95%, productivity issues were experienced with some of not just in oil exploration and appraisal.
Our presence there the Jubilee wells related to problems with the original well has contributed to social enterprise investment, to local completion design.
The intention is to use 2012 to resolve these employment and to building capacity for the nascent oil industry issues and a remedial work programme is already under way to through local supplier and institutional development.
In addition, rebuild the production rate towards facility capacity and ensure there is an opportunity to increase our economic contribution that plateau production is delivered in 2013.
Recoverable considerably as the partners commence the basin development.
resource estimates are unchanged and the Group remains focused on the fields long-term upside potential.
We also continue to invest in our other key producing assets and future development projects to ensure that these provide high returns and strong production growth.
10 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts BUSINESS REVIEW More information Page 1 Key Performance Indicators 31 Exploration & Appraisal and Development & Operations reviews 50 Strong organisation performance By inv esting in a great team of Our EHS performance is robust again this year and in 2012 the people and looking out towards EHS strategy team is rolling out a new vision with the ambitious goal of consistently achieving top quartile industry EHS a long-term horizon, we have performance.
We are continuing to develop our expertise been able to seek out success and organisational capacity in key areas, particularly those that help us manage non-financial and non-technical risks.
in frontier areas and deliver These areas include compliance, government relations, consistent multi-basin stakeholder engagement, social enterprise and reputation management.
Our reputation is based on fair play and a fair exploration success which is deal.
It has been built on honesty, seeking the best terms for now being leveraged through all parties and honouring our commitments.
Our 2011 employee survey, Talkback, shows that we are achieving high levels of engagement of 81%, in spite of a further 26% increase in our total workforce in 2011.
As we continue to build the disciplines and processes of a larger company we are always mindful of protecting our team spirit and entrepreneurial culture.
This culture is in the DNA of Tullow and underpins a strong and dynamic future for the Group.
Higher commodity prices 2011 was characterised by major geopolitical, sovereign debt and financial markets events, which contributed to considerable oil price volatility.
It was a difficult year for the global economy, with low levels of activity in the US economy, the negative impact of the Japanese earthquake and the persistent and deepening fiscal crisis in Europe.
The Brent oil price peaked in April 2011 at $126 barrel, driven by a combination of continued strong demand in Asia and concerns over tightening supply from the growing unrest across the Middle East and North Africa.
Brent moderated somewhat during the rest of the year as the global economy slowed, but remained at levels well ahead of 2010 prices.
Brent closed the year at $108 barrel, representing a 16% year-on-year increase.
We achieved a realised oil price of $108 barrel post hedging, which was 38% higher than in 2010.
Strong oil prices and with good growth in production underpinned the strong financial performance for the Group this year.
Positive backdrop for continued investment Developments in the global economy will, of course, impact oil prices and we will need to continue to manage our exposure to volatility and any potential decline in oil price.
Our 2012-2014 business plan supports the delivery of our strategy and is closely aligned with our financial and operational objectives.
The business plan assumptions look at a range of scenarios and currently anticipate a moderate softening of oil prices over the period.
Nevertheless, forecast price levels are more than high enough to justify continued strong investment in our exploration-led growth strategy.
The competition for access to new opportunities continues to increase but we are very well positioned to compete.
Our portfolio of opportunities is rich and deep and our 2012 2013 exploration and appraisal programme is as exciting as any we have undertaken in the last five years.
In addition, we are forging new strategic exploration partnerships including a non-exclusive partnership with Shell in Aidan Heavey the Atlantic Margins, announced in January 2012, which draws Chief Executive Officer on the complementary skills of both companies.
com Chief Executives review continued Excellent long-term total shareholder return Pat Plunkett retired as Chairman Tullow has created significant shareholder value and delivered of Tullow at the end of 2011. total shareholder return of 389% over five years to the end He joined the Board in 1998 and of 2010, outperforming the FTSE 350 oil and gas sector as a became Chairman in 2000.
In 2011, the share price was presided over an extraordinary impacted by a number of issues.
The global economy weakened period of growth in the Groups during the year creating greater market uncertainty and history and was one of the key instability.
The longer time frame for completion of the Ugandan architects of Tullow today.
transactions and disappointment over deferred production from Ghana also had an effect.
Despite this, total shareholder return He ably led and guided the Board for 2011 was 12%, compared with a negative 2% return for the as we moved swiftly through a FTSE 100 for the same period.
The resilience of our investment series of major acquisitions, proposition and the high regard in which Tullow is held doubled in size every two years, recognises, in my view, our consistent and clear strategy achieved industry-leading and the Groups ability to continue to add value.
exploration success and built Africas leading independent oil Evolving as the leading global independent company: breaking many records In this years special feature, starting on the next page, we along the way and transforming illustrate how we are establishing a distinctive competitive the Group.
advantage and evolving into the leading global independent exploration and production company with a solid financial I would like to thank Pat for his foundation differentiated from our E&P peers by high-impact wonderful contribution to Tullow exploration-led growth.
The Group has a unique exploration and wish him and his family all inventory which is focused on frontier areas and concentrates the very best for the future.
on specific core regions and geological plays.
Our multi-basin opportunities are complemented by a series of major development projects.
Material growth in production and cash flow gives us the ability to fund aggressive exploration and development programmes as well as deliver returns to shareholders via a growing dividend.
We are managing this diversified mix of exploration, development and production assets to create a world-class resource portfolio.
Only the scale has changed Tullows core strategy is unchanged.
We are still focused on consistently growing our reserves and production, balancing quality high-impact exploration with development, pursuing selective acquisitions and ensuring rigorous capital allocation and portfolio management.
What has changed is the scale of the business and the game-changing opportunities we have to pursue.
In 2012, we expect significant progress in Ghana and Uganda as we grow Jubilee production and progress the Jubilee Phase 1A, TEN and Lake Albert developments.
We have a very exciting exploration programme ahead of us to open new basins, and we expect to extend our reach in Africa and elsewhere along the Atlantic Margins with major new partnerships.
With many opportunities for growth, 2012 promises to be another excellent year for Tullow.
Aidan Heavey Chief Executive Officer Pat Plunkett 12 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts
