Report of the Directors About Unilever CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW 2011 has been another year of real progress in delivering 1 our Compass strategy.
We made significant progress in the transformation of Unilever to a sustainable growth company despite difficult markets.
resource constrained world, it is possible 2011 was another turbulent year for the 2010.
This is a good performance, not and necessary to decouple growth from world economy, reflected in the instability least given that we also continued to environmental impact.
of the Eurozone and sluggish consumer invest for long-term success adding, demand in North America.
Growth in the for example, an extra 150 million in The USLP represents a long-term goal emerging countries remained robust, advertising and promotional spend.
but progress during the first year was although even here we saw some softening.
It was also in these markets encouraging, not least our commitment to We maintained our record for efficiency that we experienced our most intense source agricultural raw materials from gains, reducing overheads anddelivering competitor activity.
By the end of 2011, 1.5 billion in savings.
We also re-affirmed for example, almost two thirds of the our reputation for financial discipline, with The uncertainty underpinning global palm oil used in our products was being strong free cash flow of 3.1 billion.
markets gave rise to strong inflationary purchased from certified sources.
pressures and a sharp increase in Last years performance should also be commodity costs, stifling growth and Our leadership in this area has caught the seen in the context of geopolitical significantly impacting costs.
With imagination of employees and customers disturbances and natural disasters.
The unemployment rising and real incomes alike.
It has won Unilever widespread uprisings in North Africa and the Middle falling, there is no doubt that consumers external recognition.
Last year, the East, together with earthquakes in New are suffering.
company was named winner of the 6th Zealand and Japan and floods in Thailand, International Green Awards just one were among events that had a major Despite these conditions, 2011 was a of a number of high profile sustainability impact on our operations.
Our first strong year for Unilever.
Underlying sales awards received in 2011. concern during these incidents is for the growth of 6.5% was ahead of our markets welfare of our people and for their and continued the trend of improving top Our business model is designed to provide families, and thankfully we suffered no line performance.
Growth was price and long-term sustainable growth.
This relies loss of life or serious injury.
volume driven, reflecting the strength of on delivering our corporate strategy, and our brands and their ability to compete in in particular building our brands and How a company responds to these events the most difficult conditions.
Recent providing bigger and better innovations.
says a lot about its values and we are acquisition and disposal activity added a Again, we are making progress.
The proud that Unilever employees working further 1.2% to turnover.
proportion of turnover coming from alongside partners such as the World products launched in the past two years Food Programme were among the first Growth was broad-based, although continues to be above 30%.
Sales of Dove to offer assistance to those caught up in fuelled by an outstanding performance in exceeded 3 billion in 2011 driven by these tragedies.
In Thailand, for example, the emerging markets a strategic focus innovations like Men Care.
And the use of Unilever teams worked tirelessly to for the business.
Driven by markets like help get our customers many of whose advanced technology enabled our Knorr India, China, Turkey and South Africa stores and warehouses were flooded jelly platform to grow by 60% last year.
all of which grew by double digits our back in business.
emerging markets business grew by Our strategy relies equally on rolling out 11.5% and now accounts for 54% of One of the most pleasing aspects of the innovations faster and to more markets.
performance in 2011 was that we The launch of Axe Excite to 100 markets delivered strong results while continuing in just over a year is typical of the speed In the developed world, growth was more to make necessary long-term changes.
and breadth we are able to achieve.
subdued, at 0.8%, although even here we Our vision is to double the size of the saw some strong performances.
Our business while reducing our We are also introducing brands into many biggest developed markets the United environmental impact.
This requires us to more markets.
Magnum, for example, has States, Germany, the UK and France operate very differently.
At the heart of our enjoyed remarkable success since being which represent 61% of our developed new business model is the Unilever launched in North America and Indonesia.
world business, grew between 1% and 4%.
Sustainable Living Plan USLP, which We have also introduced Dove in China touches all aspects of our business: from and Clear shampoo in South Africa.
Our The sharp rise in commodity prices the way we source our materials, develop Comfort and Surf fabric conditioner meant we had to absorb an additional our brands and make our products, to the brands have performed strongly since 2.4 billion of costs.
Despite this, our way they are used and disposed of by our being introduced in Australasia, South operating profit was broadly in line with consumers.
Its basic premise is that in a Africa and the Philippines.
4 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors About Unilever At the same time we are strengthening global scale.
We see the emergence of benefiting from the changes: last year, our portfolio.
Following the integration a culture rooted in strong values but with Unilevers share price rose 14% on the of the Sara Lee personal care business a sharper performance edge vital if we AEX, making it the markets best and Alberto Culver, we are now acquiring are to succeed in todays markets.
performing stock in 2011. the Russian personal care company, Concern Kalina, increasing our ability to To support the transformation, we also 2012 will be a tough year.
But we are well compete in the personal care market.
continue to invest heavily in our people prepared, and thanks to the dedication Alberto Culver was Unilevers biggest and their development.
Last year, for of our 171,000 wonderful employees we acquisition in ten years and we have example, we were proud to break ground are confident that we can continue to moved quickly to capitalise on these new on a new state-of-the-art training facility outperform our markets and deliver assets.
Within nine months, we had in Singapore.
This 5.6hectare site will act sustainable growth and long-term value introduced TRESemm into Brazil, Simple as a leading development centre for our to all stakeholders.
into the United States and Motions into emerging markets business.
South Africa great brands and fantastic examples of speed in action.
So we look back on a year of progress, Paul Polman measured both by strong results and Chief Executive Officer We are also changing the organisation.
Unilever is Today we are more agile, more consumer moving from a company fit to compete responsive and better able to leverage to one that is fit to win.
Shareholders are UNILEVER LEADERSHIP EXECUTIVE ULE 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 1 Paul Polman Chief Executive Officer 2 Doug Baillie 3 Professor Genevive Berger 4 Kevin Havelock 5 Jean-Marc Hut Chief Human Resources Officer Chief Research & Development Officer Refreshment Chief Financial Officer 6 Alan Jope 7 Kees Kruythoff 8 Dave Lewis 9 Harish Manwani North Asia North America Personal Care Chief Operating Officer 10 A ntoine fide Saint-Affrique 11 Pier Luigi Sigismondi 12 Keith Weed 13 Jan Zijderveld Foods Chief Supply Chain Officer Chief Marketing and Europe Communication Officer Board member For ULE biographies, please go to page 35.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5 5
