10 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Chief Executives review We are gaining or holding market share in most of our major markets and are leading our competitors in the drive to migrate customers to smartphones and data packages.
Financial review of the year Europe We have performed well this year, combining a better Organic service revenue in Europe was down 0.4% during the operational performance with good strategic progress.
This represents a good recovery Organic service revenue growth improved during the year, on last year -3.8% and is the result of two different trends: with a strong result from emerging markets and signs of the more stable economies of northern Europe Germany, UK, renewed growth in some parts of Europe.
Netherlands were up 2.7%, while the rest of Europe was down 2.9% as a result of the ongoing macroeconomic Customers have adopted data services in increasing numbers, challenges.
Data revenue growth continued to be strong, but as smartphones proliferate and the tablet market begins was offset by continued voice price declines and cuts to mobile to take off.
Our network investment is becoming a key termination rates MTRs.
differentiator, as we are leading the migration to smartphones in most of our European operations.
Through this and our Organic EBITDA for Europe was down 3.7% and the EBITDA continued stronger commercial focus, we are growing our margin fell 1.7 percentage points as a result of the decline in market share again in most of our markets.
revenue, ongoing competitive activity and higher commercial costs as we accelerated smartphone adoption.
However, markets remain competitive and the economic environment, particularly across southern Europe, is AMAP challenging.
We continue to keep a tight rein on costs Organic service revenue growth in AMAP was 9.5%, and working capital, allowing us to maintain our levels accelerating through the year to a level of 11.8% in Q4.
Our of investment while again delivering a strong free cash two major businesses, India and Vodacom, reported growth of flow performance.
Our performance in India has been driven by increasing voice penetration and a more stable Group revenue for the year was up 3.2% to 45.9 billion, with pricing environment.
In South Africa, Vodacom continues to be Group service revenue up 2.1% on an organic basis and up highly successful in promoting data services.
Group EBITDA margin fell 1.1 percentage points, reflecting continuing weakness across southern Europe, Organic EBITDA was up 7.5% with EBITDA margin falling 0.6 higher growth in lower margin markets, and the increased percentage points.
The two main factors behind the margin investment in migrating customers to higher value decline were the adverse impact from higher recurring licence smartphones.
As a result, EBITDA fell 0.4% year-on-year.
fee costs in India and the change in regional mix from the strong growth in India.
Group adjusted operating profit rose 3.1% to 11.8 billion, at the top end of our guidance range after allowing for currency Verizon Wireless exchange rate movements and despite the additional costs Our US associate, Verizon Wireless, has continued to perform incurred by Verizon Wirelesss iPhone launch.
Organic service revenue was up 5.8% and EBITDA drivers were good growth in the Africa, Middle East and Asia was up 6.7%, with good growth in customers and strong data Pacific region AMAP and a strong performance from take-up.
In Q4, Verizon Wireless launched a CDMA version of Verizon Wireless.
the iPhone, ending the exclusivity of its main competitor.
Our share of profits from Verizon Wireless amounted to 4.6 billion, We recorded impairment charges of 6.1 billion relating to up 8.5%.
our businesses in Spain, Greece, Portugal, Italy and Ireland which were primarily driven by higher discount rates given Delivering a more valuable Vodafone sharply increased interest rates.
The impairment in Spain In November 2010 we announced an updated strategy, represented approximately half of the total.
designed to build on the progress made during my first two years as CEO.
There are four main elements to the strategy to Free cash flow was 7.0 billion, at the top end of our mediumbuild a more valuable Vodafone: term guidance as a result of our continued financial discipline and a strong working capital performance.
Capital expenditure Focus on key areas of growth potential: was 6.2 billion, broadly flat on last year and in line with our Deliver value and efficiency from scale: target, as we focused on widening our data coverage and Generate liquidity or free cash flow from non-controlled improving network performance.
interests: and Apply rigorous capital discipline to investment decisions.
Adjusted earnings per share was 16.75 pence, up 4.0% on last year, reflecting higher profitability and lower shares in issue I am pleased to say that we are making good progress in as a result of the ongoing 2.8 billion buyback programme.
The Board is recommending a final dividend per share of 6.05 pence, to give total dividends per share for the year of 8.90 pence, up 7.1% year-on-year.
B Bu us si in ne es ss s re rev vi ie ew w Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 11 Group organic service revenue growth % 2.1 0.3 1.6 2009 2010 2011 Focus on five key areas of growth potential shareholder, for 6.8 billion.
These three transactions Mobile data: data revenue was up 26.4% year-on-year to crystallised significant value for shareholders, with 6.8 billion 5.1 billion, and now represents 12.0% of Group service of proceeds being committed to share buyback programmes.
We have continued to increase the penetration of smartphones into our customer base as these are a key driver Applying rigorous capital discipline of data adoption.
to investment decisions We continue to apply capital discipline to our investment Network quality is absolutely central to our data strategy and decisions.
We apply rigorous commercial analysis and we have made further significant investments over the last demanding hurdle rates to ensure that any investment or 12 months to improve the speed and reliability of our coverage.
corporate activity will enhance shareholder returns.
We will Based on third party tests performed in 16 of our main 3G continue to undertake regular reviews of Vodafones entire markets, we rank first for overall data performance in 13 markets.
portfolio to ensure that we optimise value for shareholders.
Enterprise: revenue in the overall European enterprise Prospects for 2012 financial year segment was up 0.5% year-on-year and represented 29.5% We enter the new financial year in a strong position.
We are of our European service revenue.
Within this, Vodafone Global gaining or holding market share in most of our major markets, Enterprise, which serves our multinational customers, and are leading our competitors in the drive to migrate delivered revenue growth of around 8% thanks to some customers to smartphones and data packages.
We will important customer wins and increased penetration of continue to focus on our key growth areas of data, enterprise existing customer accounts.
This market offers attractive and emerging markets, while maintaining investment in growth opportunities, as multinationals and smaller network quality and the development of new services.
companies alike look not only to manage costs but also to move to converged platforms and improve mobile However, we continue to face challenging macroeconomic connectivity for their workforces.
conditions across our southern European footprint, and we expect further regulated cuts to mobile termination rates to Emerging markets: the Group has an attractive level of have a negative impact of about 2.5 percentage points on exposure to emerging markets where penetration is lower service revenue growth in the 2012 financial year.
and GDP growth higher than in the more mature markets of western Europe.
The Group EBITDA margin is expected to continue to decline, albeit at a lower rate than in the 2011 financial year.
The main Total communications: we continue to develop our fixed driver is the persistent revenue decline in some of our southern line capabilities to meet our customers total communications European operations.
Revenue from our fixed line operations amounted to 3.4 billion, up 5.2% year-on-year.
Adjusted operating profit is expected to be in the range of 11.0 billion to 11.8 billion, reflecting the loss of our New services: machine-to-machine platforms M2M, 0.5 billion share of profits from SFR as a result of the disposal mobile financial services and near-field communications, of our 44% interest.
among other new services, all offer potential for incremental growth.
During the year we made good progress in our Free cash flow is expected to be in the range of 6.0 to M2M business and continued the growth and expansion of 6.5 billion, reflecting continued strong cash generation our mobile money transfer platform, which now has over offset by the 0.3 billion reduction in dividends from SFR and 20 million customers and is currently being trialled in India.
China Mobile Limited in the 2012 financial year, and the more limited working capital improvements available going forward.
Deliver value and efficiency from scale Capital expenditure is expected to be at a similar level to last The current composition of the Group has enabled us to year on a constant currency basis.
increase efficiency and achieve favourable comparable cost positions in many markets.
During the year we also established We are well positioned to continue to deliver value to a more formal relationship with Verizon to leverage our shareholders through the achievement of our medium-term purchasing power across a wide range of suppliers.
targets for revenue, free cash flow and dividend growth: our commitment to investment in profitable growth areas: and our Generate liquidity or free cash flow from clear capital discipline.
noncontrolled interests During the year we agreed disposals of our 3.2% stake in China Mobile Limited and our SoftBank interests for a total cash consideration of 7.4 billion.
Subsequent to the year end, we announced the sale of our 44% holding in SFR, the number Vittorio Colao two mobile operator in France, to Vivendi, the majority Chief Executive
