04 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Overview by Chief Executive Keith Cochrane Driving growth The Weir Way New product introductions, further benefits from cross-divisional collaboration The Group has and an expansion of our global sales and service footprint contributed to these successfully advanced results.
We also benefited from accelerating our upstream capacity expansion plans announced in March last year and our focus on growing sales of the its strategy in 2011, broader product portfolio.
Successful delivery of our growth plans is due to extending its positions the efforts of the more than 14,000 people who work for Weir and I want to in the mining, oil and thank each of them for their contribution.
gas and power markets Against an uncertain macro-economic environment, conditions in our two principal markets remained positive.
In mining, continued growth in emerging and adding business market demand alongside forecast shortages of key commodities triggered a capability.
Combined significant pick-up in capital spending with a number of greenfield projects now with effective execution underway across South America, Australia and the Asia-Pacific region.
In oil and gas, North American upstream markets experienced further rapid growth from in rapidly growing onshore drilling in oil and liquids rich shale formations with US domestic oil markets, this has production at its highest level for nearly a decade and over US$80 billion of investment by exploration and production majors in this sector.
In power resulted in a strong markets, following the Fukushima incident, safety assessments delayed new performance, achieving nuclear developments and low levels of conventional generation new build in two years our and general industrial activity continued in North America and Europe.
ambition set out in June 2011 performance 2010 to double 2009 Overall order input, in constant currency, was up 30% with original equipment input up 36% as expansion of the North American frac fleet continued and profits in five years.
procurement for greenfield mining projects commenced.
Aftermarket input was up 25% as we benefited from increased activity levels across our main markets and market share gains across the broader minerals product portfolio.
Group revenues were up 40% on a constant currency basis, while the proportion of revenues from original equipment sales increased to 48% from 42% last year.
Our upstream oil and gas operations more than doubled their revenues for the second year in succession.
Together these contributed to a record profits performance.
While operating margins were impacted by the swing to lower margin original equipment, this investment will provide an increasing installed base to drive future higher margin aftermarket opportunities.
05 During 2011 we continued to make good Across our divisions a number of notable successes contributed to the financial progress against our key priorities: performance.
In Minerals, significant contract awards were achieved in all mining markets, with South America particularly strong.
The division benefited from Took new major products such as the Destiny and Warman WBH pumps growing sales of our enlarged mine dewatering portfolio and a broader range successfully to market.
of ancillary products and services.
In upstream oil and gas, rapid market acceptance of the new Destiny pump, combined with capacity and supply Established the Weir Advanced Research Centre to provide technological competitive chain expansion, helped to gain market share in the fast growing North American advantage.
Power & Industrial achieved a landmark contract win for nuclear control valves in South Korea and the 2010 acquisitions have contributed positively to Captured market share with strong growth in sales of the dewatering portfolio and ancillary divisional performance.
products and services in minerals markets and in upstream oil and gas markets through new During 2011, we continued to invest in growth plans with around 2,000 new products and operational responsiveness.
Investment in research and development increased Accelerated growth with strategically aligned by 24% to 18m, whilst capital expenditure of 95m supported growth plans and value-enhancing acquisitions in South including capacity expansion at Weir SPM with a further US$75m investment Korea and the North American upstream in capacity now underway for that operation.
We generated free cashflow from continuing operations of 29m after significant Extended the Groups presence in fast growing economies through the growth investment in working capital and fixed assets to support business growth.
of the Indian and Chinese operations.
Despite this investment, our return on capital employed increased by over 2% as we leveraged our global operating platform in delivering this growth.
Invested over 95m in capital expenditure to improve operating efficiency, customer Following the year end, the balance sheet has been strengthened by the issue focus and extend manufacturing and service of attractively priced long term debt to refinance short term bank debt taken on capability including: to fund the Seaboard acquisition and provide additional financial resources.
Investment in manufacturing and service We retain financial flexibility to pursue both organic growth initiatives and capacity in North American upstream further acquisition opportunities in line with our strategy.
operations to address demand for pressure pumping and related flow control equipment Growing the global sales and service Group strategy and business model footprint with new facilities in Europe, The Group will continue to extend its position in the minerals, oil and gas and Africa, North America and Asia-Pacific.
power sectors and aims to deliver growth ahead of these end markets.
These are high growth, long cycle markets with positive fundamentals.
This strategy Continuing operations is delivered through sustainable organic growth supplemented by targeted acquisitions consistent with our disciplined financial criteria.
We invest in people, Revenue technology and infrastructure to develop and maintain the strong and lean operating platform from which we grow market share and create competitive 2,292m advantage.
Our strategy is underpinned by our three pillars - Innovation, Up 40% Collaboration and Global Capability.
1 Operating profit 413m Up 33% 1 Continuing operations adjusted to exclude exceptional items & intangibles amortisation Group Executive pictured From left to right: Gavin Nicol Director of Operations Support and Development, Alan Mitchelson Legal & Commercial Director, Keith Cochrane Chief Executive, Steve Noon Oil & Gas Divisional Managing Director, Pauline Lafferty Director of Human Resources, Dean Jenkins Power & Industrial Divisional Managing Director, Scot Smith Minerals Divisional Managing Director, Jon Stanton Finance Director 06 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Weir provides mission critical engineering solutions that can operate in highly 3-fold strategy abrasive environments and require specialised service and support, often in INNOvATIvE remote locations.
Engineering expertise, supply chain quality and global support capability provide the operating context for our business model.
This focuses SOLUTIONS on supplying innovative and highly engineered original equipment to grow an 1 installed base which in turn provides future aftermarket opportunities, enabling exposure to customers capital and operating budgets and providing resilience COLLABORATIvE in cyclical markets.
MINDSET Driving growth 2 The Group has made good progress against its strategic priorities throughout the year.
Each division introduced new products during the period, including GLOBAL the launch of enhanced core products for the Oil & Gas and Minerals Divisions.
CAPABILITy We have invested in engineering resources across our divisions, recruiting more 3 engineers and developing Group-wide engineering initiatives.
The Weir Advanced Research Centre, aimed at developing breakthrough technologies in the form of new products and enhancements to existing products for our key markets was established during the year and a number of projects are underway.
All three divisions have worked together to ensure that the full capability of the Group can be brought to bear on the markets that we serve with the upstream oil and gas sector an area of particular focus through the work of the Oil & Gas Forum, which brings together cross-divisional technical and market expertise to target growth opportunities.
1 Earnings per share In December 2011, we extended our presence in the fast growing upstream oil 133.6p 140 and gas markets with the acquisition of Seaboard, a leading US manufacturer of 120 100.4p wellhead solutions and in February 2012 completed the acquisition of Novatech, 100 a US supplier of pressure pump expendables.
Seaboard broadens our product 80 64.1p portfolio and service footprint in attractive conventional and unconventional 60 markets and acquisition integration is now well underway.
The acquisition of 40 a majority stake in HIM Tech, now Weir International, a South Korean valves 20 manufacturer, expands our control valve expertise and provides access to the 2009 2010 2011 domestic market and Koreas successful international engineering contractors.
Our priority of driving growth in our Indian and Chinese businesses has 1 Continuing operations adjusted to exclude progressed, with a 65% increase in like-for-like revenues and a growing exceptional items & intangibles amortisation contribution to the best-cost sourcing activities of the Group.
This progress has been supported by an ongoing focus on operational excellence and functional initiatives.
A number of procurement activities were introduced during 2011 which will increase the efficiency of the supply chain in 2012 and enable the Group to better leverage its purchasing power.
Improving metrics for the Weir Commercial System, Weir Production System and Net Promoter Score demonstrate our continued focus on customer service and the application of a lean philosophy across our operating platform.
People Keeping our people safe remains our number one priority.
Following a strong performance in 2010, our safety record during 2011 was disappointing.
The imperative to improve led to a reinvigorated focus on safety across the Group and an improved performance in the second half of the year.
An Environment, Health and Safety EHS excellence committee has been established under the leadership of the director of operations support and development.
The committee has introduced a number of important initiatives to ensure adherence to high and globally consistent standards in health and safety practices across our operations.
07 Strong progress was made during 2011 on the priority of developing the Around the world capability of our people as the Group continues to grow in size, complexity and Top Lord Smith, Chairman and Keith geographical reach.
Key senior management appointments were made focused Cochrane break ground for the next phase of capacity expansion at Weir SPM in Fort on operational support and talent development.
A consistent management and Worth, Texas, flanked by Steve Noon, Divisional leadership development framework aligned to the Weir strategy was also Managing Director, Weir Oil & Gas left of established during the year, creating a talent pipeline to support the present picture and Paul Coppinger, President, and future capability needs of our global operations.
Weir SPM right of picture.
Finally, I am proud of the professional and responsive way in which our people Bottom Keith Cochrane lays the foundation stone for a new block at Gokul Primary School, acted to evacuate safely colleagues and contractors from Libya at the onset of Hubli, India, part of Weirs commitment to unrest in February 2011. supporting local education projects.
Naveen Ganzu, Country Head, Weir India is in the Outlook foreground.
The Group remains well positioned to benefit from the medium term growth prospects of our end markets despite the uncertain global economic environment: Demand for minerals, oil and gas and power is underpinned by the continuing population growth and industrialisation of major developing economies such as China and India.
The development of the worlds growing unconventional oil and gas resources will provide greater energy security for many countries.
Industrialisation, environmental concerns and ageing power plants will accelerate the need for new and refurbished power infrastructure in both the developed and developing world.
We will maintain our focus on our three strategic pillars and continue to drive operational excellence throughout the Group.
In 2012, we aim to grow ahead of our end markets by: Successfully integrating Seaboard and Novatech to leverage products, skills and geographic reach.
Delivering on our Weir SPM multi-site expansion plans and adding capacity in the Minerals Division.
Building on the new products momentum with a specific focus on Oil & Gas Forum initiatives.
Enhancing supply chain performance to drive operational efficiency and increase customer responsiveness.
Improving operational and safety performance through ongoing investment and the work of the EHS excellence committee.
The Group enters 2012 with a strong orderbook and with our clear strategy and flexible business model we expect a year of further good progress consistent with current consensus expectations.
Keith Cochrane Chief Executive 29 February 2012
