1 Overview 2 Directors report and business review 3 Governance 4 Financial statements Directors report and business review Chief Executives review Chief Executives review This year, the Group has delivered another good profit performance.
Both businesses continued to create valuethrough their distinct strategies, with Travel delivering record profit in the year and further profit growth and strong cash generation from the High Street.
During the year, we have delivered another good profit Total Group sales were 1,273m 2010: 1,312m with performance across the Group, now our seventh LFL sales down five per cent.
Travel sales grew by one consecutive year of profit growth in what has been a per cent to 455m, down three per cent on a LFL challenging time for retailers generally.
High Street sales were down five per cent at consistency is seen in both businesses, and whilst 818m and down six per cent on a LFL basis they have different strategies, they both continue to excluding Entertainment LFL sales were down deliver profit growth and good cash generation.
delivered another record profit performance, with Travel delivered another good performance, with High Street delivering its seventh year of consistent 1 operating profit increasing by eight per cent to 57m, profit growth.
sales up one per cent and a further improvement in The Group continues to be highly cash generative gross margin.
Travel is well-placed for recovery when andhas a strong balance sheet.
This strong position the economy improves and passenger numbers enabled us to announce on 31 August 2011 our return to growth.
We continue to identify further space intention to return a further 50m of cash to opportunities and have opened 35 units in the UK with shareholders via an on-market share buyback.
We are a further 35 planned for 2011 12.
We have opened or proposing a final dividend of 15.3p, this makes a full won 60 units in our growing international business, year dividend of 22.5p, an increase of 16 per cent on with 15 opened in the year and a further 25 planned to last year.
We continue to invest in the business and open during 2011 12. innew opportunities, as well as returning cash to High Street continues to deliver consistent profit shareholders through both our progressive dividend growth and strong cash generation with operating policy and share buybacks.
Since the 2007 financial 1 profit of 52m, up two per cent on the prior year.
year we have returned over 360m to shareholders, Wecontinue with our strategy to rebalance the mix over half the current market value of the Group.
Going ofthe business towards our core categories, whilst forward, the cash generative nature of the Group will reducing our presence in entertainment.
Cost savings be a key driver of shareholder value.
of 14m were delivered, 3m ahead of plan.
A further The Group has a strong and consistent record of 11m of cost savings have been identified making a profitgrowth as well as cash generation.
Our profit total of 25m of cost savings over the next three years.
performance demonstrates the Groups relative 2 Earnings per share increased by 12 per cent to 51.4p resilience in the current climate.
This reflects the increase in profit, a average transaction value is relatively low which lower basic weighted average number of shares in means the business is less impacted than higher issue following the share buyback, and a decrease in ticket retailers in times of economic uncertainty.
the effective tax rate from 23 per cent to 21 per cent.
InTravel, our turnover-related rental contracts give us a partial profit shield.
WHSmith has consistently The Group remains highly cash generative and has demonstrated its resilience and ability to grow profits astrong balance sheet.
Net funds were 41m at 3 and generate cash in varying trading environments.
Group free cash flow was 96m As a Group we are well-positioned forfuture growth 2010: 89m.
The Group has a committed multiwhen the economy recovers.
currency revolving credit facility of 70m through toJanuary 2016.
During the year we completed a Group summary 55m return of cash to shareholders.
1 Group profit from trading operations increased five per cent on the prior year to 109m and the Group generated profit before tax of 93m 2010: 89m, anincrease of four per cent on the prior year.
1 Group profit from trading operations and High Street and Travel operating profit are stated after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges and before central costs, interest and taxation.
3 Net cash flow from operating activities adjusted for capital expenditure, pension deficit funding and net interest received.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 7
