Chief Executives review We see a significant opportunity for Whitbread, building on our good returns on capital and the availability of quality sites.
Whitbread is a hugely people A successful year intensive, consumer-facing Whitbread is the UKs largest business, with a growing hotel and restaurant group with network of hotels, restaurants brand leadership in hotels and and coffee shops across the UK coffee shops.
In the UK our 35,000 servingmillions of customers every employees serve over tenmillion month.
We also have exciting customers each month, in some opportunities in our international 2,000 outlets.
I would like to take business.
Our strategy is to create this opportunity to thank all our substantial shareholder value employees for their hard work and through investing in the continued contribution to our success.
growth of our strong brands, with an ever sharper focus on improving Premier Inns strategy to drive our returns on incremental capital.
occupancy by targeting leisure customers has proven successful The scale of this opportunity is with our like for like occupancy demonstrated by our new five year improving 6.6 percentage points to growth milestones.
Our customers 76.2%, leading to a revpar increase will always remain at the heart of of 8.2%.
The strategy focuses on our business and we aim to win four key levers: increased advertising market share by offering better and promotion, dynamic pricing, value and a great experience, widened reservation distribution especially by having a well trained and increased sales activity.
We are and highly engaged team of on track to achieve our occupancy Whitbread people.
Our business target of 80% and have driven an philosophy is summarised by our increase in like for like occupancy customer heartbeat schematic both midweek, by 4.5 percentage on page 8. points, and at the weekend, by 9.7 percentage points.
The drive Whitbread delivered good sales to improve leisure performance and profit growth in 2010 11 has resulted in a mix change with despite the challenging economic increased like for like occupancy at environment and tougher the weekend now 69.4% which has comparatives in the second half slightly reduced our average room of the year.
Group total sales grew rate by 1.2% to 54.19. strongly by 11.5% to 1,599.6million with Premier Inn up 10.9% to Our restaurants have delivered like 698.6million, Costa up 24.7% for like sales growth of 3.3% in the to 425.0million and Restaurants year, driven by like for like covers up 2.7% to 478.7million.
We have continued to focus on value for money offers, Group underlying profit before tax including 2 for 10 in Brewers Fayre, increased by 20.1% to 287.1million 2 for 11 in Table Table and meal deals 2009 10: 239.1million, with at Beefeater.
Last year these value underlying diluted EPS increasing offers saw a growth of 10.9% and by 20.1% to 116.1p.
accounted for over 30% of all covers.
We completed the refurbishment of Like for like sales increased 130 restaurants last year.
Return on 1 across all businesses.
At Group capital in our Hotels and Restaurants level, like for like sales grew by business in 2010 11 stands at 12.3%, 6.6%, Premier Inn increased by up from 10.9% in 2009 10.
Costa delivered a like for like sales Costa has continued its outstanding increase of 7.8%.
performance, with pre exceptional operating profits up 38.4% to At the year end, net debt was 50.1million, worldwide system 487.9million compared to sales up 27.8% at 659.0million and 513.4million last year.
an increase in like for like sales of 4 1 7.8%.
Costas return on capital has Coffeeheaven, the Central European risen from 36.7% to 42.2%.
business we acquired last year, has gone well and the performance in In March 2011, we announced the key Polish market is ahead of the acquisition of Coffee Nation our expectations with like for like for 59.5million and our plan to sales up by 6.1%.
We now have 73 launch a new brand, Costa Express, stores in Poland and expect to have targeting the self-serve coffee bar approximately 100 stores in 2012 13. sector.
Consumer research has identified that the number one driver Building on success of purchase is convenience and We will continue to build and grow Costa Express will directly target our strong brands as we seek to those customers who want great strengthen our customer proposition tasting coffee on the go.
It provides and accelerate the expansion of our Costa with access to new types network to win market share and of location and creates a growth increase profits.
In 2011 12 we are opportunity in the UKs emerging increasing our rate of expansion with self-serve coffee bar sector.
This around 4,000 new room openings, sector currently comprises around 14 restaurants and 300 Costa stores 2,000 units, of which Coffee Nation worldwide.
Total capital expenditure operates approximately 900.
We in 2011 12 will be around 350million, have set a target of 3,000 Costa up from 202million in 2009 10.
Express units across the UK over the next five years.
Looking ahead, key areas of activity include: During 2010 11, we continued to improving our insight to deliver invest in disciplined growth.
We a better customer experience: opened 22 hotels, 2,138 rooms and stronger value-led offers: eight new restaurants.
As announced innovating across our brand in September 2010, 633 rooms left propositions: and the estate following our decision making our brands more to exit our ten year agreement on accessible through increased 14 hotels run by Roadchef plus one distribution channels.
Our total UK portfolio at the year end was 590 hotels and We continue to build brand 43,219 rooms.
Our international preference amongst consumers business now has five hotels 1,076 with both Premier Inn and Costa rooms with 816 rooms in Dubai, ranked number one in their sector 105 in Bangalore, and 155 in Dublin.
Better customer insight Occupancy in the three Dubai hotels is fundamental to our strategy has risen from 38% in 2009 10 to to build strong brands and we 55% in 2010 11.
We have a further use a number of mechanisms to committed pipeline of four hotels determine and analyse customer with two in Abu Dhabi, one in Qatar needs and satisfaction.
A key tool within our hotels and In Costa we expanded significantly restaurants is the Guest Recommend in the UK and internationally.
In the Survey that captures feedback from last year, Costa opened a total of over 800,000 customers annually.
347 stores taking the total number Costas loyalty programme, the 1. of stores to 1,217 in the UK and 654 Coffee Club card, provides rich data Return on capital is the return on invested capital that is calculated by taking internationally.
In the UK we opened on over 1.2million active cardholders underlying profit before interest and tax 148 net new stores in the year, of offering valuable demographic for the year divided by net assets excluding which 79 are Costa operated and information and promotional debt, taxation liabilities and the pension 69 are franchise stores.
The card is now deficit at the balance sheet date.
For we opened 123 net new stores used in 41% of all transactions, with Costa, the 59.5 million of capital invested of which 47 are equity and 76 cardholders average spend 6% in March 2011 on the acquisition of Coffee are franchise.
The integration of above non cardholders.
Nation is excluded from the calculation.
5 Chief Executives review Our value-led offers have helped with smaller public area space drive market outperformance giving us access to a broader during challenging economic times.
Targeted at the leisure customer, Premier Inns Premier Offers, with Costa continues to revamp its rates from 29, sold over onemillion store format.
Its Metro design is room nights in 2010 11 which is achieving strong results across six more than double 2009 10.
We stores in central London.
The first have also successfully trialled a Metro store outside London will 19 price point to drive occupancy open in Leeds in Summer 2011 and and secure incremental revenue in a further seven stores are planned periods of low demand.
Costa has also opened a new Provincial We continue to enhance our format in Nottingham and Oxford, dynamic pricing system to improve with plans to roll out elements of our capability to manage rates the design across the estate.
We will be using this increasingly Improving our distribution channels sophisticated tool to achieve more is a key focus as we work to make efficient pricing across the estate, our brands easily accessible to both enabling us to improve midweek existing and potential customers.
revpar and extend Premier Offers.
In Premier Inn, the Business Account Card enables us to increase our The increased occupancy in our brand footprint and build a higher hotels has also had a positive quality customer base.
It has impact on restaurant sales, attracted major corporate accounts enhanced by our Premier Inn such as RWE npower and Balfour 22 Meal Deal, which accounted Beatty.
We currently have over for over 10million of sales in 16,600 accounts and since 2006 07, our hotels and restaurants.
revenue from Business Accounts has grown from 75million to We have had good success in 180million ex VAT.
value for money food promotions in our restaurant brands.
We will We continue to increase the apply the same strategy to drink number of bookings via automated and continue innovating our food channels including Premierinn.
com, and drink offers to attract more which now account for over 70% customers and encourage greater of all reservations.
We believe our restaurants 2011, we launched the Premier Inn have the potential to be best in App which has generated over class.
To achieve this objective 1.3million of revenue in its first we have appointed a Managing four months.
Director of Restaurants, within Whitbread Hotels and Restaurants, We have a broad distribution to drive strategic focus and system in Costa with a balanced operational excellence.
portfolio across high streets, retail parks, concessions, airports, rail Innovation is critical to building and other travel hubs as well as strong brands and we have a an increasing number of stores in number of new concepts which new locations such as universities are being rolled out in 2011 12. and hospitals.
In addition to the Premier Inns automated check-in traditional full store format, we are kiosks are proving a success.
They also developing more innovative are currently in 33 hotels and will distribution channels, such as be installed in all new build solus Costa Express and Drive Thru, hotels.
We are also developing a which will enable us to extend new mini solus format, which is the brands reach and increase typically between 60-80 rooms accessibility for the customer.
6 Our emphasis is on giving customers value for money, winning market share and keeping a tight control of costs.
New growth milestones Good Together corporate Costa to 3,500 stores worldwide We have conducted a thorough responsibility programme over the next five years, in addition assessment of the growth potential Our corporate responsibility to our existing goal of expanding for Premier Inn and Costa.
As programme, which we call Good Costa Express to 3,000 units.
This a result we believe there is Together, encompasses a range is an exciting and profitable plan to opportunity to grow faster and of objectives to ensure that build on Whitbreads success and further and we have set new Whitbread is a force for good in our to create substantial value for our milestones for the next five years communities.
of at least 65,000 Premier Inn UK opened our second green hotel and rooms and 3,500 Costa stores our first low carbon restaurant, a Whitbreads people worldwide.
We have a committed 220 cover Beefeater Grill in Burgess Since Ive joined the Company pipeline of 10,500 Premier Inn UK Hill, Sussex.
Costa opened its first Ive met many of the people who rooms including 4,000 scheduled energy efficient store in Basingstoke work for Whitbread up and down to be built in 2011 12.
We anticipate in October which we anticipate the country and overseas.
They that around 40% of our growth will will reduce energy consumption by are on the front line in the delivery come from new catchment areas 30%.
In March this year we were of an excellent level of service to where Premier Inn is not currently awarded the Best Initiative for a our customers.
A significant proportion of large business at the Climate Week impressed by the commitment of rooms growth will be via the joint Awards for our innovative landfill Whitbreads people, both in our many outlets and in the support site model and therefore we expect diversion initiative.
Again, I would like to thank to open between 80-100 new them for their efforts over the last restaurants over the next five years.
Whitbread employees have year and look forward to building achieved around 2,500 There is a medium-term growth qualifications through the an even more successful future opportunity for Premier Inn apprenticeship and skills for life alongside them.
internationally and, building on our programmes.
As we grow our outlet current five hotels in India and the numbers, we continue to offer jobs Middle East, our newly appointed and training opportunities and in Managing Director of Premier 2011 12 we will create approximately Inn International is developing a 2,500 new jobs in the UK.
more detailed strategy for growth.
This strategy will comprise a new Current trading and outlook capital lite approach to improve Growth in our like for like sales our return on capital and better remains firmly positive, although Andy Harrison manage our risk.
at a lower level than that achieved Chief Executive in the fourth quarter of 2010 11.
Costa is the nations favourite Despite a more challenging 27 April 2011 coffee shop brand and has grown consumer economy, we are to become the sector leader within confident that we will continue to the UK and the second largest outperform, based on the strength international coffee shop operator.
of our brands and our customer We have set a new target to double propositions.
Our emphasis is on the size of the business in the giving customers value for money, next five years, with system sales winning market share and keeping growth to around 1.3 billion and a tight control of costs.
We expect continuing rapid growth in our We see a significant opportunity UK store network with even faster for Whitbread, building on our international growth.
Our equity good returns on capital and the business model will grow somewhat availability of quality sites.
We are faster than our franchise business.
already growing faster and will add around 4,000 new Premier Inn The Groups planned capital UK rooms and around 300 Costa expenditure of around 350million stores this year and we have set in 2011 12 is indicative of the level new five year milestones.
These of investment in subsequent years, milestones will increase the number which will be funded from existing of Premier Inn UK rooms by 50% operating cash flow and facilities.
