06 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Chief Executives review Overview We have delivered a decent performance this year despite the challenging economic conditions.
Further improvements in customer service and a return to like-for-like growth contributed to strong trading profit growth.
Our ongoing focus on operational efficiency has enabled us to both investin future growth and deliver another increase in the trading margin of 120 basis points as well as delivering strongcash generation.
During the year we announced our intention to exit some businesses and signed or completed most of the majordisposals that were planned.
This will allow In summary us to focusall our resources on our strategically strong businesses going forward.
Group results Exit of non-core businesses largely During the year our markets broadly stabilised, driven completed in the year.
principally by improving New Residential construction and the more resilient Repair, Maintenance and Improvement Improving customer service and markets.
The Group reported revenue up 3 per cent to 13,558 million Focus on organic expansion 2010: 13,203 million.
Like-for-like revenue was ahead by .
5per cent which, coupled with an ongoing focus on protecting gross margins and careful cost control, led to a strong operating performance.
We have continued to focus hard on achieving a better mix of products and vendors and despite considerable pressure on selling prices the gross margin was 20 basis points higher at 27.9 per cent 2010: 27.7 per cent.
We also continued to keep the cost base under tight control and operating costs excluding exceptional items were reduced by 45 million.
Consequently the Group experienced strong operating leverage from incremental revenue and Group trading profit in the year wasup 38 per cent to 622 million 2010: 450 million.
Value creation model Operational Gain share of existing customers and gain Strategy performance new customers Business Within CrossBest Best Preferred Resource unit business business customer branch vendor allocation strategies units unit service staff relationships profitable growth Most efficient operating model For Value creation in action see pages 1017 Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 07 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 During the year we continued to manage the balance sheet Operational performance conservatively.
Cash was tightly controlled enabling us Our objective for each business unit strategy is to improve toinvest in additional capital expenditure of 93 million customer service by developing and training our staff so 2010:84 million.
thatwe can win market share from our competition.
Therefore in every branch we want to gain a greater share Strategy update ofour existing customers business and also attract new customers by providing the best local customer service, Our strategy remains unchanged: focusing Wolseley through delivered by the best branch staff in the industry.
a top down resource allocation process on those businesses Underpinning this is an efficient operating model which which already have, or are capable of market leadership ensures we are competitive and can attract favourable terms which will give us the best returns in the long term.
Here we have focused on establishing this we have developed bottom up detailed business unit preferred partnership relationships to achieve the most strategies tomake sure we grow these businesses faster competitive costs.
In short, we are driving a parallel path of resource allocation and performance management to Underpinning this is a performance review process which generate profitable growth which is outlined in our value continues to gain traction.
We now have good visibility down creation model opposite.
In addition, you can read about the to business unit level and also down into our 3,837 branches.
progress we aremaking on delivering the strategy on pages For example, in Ferguson for each branch we nowhave a 10 to 17. dashboard of performance for customer service, product availability, local market share performance and branch Resource allocation manager performance as well as key financial data.
Regular During the year we have re-run the resource allocation process customer feedback is now embedded in every business unit and we have disposed of a number of underperforming and it is informing our thinking and decisions every day.
businesses which we felt had insufficient scale or no clear There is a clear correlation in our business between engaged economic synergies with our major businesses.
These employees delivering excellent customer service and strong Performance Builder businesses included Brandon Hire financial results in a branch.
We are now therefore measuring andElectric Center in the UK and the plumbing and heating employee engagement on a regular basis.
This has improved business in Italy.
In July 2011 we also announced the sale of in the last year even in the tough markets we have had to Build Center in the UK and exclusive negotiations for the sale contend with.
So having the right staff, properly trained and of Brossette, our French plumbing and heating business.
developed and with a clear view on how we can build their Both transactions are subject to clearance from the careers long term is fundamental to our future success.
On completion the total also beginning to share best practices across our business consideration for the two transactions isexpected to be units and have increased our IT investment in projects that will 310million.
Completion of the above transactions will deliver better front line performance.
This includes sales force conclude Wolseleys significant business disposals planned productivity, pricing and trade terms management, following last years strategic review.
andproduct availability at the branch level.
Our business model also remains unchanged: we believe that delivering excellent customer service will allow us Priorities todeliver attractive levels of organic revenue growth whilstdriving sustainable profit and margin improvement.
Looking forward, we are well placed to exploit the significant Incombination with disciplined capital investment and tight growth opportunities in our chosen distribution markets.
control over working capital, this will result in strong cash Theperformance of the business is improving and we are ows.
Our markets are typically highly fragmented and have now getting good visibility down to a branch level across all some really exciting growth prospects.
We have some the key performance measures.
We know we still have great excellent businesses with strong market positions.
We will continue to invest, both organically and in value Lastly, I would like to reiterate Gareths comments about creating bolt-on acquisitions where we can generate allour staff.
I am very proud and lucky to lead this great synergies.
With acquisitions, our strong preference is for small organisation.
So I would like to take this opportunity to thank to medium sized businesses in our existing geographies, so our staff their commitment during another tough year has that we can integrate them rapidly into our strong businesses made all the difference to our results.
In line with this approach we made three small bolt-on acquisitions this year, including a small Waterworks business in the USA and two small building materials businesses in Denmark.
Overall, we believe this focused approach will deliver real value to our shareholders.
