08 Introduction Chief Executives Statement Atkins has delivered good results and we are well positioned for growth.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Introduction 09 Watch a video of Keith Clarke.
com video prelims2011 00:00 01:33 Business position Tighter UK Government spending affected We see a continued demand for services We are pleased to report that Atkins opportunities available in the UK market, where quality is a major determinant.
has delivered good results again in although the diversified nature of our At the same time, the drive towards a a challenging economic environment.
business provides some resilience to market low carbon economy, allied to the need for This was a transformational year for the fluctuations and a number of our businesses greater capacity, reliability and predictability Group, in which we proved our strategy benefit from technical barriers to entry.
from existing assets, will play to the is working.
We balanced our geographic There remain good opportunities for Atkins Groups strengths.
footprint with a North American where we can add real value to solve clients acquisition and continued to maintain problems through technical innovation.
I announced recently that I will retire as our focus on quality and agility.
chief executive at the end of July after The establishment of a partnership in the almost eight enjoyable years and I would These results demonstrate that we are Kingdom of Saudi Arabia added to our like to take this opportunity to thank all capable of navigating difficult economic long standing presence in the Middle East, my colleagues for their support over this conditions in many parts of the world in progressing our strategic objective period that has seen us transform the which we operate and that our business of diversification into larger infrastructure business.
I would also like to welcome model is robust.
Our acquisition in North projects and continued organic expansion Dr Uwe Krueger as my successor, who America has rebalanced our geographic in different geographies and market joined the Board on 14 June 2011. footprint and progressed our multi-skill, sectors in the region.
It is the most provides further opportunities as we see Priorities significant strategic development within increasing workload and growth returning As a people based business, our staff the Group over the past year and provides to the region.
are key to everything we do and, as such, an excellent platform for growth in the we continue to invest in and to develop largest economy in the world.
The Asia Pacific has been very busy with a their strengths.
integration has progressed well and we strong economy in China driving expansion are focusing on margin improvement and diversification as we improve our Our focus for 2011 12 revolves around across all our regional businesses.
service offering for the longer term.
actions to deliver our three strategic In Europe the differing stages of economic priorities: The acquisition precipitated a structural recovery have driven mixed performance, change to focus the business management with Scandinavia faring better, helped developing our high-performing and strategy on a regional model, which by a bolt-on acquisition broadening our businesses this report reflects.
addressing attractive sectors taking advantage of market We announced in February the creation opportunities.
of a strategic alliance n. triple.
a with French engineering consultancy Assystem We are confident of our business model to target nuclear new build opportunities, and strategy and, with the culture and as well as services for the entire nuclear skills within the Group, we are well placed fuel cycle.
The agreement marks a to continue to progress in the years ahead.
significant step forward in achieving our We have delivered good results again and aspiration to be the leading worldwide are now well positioned for growth.
nuclear infrastructure consultancy and a number of active international opportunities Keith Clarke CBE are being pursued.
We have continued to Chief Executive invest in niche acquisitions and strategic 15 June 2011 senior recruitment in the energy sector as we see potential for growth.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction
