com &KLHI [HFXWLYH 2IFHUnV VWUDWHJLF UHYLHZ March 2012 marks the tenth anniversary of the creation of Xstrata plc.
10 We have grown considerably in 10 years through Ten years on, our company is unrecognisable from our starting point as a $500 million minnow, with limited growth prospects, constrained nances major acquisitions and developing our industry and an uncertain future.
Xstrata is one of the largest diversied mining leading project pipeline companies in the world and we employ over 70,000 people in more than Acquire Tintaya and 1 3 of Cerrejon JV 20 countries.
Our vision for Xstrata 10 years ago was based on aset of convictions about Acquire Eland our industry and about the business model best placed to respond to the Platinum emerging trends we saw at that time.
Demand for commodities was undergoing a secular shift, driven by China, after a long period of declining IPO and acquire prices.
At the same time, we saw that the supply-side of our industry was Acquire 20% Acquire Enex Duiker severely constrained from a lack of investment, ageing operations and Acquire MIM Falconbridge stake Falconbridge coal assets declining grades.
New supply would be slow to materialise.
In that environment, with commodity prices likely to be higher than their historical 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 averages, we believed there was room for a nimble, entrepreneurial, diversied mining company that could act quickly to seize opportunities and Alumbrera Black Star grow.
We recognised that scale and a diversied portfolio across operating Rolleston geographies and commodities were essential to succeed in our industry and Bokomoso that access to resources and a social licence to operate would only be Lion smelter achieved if we could operate responsibly and in partnership with communities and governments.
Mototolo Those founding principles and beliefs have served us well and our companys rate of growth has been prolic.
Our market value today of around $60 billion M&A and other is over 100 times Xstratas equity value when the current management team Greeneld projects joined the Company in late 2001.
Browneld projects o:H KDYH VSRWWHG RSSRUWXQLWLHV WR FUHDWH YDOXH WKDW RWKHUV KDYHQnW VHHQ DQG ZH KDYH FDSWXUHG WKRVH RSSRUWXQLWLHV DQG HQKDQFHG WKHP p Mick Davis Chief Executive officer
