com Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements The Chief Executive has executive responsibility for running the business.
Attendance at Board meetings and committees of the Board 89 His responsibilities include evaluating and recommending strategic policy and direction for Board consideration: reviewing and recommending for Board Audit Remuneration HSEC Nominations Board consideration and approval the annual financial statements, annual Meetings in the business plans and budgets, and interim accounts: maintaining effective risk year 53 344 management and internal control systems including financial, operational Sir John Bond 4 out of 4 2 from 2 3 from 3 and compliance controls: facilitating the production of detailed proposals and reviews for Board meetings: and providing the Board with accurate, David Rough 5 3 3 4 4 timely and clear information.
Mike Davis 5 4 David Rough is the Deputy Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
Con Fauconnier 5 3 4 His role and responsibilities as the Senior Independent Director are to provide Ivan Glasenberg 3 1 from 1 a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other directors when necessary.
He should also be available to shareholders Peter Hooley 5 3 if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of Chairman Claude Lamoureux 5 3 4 and Chief Executive have failed to resolve or for which such contact Aristotelis is inappropriate.
Mistakidis 3 from 4 Performance evaluation Tor Peterson 4 from 4 Board evaluation is undertaken annually, and every three years is conducted Trevor Reid 5 by an external facilitator.
In 2011 the Board undertook an evaluation of its Sir Steve Robson 5 1 from 1 2 from 2 4 own performance and that of its committees and of its individual directors in accordance with the Code.
The process was devised and conducted Ian Strachan 5 3 4 internally under the direction of the Nominations Committee, following # Willy Strothotte 1 from 1 1 from 1 the previous years external process, and was based on responses to a Santiago questionnaire.
Subjects covered in the questionnaire included the number, Zaldumbide 5 timing and conduct of Board meetings, Board meeting processes, the composition and balance of the Board, Board and committee performance, Elected on 4 May 2011.
Board communication and shareholder relations.
In addition the Chairman # Retired on 4 May 2011. assessed the individual performance of directors in interview with each director.
The results of the evaluation revealed that the directors are satisfied Chairman and Chief Executive with the number, conduct and processes of Board meetings and with the There is a clear separation between the responsibilities of our Chairman performance of the Board and its committees.
However, it was agreed that and the Chief Executive.
This is documented in a statement approved by so far as possible committee meetings should be held the day before Board the Board and complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
meetings to ensure that there is always sufficient time for all meetings.
The directors believe that our Companys performance over its first 10 years The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring its is a strong reection of Xstratas entrepreneurial leadership.
As regards effectiveness in all aspects of its role by promoting a culture of openness and composition, the Board responded to the Davies Committee recommendations debate, and by facilitating the contribution of non-executive directors.
He is and expressed its intention to appoint a female director with the appropriate also responsible for ensuring that good communication is maintained with criteria and of the right calibre.
The Board does not, however, believe it is shareholders, that all directors are made aware of their major shareholders appropriate to appoint a director solely on the basis of gender, race, or issues and concerns, and that the views of shareholders are communicated religion or on any other basis than an assessment of his or her capacity to to the Board as a whole.
His duties also include ensuring that the directors make a significant contribution to Xstratas Board and to enhance the continually update their skills and their knowledge of and understanding of Companys ability to create value for its shareholders.
To this end, he is required to hold regular one-to-one discussions with each director regarding their training and development needs.
