10 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Ian King Chief Executive BAE Systems is operating in a difficult business environment as quality acquisitions.
These acquisitions included, in February 2011, defence spending reduces in its largest markets, the US and UK.
L-1 Identity Solutions, Inc. s Intelligence Services Group, a leading These market pressures have been apparent for some time.
provider of security and counter threat capabilities to the US BAESystems has moved quickly to take strategic actions it believes government, and Norkom Group plc, a market-leading provider of necessary to sustain and position the business for the future.
innovative anti-money laundering solutions to counter financial crime to the global financial services industry.
ETI A S, a recognised BAE Systems has been driving down its cost base and improving provider of advanced security products and services to government efficiencies.
At the same time, the Group is developing its Services and commercial clients worldwide, was acquired in March 2011, and positions, investing in growth streams of business and developing stratsec.
net Pty Limited, an information security company with offices international markets.
The high number of export campaigns in the in Australia, Malaysia and Singapore, was acquired in January 2011.
Group is at a level unprecedented in recent years.
Growth opportunities in the cyber domain arise from both the In October 2011, the Group announced changes to its external increasing priority of governments addressing cyber threats and reporting segments.
The changes provide improved visibility of therapid increase in requirements within the commercial sector.
theperformance of its Electronic Systems and Cyber & Intelligence businesses, and align with the Groups strategic direction.
BAE Systems also identifies and prioritises fast growth lanes within the electronics market.
The Group is an industry leader in key areas Services-related activities represented approximately 49% of sales ofhigh technology electronics for both defence and commercial in2011.
These activities include the provision of Cyber & Intelligence aerospace activities.
It continues to see growth opportunities in both and Military & Technical Services, the latter delivering enhanced itscommercial avionics activities and parts of its defence product capabilities, whilst reducing costs for its customers intheair, land portfolio.
In April 2011, BAESystems acquired the 91.3% of andmaritime defence domains.
outstanding equity of Fairchild Imaging, Inc. not already held by the During the year, the Group has invested in cyber and intelligence Group.
Fairchild is a provider of solid-state electronic imaging through both organic development and through a series of small, high components, cameras and systems.
The Group has continued to review its business portfolio and hasundertaken a number of non-core business disposals.
In January 2011, the Group sold its Swiss-Photonics AG group.
In June 2011, BAESystems has moved theGroup sold its remaining shareholding in Saab AB.
In July 2011, BAESystems sold its Regional Aircraft Asset Management and quickly to take strategic US-based Composite Structures businesses.
In September 2011, theAdvanced Ceramics business in California was sold.
In December actions it believes necessary 2011, the Group announced an agreement for the sale of its Safety Products businesses, which is expected to complete in the first quarter to sustain and position the of 2012. business for the future.
In aggregate, approximately 0.3bn was invested in business acquisitions, net of disposals, during the year.
Strategic review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 11 HOME MARKETS Top 11 defence markets accessible for business by the Group $bn US 900 BAE Systems is a major supplier to the US Department of Defense, offering a balanced portfolio of products and services across defence and security US budget reduced 750 domains, including the operational support of equipment used around the to $645bn for 2012 694 world by US forces and their allies.
Whilst the US continues to lead global 600 defence expenditure, investment spending is expected to decline as the government seeks to reduce its deficit.
As a major supplier in the US market, 450 BAESystems is focusing on competitiveness and affordability to improve profit and cash generation.
300 UK The Group plays an important role in the UKs defence capabilities across air, 150 maritime and land platforms, including military and technical service contracts.
BAESystems also operates in the security and intelligence domain, 61 57 53 46 45 32 27 26 24 24 0 with customers in both government and commercial markets.
The UK has benefited from better clarity on spending priorities following the publication of Home markets Overseas Contingency Operations budget the Strategic Defence and Security Review in 2010, and BAESystems is Source: BAE Systems internal analysis based on 2010 total working with its customer to ensure their vital interests are secured.
defence expenditure Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Australia BAE Systems is a leading in-country defence supplier, supporting the The Group is the largest defence supplier, providing leading capability across operational capability of the Saudi air, land and naval forces, and investing in air defence, land combat systems, maritime systems and security.
the development of Saudi indigenous defence capabilities.
This established position continues to provide the Group with opportunities to capture returns India from this key market.
India continues to develop as a home market.
BAE Systems is investing in its presence through technology sharing and inward investment in this growing defence and security market.
BAE Systems is well positioned on a number of key platforms As anticipated, vehicle production and reset activity reduced programmes, such as Typhoon and F-35 combat aircraft, as well as in significantly in the US land vehicles business reflecting the drawdown the areas of naval ships and fighting vehicles.
These programmes form of US overseas military operations.
a large core of business with good, multi-year order book visibility.
Delays in approving Department of Defense budgets resulted in the Additionally, such programmes can generate substantial Services Groups US defence businesses operating under Continuing business throughout the in-service life of the product.
Resolution limitations for seven months of 2011.
BAESystems The development of business across a broad international base of business remained resilient through this period, with only a modest operations provides a robust portfolio of activity and contributes to amount of sales lost or deferred as a consequence.
the resilience of the business at a time when defence spending is The Groups US-based electronics business was impacted by serious under pressure in the US and UK markets.
flood damage at its Johnson City facility resulting in some sales The Group has also moved to capture business in non-defence deferral to 2012. markets, including commercial aerospace electronics.
BAE Systems The Group had success in winning new business in 2011, but several strategy to grow its presence in the cyber and intelligence markets is large contract starts were delayed due to bid protests by competitors.
proving successful, with around 7% of its business now generated in A contract, worth approximately $850m 547m over ten years, to this area of activity.
manage, operate and maintain the Radford Army Ammunition Plant in BAE Systems has been quick to recognise that affordability is a priority the US was awarded to the Group in May 2011, but the programme start for customers and has cut costs and improved efficiency to address was delayed into early 2012 with the US Army confirming the award in reducing demand in some activities and to ensure continued value for January 2012.
Similarly, in August 2011, the Group was one of two customers.
Cost reduction and efficiency actions have been underway successful teams selected to participate in the 24-month technology since 2009 and, as part of these actions, there has been a need to development phase of the US Armys Ground Combat Vehicle reduce workforce across the Group.
Excluding M&A activity, there has programme.
BAE Systems, together with Northrop Grumman, was been a net headcount reduction of approximately 22,000 including awarded a $450m 290m contract, but the programme start was contractors in the past three years.
These cost reduction programmes delayed until December 2011 while a protest by SAIC was evaluated will assist the Group in winning new business, managing workloads and rejected by the General Accounting Office.
and delivering value for customers, and be of sustained benefit to the Whilst the near-term US budgetary and procurement issues have had Groups performance.
onlymodest impacts on the business, there remains significant The Groups customers in its home markets of the US, UK, Saudi uncertainty as to the impact of both planned and potential additional Arabia, Australia and India have a significant and sustained deficit reduction actions on US defence budgets over coming years.
commitment to defence and security budgets across multiple UK domains, welcome foreign investment, and sustain a domestic Pressure on UK budgets remains, but following publication ofthe industrial capability.
Strategic Defence and Security Review SDSR in October 2010 and US resulting actions, there is now greater programme stability and BAE Systems US-led businesses contributed 47% of the Groups alignment of funding with government defence programme sales in 2011. commitments.
The post-SDSR programme changes have reduced the US France UK Japan Germany Saudi Arabia India Brazil Republic of Korea Canada Australia 12 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Groups annual sales by some 500m.
Actions were taken to mitigate when the balance sheet allows.
Investment in value enhancing the impact of these changes, including workforce reductions, facility acquisitions will continue to be considered where market conditions rationalisation andcontract settlement agreements.
are right and where they deliver on the Groups strategy.
The Group continues to work with its UK customer to help to identify The Groups balance sheet will continue to be managed further efficiency improvements.
conservatively, in line with the Groups policy to retain its investment grade credit rating, and to ensure operating flexibility.
Other home markets In addition to its US and UK operations, BAE Systems has established Total Performance leading market positions in Saudi Arabia and Australia.
In addition, the Total Performance is not just about what the Group does, but also Group is pursuing its strategy, establishing India as a home market.
Building a culture of Total Performance means focusing on delivering shareholder value, on meeting the needs of In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, where defence spending remains a high theGroups customers and acting responsibly at all times.
priority and is growing, the Group is working to deliver a broad range of capabilities.
The established core business, including support to Embedding the importance of non-financial performance measures in Tornado aircraft in service with the Royal Saudi Air Force under the Saudi the culture ofthe Group, through the drive for a more integrated, Total British Defence Co-operation Programme SBDCP, continues to deliver Performance, approach, is an important part of the Groups good performance, and 24 Typhoon aircraft have been successfully development.
introduced into service under the first phase of the Salam programme.
BAE Systems is committed to becoming recognised as a leader in BAE Systems has been in discussions with its customer regarding business conduct.
The Group continues to reinforce a culture of changes to the Salam programme.
The proposed changes relate to Responsible Behaviour across the business.
Mandated policies and final assembly of the last 48 of the 72 Typhoon aircraft, the creation of processes within the Operational Framework are reviewed and, where a maintenance and upgrade facility in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, appropriate, updated to ensure they best reflect the Groups initial provisioning for subsequent insertion of Tranche 3 capability in Responsible Trading Principles.
Employees in all markets receive respect of the last 24 aircraft of this order and formalisation of price training to help them apply the Groups global Code of Conduct.
Group-wide rollout of this training was completed as scheduled in May 2011 and refresher training continues.
Good progress on these discussions has been made in 2011, with budgets approved in the Kingdom in December on all items other than BAE Systems continues to drive high standards of safety across the the price escalation where negotiations will now continue into 2012. business.
This year, the Group achieved an 11% improvement against Budgets have also been established for the next five years of support its targeted metric and progressed the implementation of the safety on the core SBDCP, including an upgrade of the training environment.
Looking forward, the Group will be focusing on a Formal contracts under these budgets are being progressed.
broader set of metrics, whilst ensuring that safety remains a priority.
These budget approvals underpin both the Salam and SBDCP Maintaining and developing the skills and capabilities of its employees programmes.
is a key factor in the sustained success of the Group.
As well as Total Performance Leadership programmes, the Group provides In Australia, the Group has continued to build on its position as the appropriately tailored leadership and competency frameworks in each leading in-country provider of equipment and support to the Australian of its principal markets.
The Groups Developing You programme armed forces, working with the Australian government to deliver continued to deliver training across a number of functional against a clearly laid out multi-year defence and security plan.
specialities, and a diversity and inclusion strategy was adopted to Defence spending in India is also expected to grow substantially.
better support the recruitment, retention and engagement of talented Thesupply of Hawk aircraft continues with local assembly by employees from all backgrounds.
A land systems joint venture with Mahindra &Mahindra has been established with significant armoured vehicle and artillery opportunities being pursued.
In January 2012, the Group Although we are operating in a challenging business environment, was notified that Typhoon had not been selected as the lowest priced BAESystems continued focus on cost efficiency, together with its compliant bid to meet the requirement for a Medium Multi-Role broad geographic base, and strong positions in defence, aerospace and Combat Aircraft.
The programme has a long way to go before a security markets, are expected to sustain this resilient business.
contract is awarded and we continue to actively support the bid.
Pension funding In April 2011, the trustees of the Groups two largest UK pension schemes, the BAE Systems Pension Scheme and the BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan, commenced triennial funding valuations.
These have been concluded and revised funding profiles agreed.
Ian King Balance sheet and capital allocation Chief Executive Pension funding is a significant obligation for BAE Systems, but it remains only a part of the allocation of capital.
In addition to meeting its pension obligations, the Group expects to continue organic investment in its businesses, plans to continue to pay dividends inline with its policy of a long-term sustainable cover of around two times earnings and to make accelerated returns to shareholders Strategic review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 13 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE KEY OBJECTIVES 2011 PERFORMANCE The Board reviews and updates the Groups strategy annually.
The Chief Executive and Executive Committee agree the Groups Strategy, Strategic Actions and Integrated Business Plans.
In addition, there are annual objectives agreed by the Chief Executive and Executive Committee with the Board which focus on specific deliverables in support of both delivery of short-term results and overall strategy.
The specific in-year performance indicators used to measure performance against the Executive Committees key objectives are discussed below.
Objective 2011 performance Financial Performance 1 Meet 2011 financial targets and The Groups targets for underlying earnings per share, and average and year-end net debt 46 deliver sustainable growth in were exceeded.
1 shareholder value Grow our International presence In Saudi Arabia, budgets were approved on the Saudi British Defence Co-operation Programme 40 through implementation of our and Salam Typhoon programme, other than for price escalation.
net, an 2 home market strategy information security company, was acquired, construction of two Landing Helicopter Docks progressed, with the first hull launched, and the business has been awarded a A$267m 176m Royal Australian Navy frigate upgrade contract.
In India, the land systems joint venture commenced sales of its first new vehicle.
US product businesses: Deliver Efforts to align the cost base to the reduced activity in the Land & Armaments business 24 actions to drive increased continued and a number of strategic business disposals were completed.
The business was 3 shareholder value awarded a $450m 290m contract to participate in the technology development phase of the US Armys Ground Combat Vehicle programme.
At Electronic Systems, Fairchild Imaging 32 was acquired, and the business strengthened its positions in growth areas, such as commercial aerospace electronics.
Deliver in the UK sustainably In air, settlement agreements were reached on the terminated Nimrod and Harrier 28 profitable through-life business in programmes, and there was a continued focus on rationalisation and efficiency, with 4 the air and maritime sectors, and approximately 2,700 further potential job losses announced.
In maritime, whilst there grow our security business were delays on the Oman OPV programme, aggregate schedule adherence metrics 36 improved and a 120m contract for the sale of the Trinidad and Tobago OPVs to Brazil was signed.
In Cyber & Intelligence, the Groups Detica business acquired Norkom and ETI.
US Services businesses: Build a The Support Solutions business increased its in-year order intake, with good performance 28 foundation for sustained profitable in ship repair.
Business was taken from its competitors, including the $850m 547m 5 growth Radford Army Ammunition Plant management contract.
In Cyber & Intelligence, the 32 Groups Intelligence & Security business acquired L-1s Intelligence Services Group.
Implement our global initiatives There has been collaboration across the Groups security businesses.
For example, within the five-year plan Deticas products will be amongst the first to be brought to market by the Groups new 20 6 security business in India.
In military and technical services, the pipeline of major strategic opportunities identified increased from less than ten to more than 30.
Continue to develop and deliver The Group secured orders from over 90 countries, including the OPVs, M113 upgrades and 20 business within export markets flight controls to Brazil, Hawk support to India, and RG31 32 vehicles to Spain, Sweden, 7 Finland and the United Arab Emirates.
Customer Focus The Group has continued to deliver on its commitments to customers, delivering an Focus on our commitments to our 16 aggregated improvement in schedule adherence on milestones across major projects.
customers through schedule 8 performance Programme Execution Programme execution has been good with the Group delivering an aggregated Further enhance programme improvement in outturn margin across its major programmes.
17 9 execution through cost performance Responsible Behaviour Management has continued to embed its corporate responsibility agenda as part of the Progress towards recognised Groups Total Performance drive.
Objectives in respect of business conduct, safety, 55 10 leadership position diversity and inclusion, and environment have been achieved.
For more information on the Groups 14 KPIs For more information on the Groups 1 Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions 60 approach to risk management and financial derivatives, and non-recurring items see note 8 to the Group accounts.
