Our business Chief Executives review Our knowledge and capability across the infrastructure market differentiates us fromour competition As a business growing into new geographies and markets, delivering ever greater value and efficiency tocustomers, we look forward with confidence.
Ian Tyler Chief Executive View our online report at: http: annualreport11.
com Our executive leadership team Duncan Magrath Andrew Anthony Rabin Peter Zinkin Kevin Craven Manfred Leger John Moore Chief Financial McNaughton Deputy Chief Planning and Chief Executive International Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Executive Development Officer, Support Business director Officer, Rail Officer Director Services 12 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our business Our differentiation comes from collaborative thinking by drawing Customer value onthe whole breadth of our knowledge.
We start with strategic The customers who present the biggest opportunities are largeplanning, develop through design and financing, and deliver scale owners of complex infrastructure assets.
We believe that construction and operation.
increasingly, these customers need partners who can join with them in addressing their true goals.
Typically, they are concerned It is the many differences that come from daily ingenuity: our not just with the assets themselves but with the beneficial outcomes people working with our clients to solve the toughest problems: those assets will deliver to the communities they serve.
They need combining decades of experience with new ideas and techniques partners whoare equipped with the experience, knowledge and all to ensure that our clients achieve ever better outcomes for breadth of vision to see the big picture and help them to devise themselves and for society.
The strategy we have been pursuing has enabled us to build a Our breadth of capabilities, whole-lifecycle experience and world-class infrastructure business with global reach.
We continue insightinto customers underlying concerns give us considerable to develop the strategy in response to changing economic competitive advantage.
This relies on having the knowledge conditions and our own constantly expanding capabilities.
sharing and integration capability to turn those elements into Our business model and the opportunities we are pursuing are effective teamwork with customers.
This is the way to add real detailed in the Chief Operating Officers review on page 24. value.
Not many companies can do this.
In a more uncertain world we aim to maximise opportunities Operational efficiency forcontinued growth by making best use of the unique mix Generating good profits and converting them into cash is ofcapabilities we now possess.
So we are focusing on three imperative for us.
We have big aspirations for growth and we need keystrategic areas: to be able to fund them.
Our customers embarking on a long-term, high-value relationship want to be sure they are partnering with a Growth markets and sectors robust and sustainable business.
And our investors expect no less.
While we continue to expand internationally, around 80% of our So we have no intention of relaxing our declared margin improvement business still comes from the UK and US.
Over the next 10 years, targets, despite the current economic and market conditions.
the infrastructure sector in those markets is expected to grow at anannual rate of around 4%.
By contrast, the comparable growth Over the past couple of years we have begun to realise substantial inemerging markets is expected to be 10%12%.
cost savings by adopting a more joined-up approach to back office services and procurement another way in which we benefit from Emerging economies like India and Brazil are investing significantly better integration across theGroup.
We are currently working on in infrastructure.
Others which are rich in natural resources, such broadening these programmes into other support functions.
asAustralia and Canada, have the economic firepower to procure large new infrastructure projects.
The future looks good We already have capability in many of these markets and have By addressing these three key issues and adhering to our values been stepping-up our activity.
Recently, for example, we of integrity, excellence, respect and teamwork we can differentiate announced a new rail contract win in Australia, a significant new ourselves in ways that matter to customers.
infrastructure project in Qatar and a partnership agreement with Our executive leadership team featured below is energised by the Tata Projects in India.
We have strengthened both our presence changes taking place at Balfour Beatty.
and our senior management resources in India and Brazil.
In the following pages we set out our strategic objectives and ourprogress towards them.
As a business growing into new geographies and markets, delivering ever greater value and efficiency to customers, we look forward with confidence.
Brian Osborne Mike Peasland George Pierson Robert Van Paul Raby Chris Vaughan International Chief Executive Chief Executive Cleave Human Resources Chief Corporate Business director Officer, Officer, Chief Executive director Officer Construction Professional Officer, Services UK Services Construction Services US Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 13
