Our business Chief Operating Officers review A route to lasting customerconfidence We have accelerated the international reach of our business and increased our focus on markets where demand is expanding faster.
Andrew McNaughton Chief Operating Officer For more information go online: http: annualreport11.
com Total annual spend on rail infrastructure 2015 bn Spend bn pa 29.9 26.8 21.1 7.2 5.5 4.0 3.8 98.4 100% Design and PM Civils Track Power Signalling Rolling stock 90% 80% Project management.
70% 60% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0 Western Asia NAFTA CIS Eastern Rest of Middle East Total Europe Pacic Europe America & Africa Source: Association of the European Rail Industry UNIFE projections.
24 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our business Our strategy has built Balfour Beatty into one of the worlds largest Our approach sharing knowledge and innovating players in infrastructure a market characterised by sustained For more discerning customers, our broad capabilities and strong growth in both developed and emerging economies.
collective asset knowledge are powerful competitive strengths.
Butthe key to adding real value for them is the ability to share and Mature economies need to renew ageing assets and to adopt deploy our knowledge effectively so that, for example, what we technologies that satisfy changing environmental, sustainability learn from operating and maintaining existing assets informs the andenergy security criteria.
These pressures are sufficient to way we design new ones.
We have made world-class knowledge maintain moderate growth despite current economic and fiscal management a strategic priority one reason why we have constraints.
However, the pace of growth is very much faster in become leaders in seeking to maximise the technological emerging markets driven by rapidly rising populations, economic capabilities offered by tools such as Building Information expansion and the more sophisticated demands of increasingly Modelling BIM, as described on page 18. urbanised and affluent populations.
BIM also facilitates the innovation that customers expect from us Our business model focused on infrastructure and we have moved to enhance our skills in this important area.
To satisfy this demand we have built through organic growth and We see a culture of innovation as another competitive strength, acquisitions a Group with world-class expertise across the entire addressing it systematically through three linked initiatives.
Our capabilities extend from financing and Innovation as One aims to make us a leader in integrated designing assets to constructing, operating and maintaining them.
solutions by joining our strengths with those of our partners and This enables us to engage with asset owners at any stage in the supply chains.
Focused on markets where this integrated approach life of their assets.
We can also build project teams that draw skills will deliver disproportionate value to clients, it launches in 2012. and resources from across the Group.
For management purposes Innovation Everywhere aims to develop a culture of innovation we have structured our businesses into divisions representing four atevery level.
We are investing in tools such as BIM that will broad areas of capability: Infrastructure Investments, Professional support this by providing insight for creating and managing projects Services, Construction Services and Support Services.
faster, more economically and with less environmental impact.
OpenInnovation aims to harness the creativity of our supply At present some 80% of our business is in the UK and US, chain and strategic partners to develop ideas that yield mutual although we have a presence in more than 80 countries around benefits as well as value to our clients.
In recent years, as the economic crisis slowed market growth in the US and UK, we have accelerated the international Growth sectors opportunity and advantage reach of our business and increased our focus on markets where Customers with more complex and sophisticated requirements are demand is expanding faster.
central to our main strategic goal of growing and creating value.
We are focusing on the sectors where they are prevalent and our broad Our customers seeing a bigger picture capabilities and asset knowledge give us competitive advantage.
Historically, asset owners have viewed projects in isolation and tendered them largely on price.
But over the past decade many Considering the infrastructure landscape in terms of complexity, ofour customers have moved to a broader view involving much growth potential, global leverage and our current presence, we closer engagement with us.
Rather than focusing narrowly on seeparticular potential in the rail, power and mining sectors building or upgrading an asset, they want to collaborate on plus, in some geographies, transportation and water.
achieving a desired outcome or finding the best solution to a Rail challenge.
They understand the risks and are willing to share them.
In many developing markets, rapid urbanisation is fuelling a Often they look to us to manage costs and share the savings.
surgeindemand for urban transit systems.
At the same time, Customers who buy a single service in a single geography still unprecedented growth in commodity prices has spurred an account for the majority of our revenue.
But a growing proportion increase in mining activity driving increased private sector want to buy more than one capability and seek a combination investment in rail to transport commodities from mine to market.
thatdelivers a better solution and reduces interface risk between Inmajor mature markets, constrained public finances are creating suppliers.
They are more concerned with obtaining outcome value pressure to reduce public spending on rail investments, which are than with price per se.
seen as desirable but costly but this can create opportunities fornew and innovative financing structures.
An increasing number are taking the next logical step, and looking beyond single projects.
They want to work with partners who grasp Overall, we expect growth of 15bn in annual rail infrastructure the complex challenges they face: understand their true objectives: spend worldwide from 2008, reaching some 100bn by 2015. and deliver a solution rather than just an asset.
Sharing risk related This market is increasingly global, creating opportunity for to outcome increasingly plays a part in our engagement with core international players like us to participate in emerging markets.
So where a traditional highway owner might contract Butthere is also rising competition from low-cost Chinese for potholes to be repaired cost-effectively, these customers providers, who increasingly bring project finance with them.
wouldseek value in outcomes such as reliable journey times with minimal negative impacts on external stakeholders.
Equally, where The opportunity for Balfour Beatty is the trend towards a regulated utility provider in the water sector, for example, seeks multidisciplinary projects encompassing all elements from reliable infrastructure performance the onus is on both parties to programme management: civil engineering: routine and operational perform and share outcome risk.
maintenance: track and electrification: and signalling and rolling stock.
These are increasing in proportion and offering higher Over time we will significantly reshape our organisation, business margins.
We have had considerable success in this area, with model and strategic direction to satisfy these more sophisticated projects such as Denver Eagle, the recent Denmark Rail signalling customers.
Increasingly, we will be organised, managed and upgrade and the welcome decision taken by the state government incentivised to understand their assets and needs, and to in Victoria to involve us in an upgrade of a critical section of collaborate constructively towards better solutions.
We have Melbournes urban rail network.
begunto foster a more customer-centred culture across the Group by building performance metrics, incentives and management around customer outcomes and delivery performance.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 25 Our business Chief Operating Officers review continued Power Mining Balfour Beattys heritage is built on this core sector.
This is what In resource-rich countries there is synergy between rail, power we do and it is no coincidence that the first construction contract andmining.
Increased extraction activity requires power to mine secured by our fledgling business 102 years ago was to build a the resources and rail to transport them.
We are ideally placed to newgenerating plant and lay new track and lighting in Dunfermline, meet this demand particularly since the customers are typically Scotland.
Since then our knowledge and reach throughout the multinationals who favour suppliers that can work with them sector has continued apace.
That reach is now truly international holistically in multiple territories.
with major projects currently underway in South Africa, New The mining construction market is large and is growing fast Zealand, Arizona and elsewhere.
Globally, this is a vast market 16%ayear 20092012.
Most projects are procured via umbrella withgeneration capacity currently totalling some 5,000GW.
Engineering, Procurement and Construction Management EPCM Mostof this is fossil-fuelled, particularly in developing countries.
contracts, and the few large players capable of providing these Investment is driven by growing demand in developing markets, services dominate the market.
Parsons Brinckerhoff currently replacement of ageing infrastructure in developed markets and provides infrastructure design and project management services green agendas.
The market opportunity is very significant: US$9trn inAustralia and Africa to clients on smaller projects, or as a of capital investment is forecast between now and 2035 around subcontractor to EPCMs.
US$350bn a year with developing countries accounting for about This could be a springboard to a far greater opportunity.
The technology mix is expected to see a growing proportion already begun extending Parsons Brinckerhoffs current services of renewables and nuclear as coals share reduces.
organically to new geographies and commodities, increasing the In transmission and distribution we are already working with asset addressable market from US$1.1bn to US$3.4bn.
Beyond this, owners National Grid in the US: in Australia through our joint aswe develop our EPCM capability, we could gain access to the venture with UGL: and in Indonesia through our joint venture with whole US$8.4bn professional services market.
We intend to develop our position further in these markets.
combining professional services with our construction capabilities would open the door to the related US$5.8bn rail and power Brazil, the largest South American market, presents significant construction markets.
Investment totalled 400m in 2010 and is set to grow at 10% annually.
The whole network was state owned but Growth economies extending our reach auctions have brought private companies into the market.
Our desire to expand in these sectors draws us towards India is another attractive market the second largest in Asia.
economically buoyant countries such as South Africa, India Annual spending on transmission is over 3bn, forecast to grow at andBrazil.
We have taken important steps in recent months 12% a year to 2014.
While most assets are publicly owned, nearly inestablishing a presence in both India and Brazil while further all construction and some professional services are outsourced.
leveraging our footprint in South Africa where we also see The government is encouraging PPP in transmission and six lines significant opportunities.
Elsewhere, in highly developed markets have been awarded to private companies over the past year.
such as Canada and Australia, we have a good understanding ofthese countries and their business models.
Buoyed by rising Our activities in power globally have gained momentum in recent demand for commodities, they do present clear opportunities years.
We are now preferred bidder for two offshore wind assets forus while their scale, economic growth rates and market and a waste PPP project.
In addition to our partnerships in the US, structures suit our model.
Australia and New Zealand, we are one of three preferred bidders for an EDF nuclear new-build project in the UK.
Australia Australia is an attractive market with enormous potential, founded on a steady economy weighted towards infrastructure.
The Australian market already accounts for some 300m of the Groups Global power generation 20112035 GW Potential addressable mining market US$bn 14.2 14.2 12.7 1.5 5.8 Oil 4.3 Coal 8.4 8.4 Gas 5.0 8.4 Nuclear Hydro 3.4 Renewables: 2.3 Wind 1.1 Other renewables Current Geography EPCM Total Additional Additional Total addressable and roles potential power rail potential PS market commodity addressable opportunities opportunities addressable diversication market market for Balfour Beatty Group 2011 existing capacity Forecast additions to 2035 Professional services Power & rail construction Other renewables include biomass and waste, geothermal, solar PV, CSP and marine.
Source: IEA World Energy Outlook 2011, and Balfour Beatty estimates.
26 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 Our business Chief Operating Officers review continued revenue.
We have a long and proud record here with a growing Indias long-term growth outlook is strong, buoyed by a growing presence reflecting a strong pipeline of work with hotspots in working-age population and high domestic demand that will soon mining, power and transportation.
All these projects arereliant lift the country into the worlds top five consumer markets.
oncommodity markets, but are currently suffering fromdelays Infrastructure spending is expected to account for 10% of GDP by inthe public sector.
The country has a sophisticated procurement the end of the governments 12th Five Year Plan in 2017 up from model including lifecycle contracts providing PPP andservices 5% in the 20022007 Plan.
If policy and regulatory reforms go opportunities relating to key infrastructure projects inmarkets ahead as expected, private investments share of the total is weunderstand such as water, highways maintenance and rail.
PPP is gaining traction seeninitially as a way of bringing in private funds to offset The US$200bn Australian construction market accounts for 14% government shortfalls, it is now recognised as a major catalyst ofGDP.
This above-average proportion is due to significant  development.
sector led infrastructure investment, which accounts for 40% of construction.
While the public sector accounts for 60% of civil Brazils GDP has recently overtaken the UKs to rank sixth in the infrastructure spend, private customers make up 100% of mining world.
It now outvalues all the other South American economies spend and 50% of power spend.
Annual growth rates are forecast combined.
Real GDP growth is forecast at 4% a year to 2016. at 5% to 2015, though we are mindful that this reflects commodity Theconstruction market, worth US$140bn 7% of GDP in 2011, demand and the current hiatus in public spend.
isforecast to grow at a similar pace, as strong growth in infrastructure and mining offsets a reduction in oil and gas Canada spending.
The government is ramping up its own investment We acquired Halsall, a Canadian professional services firm, in 2010 ininfrastructure through its Growth Acceleration Programme.
as a base for developing a transportation and power business.
Itiscommitted to US$596bn in the 20112014 second phase, Canadas GDP ranks ninth in the world.
Relative to other developed compared with US$349bn in the 20072010 first phase.
economies, its underlying fundamentals are very strong.
Its infrastructure market is forecast to grow 3% annually to reach Our home markets still hold growth opportunities US$132bn by 2020.
We see attractive drivers: a well-established In our UK and US home markets, demand for infrastructure PPP market and strong prospects in power and rail.
There is a continues to rise, albeit more slowly than in the growth markets we suitable competitive structure on the supply side and business have identified.
In the operating review which follows we outline ethics are excellent.
developments in these cyclical, low-risk markets, as well as some of the actions taken in 2011 to reach into our newer target markets.
Emerging markets In addition to these existing markets, we are targeting emerging The overall picture is one of continuing growth, building on our economies with favourable growth dynamics typically driven by cash-generative core building markets.
They continue to offer a economic growth, changing demographics and government-led strong platform on which to demonstrate our capabilities.
We are focusing on those with sufficient scale, knowledge built on our skills and experience affords a sound basis agood competitive environment and appropriate ethical standards.
to pursue the opportunities we see emerging in other markets.
In 2011 we began making inroads into India and Brazil, our priorityemerging markets.
We already have an office in Brazil: inIndia we opened a Balfour Beatty office to complement ParsonsBrinckerhoffs presence and signed a memorandum ofunderstanding with Tata Projects.
Both countries have larger infrastructure markets than the UK, are welcoming private capital into infrastructure provision and are making determined efforts toeliminate endemic corruption.
Indias infrastructure investment Brazil construction market 20072015F real US$bn 11th plan 20072012 12th plan 20122017 7 1 6 2015 5 7 1 6 2014 5 2013 2012 4 US$500bn US$1,000bn 2011 4 2010 3 2 2009 3 2 2008 2007 1 Electricity 5 Water supply & sanitation 2 Roads & bridges 6 Ports 3 Irrigation 7 Airports 4 Railways Residential Commercial, retail, industrial Social infrastructure Total including other sectors such as telecom, urban, etc.
Economic infrastructure: transport, power, water Oil & gas Mining Source: Planning Commission, Government of India, www.
