understanding our business CHIEF ExECuTIVES REVIEW Progressing the business at an ambitious pace Driven by our ambitions to be a creative place-maker, our focused strategy has allowed us to make great progress against our objectives both at Group level and in our estates.
Capco has had an active and successful 2011.
We undertook a 100 million equity placing, raised 300 million of new debt facilities to extend the Groups debt maturity profile, acquired 113 million of properties to expand Covent Garden, released 103 million from The Great Capital Partnership and China, submitted planning applications covering over 11 million square feet for the Earls Court Masterplan and Seagrave Road, and agreed a strategic joint venture for Seagrave Road with the shareholders of one of Hong Kongs largest andmost reputable real estate companies.
Our activities have led to strong value creation for our shareholders, with net asset value per share rising 11.7 per cent and the share price increasing 23 per cent.
This performance reflects the strategic Ian Hawksworth, Chief Executive positioning of Capco in dominant estates with particular exposure to the central London retail and residential markets.
Central London continues to attract a deep pool of occupiers and investors from around the world, and our The transformation of Covent Garden into one of the most strategy is focused on transforming districts tomeet this demand.
vibrant retail and leisure destinations in London continues Operating and financial to create value and attract new brands, whilst the recent perfOrmance The value of our properties increased strongly resolution to grant planning consent for our Seagrave Road over 2011, with a rise of 9.2 per cent in capital development is an important milestone in our progress values on a like-for-like basis, compared to the uK IPD capital value index which rose with the Earls Court Masterplan following the submission 1.2 per cent.
of our planning applications in June.
I am confident that covent garden Capco has transformed Covent Garden into Capcos place-making vision, creative teams and central one of the most exciting retail, leisure and London-focused assets will provide considerable residential districts in London.
The estate is now valued at 808 million, with an increase opportunities in both the retail and residential markets in like-for-like property values of 9.2 per cent during 2012. during 2011 driven by like-for-like ERV growth of 8.8 per cent.
We delivered the 2012 ERV target of 40 million 18 months ahead of schedule.
On theback of this, we have set a challenging butachievable target of 50 million for 2013, aswe aim to close the gap in rental values between Covent Garden and other parts of prime central London.
In May we raised 100 million through an equity issue.
The proceeds allowed the Group to extend its footprint in the estate from 750,000 square feet to over 830,000 square feet, with several important new acquisitions.
10 understanding our business our business performance How we govern our business our financial statements OppOrtunities and OutlOOk market market The Queens Diamond Jubilee celebrations value value market dec-11 dec-10 value erv initial equivalent andthe Olympics will place a spotlight on 2,3 2 m m change change Yield Yield London in 2012, allowing it to demonstrate Covent Garden 808 640 9.2% 8.8% 3.77% 5.25% itsattractions to a global audience.
This should benefit the Group which is focused The Great Capital 1 on landmark locations across the capital, Partnership 241 260 9.8% 11.4% 3.93% 5.05% 1 although the operational challenges of these Empress State 103 103 6.69% 6.18% events for a central London business should Total non-exhibition not be underestimated.
properties 1,152 1,003 8.4% 8.4% EC&O Venues 471 378 10.9% Covent Garden is now a destination of choice for flagship retail brands.
The team is focused Total investment properties 1,623 1,381 9.2% on capitalising upon this to deliver the 50 million ERV target for the end of 2013.
Further 1 Represents Capcos 50 per cent share.
conversions of office space to high-quality 2 Like-for-like.
apartments will unlock additional value.
3 Valuation change takes account of amortisation of lease incentives, capital expenditure and fixed head leases.
The immediate focus for the Earls Court Masterplan remains on obtaining planning Alongside the continued focus on the retail this marks achange from the previous existing consents, together with concluding land and food and beverage mix, Capco is seeking use basis.
Seagrave Road increased in value transactions with TfL and LBHF.
The to return the estate to its roots as Londons during 2011 by 11 million to 116 million and relationship with the Kwok Family Interests original luxury address.
The four highin December a 50:50 conditional joint venture will develop during the course of the year as specification apartments at The Henrietta, for the site was agreed with the Kwok Family Seagrave Road becomes a developmentproject.
located on the corner of Henrietta Street and Interests at 131 million.
Our events business the Piazza, were recently brought to market at Earls Court and Olympia performed well At EC&O Venues, there is likely to be some and are of a quality consistent with the best in a challenging market, with EBITDA falling short-term impact at Earls Court, due to the high-end residential developments in London.
We invested uncertainty caused by the Masterplan.
20 million in the West Hall redevelopment For more details see pages 18 to 25.
Following the successful disposal of properties at Olympia.
Earls Court is an official Olympic from GCP and in China, further opportunities venue, hosting the volleyball tournament earls court and Olympia for reinvestment and capital recycling back into this summer.
Earls Court and Olympia, excluding Empress the core business will be pursued.
State, increased in value by 10.9 per cent For more details see pages 26 to 33. during 2011, reflecting the investment in all Capco is well positioned to maintain its parts of the estate.
the great capital partnership momentum as the strong performance of The refocusing of The Great Capital London real estate is expected to continue.
The Group has made significant progress in Partnership GCP into a core of Regent Street The macroeconomic headwinds demonstrate the past 12 months in respect of its holdings and Piccadilly holdings has resulted in strong some of the more visible risks we face, and in Earls Court.
Sir Terry Farrells Masterplan, ERV and valuation growth.
The disposal of hence we remain focused on executing our launched in March, based around his vision of properties in Kensington and midtown strategy across the business as we believe this Four urban Villages and a 21st Century High realised 48 million, which the Group has will best deliver market-leading total returns Street, provides a blueprint for a multirecycled into its core activities at Covent to our shareholders.
I am confident that our billion pound investment in both the local Garden and Earls Court.
The sale of further place-making vision, creative teams and community and London as a whole.
In June properties this year will allow thiscapital central London-focused assets will provide the Group submitted outline planning recycling to continue in 2012. considerable opportunity in both the retail applications for the whole scheme, and a and residential markets during 2012. detailed application for a residential scheme china at Seagrave Road a total of 11 million square The strong domestic economy and feet of new space across 77 acres.
The Seagrave continued appreciation of Chinese RMB Road project received a resolution to grant against the uSdollar benefited the Groups consent in February 2012. investments inChina.
The fund manager, Harvest CapitalPartners, has completed the The Groups interests at Earls Court have been Ian Hawksworth sale of a number of the funds underlying revalued from 138 million to 195 million, Chief Executive investments.
A total of 55million has been implying a valuation of 8.6 million per acre realised for theGroup from these disposals 29 February 2012 across the Groups 23 acres at Earls Court.
independent valuer has changed the basis of valuation to a land valuation having regard For more details on GCP and China see for redevelopment potential in light of the pages 34 to 37. progress through the planning process, and www.
