page 6 Helical Bar plc 2011 chief executives statement Property is a long term game.
It always has been and always will be.
In the early 90s it took Helical six years to recover fully from the bottom of the market in 1991 to strong growth in 1997.
Then, having reached the point where income covered interest, overheads and dividends from investment buying in 1994-95, we set about rebuilding our development portfolio.
Whilst doing so, we lagged our peer group but by 1997 we were a major participant in the City and one of the largest suppliers of out-of-town retail in the UK in 1997 and 1998.
By 2001, we had trebled the size of the Company and by the end of 2004 had returned 156 million to our shareholders.
Clyde Shopping Centre, Clydebank I now nd us in a similar situation Buying 125m of property at London has always been our major to that which faced us in 1996. an average 8% yield plus whilst playground.
We are making good By prudent use of our limited borrowing at an average 4.4% progress on lettings at 200 capital and making full use of provides an historic differential.
Aldersgate 370,000 sq ft of ofces the proceeds of our two small Experience suggests you buy, buy, and our current development and accretive fund raisings, we buy in such unusual circumstances, programme in the City comprises have regained our ground so that but the key is choosing your targets two schemes of circa 750,000 sq ft once more our net rental income carefully, having full regard to the at Mitre Square and Barts which will covers our interest, overhead and difficulties being encountered by be coming forward over the next dividends.
Once again we are tenants and the pitfalls of ever few years.
In West London, our preparing an extraordinary and shortening leases.
residential mixed use portfolio is diverse development programme.
We are confident We will continue to buy good of gaining planning consent at I cannot promise to quite match secondary shopping centres and Fulham Wharf 100,000 sq ft our accelerated performance of industrial estates although we are Sainsburys store, 463 residential the late 90s.
I see no driver in witnessing more interest in these units where we act for Sainsburys, our economy equal to the dot.
sectors and a gradual reduction and at our joint venture with com boom of those days but in yields.
Targeted assets are of Grainger at Hammersmith Town I am pleased to report that we institutional quality which could Hall 110,000 sq ft council ofces, have cleared the decks of our generally benefit from capital 40,000 sq ft retail, 320 residential legacy properties and can now expenditure and value enhancing units.
After several years of concentrate on moving forward initiatives.
Key to our acquisition negotiation with other land owners free of the shackles of the past.
strategy are affordable occupational and the planning authorities, we are costs for our tenants low rents and We see ongoing value in the now able to move forward and good tenant demand for space.
apply for planning at our White City good secondary market where, Careful, disciplined stock picking for example, shopping centre site of 10 acres with a mixed use remains our key focus and the value scheme of up to two million sq ft equivalent yields at 7.75% are at of detailed due diligence before a record premium to bond rates.
held jointly with our partner, Aviva.
bidding cannot be underestimated.
We hope to be ready to start on site Whilst interest rates remain low, we are enjoying the cash ow from our by the end of 2012. recent investment purchases.
chief executives statement Helical Bar plc 2011 page 7 In all these cases we see values In December I referred to our It has been a long and hard four moving positively forward.
Our total retirement village portfolio and that years since the warning bells equity invested in these six London we were reviewing our options.
It has schemes is less than 30m so we we nalise our successful scheme required patience and discipline, continue our well proven theme of at Liphook generating a total however, the slate is now clean and maximising the return on our equity.
estimated profit of 13m, with 7m the platform established to enable still to come, we will now look to us to return to our outperforming As the development market start to develop out schemes this ways.
A special thanks to our recovers, we are also now able to year at Horsham 154 units and shareholders and to our banks for rekindle our retail projects under the Exeter 159 units, with Great Alne their support throughout.
Helical Retail banner, working with in Warwickshire 132 units to follow the supermarket chains to obtain in 2012.
All three have now planning on optioned schemes received planning consent with throughout the UK, and continue similar 10m to 15m plus profit our town-centre development at projections spread over three to Shirley, Birmingham anchored five years.
To recapture equity, we by an 80,000 sq ft Asda store.
plan to sell our sites at Milton in Poland offers opportunity and Cambridge and part of Exeter, as well as a site for open market will remain on our target list as we develop and complete our housing at Telford upon nalising planning later this year.
A 40-acre two out-of-town retail schemes a 1.1 million sq ft programme and residential site at Cawston 50% Michael Slade share will follow in 2013 14.
These we look to expand our involvement Chief Executive in this region with large scale sale receipts, subject to planning, are estimated to total 25m plus.
warehouse logistics developments, 15 June 2011 similarly on a pre-let pre-sold basis with our partners, Thameling, who are ex-Prologis.
page 8 Helical Bar plc 2011 200 Aldersgate Street London EC1
