Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 10 Chief Executive Officers review Transition, progress and performance.
We have made good progress with the implementation The operating environment ofourstrategic plan and are beginning to see the benefits Below we set out a summary of the ofthe actions we have taken during the year.
We have business environment in which we operate and then lay out our strategy to strengthened our capabilities in sales, human resources deliver on the opportunities it provides.
andbusiness development, we have set out our vision and We also summarise the results of the values as one company and we have progressed group-wide regions, which were our management programmes incapital efficiency and procurement.
Our business line reviews cover performance under the new business line structure is fully in place and operating with structure on pages 22 to 31. effectfor 2012.
Market characteristics We provide service solutions to source, clean and maintain the textiles that our customers need to keep their businesses running.
In many cases, these solutions are non-core to their activities, and they turn to us for textile rental services.
Across Europe, the market for such services is estimated at10.5 billion per year, representing a6.5% increase since 2007.
The total isbroken down into five sectors, Peter Ventress Chief Executive Officer asshown in the charts on page 11.
The competitive landscape Our markets across Europe are characterised by both a small number ofmajor players including Berendsen which operate across national boundaries and niche operators who compete inspecific marketplaces.
Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 11 Our position in the marketplace In addition, the year saw the Systems and KPIs that monitor progress are in place and serve to underline not introduction of greater hygiene-related Berendsen is a focused European regulation coupled with greater only the importance ofthe changes textileservice business with leading themselves but also thevalue of awareness of the importance of hygiene positions in most of the countries in among many organisations, and this has managing change with clear lines of which we operate.
responsibility and a sound change expanded the market for our services.
European textile rental market management process.
Opportunities for growth Progress against our key Looking ahead, although growth is likely groupactions to remain moderate and subject to the fallout of the Eurozone crisis, we see In 2010 we identified some key actions significant opportunities in our strong which we believe will support the 3,760m 2,329m offerings in workwear, facility and UK changes we are making to the company Workwear Hotels and restaurants flat linen.
Our success will be enabled and build towards delivering the and supported by the move to a strategic financial targets we outlined business line structure and our inour public statements.
continued emphasis on four further keygroup actions: focus on sales Focus on sales effectiveness effectiveness: improvement in capital Throughout the company there is now a efficiency: active management of our 2,204m 1,343m far greater emphasis on sales as we seek portfolio: and the development of our Healthcare Washroom tosupport our target of top-line growth services expansion and consolidation strategies.
We have launched While the highest returns are available aprogramme to train all managers in where we have density and scale, there management of pricing and commercial are good market opportunities both terms.
Results in projects already within and beyond European markets.
launched show that by using good We expect our core geographies will analytical tools and a disciplined 892m drive the group forward, but anticipate approach to pricing and commercial Dust control mats, that the emerging markets will play mops and wipers terms, there is a sustainable improvement anincreasingly important role in 2012 in margins.
This applies across all Source: ETSA 2009 Survey andbeyond.
In the future all businesses Our Berendsen brand is a market will have a pricing and commercial terms leader in Denmark, Sweden and manager to ensure that the processes Implementing our Norway.
We also have a leading and discipline become engrained in our strategic plan position in the workwear and industrial day to day business.
Elsewhere we have wipers market in the Netherlands.
One of the key characteristics and had great success in initiatives to reduce InGermany, we have a strong position customer losses.
Lessons learnt from strengths of our company is the way in the hospital and nursing home inwhich our people everywhere them will be used to create a more sectorand are targeting increased general company-wide initiative.
The culture market share in workwear.
encourages people to be involved in Wecontinue to develop our sales training and will build on the work creating plans and once agreed they In addition, Berendsen has established areimplemented vigorously and with already done to bring more consistency operations in the emerging markets of and better sharing of best practice.
great attention to detail and timing.
Poland, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia and 2011was always going to be a year of the Czech Republic.
As a result of these initiatives and the transition as we began implementing greater co-operation across business Our Sunlight brand is the UKs leading the strategicplan.
Throughout the year lines, we are seeing some encouraging supplier of textile rental and laundering this strength in implementation skills signs of improved organic growth and services.
It is also a major provider of was demonstrated in many different wins in one or two larger cross border clinical products and services to the areas as a number ofnew initiatives accounts where co-operation between healthcare sector, both in the UK and were launched and developed through our country teams has enabled us to elsewhere in Europe.
As is always the case in provide customers with well structured Berendsen these initiatives were based solutions.
We do not believe that we Trends in 2011 on sound analysis and a keen eye on need to increase our investment in sales what is pragmatic.
Agreat deal of time The market experienced a continued resource but we will need to redeploy was spent identifying and mitigating increase in the outsourcing of textile and ensure that the right resources therisks which are attendant on any services by organisations seeking arefocused on the most attractive change process.
toachieve efficiency gains in their opportunities.
To this end we have non-core operations.
This trend was The change process goes on and there accelerated a planned restructuring further accelerated by companies is still work to be done to ensure that ofour sales team in different parts of merging to become global players thekey group actions are implemented thecompany.
withcentralised sourcing processes, and followed up.
Where necessary what which was particularly evident in the we are doing is adapted to changing pharmaceutical and biotechnology circumstance to ensure above all that sectors, and by some companies the organisation is focused on the right expanding into new geographic things and that all the changes we are territories.
making deliver the value to the business we expect.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 12 Chief Executive Officers review continued Move to a business line structure They also tend to bebusinesses where generation and to underpin our objective to convert the whole of our we have or can achieve market-leading A major change in 2011 was the positions being defined as being profits to cash in the medium term.
preparation for the move from a Local management committed to Number 1 or Number 2 in a particular geographically based organisation competitive environment.
thesedetailed plans and appointed structure to a business line structure.
champions to assist implementation We firmly believe that the new structure Manage for Value are those businesses gives us greater focus and the ability where our market position is less strong During 2011, we have rigorously touse our knowledge, experience and and where the potential for higher implemented these activity plans.
management expertise better and in a return is low.
Theprogramme steering committee more co-ordinated function.
It enables received monthly reports on issues Our purpose in this categorisation is to us to benchmark more easily and andprogress and we have established ensure that the businesses are managed facilitates the exchange of best practice.
activity and benefit tracking systems to accordingly and that when making monitor performance.
The champions 2011 saw us make the transition investment decisions we are applying group reported at each monthly successfully.
From 1st January 2012 the our resources in the best way.
meeting and met three times in the year business is run under the new reporting OurManage for Value businesses are to share ideas.
Each unit presented to lines and everyone is clear ontheir important to the company and we the executive board in rotation.
place within the organisation, and what continue to invest in them to ensure that is expected of them in 2012 and the they grow and improve in performance.
The executive board have been delighted at the results of the years ahead.
We managed risk well Over time we would expect to see the andwere able to effect the change relative size of these two categories programme and some of these initiatives ontime and with minimal disruption change in favour of Core Growth.
have been detailed in the case studies tothe business.
Three things have Develop expansion consolidation stood out, however.
Firstly, the teams As well as adapting reporting strategies have done an excellent job with our mechanisms we have also changed the customers and suppliers in agreeing the We believe there are opportunities way we review operations to ensure important changes we have requested forcontinued growth through bolt-on that within each business line there is and have mostly exceeded their initial acquisitions and for Berendsen plc anopportunity to review not only day change over targets: as a business that toplay an active role in the consolidation to day business but also the strategic makes substantial capital investments, of the industry.
We will also look to landscape and future opportunities they recognise that we cannot tie up growin new developing countries fordevelopment.
cash in working capital as well.
Secondly, the process of embedding Actively manage our portfolio these changes in our business model Improve capital efficiency iswell underway and through the year As well as moving to a business line Last year we reported on how we had new initiatives were started that were structure we also categorised our conducted a group-wide review, with not included in the original plan: we business as either Core Growth the aid of specialist consultants, on have captured many of these in our orManage for Value.
where we have capital tied up in the bestpractice guidance.
Finally, and Core Growth represents those business and what activities could be most importantly, there is more that businesses where we see the potential undertaken to release cash to fund wecan do: in 2011 we completed for strong revenue growth combined future investment.
This diagnostic and approximately half of the programme with superior margins and higher planning phase identified an excellent initiatives and in 2012 we will continue returnon invested capital.
opportunity to increase our cash todrive the programme forward.
Key actions: group Promote a one company vision: New vision and values acrossthe entire group Berendsen has expanded significantly inrecent years.
To keep growing while Determination, caring, empowerment maintaining a solid corporate brand requires and teamwork each represent a aunited way of thinking about the company.
One vision and common values across behaviour that we value as a group Berendsens family of brands gives us a shared ofbusinesses.
While our different sense of direction and a stronger foundation brands and business areas may do for developing our business further.
things differently, we all asa unit Throughout 2011, our vision and values have been shaped by voices across the entire see these principles as expressive company.
By inviting all employees to weigh of the company we wantto be.
inon the process, we have found what Birgitte Jespersen Skade Berendsen is all about a vision for everyone Director, Group Marketing by everyone.
The goal is simple: to enhance our reputation as a group, strengthen our sense of belonging and deliver world-class customer service.
Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 13 Promote a one company vision Key actions: group During 2011 a lot of work was done Focus on sales effectiveness ondeveloping and promoting a greater Sales effectiveness sense of being one company.
Early in 2011 the group name was changed to Sales effectiveness has been at the Berendsen.
Throughout the year teams coreofthe companys activities in 2011.
Wecompleted the first ever Berendsen of people from all parts of the company SalesAcademy a historic project to build worked together on developing a ashared approach to sales and sales training common vision and values statement inthe company.
125 participants from toreplace those which had existed aroundEurope are now graduates of the programme.
Aside from the camaraderie separately in different parts of the that comes from learning and improving business.
This was the first step in together, our sales results already show building a more consistent culture general improvements: Year to date Boosting sales effectiveness andwill, we believe, help us in November wassignificantly higher than the continues to propel many of same period in 2010.
Next year, another communicating better, sharing best company-wide academy featuring 325 Berendsens initiatives.
I see projects practice and developing a consistent participants will commence.
This time the such as the Sales Academy and the setof core management behaviours emphasis will be onpricing and commercial Pricing Academy as cornerstones in which we expect to be displayed in all terms and on improving the profitability of our plans to achieve organic growth.
Christian Ellegaard The new vision and values were Managing Director, Facility and member launched to senior management at oftheexecutive board ourfirst management conference in thesummer and to the whole company later in the year.
Vision and values Ambassadors have been appointed across the business to ensure the successful communication and implementation of this new initiative.
Its important that we align and integrate our talent management Vision and values will underpin a great processes with business strategy.
deal of what we do in communication Aseach of our business lines set and management development.
outtheir three year plans, so we will Weaim to provide all our employees increasingly embed management with aclear sense of what the company development goals in those plans.
aspires to and how we expect them Chris Thrush tobehave.
We also believe it will help Group Director, Human Resources and member of the executive board usto give people a real sense of ownership and belonging and help them to put their own role and Key actions: group workplace into a much broader context.
Promote a one company vision Withover 15,500 employees it is hard toachieve consistency but our vision Developing our people and values will support this in the future.
2011 saw several new initiatives in relation toour talent management strategy.
Agroup-wide process for performance anddevelopment reviews is being implemented for approximately 120managerswhich embraces our newly launched vision and values programme, sothat managers are evaluated not only onwhat they achieve, but also how they reflect or exemplify Berendsen shared values.
In addition, Berendsens succession planning process is focused on the identification of a leadership pipeline for the most senior roles across the group, together with the broader identification of talented staff, adaptable and capable of filling a number of management roles as our emerging leader population.
Thenew Berendsen Academy is focused onproviding in-house learning opportunities which will accelerate the development ofmanagers with such future potential.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 14 Chief Executive Officers review continued Plans for 2012 Implementation of our key actions In November 2010 we set out our road map for the strategic changes we Much of what was started in 2011 will aremaking, distinguishing them in terms of timescale and those which will continue in 2012.
The capital efficiency bedriven on a group-wide basis and those that will be implemented at a local drive continues to have a great deal of operating level.
We will train all managers in pricing and commercial terms processes and systems.
We have Short term launched a new senior management development programme linked to Group developing coaching skills and tied into Name change a new appraisal system.
As we look tothe future the executive board and Group-wide capital efficiency review the board will spend more time on Realignment of organisation and management in place succession planning including efforts toensure that our employees better Business lines represent the communities in which they work in terms of diversity.
We have Building of sales and business development capabilities also initiated a project in procurement designed to ensure that we apply best Remuneration systems tied to strategic targets and  levels of achievement practice across all areas of the business and that we are best using our scale Clear examples of faster execution and delivery of results asapurchaser of goods and services.
Changed priorities in manage for value businesses Our Vision and Values communication plan will continue to be implemented Improved capital efficiency showing through in cash flow and we will build on the efficiency of our internal communication to reinforce the One Berendsen message.
With 2012 promising to be a challenging year in terms of the external economic Mid term environment we are focused on delivering our operational business plan Group but also putting in place some of the More integrated group with strong interaction foundations for future growth and between constituents development and strengthening the company to take advantage of better First businesses established in new developing countries economic times ahead.
Underlying EPS growth: targeting high single-digit % growth ROIC achieving double-digits post-tax Business lines Market leadership in core business areas in key European markets Organic growth of GDP 1%2% pa Long term Group Pool of strong management across the group with identified senior succession Business lines Clear leader in European Textile Services with a targeted footprint outside Europe Sales growth momentum at sustainable returns High performance sales organisation supported by strong operational base Complete In progress To be started Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 15 Performance review 2011 12 months to 31st December 2011 12 months to 31st December 2010 Revenue Operating profit Revenue Operating profit m m m m Textile maintenance Nordic 347.7 66.5 348.8 57.3 Continent 238.6 33.3 239.0 33.5 UK and Ireland 336.7 43.9 330.3 41.2 Total Textile maintenance 923.0 143.7 918.1 132.0 Clinical Solutions and Decontamination 69.0 3.3 68.0 1.2 Central Overheads 7.2 6.9 992.0 139.8 986.1 123.9 Before exceptional items and amortisation of customer contracts operating profit.
Denmark finished the UK and Ireland Overview of results year well with a good level of growth Revenue of our textile business in UK Revenue increased to 992.0 million inadjusted operating profit, although and Ireland grew modestly by 2% from inthe year, up 1% on the prior year revenue was broadly flat year-on-year 330.3 million to 336.7 million but 2010:986.1 million.
profits were up 7% from 41.2 million operating profit before exceptional Our Norwegian business also grew to43.9 million, with stronger operating items and amortisation of customer revenue well, both organically and margins in the second half.
In our contracts was 139.8 million, compared through the acquisition of ISS washroom.
Hotelbusiness we were able to deliver with 123.9 million last year, an increase There was profit improvement in the operational efficiencies as we adjusted to of 13%.
Comparisons of revenue and second half, having made progress on the lower than expected levels of volume adjusted operating profit performance the integration issues we reported as following a strong 2010: although to last year reflectthe provisioning holding back profits in the first half.
volumes were stable across the year ofthe estimated future losses on asa whole, there was some slight decontamination contracts 4.4million The Baltic countries made a small weakening towards the end of theyear.
loss in 2011 and the 34.3million adjusted operating profit on good acquisition of ISS washroom in revenue growth.
Our Healthcare business performed Scandinavia in December 2010. very well, growing revenue and Partiallyoffsetting this was the disposal Continent improving profits.
Workwear also for28.3 million of Bjrnklder also in increased profits and our Irish business Revenue in the Continent region was December 2010.
Excluding these items benefited from the restructuring we similar to last year at 238.6 million and the impact of currency, underlying have implemented through the year.
239.0 million and adjusted operating revenue grew 2% and adjusted profit was also similar to last year In our Clinical Solutions and operating profit grew 5%.
Decontamination business we increased exchange translation increased revenue Theadjusted operating margin for revenue to 69.0 million from and adjusted operating profitby theregion was 14.0%.
68.0million with the increase coming 17.4million and 2.7million respectively from higher revenues on the Our workwear and facility businesses compared to the prior year.
Following inthe Netherlands and Poland had a details on group performance see the the provisioning of future losses on strong year.
The Netherlands had higher Financial review on pages 18 to 21. these decontamination contracts at the revenue growth andwith margin Set out below is the review of the end of 2010 for 9.9 million, which was improvement delivereda good adjusted performance by regional segments.
taken as an exceptional item, we saw operating profit growth.
We made the business as a whole report a profit particularly strong progress in our Nordic of 3.3 million.
We are making steady business in Poland, where we returned progress on improving the performance Revenue was broadly maintained at to double-digit growth and increased of our decontamination contracts and 347.7 million 348.8 million but our adjusted operating margin back working with our customers to bring adjusted operating profit increased by towards 20%.
Inour smaller businesses these contracts to longer term viability.
The growth rates in the Baltics and Czech Republic we 4.4 million of the future loss provision against last year reflect the disposal also made goodprogress.
This was was utilised in 2011 in line with ofthe Bjrnklder business and the offset by our German Healthcare expectations 2010 full year loss acquisition of the Scandinavian business where weheld our margin at 5.3million, with a further provision washroom business of ISS.
On a 7% but on lower revenue, reflecting the of5.5million remaining.
Sterile constant currency basis and excluding previously reported full year effect of consumables encountered some supply these transactions, revenue was up 4% the lost volume in 2010. issues in the second half of the year, and adjusted operating profit was up In our workwear business in Germany which held back profits but it was a solid 8%.
The adjusted operating margin we have gained some good new contract year for our reusable textile business.
wins and a higher level of customer Our Swedish business continued its satisfaction leading to better retention good level of growth, accompanied by following the management change we Peter Ventress margin improvement through leverage Chief Executive Officer made in the first half.
Wearemaking of higher volumes, resulting in a progress but the business performed significant increase in adjusted below expectations in 2011.
