O verview S trategy and B usiness review R isk C orporate G overnance F inancial statements P ortfolio and b usiness model r esponsibility o ther information Report and accounts 2011 3i Group plc 7 Chief Executives review We have made a good start to the financial year and are well placed to make further progress both in increasing investment and improving the consistency of our returns.
When I became Chief Executive in January 2009, there were four key areas of change that I felt were vital to focus on to ensure 3is continued success.
First, there was a pressing need to restructure the Groups balance sheet.
Through a combination of cash flow generated from within the business and the successful rights issue, supported by our shareholders in the summer of 2009, this was achieved somewhat sooner than anticipated.
By maintaining a low level of net debt and a robust balance sheet we have been able to take advantage of a number of opportunities to grow in a measured way.
Alongside improving 3is financial position, another early priority was to ensure that we were maximising the value Our vision of our portfolio.
We have made good progress on this front through a range of actions.
These have increased To be recognised as a leading international the effectiveness of our portfolio management and enabled us to achieve some notable exits including Hyva, investor based on: which delivered a return of seven times our investment.
the value we add to our portfolio Earnings growth in our Private Equity portfolio of 15% in the year is evidence of the overall quality of the portfolio.
the returns we deliver to our investors However, there have been elements of this portfolio that have underperformed.
The significant reduction in value our responsible approach and style of our fourth largest investment at 31 March 2010, was of investing clearly a setback.
Cultural and organisational changes were the third area Our values of focus.
A One 3i approach has been central to this, as has been the decision to combine the strengths of In all our activities we will: our Growth Capital and Buyouts businesses to form a single Private Equity business.
The objectives in doing be commercial and fair this were to improve our ability to originate high-quality investment opportunities and to add value to our respect the needs of shareholders, portfolio by placing greater emphasis on our regional, investors, our people and the sector, Active Partnership and Business Leaders Network companies in which we invest activities.
More effective origination is already evident and bearing fruit in increased investment.
maintain our integrity and professionalism The senior Leadership Team was also strengthened during the year with the addition of Menno Antal, strive for continual improvement Alan Giddins, Jeremy Ghose and Cressida Hogg.
and innovation Together, they have helped to broaden the experience of the Leadership Team as well as raise our ambition and increase our operational effectiveness.
Lower operating costs and increased assets under management helped us to improve our operating expenses per AUM ratio during the year from 2.3% to 1.8%.
8 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2011 Strategy and business model Chief Executives review I have also been determined to put 3i back on a As I said in my half-year statement, as a result of the growth agenda.
The acquisition of Mizuho Investment significant amount of capital raised by the industry in Management UK Limited MIM from Mizuho in the pre-crisis years and recent low levels of investment, February 2011 provided the catalyst to form a distinct there has been excess capital in many of our markets.
Debt Management business line to build on the success This remains the case today and has provided an of our own in-house capability.
This new business line will additional stimulus to an active secondary market, as not only diversify returns to our investors, but will also well as contributing to competitive pressure and high provide additional yield and lower volatility of earnings.
Investment has picked up, yet new fundraising It also reinforces that 3i is no longer solely a private equity remains at historic lows.
This, combined with the fact business but rather a broader-based alternative asset that private equity and infrastructure funds typically manager and investor.
have five-year investing periods, suggests that the excess capital available in our markets is likely to fall Since the year end, we have extended our international significantly over the next few years.
reach with the recruitment of an experienced team in Brazil.
This investment in our network will enhance our Performance global investment capabilities and also provide our portfolio companies, 20% of whom are already active Our total return for the year to 31 March 2011 across Latin America, with further access to one of the was 10.6%.
This was the result of a generally strong worlds fastest growing regions.
underlying performance from our Private Equity portfolio combined with good performances from We have also made further progress in Asia.
The 3i India Infrastructure and Debt Management, being offset to Infrastructure Fund has made three further investments a degree by a weaker performance from a small number and is now 65% invested.
Total return of 324 million is stated These developments, alongside the continuing progress after deducting 198 million in respect of the impairment elsewhere in the Group, are designed to grow shareholder in value of Enterprise, a UK asset.
The underlying value for the future, as well as to strengthen our brand, performance is, however, consistent with our long-term our competitive advantage and our heritage as a return on equity objective of 15%.
Private Equity performed well with a gross portfolio We have made significant progress since the beginning return of 16%.
Within this, Growth Capital achieved of 2009 in what has been an uncertain economic a gross portfolio return of 23%.
Our Private Equity environment and I am confident that we now have business also saw increased investment during the three strong platforms for growth and that they are year as a result of good value opportunities in a wide starting to deliver that growth.
Infrastructure continued to achieve its overall objectives Market environment and delivered an 11% return.
Highlights of the year were 3i has operations in Europe, Asia and the Americas and the completion of an investment by 3i Infrastructure plc our investment portfolio is itself comprised of companies in Eversholt Rail Group, one of the UKs rail rolling stock with a wide range of international diversity.
You will see leasing companies, as well as a number of good investments from the contents of this report that 3is international in India through the 3i India Infrastructure Fund.
presence has allowed us to benefit from exposure to a 3i Debt Management was only fully established in variety of geographies and sectors in the global economy.
February and so has had a marginal impact on total Market conditions have generally improved over the year, return.
3is pre-existing debt management business albeit with significant regional differences.
Global GDP realised the majority of assets in the 2007 Debt growth of 4.9% in calendar year 2010 was driven by high Warehouse during the financial year, generating profits growth rates in India, China and Brazil, and economic of 24 million.
This successful exit will help to position recovery in the US, Germany and Japan.
However, several 3i Debt Management as one of the markets top European economies, including the UK and France, have performing debt managers in this vintage and assist shown sluggish recovery rates and there has been in future fundraising.
significant distress in other EU countries.
We have retained our measured and highly selective approach to new investment in what has remained a highly competitive environment.
Nine new investments were made in the year in companies operating in sectors and countries which we know well.
You can find further information on these investments in the business line reviews on pages 22, 34 and 38.
For more information on the market environment, please go to p20 k O verview S trategy and B usiness review R isk C orporate G overnance F inancial statements P ortfolio and b usiness model r esponsibility o ther information Report and accounts 2011 3i Group plc 9 Realisation proceeds were lower than the previous year Net returns take account of the funding structures, at 609 million 2010: 1,385 million, but at a higher which deliver fees and carry to enhance gross returns.
In part, this They also reflect the costs of running the business.
was due to the timing of the exit of Hyva and the As we deploy a lower proportion of our own capital partial sale of our holding in Norma on its IPO in early in Debt Management, for example, there is a net April.
These investments are excellent examples of 3i enhancement as fees exceed cost.
Each of our business at its best.
lines are structured to deliver 15% returns over the long term.
Our net asset value NAV per share increased during the year to 3.51.
The chart below shows the steady but The Groups total return also reflects the cost of the sustained progress that the Group has made since 2009: Groups funding, foreign exchange and other factors adding an additional 30p to the NAV this year gives an such as the pension scheme.
We have taken, and annualised return of 12.8% over the two years.
continue to explore, steps to reduce the costs and volatility associated with these items so that over time Chart 1: Continued growth in returns to shareholders there is a very material reduction in the dilution from p per share net portfolio return to total return.
For more details on our business line models and return 355.2 characteristics, please refer to pages 10 and 11.
333.0 322.0 Looking forward We have made a good start to the financial year and are well placed to make further progress both in increasing 286.0 279.0 investment and improving the consistency of our returns.
With the addition of our Debt Management business, we have a multi-asset class platform that is ready for renewed growth.
The market environment remains testing, but our teams across the world are determined to deliver increasing value for our shareholders and the investors in our funds.
11 Michael Queen Chief Executive Diluted NAV per share Cumulative dividend per share paid 1 1 11 May 2011 Adjusted to reflect the impact of the rights issue and issue of shares related to the acquisition of 3iQPEP.
Model for returns With our business model now clearly established I wanted, as part of our results communication this year, to set out the management tool that I am using to challenge our businesses to deliver returns for our shareholders and the investors in our funds.
Overall, we aim to deliver an average 15% return on equity over a five-year period, with lower volatility and steady and consistent progression in NAV.
Each of our business lines has gross return objectives reflecting the relative risk in their asset class.
We have set these out previously for our Private Equity 20% and Infrastructure 12% Europe, 20% India businesses.
We are now adding the gross portfolio return objective for Debt Management of 10%.
For more information on our returns model, please go to p11 k
