Chief Executive Of cers Review improved margins, driving pro tability to the high end of our expectations: adjusted EBITDA in Core Betfair was up 29% to 80 million.
Cash generated from operations was strong at 61 million, allowing us to fund our continuing investment programme.
But FY11 was not without its challenges.
Revenue growth was not as strong as we had initially anticipated.
Like all consumer-facing businesses we found external conditions tough, and we could have executed our plan for the year more effectively.
There were delays to some new product launches, our Poker revenue fell more than expected after the migration, David Yu and technology issues resulted in a number of site outages.
We have Chief Executive Of cer learned from these events, stabilised Poker revenues, xed the technology issues and taken steps to strengthen our management team.
Betfair is a great business with many opportunities for growth.
We have a clear plan to drive value comprising three simple elements: Chief Executive Of cers Review 1.
Leverage investments made in the business over recent years to drive The past financial year was one of signi cant change and progress margin improvement for Betfair.
We celebrated our tenth birthday, continued to grow the 3.
Return excess cash to shareholders.
business, matched over 900 million bets, and at the end of October became a public company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
This report sets out how we are going to deliver each element of this plan and outlines the rationale behind our strategy.
It also reviews our From an operational standpoint, we continued to improve our progress during the past financial year for the Core Business and our revolutionary Betting Exchange product, migrated two of our major Other Investments.
products Poker and Casino onto new technology platforms, supported ongoing work to deliver signi cant regulatory change in important On a personal note, I recently informed the Board that after 10 years European and US markets, changed the licensing arrangements for our with Betfair, and nearly six as Chief Executive, I feel the time is right for UK business, moved to a new main data centre in Ireland and continued the Company to start looking for my successor.
We will be conducting to lead the way in mobile betting by launching a new suite of products.
the search in an open and transparent way and in the meantime it is business as usual at the company.
I am committed to the plan for During this period of change we delivered revenue growth and increased growth and shareholder value that we have set out with this signi cantly improved Group pro tability.
Revenue in Core Betfair was set of results and I will give the Board all the support I can with the 330 million, an 8% increase on the previous year.
We signi cantly succession process.
After celebrating our tenth Related information More information birthday in June 2010, we in this Report: online: continued to grow the business, matched over 916 million bets, Our people http: corporate.
com and at the end of October Page 24 became a public company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Five year review Page 99 916 M Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 14 2011 overview Governance Financial statements Our strategy for delivering shareholder value Accelerate revenue growth The Betting Exchange remains our unique and differentiated product and is central to our strategy.
As the only truly innovative product in online gaming, it has revolutionised the betting industry.
The Exchange allows us to offer customers better value and greater choice and since liquidity and technology investment are key to its success gives us a defensible competitive advantage.
We have recognised over the years that to be a leading sports betting operator we must offer customers a range of products that extends beyond the scope of the Exchange: for example, we already offer products such as multiple bets, pari-mutuel betting, casino games and poker.
The Exchange will remain at the heart of Betfair because its unique features attract customers to us, but we continue to evolve in order to offer customers the best experience through a full suite of products.
We have set out five areas where we will drive revenue growth: Sports Betfair is a sports-led business because we have a unique sports betting product.
Sports betting is the largest segment of online gaming, generating some 40% of all online betting and gaming revenue.
In the markets where we operate, around 20% of total sports betting is now placed online, and this will continue to grow.
Being a sports-led operator has other advantages.
Because sports betting customers are more loyal and are naturally attracted back to the operators website by exciting sporting xtures the marketing spend on attracting and retaining sports customers is lower than in other forms of gaming.
New product delivery is key to driving revenue growth.
The Betting Exchange is our lead Sports product and will remain so.
But we will enhance our customer experience in two important ways.
First, the investment we have been making in our platform will enable us to launch a faster version of our website during FY12, with a completely new look and feel and greatly improved navigation.
Second, we will extend the number of markets we offer to customers.
We are developing an integrated Exchange and sportsbook product that will allow us to provide more in-play markets as well as giving customers guaranteed execution in less liquid markets.
We believe this liquid Exchange and sportsbook combination will be unique to Betfair and will allow us to capture a greater share of wallet from existing customers as well as attracting new ones.
Cash Out feature Since the launch of Cash Out weve seen a 20% rise in the number of occasions in which customers successfully locked-in a pro t in-play.
20 % Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 15 Chief Executive Of cers Review continued Mobile We released an innovative new Racing App for our customers in time for the 2011 Cheltenham Festival.
Powered by Timeform, the web-based application Betfair Racing on your Mobile combines full Exchange betting functionality with a host of Timeform data, including tips, race cards, star ratings and a full results service.
Mobile sports customers 2011 168,000 2010 75,000 2009 15,000 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 16 2011 overview Governance Financial statements Portfolio products In the short term, there will inevitably be challenges as we aim to bring Betfair already offers a range of non-sports betting products such as our disruptive, consumer-friendly technology to new markets.
We Poker, Casino games and our proprietary Exchange Games.
We know our recognise that we could need to adapt our product in the short term to customers like playing these games, want to do so with an operator they comply with regulation in jurisdictions that may look to restrict exchange trust, and appreciate the convenience of a single transaction wallet.
Our betting in the first phase of licensing.
The development of our integrated portfolio of non-sports games currently generates some 25% of Core Exchange and sportsbook product will give us additional exibility to revenues, a lower proportion than the games portfolios of other sportsreact to changing regulatory requirements.
So during FY11 we made signi cant investment in our games portfolio.
We now have a very competitive suite of games, which In the longer run we believe that consumers in an online world will we believe will enable us to capture a greater share of customers gaming have access to the products that suit them best.
We expect to have the spend increasing the proportion of revenue we generate from nonopportunity to introduce the Exchange to a wide number of markets sports games and enhancing the overall growth of the business.
We will with responsible regulation and commercially viable tax regimes.
continue to extend our games range with exciting new offerings, such as our recent addition of backgammon.
Outside Europe, the regulatory environment is less advanced.
But we believe these markets still offer signi cant growth opportunities for Channels the future.
When Betfair was launched, the Exchange was only available through our website.
Now it can be accessed through the web, mobile phones, tablet New markets and new verticals devices and software from third-party vendors.
In addition to the strategy set out above for Core Betfair, we will continue to invest in large new markets which we believe can provide signi cant In particular, over the past year the popularity of smartphones has driven long-term growth for Betfairs shareholders.
At present we have two main substantial growth in bets placed through mobile devices.
Betfair has investments: Betfair US and LMAX.
Both provide opportunities to exploit been at the forefront of this trend.
Customers who start to use a mobile our core technology in end-markets with multi-billion dollar potential.
device to access their Betfair account generate incremental revenue We also have a number of smaller investments, including our 50:50 joint for us, and we believe the proliferation of smartphones and tablets will venture in Australia and our shareholding in the social games developer accelerate the shift of sports betting from the high street to online.
have invested in building our own in-house mobile development team to stay ahead in this channel.
Drive margin improvement In addition to growing our revenues, we will focus on leveraging the We strengthen our differentiation from traditional sports betting investment we have made in the business over recent years to drive operators by allowing third-party software vendors to connect to our margin improvement in Core Betfair.
We continue to target a Exchange.
Allowing third parties to develop new products built on the 30% adjusted EBITDA margin for Core Betfair in the medium term.
Betfair Exchange increases the pace of innovation for our customers.
In particular, the following initiatives will be important: Already over 43,000 customers trade on the Exchange using third-party applications.
Our customers can choose PC and mobile products from Focus on high-value customers over 60 third-party developers in addition to the interfaces created by Our community of customers is crucial to our success.
To encourage the creation of even more applications we have improving our understanding of the shape and nature of our customer launched a new, and unique, developer programme offering revenue base and the value that different types of customer bring to the Betfair share opportunities.
Our analysis shows that attracting and retaining the highest-value customers in the market is an important component Geographic expansion of margin performance.
We continue to believe that geographic expansion offers us exciting long-term growth opportunities.
Many European countries are moving We tailor our marketing, promotions and service according to the value toward a regulated environment for online gaming.
We fully support this customers bring to the Betfair ecosystem.
Through increased focus on the trend, which we believe favours us as a well-established, responsible most valuable customers we can give them a better experience while operator that works constructively with regulators to bring best practice making our operations more ef cient.
This may slow the growth in overall and competition to online gaming.
customer numbers, but we will maintain revenue growth through higher average revenue per customer.
The greater marketing ef ciency we gain by focusing on the high-value segment will help maximise our pro tability in the medium to long term.
A broad product offer Betfair already offers a range of non-sports betting products such as casino, arcade games and poker.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 17 Chief Executive Of cers Review continued Pricing We have announced two mechanisms to provide returns to shareholders: We have reviewed our pricing structure.
The vast majority of our customers currently pay a fair price for their use of the Betfair platform.
Regular dividend However, we will be adjusting pricing for a very small number of our We are proposing to pay a final dividend of 5.9 pence per share.
Had we most successful customers whose payment of commissions and charges been a listed company for the whole of the year ended 30 April 2011, we does not re ect the bene t they gain from the Betfair ecosystem.
These would have returned around 9.5 million through dividends.
changes will take effect over the coming months.
Share repurchase Marketing and operational ef ciency We have announced our intention to return up to 50 million through We will continue to control our marketing and operations costs tightly a share repurchase programme over the next 12 months.
Our unique product gives us a very loyal customer base with high retention rates.
This allows us to spend a lower percentage This cash return policy will allow our shareholders to realise the bene t of of revenue on marketing compared to other online gaming operators, as cash generated by the business while maintaining the financial exibility we do not have to replace a high proportion of our customer base each to react to a fast-changing environment.
Review of operations Technology expenditure We have been investing signi cantly in our technology platform to Core Betfair provide the exibility for future growth.
Our three year technology Sports architecture project is on track to be completed in FY12.
After this we will Sports revenues for the year grew by 10%, with a particularly strong reduce technology spending as a percentage of revenues and realise the performance in Q1 driven by the FIFA World Cup.
Activity on the Exchange bene t to margins.
ecosystem grew even faster, with the number of bets matched, matched volume and total customer losses all increasing by around 20%.
Over the Licensing change and data centre consolidation long run, our revenue has grown broadly in line with these indicators of We announced in March that we had changed the licensing arrangements customer activity.
However, within any given period, revenue growth for our business so that the Betting Exchange now operates under a from the Exchange can vary with the outcomes of sporting xtures and Gibraltar licence for UK customers.
This change is expected to lift EBITDA the quality of sport on offer.
by 10 million in FY12, rising to an uplift of around 20 million from FY13 as we consolidate the number of data centres from which we operate.
Within the Sports product mix, football revenue grew strongly up 24%, boosted by the World Cup but with a strong follow-through in the rest of Returning excess cash to shareholders the year.
Football is now marginally the largest contributor to our Sports Betfair has a highly cash generative business model which produced over revenue.
This is the result of a concerted effort over recent years to 60 million of cash from operations in FY11.
This cash ow provides position the brand closer to football.
During FY11 we ran successful ample funds for us to invest to grow the business and we now have over partnerships with Manchester United and FC Barcelona and were 150 million of cash on the balance sheet.
So the third element of our delighted that both teams reached the final of the UEFA Champions plan to deliver shareholder value is to return excess cash to shareholders League an event on which we had 100,000 customers placing bets.
from time to time unless there is a clear alternative strategic use for Horseracing showed a marginal decline year-on-year, being harder-hit by the money.
This will not be the first time we have returned capital to weak UK economic conditions as well as a shift from betting on racing shareholders.
As a private company in 2008 we returned some 112 million.
Over the year, revenue from football generated 42.3% of Sports revenues, horseracing 42.1%.
Number of transactions on the exchange per day Breakdown of Core Betfair Sports revenue FY11 2011 7.0m Football 2010 5.7m Horseracing 2009 5.4m Other sports 2008 3.9m and events 99.9% of transactions processed in under a second.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 18 2011 overview Governance Financial statements We made improvements to our Sports product during the year adding In July 2010 we migrated our Poker product to the Ongame network to signi cantly more in-play football matches, an innovative Cash Out boost liquidity for our customers and so improve their playing experience.
feature for football, extensions to our horseracing multiples product and Moving to a network improved our proposition for the majority of our further exclusive content for Betfair customers.
Some new products sports-led customers and helped us increase the number of Active required further tweaking after launch to improve performance, and the customers by 10% over the year.
However, it meant that a small number revenue uplift we were expecting came later in the year than originally of high-value customers who had played at Betfair to access our unique anticipated.
We also began work on our new integrated Exchange and pool of mainly sports-led customers who occasionally play poker could sportsbook product, which will continue in FY12.
now reach these Betfair players through other sites on the network.
We anticipated a short-term dip in revenues after migration, but the loss of Cash Out is a trading tool which helps our customers when betting these high-value customers slowed the pace of recovery.
It has proved popular, generating a 20% increase in the number drop in revenue we launched a series of product enhancements which of occasions on which customers successfully locked-in a pro t during stabilised the revenue run rate from Q2 through to Q4.
During the year we also launched the Betchecker tool to show revenue dropped 14% compared to the previous year and now represents how much a customer would gain by betting with Betfair compared 7% of Core Betfair.
For the 2010-2011 season across the major European football competitions, a Betfair customer with winning bets on Channels the match odds and correct scores for each game would have received Our mobile performance was extremely strong last year.
In May 2010 odds 20% better than the industry average, even after deducting we became the first betting operator to have an application approved commission of 5%.
by Apples AppStore and we now offer a multitude of applications for all major devices iPhone, iPad, Android and HTML5 versions.
During the The Exchange continues to generate the vast majority of our Sports year 168,000 customers placed bets using a mobile device, an increase of revenue 92% including other non-risk taking products in FY11.
Risk- 120% on the previous year.
Mobile revenue grew by 88% to 11.5 million, based products, including multiples, contributed 8% a slight increase accounting for 5% of total Sports revenue.
Our mobile applications are now available in 12 languages and the iPhone Portfolio app is available in 14 local country AppStores, signi cantly more than our After a signi cant upgrade to our portfolio products during the year we nearest competitor.
This year we will extend our mobile products beyond now have highly competitive customer offerings in the Casino and Poker the Exchange to include other types of Sports betting and some of our categories.
Our Games segment Casino, Arcade and our own proprietary Exchange Geographies Games now generates 18% of Core Betfair revenue.
To be able to refresh The UK represents around 53% of Core Betfair net gaming revenue and the choice of games faster and achieve a better yield, we migrated to a grew by 6%.
This re ects the higher proportion of revenues from new Casino platform provided by Playtech launching to customers at horseracing in the UK, which slowed overall growth.
We also improved our existing Arcade games platform to similar effect.
This helped us to grow Games revenue by 9% over the European net gaming revenue 42% of the total grew by 9% or 11% year, up from 1% in the previous year.
Spain and Eastern Europe grew strongly but overall growth was reduced by regulatory issues, notably in France and We launched a Casino portfolio of 115 games in August 2010 and added a Italy.
Following changes to the French taxation and licensing framework further 23 during the second half of the year.
Our traditional table and in May 2010, we stopped accepting bets from France as we judged the card games continued to perform strongly.
Gladiator was our topregime to be commercially unviable.
We also faced operating restrictions performing slot game, and we also did well with our exclusive Manchester in Italy during the second half of the year, pending clari cation of the United and seasonal Christmas and Easter slot games.
In March 2011 we regulatory position in that market.
expanded the Casino product portfolio with a Live Casino offering.
This was a popular launch: close to half of our Casino Active customers tried Introducing a new payments platform in December 2010 has allowed it in the first four weeks.
We also added 46 new Arcade games during the us to rapidly increase the number of international payment methods year, bringing the total to 136.
During the last month of the year we we accept.
We believe these will help to increase our conversion rate for launched Backgammon, the first multi-player game in an expanding suite new international customers registering on the site.
Sports revenues Sports mix Sports revenues for the year Within the Sports product mix, grew at 10% with a particularly football grew strongly up 24%, strong performance in Q1 driven boosted by the World Cup.
10 % 24 % Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19 Chief Executive Of cers Review continued Regulatory change continues to be a key factor in uencing geographic Despite the downtime, FY11 was a record year for activity on the site.
expansion and there is a summary of the current regulatory position later We matched 916 million bets up 20% and handled a new peak load in this review.
of 30,000 bets per minute during the Grand National.
Customers Management team Total active customer numbers grew by 15% over the year, with the FIFA Our leadership team is committed to delivering on our plan for FY12, and World Cup attracting a large number of new players.
During the second we have strengthened the management group in technology, marketing half we concentrated on winning high-value customers through a more and mobile development with a number of key appointments.
Since targeted and ef cient marketing programme.
We also realigned our the close of the financial year we have also welcomed Ian Chuter to customer retention and promotions teams to focus on this segment.
the Executive Committee as Director of Group Operations.
Ian brings Speci cally, we undertook a targeted campaign for the Grand National 30 years of industry experience, the last nine being with William Hill.
in April 2011 focusing on acquiring high value customers.
As a result we acquired 35,000 fewer customers overall for the Grand National and Q4 Other Investments customer numbers fell year-on-year.
But this was offset by a signi cant Betfair US increase in average revenue per customer as we had more high-value We acquired TVG in January 2009, seeing opportunities to gain an activity.
This adjustment to our customer approach will also help to important foothold in the US market and to signi cantly strengthen the enhance our future margin performance as we achieve higher lifetime business.
TVG performed well in FY11, growing revenue by 10% 7% in payback on our marketing spend.
local currency and increasing handle by 18% against an overall decline in US horseracing handle of 7%.
It also increased its market share of the We achieved a better-than-expected cost per acquisition, reduced by 21% Advance Deposit Wagering ADW market.
Active customers were up to 104.
This cut the proportion of revenue spent on marketing to 24% 12% over the year, while revenue per customer declined 6%.
We improved in line with historic levels and signi cantly below the prior years 29%.
the business by bringing in some of Betfairs online marketing experience and taking a more joined-up approach to marketing promotions, Technology television content and customer services.
We continue to invest in We have a strong technology culture and continue to invest in our upgrading the TVG website and recently released a new beta version.
The current investment programme began in FY10 and remains In March 2011 we restructured TVGs operations to reduce costs and on budget and on track for completion during FY12.
This investment will improve ef ciency.
give us greater exibility to enter new markets quickly as well as forming the base for our next generation of Sports products.
During FY12 we will In addition to the ADW business, legislative change in California and deliver signi cant upgrades that improve speed and enhance the look, feel New Jersey will allow state residents to place horseracing wagers on an and usability of the website.
exchange for the first time.
Exchange wagering in California is expected to be available from May 2012 and we are making a signi cant investment During the year the technology team performed a number of signi cant in exchange technology speci cally for the US market.
We continue upgrades and migrations, notably to the Casino and Poker platforms, and to discuss the possibility of exchange wagering with other states.
We a major data centre move to Dublin.
Such signi cant activity contributed also continue to build relationships with other industry participants to increased downtime on the website, and a series of outages in February and regulators and will look for further opportunities in the US as the and early March 2011 impacted performance in Q4.
I am pleased to report market liberalises.
that those issues have now been resolved and since mid-March the site has been functioning at its usual high levels of reliability.
During the second half of the year, segment through a more targeted we concentrated on achieving and ef cient marketing programmes growth in the high value customer across our international markets.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 20 2011 overview Governance Financial statements TVG We continue to invest in TVG, and have recently launched a new Beta version of its website.
The amount wagered through TVG was up 18% in FY11, a result of us improving the business by bringing in some of Betfairs online marketing experience and introducing a more joined-up approach to marketing promotions.
Customer numbers Peak load Total active customer numbers We handled a new peak load grew by 15% over the year, with of 30,000 bets per minute the FIFA World Cup attracting a during the Grand National.
large number of new players.
15 % 30,000 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21 Chief Executive Of cers Review continued LMAX Kabam Set up to apply Betfair technology in a major new market, LMAX began Kabam is a successful developer of social games for the Facebook operating its financial trading platform in October 2010 and is in an early platform, best known for its Kingdoms of Camelot game.
Betfair invested stage of development.
It is regulated by the Financial Services Authority $3 million in Kabams second funding round in 2009 to learn more about and operates with a separate board of directors.
Betfair owns 74.8% of the the nascent social games sector.
We were pleased that during the year business, Goldman Sachs owns 12.7% and LMAX employees and other Kabam successfully completed its fourth funding round as a private investors own 12.5%.
company to raise a further $85 million.
We did not participate in the latest round and now hold a 9.3% stake in the Company, fully diluted.
The launch of the LMAX platform has had mixed success.
The underlying technology has delivered four key elements of an attractive customer Regulation proposition: speed, quality of execution, reliability and competitive UK pricing.
But the product has yet to achieve good traction with target With effect from 9 March 2011, Betfairs Betting Exchange began customers and sign-ups are signi cantly below original expectations.
operating under a Gibraltar licence for UK customers.
Following a change of Chief Executive in March 2011, the LMAX Board has Over the past year we have signi cantly restructured our operations, reassessed the Companys approach to its target audience.
Work has transferring most of the key systems for our Betting Exchange from the begun on broadening the product offering, with a particular slant towards UK to Gibraltar and Dublin.
As part of this process, we opened new of ces liquid foreign exchange, index and commodity markets and exploiting in both Gibraltar and Dublin, together employing over 120 people.
We LMAXs unique high-frequency trading capability.
The business has been continually strive to create the best technology platform for the business: reorganised and the sales team is being strengthened to provide a more this revised structure gives us the freedom to locate key technical effective channel to market.
equipment in more ef cient locations to improve customer service and compete on a level basis in the UK market.
At corporate level we remain Betfair Australia incorporated as a UK company and employ over 1,000 people in UK Betfair Australia is a 50:50 joint venture between Betfair Group plc and of ces in Hammersmith, Stevenage and Halifax.
It operates online and telephone wagering products including a betting exchange in Australia and New Zealand.
Betfair will continue to be one of the biggest supporters of British horseracing and will provide the same level of funding as we would have Over the year it achieved revenue growth of 11% local currency, driven done before the change in licensing.
Although we are no longer legally by 28% growth in average monthly active users.
This revenue growth liable to pay the Horserace Betting Levy, we have demonstrated our along with some clari cation in the amounts owed in race elds fees, a cut commitment to British horseracing by agreeing to donate the sum in the Tasmanian tax rate and a strong focus on cost control despite high of 6 million to the Levy for FY12.
We are fully engaged with the UK ongoing legal fees has resulted in a signi cantly smaller loss for the year.
government about reforms to the Horserace Betting Levy and the ongoing review of how operators licensed elsewhere are regulated in the UK.
Betfair Australia has an ongoing legal dispute with Racing NSW and Harness Racing NSW regarding the implementation of race elds legislation.
Following a decision against Betfair Australia in the Federal Court, the company was granted leave to appeal to the High Court of Australia in March 2011.
The case is expected to be heard in the second half of 2011.
Increase in revenue by geography FY11 Big Sporting Events on Betfair FY11 UK: 10% 6% Racing N. America: Cheltenham India Tennis Festival Sri Lanka: 7% US Open 9% Cricket World Cup South Africa: Australia: 11% Football Cricket World Cup Ashes UK Europe Rest of world Betfair US Betfair Australia Local currency Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 22 2011 overview Governance Financial statements Europe market developments Netherlands A wide variety of European countries are currently taking political and Seven years ago we launched a case against the Dutch Minister of Justice, legislative steps to implement online gaming regulation for the first time.
who had refused to consider our application for a gambling licence.
The They include Cyprus, Denmark, Germany, Greece, Ireland and Spain.
The case was subsequently referred to the European Court of Justice ECJ.
process is at a different stage of development in each country but is likely In June 2010 the ECJ held that the gambling licensing procedures in to result in online gaming legislation being implemented in the next EU Member States must be non-discriminatory and transparent, and six to 24 months.
It is currently dif cult to say what the final regulatory in March 2011 the Dutch Council of State ruled in favour of Betfairs case.
framework in each country will look like: there may be signi cant It held that the gambling licensing procedure in the Netherlands failed to variation between countries in the products that can be licensed and meet the ECJs criteria and that the Ministry of Justices refusal of Betfairs the taxation structures to be applied.
licence request was therefore illegal.
The ruling has materially affected national gambling policy: in the same month the new Dutch government Betfair fully supports moves towards a regulated regime for online gaming.
announced it would introduce a licensing system for private operators We continue to work with the relevant authorities in their efforts to of online gambling services.
Licences are not expected to be issued before create an environment that encourages competition between legitimate late 2012. operators and provides real consumer choice while giving players the required levels of protection.
Regulatory change remains both a risk and Summary an opportunity for our business.
In the near term, we could see a negative impact on revenue and pro tability though we are investing in our FY11 was a challenging year but I know that the investments we are technology and products to mitigate this risk as much as possible.
making today will further strengthen the business for the future.
We have But over a longer timeframe we believe that stable and well regulated a clear plan for generating shareholder value and I have full con dence in European markets will give us the opportunity to extend our the Betfair team to deliver.
Europe developments speci c to Betfair Italy The legislative framework for online gaming in Italy covers a wide range David Yu of products.
Following liberalisation in 2006, online licences were issued Chief Executive Of cer in 2007.
These originally included sportsbooks: tournament poker was added in 2009.
In April 2011 the regulator, AAMS, nalised the regulation of cash poker and casino games: licensed operators can now offer these products in addition to those previously regulated.
A decree for betting exchanges has yet to be published although such products are expressly covered by the legislative framework, which provides that operators of betting exchanges in Italy would pay a gross pro t tax of 20%.
We have a licence to operate a traditional sports betting product in Italy through our betfair.
We also allow Italian customers to access products on our betfair.
com site which are not currently licensed in Italy.
In November 2010 AAMS gave notice that our Italian sports betting product on betfair.
it would be suspended pending a review of the licence.
That review continues and we are in regular discussion with AAMS in order to reach a satisfactory conclusion.
Operating restrictions placed on Betfair will continue to impact revenue from Italy until licences for the Betting Exchange are issued.
Top Specials markets FY11 Growth in our in-play football offering FY11 133% growth year-on-year in the number of football markets we offer in-play UK General Election X Factor Eurovision Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 23
