Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 09 Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Chief Executives statement continued It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it down just a couple of points it adds or subtracts In this section: was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, tens of millions from our bottom line.
This was not it was the epoch of belief, it was the epoch of the case in years past because we didnt get as 11 Business review incredulity, it was the season of Light, it was the much of the profits.
So theres a penalty to pay for 11 Group fi financial highlights season of Darkness, it was the spring of hope, it was greater profits: greater volatility.
12 UK Car Insurance the winter of despair, we had everything before us, 16 UK Car Insurance review we had nothing before us, we were all going direct Meanwhile, we continue to grow our businesses 18 International Car Insurance to heaven, we were all going direct the other way.
outside the UK to ensure continued prosperity for 20 Price Comparison Admiral Group well into the future.
It was a good 22 Other Group items How did Mr. Dickens know, nearly 200 years ago, year for these operations, although all of the 25 Principal risks and that his words could be used to describe Admirals markets were in present their own individual uncertainties 2011 year?
Or at least the way some pundits would challenges.
In short, 2011 was the year of the chameleon: quite Based on some of the hyperbole you might have useful they eat insects!
but changeable and a bit heard during the year, what, you may be wondering, fickle.
As we enter 2012 I feel confident.
If there was happened to Admiral in 2011?
When last we left this any complacency developing in our operation it is narrative the company was flying along at great certainly gone now.
I know weve got lots of people pace: able to leap tall buildings in a single bound.
who work hard every day to ensure Admirals The market was raising rates and Admiral, lagging continued success well into the future.
neatly just a tad behind those rate hikes, was winning loads of new customers.
Admiral was For the eighth consecutive year, in fact every year starting from a combined ratio of 84% and so 2011 since we became a public company, Admiral Group was looking like it would be a giant winner.
has reported record turnover and record profits with a return on capital of 59%.
If this is, as Dickens put it, Fast forward a year.
Profits are up 13%, and in most the winter of despair, then I say: Please, Sir, may I situations youd call this a giant winner.
But this is have some more?
PERFORMANCE less than most people thought they would be.
Far less than I thought they would be, thats for sure.
It has been a disappointing year.
Not because it was a bad year, but because so much more was expected.
Our ratios in the UK Henry Engelhardt, CBE are still first rate.
Simply put, the problem is that Chief Executive Officer weve increased our volatility by increasing our profit 6 March 2012 commissions.
So if our combined ratio moves up or Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 10
