Business review 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Chief Executives statement BG Group is making good progress with delivering its growth plans.
In Brazil, the sheer scale and quality of theBig 5 Santos Basin fields is remarkable.
By 2020, weexpect these fields alone to be producing over 2millionbarrels of oil per day, nearly as much as the entireUK North Sea at the same stage in its life.
Group operating performance Earnings for the year increased by 11% to $4437million 2010 $4 013 million.
In E&P, total operating profit was 37% higher at $5149million 2010 $3 766 million.
BG Group reported strong performance in LNG, with total operating profit up 5% to $2 573 million 2010 $2 449 million.
In T&D, total operating profit was $507 million 2010 $711 million.
Further details are set out in the Financial review on pages 40to 44.
Distinctive capabilities We believe that our track record of value creation is built on a number of competitive advantages.
Key amongst these are three distinctive capabilities that lie at the very heart of BGGroup: market knowledge and commercial Sir Frank Chapman Chief Executive agility: exploration performance: and the In order to secure the future success of BGGroup, fast-track development of economic projects.
wewill continue to foster a performance culture amongst our people, while intensifying our focus Market knowledge onefficiency.
Despite modest anticipated gas demand growth in Europe, we expect that the outlook for global gas and LNG demand will remain strong over the next 10 years, with markets important to BG Group generally remaining tight.
Meeting this demand will require enormous technical, commercial and funding challenges to be overcome.
Many countries BG Group is making good progress with increased five-fold from around5trillion willneed new pipeline gas and LNG imports.
In Brazil, we cubicfeet tcf in 2008 to more than Inour view, diverging supply-demand trends upgraded our mean estimates of Santos Basin 25tcftoday.
will create a tight LNG market outlook.
This resources to some 6 billion barrels of oil points to firm long-term contract prices and equivalent boe net to BG Group, with an During the year, we have also moved quickly the need for new LNG supply projects, such upside potential of 8 billion boe net.
Results to establish a US LNG export business.
This asthe ones now taking shape in the USA.
from the first permanent Floating Production further expands and diversifies our LNG Storage and Offloading FPSO vessel and supply portfolio which is now set to exceed Commercial agility from other extended well tests have exceeded our2015 target of 20 mtpa.
In the USA, we signed an agreement with our expectations and costs have continued Sabine Pass, securing 5.5 mtpa ofLNG export tofallwith drilling performance improvements.
The combination of these and other named volumes for 20 years.
In addition to Sabine projects, underpinned by discovered resources, Pass, development plans for export from Lake In Australia, we made good progress on the is expected to deliver production growth to Charles are at the design and permitting stage.
QCLNG project aproject underpinned by 1.4million barrels of oil equivalent per day A 15 mtpa export authorisation for US Free 10million tonnes per annum mtpa of LNG sales boed by 2020, which represents the mid-point Trade Agreement FTA countries was granted secured primarily to high-value Asia-Pacific of the long-term 6-8% compound annual in July last year, facilitating a potential supply markets and a risked resource base that has growth rate range established back in 2005. from Lake Charles to our customers in Chile, BG Groups view, not the Operator or relevant For a reconciliation between business performance and Consortium view.
totalresults, see note 1, page 99 and note8, page 110. www.
com Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 11 Singapore and South Korea.
We expect a substantially shorter drilling durations now Cost and efficiency decision onour application for non-FTA achieved.
The second FPSO has arrived in BG Group is in the middle of the heaviest countries bytheend ofthis year.
Brazilfor topside integration work prior to investment phase in its history.
Project itsdeployment on the Sapinho field in 2013 investment, funded predominantly from our Exploration performance andwe are on track to deliver 2.3 million boed own cash flows, is set to transform the business In 2011, exploration and appraisal activity ofFPSO capacity by 2017. fundamentally.
We expect production to reach added 1 billion boe to our resource base, over 1 million boed by 2015, and Group-wide bringing resource additions over the last Production growth and reserves annual revenues to grow to more than 10years to 10 billion boe.
Our prospect Production volumes were 1% lower for the year, $35billion at current prices.
resource inventory has grown annually principally as a result of a series of shutdowns by around 12% over the last 10 years and and third-party operated infrastructure To maintain a robust financial structure, now stands at 3.8 billion boe.
restrictions in the UK North Sea.
Excluding the threethemes will continue to feature.
We UK North Sea, the Groups production from willfocuson sustaining our top-quartile cost During the year, the Groups exploration international assets grew by 5%, in line with performance.
In an opportunity-rich portfolio, highlights included: appraisal drilling on expectations.
In aggregate, our fields currently we will also continue to prioritise projects with theBig 5 Santos Basin fields Lula Cernambi, onstream show essentially no decline before thehighest capital efficiency.
Finally, we will Sapinho, Iara and Carioca in Brazil, leading 2015.
Combining this solid base with the continue with the execution of our portfolio tothe material resource upgrade I referred anticipated future contributions, mainly from rationalisation programme, planning to toearlier on page 10: another discovery in Brazil and Australia, delivers production of release, over the next one to two years, some Tanzania: alarge acreage acquisition in Kenya: more than 1million boed by 2015.
$5billion from, for example, our power plants and discoveries in both the UK and Norway.
and our T&D and regasification assets.
These In 2011, our proved reserves replacement ratio measures, alongside continuing work to Fast-track development was 251% and reserves and resources increased diversify and extend the Groups funding ofeconomicprojects by some 1 billion boe, bringing the total sources, form a solid and coherent plan Since sanctioning the QCLNG project in 2010, to17.1billion boe, or 73 years of production tofundthe execution of our large we have invested more than $5 billion and at2011levels.
Reserves and resources have investmentprogramme.
weare on track to deliver our first LNG in 2014, grownby 7billion boe over the last four years justsix years after entry into the initial joint agrowth of 14% per annum.
In order to secure the future success venture.
In the gas fields, drilling is ramping ofBGGroup, we will continue to foster upto an 11-rig programme for 2012 and work Safety aperformance culture amongst our people, isadvancing with gas and water treatment Safety is a core value for BG Group.
As such, while intensifying our focus on efficiency.
Welding of the 42-inch steel pipe is Ideeply regret that our safety performance Weare entering a critical delivery phase underway, with nearly 150 kilometres of pipe deteriorated in 2011.
Three people sadly lost and, in2012, our primary focus will be on the now in position along the route.
On Curtis their lives working on behalf of BG Group safeand sustainable delivery of production Island, construction has started on the LNG andour total recordable case frequency also andourmajor growth projects.
storage tanks, with one reinforced concrete deteriorated from a previously improving base completed and the second underway.
trend, for the most part, due to the ramp-up Themodule yard in Thailand is currently inonshore unconventional gas activity.
We have assembling process and piping modules.
undertaken anumber of initiatives in response Sir Frank Chapman to this unacceptable situation, including Chief Executive In Brazil, production during 2011 from the running aSafety Week in December 2011 Lulafield increased, with current production during which every employee was stood down approaching 90 000 boed from just three from normal activities and engaged ina production wells.
Performance so farhas Group-wide process to reinforce our safety exceeded expectations, with some 15million culture.
Further information can be found boe in total already produced 13million boe inTheway we work on page 36. from a single well on Lula.
Wenow expect production from the Big 5 Santos Basin fields The Board and Group to be over 600 000 boed net to BG Group ExecutiveCommittee by2020.
We have made changes to the Group ExecutiveCommittee GEC to enhance The sheer scale and quality of the Big 5 fields succession planning at the executive level, isremarkable.
By 2020, weexpect these fields while maintaining our focus on delivery, alone to be producing over 2 million barrels ashighlighted in the Chairmans statement.
ofoil per day bopd, nearly as much as the Inaddition, we have appointed Matt Schatzman entire UK North Sea at the same stage in its to the GEC, as Executive Vice-President, life.
Effectively, this is equivalent toBGGroup GlobalEnergy Marketing andShipping.
having around 25% of the entire UKNorth Sea Toensure that the Group maximises value oiloutput at that point in itsdevelopment.
through our worldwide energy marketing andshipping activities, weare consolidating We also continued to make good progress thetrading and marketing activities from during the year on development, with unit around the Groupinto one team.
costs falling for the most recent FPSO and BG Groups view, not the Operator or relevant Consortium view.
