Chief Executive Officers statement Assets under management AuM at period end 86% US$65.8bn Net revenue 17% 333.8m The financial year ended 30 June 2011 was broadly a good one modest net headcount increases, before adding a further 70 people for the Group.
Ashmore achieved strong growth in assets under through the EMM acquisition.
Variable compensation for the year, management AuM, from both outperformance and net as a percentage of earnings before variable compensation, interest subscriptions, and resultant good financial performance in the and tax EBVCIT, remained exactly in line with our planned level management company.
At the same time we managed to make of 19% FY2009 10: 18%.
As a result, our operating margins have progress with regard to our future growth plans by achieving some reduced slightly to 72%, and as our target remains consistent to initial success in two major strategic plans the development of maintain an industry leading operating margin whilst growing the a broader and deeper distribution platform and the acquisition scale of the business we were delighted to record a fifth successive of an emerging markets equities manager, Emerging Markets year in the 70s.
However, given our growing scale and the Management LLC EMM see section below.
acquisition, which has historically operated on lower margins, we would expect this to finally enter the 60s in the year to come, as long anticipated.
AuM development and financial performance During the year AuM increased by 86% from US$35.3 billion to US$65.8 billion, comprising net subscriptions of US$15.5 billion, For more information on our financial performance see investment performance of US$5.1 billion and US$9.9 billion p24 to p28 through the EMM acquisition.
Overall gross subscriptions totalled US$23.0 billion with the Strategic progress highlights including a very successful take-up of an Asian retail This has been a year of significant progress in both distribution and multi-strategy fund in the first half, good levels of subscriptions product development and through the acquisition of the dedicated into local currency and external debt from a very broad range of emerging markets equities asset manager, EMM.
investors during the second half, and further currency overlay inflows throughout the year.
Last year we outlined the process underway in building a broader distribution platform, and this is an initiative on which we have The absolute levels of gross redemptions increased to US$7.5 billion continued to focus.
Firstly, we have deepened the distribution team, FY2009 10 US$3.7 billion reflecting of course our absolute growth increasing the headcount further from 21 to 32.
The team is being in scale, but also in part the increase in retail originated AuM where reorganised to provide expertise aligned to the specific needs of the turnover rates are typically higher than from institutionally sourced institutional and retail client segments with hiring across all areas assets.
Additionally, the natural maturity profile of special situations of business development, client account management and service investments has contributed somewhat as asset realisations from delivery.
This structure is in place throughout our principal global sales of investments at this point in the cycle returned US$0.5 billion distribution locations London, New York, Tokyo, Singapore, Beijing capital to investors over the year from a total of US$3.4 billion and Melbourne with further dedicated distribution staff within invested at the start of it.
However, all in all our firm wide our local asset management businesses in Brazil and Turkey all redemption rate of 16% per annum remains relatively low.
organised as a single centrally managed, but globally located team.
Added to their increased scale in headcount terms, our New York, Tokyo and Beijing operations have become further licensed during Financial performance the year by local regulators providing us with the platform to Net revenue in the year increased by 17% to 333.8 million driven increase our distribution from these centres to a wider range of by a 31% growth in management fee income and a second investors.
The coming year is expected to see us complete the successive year of record performance fees.
We increased our reorganisation of our distribution platform.
operating cost base as intended in line with our growth plans with 14 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Governance Financial statements A year of significant progress in both distribution and product development and through the acquisition of a dedicated emerging markets equity asset manager.
In line with these developments, the period has seen the launch of 2 Activities to date many new funds and segregated accounts as conduits for asset The business was rebranded AshmoreEMM immediately raising and we expect this trend to continue this year.
the launch in December 2010 of our first sponsored suite of US SEC registered 40 Act funds for US institutional and retail investors Clients have all received confirmation that this reflects our strategic providing by the year end a full range of global emerging markets objectives and the scale benefits of a larger house providing all debt and equities funds.
We aim to grow these by partnering with investment management products to customers, whilst providing financial intermediaries including private banks, broker dealers confidence in the continuity in investment philosophy and process at and other retail distributors and as we develop track records in AshmoreEMM which will not change.
Furthermore, AshmoreEMM these conduits, expect to see steady and significant assets from has now become responsible for the investment management of all these channels.
centrally managed equity products within the Group through a unified management structure and Investment Committee, incorporating all global equities investment professionals in the Group.
For more information on our strategic progress see p6 to p7 The global Ashmore distribution team has now incorporated the existing AshmoreEMM product range on to our distribution platform and has ensured that the appropriate local account management Acquisition engagement occurs for all clients and we have begun to develop In line with our stated strategy of increasing the scale of our public products to take advantage of the Groups wide range of existing equities theme we announced in February our intention to acquire a clients.
The physical integration of the AshmoreEMM business 62.9 per cent stake in EMM, a long established dedicated emerging on to the core portfolio management and fund accounting systems markets equities manager, and following a strong level of support used across the Group has also begun with the client relationship from their investors and our shareholders the transaction was management and general ledger systems being the first to become completed on 31 May 2011. fully integrated.
We would expect to have completed the necessary level of systems integration with AshmoreEMM within the financial 1 Strategic rationale year to 30 June 2012.
Simply expressed, our stated ambition is to be the pre-eminent, specialist, emerging markets investment manager covering all asset 3 Going forward.
We recognise that our most significant gap remains a lack of Now we have to make it work.
The investment managers have to scale within the equities theme and the acquisition of EMM provides outperform, distribution have to raise assets and technology and this scale and proven investment capability in a dedicated emerging operations areas have to deliver the systems and process improvements markets equities business.
The transaction, with a proportion of needed.
Understandably, the efforts involved in the migration over to the consideration in the form of an earnout over three years post new technology systems and processes will be significant, but we are completion, and the deepening of equity ownership across a very confident in the combined talents of the operations, technology broader number of their staff, was structured to align our interests and other support teams to deliver these projects between now and the with the team at EMM.
end of the financial year to 30 June 2012.
In line with the reorganisation undertaken we will report progress going forward within the equities theme of our global asset management business.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 15 Chief Executive Officers statement continued I should like to thank everyone at Ashmore for the huge efforts that went into achieving the years investment, financial and operational results.
hence of fund structure and investment process across them, Theme reclassification as well as reflecting how they are viewed by distributors and In line with the Groups steady evolution, the investment themes other intermediaries.
into which all funds and accounts are organised have been reclassified going forward.
This process is driven by our desire to Thirdly, given the scale of AuM within currency overlay hedging, align the reporting of our business in a manner with which the we have created a dedicated currency overlay liquidity theme investment community is familiar and looks to allocate assets, as recognising the different nature and risk profile of these products well as being satisfied that a particular theme attains critical mass which results in a different revenue margin profile.
and is not correlated in performance terms exactly with another existing theme.
People and culture The first reclassification is the separate identification of a dedicated In a period when dramatic economic events in the developed investment theme of emerging markets blended debt, where such worldwere arising so frequently, given our exclusive focus on mandates specifically combine external, local currency and corporate theemerging markets, our cultural sense of identity is, I believe, debt.
This reflects the significant demand we see from institutional stronger than ever.
investors seeking returns benchmarked against blended indices comprised typically of external debt and local currency, with in The year has seen the recognition of our investment professionals some cases a corporate debt component.
In such mandates, clients performance with an award from European Pensions as Emerging expect to see a blend of debt themes at all times, although of Markets Manager of the Year, an Investment Excellence award from varying weighting, and we are measured against tailor-made Global Investor for Emerging Markets Fixed Income and the Asian blended indices reflecting a clients strategic commitment to the Investor Investment Performance Award for Best Emerging Markets three themes and their neutral view of the appropriate weighting Debt Manager.
Given the significant increase in competition across of the three themes.
The decisions we make are tactical variations emerging markets fund management as others progressively share around this.
In contrast, going forward, the existing external debt our vision, it is particularly satisfying to be recognised for our theme contains funds and accounts benchmarked against a single ongoing outperformance in this way.
I should like to thank everyone sovereign emerging markets external debt index, although some at Ashmore for the huge efforts that went into achieving the years mandates may include an ability to off index cross-over invest into investment, financial and operational results.
Whilst the distribution other themes such as local currency, corporate and special situations and acquisition developments described in detail above were two assets, with the firms flagship EMLIP fund having invested in this key strategic targets undertaken in the year, there is much more manner since its inception in 1992.
Irrespective of the ability to hard work ahead of us all in order to allow us to take maximum invest across the debt themes, such accounts are usually majority advantage of the opportunity presented through these and other external debt as allocations to other debt themes are always seen initiatives.
In the year to come, and reflecting the investments we as tactical rather than strategic.
have made in both, we have to become a leading performer in equities, as well as maintain that in external, local currency and Secondly, we have reclassified the real estate and infrastructure corporate debt, foreign exchange and alternatives, and our funds organised currently within the other theme in combination distribution team has to deliver upon raising assets across a broader with our special situations assets to create an overall alternatives range of products.
I am confident that we will rise to these theme.
This recognises the similarity in nature of these strategies challenges and achieve further success across the Ashmore business.
investments, in particular their long term and less liquid nature, and For more information on our people and culture see p36 16 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Governance Financial statements Profit before tax 13% 245.9m Total dividend for the year 12% 14.5p balance sheets worldwide, within our special situations funds, as Outlook well as making new investments in our real estate joint venture In the new financial year, unaudited annual performance fees for funds in China and Russia.
At the same time we are looking to the funds with performance years ended 31 August 2011 were replicate our real estate and infrastructure initiatives in other emerging 18.8 million August 2010: 43.5 million.
economies where demand for such assets is of course significant.
The major recent economic events in the developed markets, The key attributes for success in asset management are of course Greek debt restructuring and the raising of the US debt ceiling, to consistently outperform and to raise and keep assets whilst were predictable given the deleveraging still required to occur across running an effective and scaleable operational platform.
Our strong the highly indebted developed world.
What was not so obvious investment performance has continued so far, but must be was the degree of political chaos and irresponsibility that ultimately maintained, and we will also need to utilise our increased product led to the US rating downgrade.
It is now no longer the emerging breadth and global distribution capacity on an ever more robust economies that should be described as the homes of default and technology and operations platform to succeed.
fiscal irresponsibility, although some home country bias will of course persist amongst developed world politicians and investors.
The opportunity for raising AuM from both developed country and emerging markets sources as they increasingly come to realise the The global sell off resulting from these events has further reinforced attractiveness of the emerging markets asset classes over developed the fundamental attractiveness across the emerging markets asset market alternatives, remains a compelling one.
Emerging markets external sovereign debt is now relatively major participant in both.
To that end in the coming year, we would safer than it was compared to US treasuries and as a result we like to further develop our strategic plans in local asset management anticipate spreads over those treasuries will tighten significantly in operations within the emerging markets themselves.
Local currencies are set to rise against the US dollar in the next six months as we expect central banks to steadily use There remains much to do to build our Company, but we are up for currency appreciation to control domestic inflation.
for generating alpha through active management continues in this area given the variations of monetary and exchange rate policy being undertaken by different countries reflecting their different Mark Coombs cycles.
Corporate debt in emerging markets is continuing to grow Chief Executive Officer strongly as companies want tenor not available from bank lending and will increasingly turn to the bond markets.
Our long developed expertise in this asset class should continue to provide strong investment outperformance.
Emerging markets equities valuations suggest the upcoming quarter may represent a good entry point with earnings forecast to grow strongly over the medium term.
Our alternatives theme is one of much activity at present as we continue to realise investments, find some very interesting new opportunities as a result of tightening Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 17
