08 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group CEOs review Good progress beating operating targets Concerns over the macro-economic environment in Europe dominated market sentiment, resulting in exceptional market volatility and uncertainty in 2011.
Against this backdrop, I am Andrew Moss Group chief executive pleased to report a year of good progress and operating 4 profits of 2.5 billion.
We have beaten our operating targets During the year we beat our operating targets.
We generated 2.1 billion of operating capital.
In life insurance, we delivered an internal rate of return IRR of 14.4%.
In general insurance, we achieved a combined operating ratio COR of 96.8%.
We also remain on track to meet our 400 million cost and efficiency target by the end of 2012. and we are paying an increased dividend In a challenging year, our resilient performance enabled us to pay a total dividend to our shareholders of 26p for 2011, an increase of 2% over 2010. because our strategy is working.
Our strategic priorities for 2011 were to increase operating capital generation, allocate capital to our chosen markets where we can grow and earn the 2.5 billion highest returns, and simplify our portfolio.
We have made good progress against each priority.
operating profit, We have significantly increased operating capital generation.
In our 12 up 6% on a priority markets operating profits increased by 9% and we have delivered a 5 continuing basis strong performance in a number of our other markets.
We have achieved this by making tough choices, supporting new business growth in markets where we can earn a strong return, such as the UK, and writing less capital intensive business in other markets.
As a result, whilst life and pensions sales are Full year dividend pence marginally lower we are growing the business profitably.
27 In the UK, which accounts for approximately half of our profits, we have made good progress in our ambition to be the undisputed market leader.
24 With our broad product range and our strengths in underwriting, claims and distribution we have grown operating profits, sales and market share and are 21 well prepared to take advantage of changes such as the Retail Distribution Review and auto-enrolment.
18 In Europe, we increased operating profits and improved new business profitability and delivered strong operating performances in major markets such as France, Spain and Poland.
In markets where conditions have been 15 difficult weve taken action.
In Ireland, for example, we have decided to 09 10 11 combine the business with the UK region so that it can benefit from the UKs scale and underwriting expertise.
Whilst in the short term trading conditions in some European markets will be challenging, in the medium-term, Europe contains some of the most attractive insurance markets in the world with strong savings rates.
4 The Groups accounting policy for operating profit also referred to as Group adjusted operating profit remains consistent with prior periods and is set out on page 168.
5 Operating profit on a continuing basis, excluding Delta Lloyd, was 2.2bn FY2010: 2.0bn.
24.0 25.5 26.0 Essential read 09 09 Aviva plc Group CEOs review continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 In North America, operating earnings increased in both our US and Canadian Life new business businesses.
In Asia, our investment in our relatively young businesses is clearly internal rate of return % paying off as we successfully grow profits and build an attractive franchise.
16.0 Aviva Investors made good progress with net external sales at a record 6 5.6 billion on an underlying basis.
12.0 In 2011, consistent with our focus on investing our capital where we can grow and earn the highest returns, we sold a further 15% stake in Delta Lloyd, 8.0 raising around 0.4 billion and reducing our presence in the Benelux markets.
We also sold our roadside breakdown business RAC at 17 times earnings for 4.0 1 billion.
In addition we sold Aviva Investors business in Australia, concluded our partnership in the UAE and, in January 2012, we agreed the sale of our 0 operations in Hungary, Romania, the Czech Republic and our exit from Slovakia.
09 10 11 Our progress in 2011 owes much to the actions we have taken over a excluding Delta Lloyd number of years to transform Aviva.
Since 2009 we have increased operating profits from 2.0 billion to 2.5 billion, doubled operating capital generation 7 General Insurance and reduced our cost base from 5.1 billion to 4.1 billion.
In addition, the combined operating pension deficit of 1.7 billion has now moved into a surplus.
As a result Aviva ratio % is a leaner and stronger company today.
You can read more about how we 100 have transformed Aviva on pages 12 and 13.
We delivered further profitable growth in life insurance 90 Life insurance performance was strong in 2011.
We have allocated capital to more profitable areas, such as unit linked and term assurance, and away from 80 more capital intensive products such as with-profits in Europe.
We improved the profitability of our life insurance business with a 14.4% life new business 70 IRR, ahead of our target of at least 12%, and increased life insurance operating profits by 7% to 2,123 million.
60 In the UK, the life insurance result is a real highlight.
We grew our share 09 10 11 of an expanding life and pensions market and sales increased 10% to 11,315 excluding Delta Lloyd million.
We have a 25% market share in individual annuities and are number two in the life insurance protection market.
UK life insurance operating profits increased by 8% to 920 million, double the level six years ago, and new business profitability remained strong with an IRR of 15%.
and achieved a good general insurance result.
We continued to grow our general insurance business profitably reflecting progress made in recent years to reduce costs and improve pricing.
Our underwriting strength is a major competitive advantage and we increased underwriting profits significantly last year.
Total general insurance and health net written premiums increased 8% to 9,162 million and we grew operating profits by 3% to 935 million.
UK general insurance performance has been particularly strong.
General insurance and health sales increased 8% and we delivered a COR of 96%.
We are the market leader in the UK and we hold top three positions in all our major classes of business, including personal motor with 413,000 net new customers in 2011, homeowner, commercial motor and commercial property.
In Aviva Europe general insurance and health net written premiums increased 5% to 2,059 million driven by successful rating actions in a number of markets.
General insurance profitability improved and we delivered a COR of 101% FY 2010:103%.
6 Underlying sales exclude an exceptional impact -0.5 billion arising from the sale of Aviva Investors Australian equity manufacturing business which completed 1 10 11.
7 On a continuing basis excluding Delta Lloyd.
99.4 10.6 97.1 13.3 96.8 14.4 10 Aviva plc Group CEOs review continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 And we have remained focused on balance sheet strength The strength of our balance sheet is a clear priority and we have taken steps to ensure our capital position remains resilient.
Over the last few years we have fide-risked the business and strengthened our capital position which enabled us to withstand the extreme volatility in the European sovereign debt market in the second half of 2011.
Our estimated IGD solvency surplus at 29 February Over 100 2012 was 3.3 billion 31 December 2011: 2.2 billion as a result of market bank partners improvements and actions we have taken since the beginning of 2012. around the world Aviva has an excellent track record of managing our assets and market exposures.
We suffered minimal defaults on our financial investments in 2011.
Whilst our balance sheet has been impacted by unrealised losses, we hold the vast majority of our assets for the longer term and the equity hedging Performance v market we have in place means our capital is largely protected against adverse average Net Promoter market movements.
Score We continue to engage constructively with regulators and policy-makers % at market average and take the necessary steps to ensure that we are well prepared for the % exceeding market average introduction of Solvency II.
100 80 Our customers are central to our success We serve 43 million customers and we know that for Aviva to be a sustainable 60 and successful business we must continue to provide good value and excellent 40 service.
As governments face increasing budget pressure, there will be an increasing demand for insurers, like Aviva, to fill the long-term savings gap.
20 But customers will only choose Aviva, stay with us and recommend us if we 0 look after them well.
10 11 so we continue to invest in new ways to serve them We continue to invest and innovate in digital technology and social media so that we can serve our customers more effectively.
We have made good progress and currently have a number of research and development pilots underway in areas such as claims, underwriting and customer service and we were ranked 8th, and the top financial services company, in the FTSE 100 Social Media Index.
with the support of our distribution partners We continue to work closely with our distribution partners around the world so 50 awards that we can serve our customers effectively.
Our diverse network of partners including banks and brokers is one of Avivas core strengths and an area in across 10 countries which we will continue to invest.
for customer We have created one of the largest and most successful bancassurance service, innovation franchises in the insurance sector with 130 partners.
In the UK alone last year and performance we expanded our distribution network with new agreements with HSBC, Santander and Barclays.
Essential read 11 Aviva plc Group CEOs review continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 so that more and more customers recommend us.
Last year more of our customers were willing to recommend us than ever before.
We improved our customer satisfaction measure, Net Promoter Score, last year and now more than half of our businesses operate in the upper quartile relative to local competition.
We won more than 50 awards across 10 countries for customer service, innovation and performance including being named general insurer of the year by Insurance Times in the UK: Aviva 33 billion Frances product range was recognised by several awards from specialist in claims and industry publication Les Dossiers fide lpargne and our Singapore business benefits paid out won the service channel innovation award for our direct channel at the IDC to customers Financial Insights Awards.
Our success depends on our people I am grateful to all my colleagues for their dedication, hard work, and professionalism.
I am delighted that we have made encouraging progress in improving employee satisfaction during 2011 and we will continue to work hard at this.
During the year we further strengthened the senior management team.
Trevor Matthews, a highly experienced and well-regarded insurance industry leader, became UK CEO in December.
We also appointed Cathryn Riley to the 60,000 group executive committee as chief information officer to lead our global hours IT strategy and drive the best use of emerging technology for Aviva and its customers.
employee volunteering hours and we play a responsible role in society.
Aviva is a profitable and sustainable business able to meet our responsibilities not just to our shareholders but also to our customers, our employees and society.
During 2011, we paid out 33 billion in claims and benefits to our customers, and our staff across the group dedicated 60,000 hours of time to volunteering schemes.
We have an important role to provide our customers with prosperity and peace of mind.
But we also have a wider commitment to society, supporting 400,000 those who are not our customers through our Street to School programme children we have where we have now helped 400,000 children.
We have been ranked in the helped through our top five companies globally in FTSE4 Goods rating of companies corporate Street to School responsibility commitments and performance, and recognised as the most programme reputable financial services company in the UK by the Reputation Institute.
Well placed to build on our strong performance We are well placed to build on last years performance and we are therefore increasing our operating targets.
Although the economic environment is likely to remain tough for the foreseeable future, we have built a strong, sustainable and diverse business well positioned for further profitable growth.
Andrew Moss Group chief executive 12 Aviva plc Group CEOs review continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Transformation of Aviva Weve done a huge amount to transform Aviva over the past few years.
Weve built a strong, sustainable and diverse business, well positioned for future growth.
We are making good progress, and, of course, there is more to do.
Andrew Moss Group chief executive Sharper focus Concentrating capital and effort Over the last few years we have simplified and streamlined Aviva.
In the last three years, we have sold the majority of our stake in Delta Lloyd, exited Australia and the UAE, agreed the sale of our Czech and Hungarian operations, and agreed our exit from Slovakia.
In 2011 we completed the sale of RAC for 1 billion, reflecting our focus on insurance and savings businesses in priority markets.
We will continue to prioritise our Successful disposals investment in markets where we can grow and p Aviva Global p Delta Lloyd IPO p M ederic life p D elta Lloyd sell Services, India.
insurer broker, down, Benelux earn the highest returns, such as the UK, which p Aviva Life p RAC non-core France p RAC Insurance, accounts for approximately half of our profits, and HPI, AW, BSM, p Av iva Investors p Aviva Investors, Australia Europe, where savings rates remain high and we Australia Romania p UAE have strong franchises.
p Hungary, Romania, Czech Republic and Slovakia Exit agreed in January 2012.
Balanced earnings Combination of life & general insurance The mix of our business combining life, general operating profits insurance and asset management better balances earnings and cash flows though different GI & Health Life operating environments than for a single-line insurer.
This combination of our businesses 100% provides capital benefits by diversifying risks.
Aviva can hold 3040% less capital to write new 31% 31% 34% 80% general insurance business than the general 41% insurance business would need to hold on a standalone basis.
It is anticipated that this benefit 60% will be reinforced under Solvency II which means that, in the future, our business will be stronger 69% 69% than ever.
We have been proactively managing 40% 66% our in-force book for profit, reducing the capital 59% intensity of our life new business.
Another feature 20% of our business is that 80% of our life operating profits come from business written in previous years, giving our profitability greater resilience.
The Groups accounting policy for operating profit also referred to as Group adjusted operating profit remains consistent with prior periods and is set out on page 168.
2008 2009 2010 2011 Essential read 13 Aviva plc Group CEOs review continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Improved efficiency Cost base Headcount Following the successful delivery of our 500 million cost savings target a year early in 2010, we are on track to deliver our commitment of 54,700 5.1bn additional cost savings of 200 million and a further 200 million efficiency gains by end of 2012.
We have large businesses with strong 4.1bn 8 efficiency and our business and geographic mix 36,600 allows us to transfer key skills and capabilities across the organisation and share back-office functions, IT and finance resources.
As a result of our disposals and improved operational effectiveness we have significantly reduced the Groups headcount of 54,700 in 2008 to 36,600 in 2011.
Reducing roles is never an easy decision, but it is a necessary step in ensuring the longterm sustainability of the business.
FY 2009 FY 2011 FY 2008 FY 2011 Improved profitability GI combined Life IRR At the same time as growing volumes in general operating ratio insurance we also improved profitability, particularly benefiting from the actions taken over 98.6% 14.4% a number of years on pricing and operating costs.
These actions have contributed to our improved 96.8% 13.5% combined operating ratio of 96.8%.
Our disciplined management of new business mix has driven an improvement in the groups life insurance new business internal rate of return to 14.4%, ahead of our target of at least 12%.
Operating profits increased in the UK and Europe, despite tough economic conditions.
We are beating all of our operating targets and are well-placed for 2012.
FY 2008 FY 2011 FY 2008 FY 2011 Managing risk Reduced shareholder exposure to equities Managing risk is fundamental to what we do.
As a long-term holder of assets which are carefully matched to our long-term commitments to policyholders, our balance sheet has in-built resilience.
The Groups pension deficit of 1.7 billion in 2009 has now moved into a surplus.
Our 5bn 1bn reduced shareholding and deconsolidation of Delta FY 2010 FY 2011 Lloyd further fide-risked our balance sheet.
We manage our assets to reduce risks and to deliver a good return for our customers and our shareholders.
We have an excellent track record of managing credit risk through what has been a challenging external environment in recent years.
8 Excluding RAC and Delta Lloyd.
