Business review differentiators Chairman and chief executives review Beazley delivered a creditable performance, recording a profit before income tax of $62.7m.
In a year that severely tested the worlds insurers and reinsurers, Beazley delivered a creditable performance, recording a profit before income tax of $62.7m 2010: $250.8m on gross premiums of $1,712.5m 2010: $1,741.6m.
With a combined ratio of 99% 2010: 88%, our underwriting operations remained in profit despite heavy catastrophe claims in Asia, Australasia and the United States.
The board is pleased to announce a second interim dividend of 5.4p per ordinary share.
Together with the first interim dividend of 2.5p this takes the total dividends declared in 2011 to 7.9p per ordinary share 2010: first interim dividend of 2.4p, second interim dividend of 5.1p, totalling 7.5p, plus a special dividend of 2.5p per ordinary share.
The catastrophe losses began with the Queensland floods in Australia and ended, also with floods, in Thailand in November.
In between, we incurred claims from the Christchurch, New Jonathan Agnew Andrew Horton Zealand earthquake the second to hit the city in less than six Chairman Chief executive months : the Tohoku earthquake in Japan: and the deadliest succession of tornadoes to hit the US in more than 70 years.
The catastrophe loss estimates previously reported in our third quarter interim management statement, excluding flooding in Thailand, have in fact improved slightly.
In total, catastrophe events in 2011, including the Thai floods, cost the group an estimated $215m, more than twice the cost for 2010.
At times like this, a well balanced business portfolio shows its worth.
Two of our six divisions property and reinsurance have significant exposures to natural catastrophes.
In 2011, our property and reinsurance teams moved swiftly to meet claims from policyholders that generated combined ratios for their business of 109% and 157% respectively.
But the impact of these losses was cushioned by underwriting profits generated by our other divisions, notably specialty lines, our largest division, which recorded a combined ratio of 94%: marine 72%: and life, accident and health 95%.
Our political risks and contingency division incurred claims as a result of the civil war in Libya and some event cancellation claims stemming from the Tohoku earthquake but still achieved a 79% combined ratio.
com Business review Locally underwritten US premiums US $m 400 300 200 100 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Surplus business Admitted business Prudent reserving has been a hallmark of Beazleys approach Our own investment strategy remains conservative, with 81.5% to business over more than a quarter of a century.
In 2011, total of our assets held in AA or better securities with no exposure prior year reserve releases were $186.5m 2010: $144.6m of to those eurozone countries that have recently been the direct which specialty lines accounted for $61.8m 2010 $56.9m.
Our investment yield in 2011 remained stable at 1.0% and benefited from the decision taken In light of the claims experience of the past year, rates are now in 2010 to increase the portfolio duration.
Our alternative asset rising across catastrophe exposed classes of business.
The rate portfolio, comprising 10.3% of our investments, made a small increases are smaller than they would have been had the loss in 2011 which compared favourably to the HFRI fund of market not been very well capitalised at the beginning of the funds index.
But the change has nevertheless been significant.
We accordingly plan to increase our property and reinsurance The US remains by far our most important market, accounting underwriting in 2012 and, across the group, expect to see for 57% of our gross written premiums in 2011.
Of this, premium growth of between 5% and 10%.
$366.2m was underwritten locally by our US underwriters 2010: $393.6m.
In March we decided to withdraw from Growth in non-catastrophe lines of business will be selective underwriting admitted commercial property business to focus in 2012, in line with our stringent profitability requirements.
on the development of our non admitted, or surplus lines In the US, we continue to see robust demand for data breach property business, where we saw stronger profit opportunities.
protection policies a market in which we hold a leading We plan to grow our surplus lines property business in 2012 position.
We also see opportunities for growth in the healthcare to take advantage of the more attractive rates that now prevail sector, described in detail on page 28.
This covers a wide variety for catastrophe exposed risks.
of professional liability risks run by medical service providers, including blood and tissue banks, contract research Outside the US, we made significant investments in the growth organisations, dialysis clinics, and ground and air ambulances.
In April we expanded our presence in the Australian group disability market through the purchase of Our focus in lines of business in which competition is currently two managing general agencies, Australian Income Protection intense, including professional liability for architects and and Blue-GUM Special Risks.
Combining these businesses with engineers A&E and lawyers, and directors and officers our existing Australian accident and health operation enables us insurance, remains on maintaining price discipline while to offer a full product range, including permanent and temporary providing excellent service to our clients.
We have witnessed disability benefits, to superannuation funds, employers and numerous new entrants into these markets in recent years, affinity groups.
some writing business on a basis that we view as uneconomic, and we expect to see withdrawals occurring as this becomes Continental Europe is another region that we see as offering real apparent.
The continuing low level of investment returns means growth potential, particularly for our specialty lines division.
Our that subsidising underwriting losses with investment returns is initial focus is on the French market: we are hiring or transferring not a viable strategy.
new underwriters to our Paris office and working to strengthen our local broker relationships.
Our focus in France, as elsewhere, is to develop products tailored to local needs, rather than assuming that products developed in the UK or US can simply be exported into markets with very different characteristics.
com Beazley annual report 2011 11 Business reviewey differentiators Chairman and chief executives review continued Our third strategic priority is to scale our operations to ensure Delivery against strategic priorities that, as we grow, we can continue to provide the very high level Our vision is to become, and be recognised as, the of service that our brokers and clients have come to expect.
highest performing specialist insurer: and we made good Technologies that help us to respond rapidly to broker progress against this objective in 2011.
Our business model submissions and adjust claims efficiently are clearly critical in was strenuously tested and still delivered positive this context, but equally important are strong, trust-based broker shareholder returns.
Dan Jones heads our team responsible for broker relations at Beazley and it is a key part of our business.
Our strategy focuses on three areas.
The first prudent capital allocation to achieve diversified profitability across the group In 2011 we launched an important initiative that we hope will was well illustrated in 2011 by our acquisitions in Australia.
strengthen broker relationships, not just for Beazley but for the The performance of our Australian group disability business is entire Lloyds market in years to come.
The inaugural Andrew uncorrelated with that of our other businesses even in the Beazley Broker Academy, hosted by Beazley and Hiscox in Australian market, where we also write event cancellation September, welcomed 21 young US brokers to London where, insurance.
The diversification of our underwriting portfolio for a week, they were able to stand in the shoes of Lloyds across lines of business, geographies, and sizes of risk underwriters, gaining a detailed understanding of how risks are has underpinned the consistency of our underwriting written and claims are adjusted in the Lloyds market.
The performance in recent years.
initiative was very well received by the brokers who participated and we are planning to merge it with the existing Lloyds broker Our second area of focus is to nurture and enhance our skills programme while retaining the Andrew Beazley name from base.
Since the company was founded in 1986, we have sought 2012 onwards.
to create an environment at Beazley in which talented individuals with entrepreneurial spirit can build successful Our broker relationships go back years in many cases.
One of the most striking examples in the past three partnership for Beazley is the one we established in 2010 with years has been our technology, media and business services British Fencing, which we are sponsoring for five years.
This will TMB team within our specialty lines division.
Under the be an exciting and challenging year for the national team, with leadership of Mike Donovan, based in our San Francisco office, the best fencers in the world converging on London for the this teams premiums have grown from $108.9m in 2010 to Olympics.
The environment in which Beazley underwriters work today is Solvency II Solvency II is an EU-wide proposal on capital adequacy and risk different in character from that of a decade, or even five years, ago.
Regulatory demands have grown and a business with management for insurers.
Throughout 2011 Beazleys dedicated project management team and subject matter experts have underwriters in multiple locations is inevitably more challenging to manage than a business operated entirely from the Beazley continued to build our framework.
In particular the Solvency II internal model was built and tested.
Our talent management team under the leadership of Penny Malik therefore focuses not just on attracting and retaining the best underwriting and claims specialists in the market but also on giving them the training and resources they need to realise their potential.
com Business review In July we also welcomed Dennis Holt to the Beazley board Board and executive changes as a non executive director.
Dennis is expected to take up the In 2011 we celebrated the 25th anniversary of the founding of position of non-executive chairman following the annual general Beazley and it was also the year in which Nick Furlonge, who meeting in March 2012, succeeding Jonathan Agnew, who co-founded the company with Andrew Beazley in 1986, chose wishes Dennis Holt, Andrew Horton and their colleagues every to retire from the Beazley board.
Nicks contribution to Beazley success in the future.
is inestimable: we are delighted that we continue to benefit from his wisdom and insight through his remaining on the board of Additionally, we welcomed two new members of the executive Beazley Furlonge Limited, our Lloyds managing agency.
Nick committee in the course of the year: Ian Fantozzi and was named industry achiever of the year at the Insurance Day Penny Malik.
Ian was promoted to the executive management awards in December, and the accolade was well deserved.
team as chief operating officer, succeeding David Marock, who left the company to assume the role of chief executive Andy Pomfret, who joined the Beazley board in 2003, left the of Charles Taylor Consulting.
board in July to concentrate on his role as chief executive officer of Rathbone Brothers Plc.
In addition to his other board The 805 employees of Beazley have reason to be proud of responsibilities, Andy had made considerable contributions to our achievements in 2011 achievements recognised at the the company as chairman of the remuneration committee and Insurance Day awards in December, when Beazley was named as senior independent director, for which we are very grateful.
He was succeeded as chairman of the remuneration committee by Padraic OConnor and as senior independent director by There can be no guarantee that the tempestuous market George Blunden.
conditions we have witnessed in 2011 will not recur if the future was predictable, insurance would be unnecessary.
As previously announced, Jonathan Agnew will step down from But we have every confidence that our clients and brokers will the board after the annual general meeting on 27 March, by continue to find Beazley well prepared to meet their needs.
which time he will have been a non-executive director for ten years and chairman for nearly nine years.
During that period the groups written premium has more than trebled and the principal Jonathan Agnew Andrew Horton managed syndicates maintained their record of continuous Chair man Chief executive profitability, which goes back to the founding of Beazley and which is now unrivalled in Lloyds.
Jonathan Agnew considers it 6 February 2012 an honour and a privilege to have been associated with Andrew Beazley and Nick Furlonge, who founded the business, and with all those who have subsequently contributed to its success.
The board and senior management at Beazley would like to thank Jonathan for his leadership during a period that has seen the company develop and flourish.
