Business reviewey differentiators Andrew Horton reviews Beazleys performance and describes the risks and opportunities he foresees in 2012.
Q&A with the chief executive Beazley has weathered the worst year How do you see the problems of the Q Q ever for natural catastrophes with eurozone affecting Beazley?
How do you view The eurozone countries are not an enormous source and explain this performance?
A of business for us they account for less than 15% of our total premium income.
And we have been extremely cautious in We performed relatively well in 2011 because we have a our investment strategy and hold no Greek, Spanish, A diversified book and we had managed our catastrophe Portuguese, Irish or Italian bonds.
aggregates very prudently in readiness for such a scenario.
We were prepared for a quick-fire succession of catastrophe losses However, if the problems of the eurozone worsen dramatically, of the kind that we saw, from all around the world, last year.
that will clearly have an impact albeit an indirect impact on Beazley.
Global trade is far from robust right now.
Our marine team tells me that, for many shipowners, the cost of keeping Where is growth going to come from their vessels afloat exceeds what they can earn from the cargoes Q in the year ahead?
So they are putting vessels into lay-up, which reduces the amount of hull and cargo insurance business Well see some growth in our short-tail, catastrophe we can underwrite.
The same logic applies to other lines A exposed business principally commercial property and of business.
Inevitably, if the world were to move back into reinsurance.
Rates are going up so, for the same risk appetite, recession as a result of a major contraction in demand in we will receive more premium income.
Europe, that would have an impact on us.
I am excited by the opportunities available to our accident and health teams in Australia and the US.
We have excellent people Your locally underwritten US business in both locations and were selling into growing markets.
Well continue to be alert to acquisition opportunities, providing Most of the reduction was in our property insurance they meet our strict criteria.
Ive described these before, but they A business.
We withdrew from underwriting commercial bear repetition.
They have to be in lines of business that we property insurance on an admitted basis because it was difficult understand well.
They have to have great underwriting skills to compete against much larger domestic carriers despite and a track record to prove it.
They have to fit well with our having an excellent team of underwriters.
We continue our focus culture people with real entrepreneurial energy and on our London-based large risks property business and our enthusiasm.
And of course the price has to be right.
US-based excess and surplus E&S property business.
And our appetite in the admitted market was fairly narrow so we werent But even if we dont find a single such opportunity in 2012, there a particularly attractive partner to our brokers.
At the same time, will still be areas in which we can grow organically.
That growth we scaled down our E&S property underwriting a little because will come from innovation very broadly defined.
It may take the the rates were inadequate.
But thats changing and we expect form of a totally new product or service.
Or it may take the form to write more of this business this year.
of a product that is old hat in one part of the world but new and exciting in another.
I have every confidence in our people to We continue to see great growth potential in the US.
The coming identify such opportunities.
year may be tough but when market conditions are right our growth trajectory will resume.
The preconditions for growth strong broker relationships and really first class service capabilities are in place.
We have a good deal of headroom in many of the lines of business in which we compete.
com Business review Andrew Horton Chief executive So for me innovation in our industry has a simple meaning.
Its We are said by some to be in the cheating Q making ourselves more relevant to the most pressing needs of phase of the insurance cycle where claims our clients.
And if that means that when a claim is made, our reserve releases are still being made when the response is not a cash payment but a service of some kind, so underlying business dynamics dont support this.
Cash is wonderful, but what clients sometimes need most Is that your view?
I think that, as an industry, we have to be much smarter about this.
Weve seen reserve releases continue for longer than A many market analysts had expected so there are some Seen in this context, Beazley is innovative but we could certainly legitimate questions to be asked about the adequacy of the be more so.
I think our focus on claims service is and this may reserves that remain.
The key here really is disclosure.
Levels be a sad reflection on our industry quite innovative.
For the of disclosure about reserving strength vary widely across the professional and management liability business we underwrite, market.
We are among the less reticent by providing to analysts the clients most important question is not When will my claim a good deal more detail on the development of incurred claims get paid?
It is Do I want this insurer in my corner when I get within our specialty lines division than many insurers are willing sued?
And the advice and expertise we can offer in that to do.
We also disclose loss development tables by lines of situation is critical.
So theres a lot of scope for innovation business pages 123 to 126 and the percentage margin by on the claims side as well as on the underwriting side.
which our claims reserve in total exceeds our actuarial estimate page 33.
I hope that our levels of disclosure combined with the fact that weve been writing these classes of business for a Solvency II is now looming.
How prepared very long time through multiple market cycles is a source of Q is Beazley and what impact do you see reassurance to our investors.
Solvency IIs tighter capital requirements having on the industry as a whole?
Have you modified your very conservative We believe were ready.
Weve put a significant effort into Q investment stance in the course of the A preparing for Solvency II across our organisation.
had seven people working on it full time and 43 people devoting part of their time to it.
I am confident that we will secure 2011 has been a year which has demonstrated why we approval for our internal model, which will maintain our flexibility A have been relatively conservative recently there is a lot and competitiveness.
And were looking for ways in which, as of risk and uncertainty about.
Our strategy remains unchanged a business, we can achieve a competitive advantage over and has performed as we expected in 2011. insurers that are maybe not quite as well diversified as we are.
Most insurers and particularly Q Lloyds insurers claim to be innovative.
What does the word mean to you and do you think Beazley is innovative?
Its interesting to read the report that Lloyds itself has A just produced.
It lists the most feared risks around, according to over 500 senior executives who were polled by the Economist Intelligence Unit.
And like an awful lot of these reports, its very difficult to see what part insurance plays in addressing the top risks the risks that really keep these business leaders up at night.
You have to go all the way down to risk number 9 corporate liability before reaching a risk that is really addressed by insurance.
