Close Brothers Group plc 2 Annual Report 2011 Corporate Overview Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement We have made significant progress in repositioning the Close Brothers has performed well in the group to focus on those businesses where we see the 2011 financial year and our businesses highest long-term potential and during the year, we have completed several disposals which have streamlined and remain well positioned.
We have seen simplified the group.
In the Asset Management division, this significant growth in the Banking division includes the disposals of our businesses in the UK offshore and Cayman Islands as well as the property funds business, as we continue to benefit from our strong announced earlier this year.
In line with this strategy we financial position to take advantage of also recently announced an agreement to sell our 49.9% opportunities presented by the current investment in Mako to the management team.
Exiting these non-core activities does not affect the groups capital market environment: Securities has had a position and allows us to reallocate cash and resources to solid performance notwithstanding recent those businesses which we believe have the best potential to deliver sustainable and growing profits in the future.
challenging market conditions: and the Asset Management division has made Financial Performance The underlying performance of our businesses has been significant progress on its strategic good overall, and adjusted operating profit from continuing refocusing and the building out of its operations increased 13% to 131.2 million 2010: 116.5 million.
This was principally driven by the strong performance Private Clients business including several of the Banking division, where adjusted operating profit acquisitions.
We continue to have the increased 34% as a result of 18% loan book growth and a reduction in the bad debt ratio.
Securities had a solid financial strength and capital resources to performance although adjusted operating profit reduced support our businesses and execute our 8% relative to a strong prior year.
The Asset Management strategic plans, focused on growing and division continues to restructure and invest in its transformation and as a result delivered an adjusted developing our core businesses.
operating loss of 8.6 million 2010: loss of 1.5 million.
Overall, adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations increased 11% to 64.8p 2010: 58.2p.
As part of the groups overall restructuring and exit from non-core activities, we have recorded exceptional charges of 46.9 million 2010: 15.0 million and a loss from discontinued operations of 28.1 million 2010: loss of 2.0 million.
Exceptional charges include a 36.0 million impairment of the value of our investment in Mako, reflecting the expected present value of our recent sale agreement: and a further 15.4 million of exceptional charges related to the restructuring of the Asset Management division.
The loss from discontinued operations includes the operating result 3 Strone Macpherson, Chairman left and Preben Prebensen, Chief Executive and loss on disposal of the groups UK offshore and Cayman During the period, we achieved organic loan book growth Islands operations, which were sold during the period.
of 18% to 3.4 billion 31 July 2010: 2.9 billion, whilst maintaining strong margins.
This growth was driven by good Profit before tax from continuing operations, after exceptional levels of new business across our lending businesses, items, was 78.5 million 2010: 101.0 million which translates supported by ongoing high levels of repeat business.
into basic earnings per share from continuing operations of 29.6p 2010: 47.4p.
After exceptional items and including The operating environment for the division remains favourable the loss from discontinued operations, profit attributable to and we continue to see opportunities to increase lending to shareholders was 14.6 million 2010: 65.9 million and basic both individual and SME borrowers.
We continue to benefit earnings per share was 10.1p 2010: 46.0p.
from our enhanced sales capacity, with an over 20% increase in front line sales staff in the last two years, as well as broader During the year we have continued to increase the efficiency distribution.
This includes additional dealer relationships in of our balance sheet whilst strengthening the diversity and motor finance: the addition of new branches in motor and maturity of our funding.
This includes raising over 1 billion of property finance and increased leverage of the broker network new wholesale funding, as well as increasing the amount in asset finance.
We continue to see good opportunities for and maturity of our retail and corporate deposits.
growth in our core markets and our priority remains to continue to grow in these areas.
The groups core tier 1 capital ratio remains strong at 13.1% 2010: 13.9% with a total capital ratio of 14.9% 2010: 15.8%.
At the same time we are selectively exploring opportunities These capital ratios remain comfortably ahead of minimum for growth in adjacent product areas that are consistent with regulatory requirements and give us sufficient flexibility to our existing lending model and conservative risk appetite.
In execute our current plans.
Commercial, we have continued to build our presence in larger ticket invoice finance following our acquisition of a loan The board is recommending an increase of 1.0p in the final book last year.
We are also expanding our asset finance dividend per share to 26.5p 2010: 25.5p, resulting in a 3% business into complementary asset classes.
In Retail, the increase in the total dividend per share for the year to 40.0p motor finance business continues to see significant growth 2010: 39.0p.
This reflects the groups confidence in the through the Key Accounts team, which deals directly with performance and prospects of its core businesses.
Strategy We continue to invest in the infrastructure of the division to The group remains focused on executing the strategy set out support current and future growth through enhancing the at the full year results in 2010.
This involves developing our strength of its central functions, including the integration of IT, three core business areas: the Banking division, which is a human resources and procurement functions.
At the same leader in specialised finance in the UK: Securities, which is a time we are streamlining our processes to improve the leader in UK market-making via Winterflood: and Asset efficiency of our operations and increase the operating Management, which is investing to become a leader in UK leverage of the business over time.
As we continue to grow our business we remain acutely In the Banking division, our focus is on driving sustainable focused on maintaining a prudent risk profile, and we growth whilst maintaining a predominantly secured, high continue to apply strict criteria to lending decisions.
During margin, specialist lending model.
the year we commenced the development of a new credit risk management information system which will further Close Brothers Group plc 4 Annual Report 2011 Corporate Overview Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement continued We have a strong financial position, continue to see good prospects for our businesses and are well placed to continue delivering solid results.
enhance our ability to monitor and analyse credit risk across Seydler remains well positioned in the German market and our lending businesses.
In addition to the underwriting increased profits in the year to 9.0 million 2010: 4.9 million, expertise and experience of our people, this new system will benefiting from a particularly good performance from its help us monitor the credit metrics that underpin our lending equity and debt capital markets businesses.
decisions throughout the economic cycle.
On 16 September 2011 we announced the phased sale of In the Securities division, our focus is on maintaining and our 49.9% investment in Mako to the management team for building on our leading market positions, whilst continuing to a total consideration of US$40 million, with a potential further explore opportunities for growth.
US$7.5 million deferred contingent consideration.
The sale of the first tranche is expected to complete in the next few Winterflood has maintained its position as a leading marketmonths.
The sale reflects our focus on developing our core maker to the UK retail broker community, making markets businesses where we have full control.
Given the nature of its in over 3,000 UK equities and providing dealing services in business, Mako has a more volatile earnings profile and over 10,000 securities.
contributed 2.6 million 2010: 5.7 million of associate income in our 2011 financial year.
Winterflood has demonstrated the resilience of its business model and ability to manage a wide range of trading In the Asset Management division, we are building a leading conditions in a volatile period for the financial markets.
The wealth and asset management business in the UK, focused business had a particularly strong performance in the second on affluent and high net worth individuals as well as smaller and third quarters, which were characterised by high levels institutions.
We will provide an integrated range of advisory, of AIM trading: however retail trading activity slowed execution only and investment management services.
considerably towards the end of the financial year.
Overall, average bargains per day increased 2% to a new high of The division is undergoing a significant transformation and 48,000, whilst income per bargain reduced 7% reflecting the during the year we disposed of a number of non-core more challenging trading conditions towards the end of the businesses including the property funds business and the year.
Adjusted operating profit reduced 11% to 43.2 million fund administration, trust, banking and asset management 2010: 48.7 million compared to a strong prior year.
businesses in the UK offshore and Cayman Islands.
These disposals realised around 45 million of proceeds which are Although market activity slowed in the fourth quarter, the being reinvested in the division and allow us to focus existing business has continued to generate consistent profitability resources on our core businesses.
recording only one 2010: four loss day for the year.
At the same time, we have seen significant opportunity to Winterflood continues to pursue selected opportunities to make focused acquisitions in order to build scale in clients leverage its existing business model outside its core markets.
and assets, extend our existing distribution capacity and During the year, Winterflood has established a new company provide additional expertise.
which has applied for broker dealer status in the US, which will allow it to access order flow in UK and European shares During the year we acquired 2.6 billion of Assets under directly from US institutions and broker dealers.
It has also Management AuM via three acquisitions: expanded its service offering in the UK to include outsourced Chartwell, an IFA based in Bristol with 705 million of execution and custody services through a new business unit, advised and execution only client assets: Winterflood Business Services.
Allenbridge, an execution only business with 440 million of client assets: and Cavanagh, an IFA with 1.5 billion of client assets.
5 These acquisitions have increased our Private Clients AuM to applications: the introduction of a common advice 6.5 billion at 31 July 2011 31 July 2010: 3.3 billion, which proposition for new clients: and the migration of relevant represents 68% 31 July 2010: 48% of total AuM.
They also existing clients into the new propositions.
These are the provided us with additional distribution capacity through building blocks for a high growth, profitable business in the increasing our adviser force from 50 to over 120 and adding long term.
a number of new regional offices including in Scotland and in the South East and South West of England.
We continue to Board Changes selectively review additional acquisition opportunities and in Geoffrey Howe was appointed as an independent nontotal, we plan to acquire a further 1 to 2 billion of client executive director of Close Brothers Group plc with effect assets during the course of the 2012 financial year.
He is currently chairman of Nationwide Building Society and Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc.
During the year we have made significant progress in defining our client propositions for advisory, execution only Outlook and investment management services, and we are well The group remains focused on developing and growing its core advanced in developing a client portal and technology businesses in Banking, Securities and Asset Management.
platform to meet the needs of both execution only and advised clients.
The execution only application is currently The Banking division continues to see good opportunities undergoing live user testing and we expect to commence for growth across its businesses.
the commercial rollout of both the execution only and advice applications towards the end of the calendar year.
Overall, The Securities division is currently experiencing difficult we continue to expect to invest a total of 18 to 20 million in market conditions but remains well positioned.
the development of the client propositions and technology platform in the three financial years to July 2012, of which The Asset Management division is now entering the final 15 million has been incurred to date.
stage of its transformation with the aim of becoming a leading UK wealth and asset manager and expects to deliver a small We are leveraging our existing investment management loss for the 2012 financial year.
capability to offer a set of consistent investment propositions for a wide range of client types and sizes.
During the period Economic and market conditions are uncertain, but we have we launched a range of in-house managed risk-graded a strong financial position, continue to see good prospects funds, which now account for around 1 billion of our Private for our businesses and are well placed to continue delivering Client AuM.
These will be supplemented by a range of solid results.
multi-manager and passive investment funds due to be launched in October this year.
We are now entering the final stage of the divisions transformation.
This will include the substantial completion of our acquisition programme: integration of acquisitions already made: concluding the development of and rolling out our execution only and advisory technology platform and
