12 Bodycote plc Annual Report 2011 Chief Executives review Trading overview Bodycote delivered a strong financial result in 2011, moving the Group closer to achieving the kind of performance to which we 1 aspire.
Sales increased 14% to 570.7m, headline operating profit 2 was 85.5m, an increase of 64% and headline margins improved to 15%.
Basic headline EPS grew to 32.7 pence, a major step forward from the EPS performance the Bodycote group has previously achieved.
In the early part of the year much of the growth in market demand was driven by the tail end of recovery in the early cycle markets such as automotive and a strengthening in a number of the general industrial segments.
As the year progressed the expected ramp up in the later cycle markets of aerospace and energy started to feature more strongly.
These secular growth markets are now starting to move from slow recovery mode into an increasing rate of longer term underlying growth.
While we have benefited from the cyclical recovery in many of our markets it is particularly pleasing to see that we continue to expand our market share and, as a consequence, are driving growth above the underlying rate ofthose markets.
Improved margins are being achieved in nearly every area of the Group.
The improvement stems in part from higher volumes, but asignificant amount comes from an improvement in mix as we focus on higher added-value opportunities.
Improving efficiency continues to be a key focus for the Group: it is notable that while average headcount reduced by 1%, sales grew by 14%.
Net capital expenditure increased to 44.5m which was 0.9 times Bodycotes strategy is aimed at depreciation 0.8 times in 2010.
Maintenance capital remained relatively unchanged at approximately 0.4 times depreciation.
growing the business above and The increase in capital expenditure primarily reflects a higher level of expansion capital in the aerospace and energy markets, the beyond the background growth emerging economies and specific chosen technologies.
Return on Capital Employed was 16.9% compared to 10.1% in rate of the global economy 2010.
This is an important metric for the long term performance ofthe Group.
The Headline operating cash flow, measured after while delivering consistently capital spending, was 96.0m representing profit-to-cash 1 conversion of 112%.
Our free cash flow of 70.5m enabled superior value.
The pace of theelimination of net debt by year end.
Strategic progress execution of this strategy is Bodycote has continued to develop in line with the strategic direction that we outlined at the start of 2010.
Our differentiated gaining momentum and we focus on each of Automotive & General Industrial and Aerospace & Energy is delivering results.
Some of the evidence of this is the enter 2012 in good shape.
increased rate of securing larger long term contracts that has been a notable feature of the business in 2011.
The new agreements with Rolls-Royce and Precision Castparts Corp reflect our strategic focus on the secular growth markets of aerospace and energy.
Stephen Harris The agreement with automotive supplier, ZF Lenksysteme, in Chief Executive China is a good example of our hub and spoke expansion strategy for the emerging markets, where we develop new work at a hub location and move out to a new greenfield facility once volumes justify.
The business with this customer has been developed at our hub site in Wuxi, China, and will now be transferred to a new greenfield site being built in Jinan, China.
This will make way for further business development at Wuxi while at the same time helping the expansion of our services to other customers near thenew plant in Jinan.
1 Headline operating profit and free cash flow are reconciled on page 15.
2 Operating profit from continuing operations increased 57% to 80.4m.
Bodycote plc 13 Annual Report 2011 In general, the expansion strategy in our emerging markets has Bodycote is now debt free and has strong cash generation.
Our business in China, Poland, the These characteristics enable us to consider enhancing our Czech Republic and Turkey has grown strongly as capacity has potential for future profit growth by increased investment, both been added.
The business in Romania is, as yet, still small but internally for organic growth and through selective acquisitions.
isdoing well and has attractive prospects for the future.
We seek a balance between gaining immediate returns, longer Weconverted our majority shareholding in this territory into a term growth prospects and limitation of risk.
Our acquisition focus wholly owned venture in 2011.
Revenues in the emerging is on achieving attractive returns on investment through bolt-ons markets, excluding Brazil, grew by 23%.
The financial results to our existing business.
inBrazil were the only disappointment in the year, with the Summary & outlook lossesvirtually unchanged from 2010.
This was largely driven 2011 has been another year of improving operational and financial bythe restructuring induced dip in sales down 27% on 2010. performance for the Group.
The performance improvement and This programme has now been completed and operationally the growth in the last few years has been continuous and the Group Brazilian business is in good shape to deliver a high level of service isstarting to march to a drumbeat, notwithstanding the hesitation to customers.
We are cautiously optimistic that we can achieve that occurred in the global economic recovery in the second half substantial progress in the medium term, but experience has of2011.
shown that this is likely to take longer in this territory than we havetypically achieved in other parts of the Group.
Bodycote's strategy is aimed at growing the business above and beyond the background growth rate of the global economy while Significant progress has been made on the development of the delivering consistently superior value.
The pace of execution of Groups proprietary products business units.
this strategy is gaining momentum and we enter 2012 in good Speciality Stainless Steel Products SP continues to exceed shape.
our expectations, with demand for these specialist processes The macroeconomic environment may continue to be challenging, continuing to outstrip supply.
Sales grew by 21%, we added but with nearly half of the Groups activity in areas which have 25% more capacity during the year and a further 50% capacity long term growth drivers that are less likely to be impacted by increase is under construction to meet the increasing economic headwinds we believe there is a good prospect that opportunities we have.
thebusiness will continue to move forward in the coming year.
The Hot Isostatic Pressing Product Fabrication HIP PF business unit revenues grew by over 60%, with expansion of activity in all territories.
The constraint to expansion of this business has, so far, largely been an issue of recruiting and training sales and operational resources at a sufficient rate.
Much progress has been made during the year and the S. C. Harris business now has significant strength and depth of expertise.
Chief Executive HIP PF specific capital equipment requirements are relatively 23 February 2012 modest and expansion of this capacity is proceeding well.
General HIP capacity is used both for HIP PF and HIP Services.
Demand for HIP services from the aerospace and industrial gas turbine markets is buoyant and we expect further growth in this area for some considerable time.
As a result of the HIP PF growth and the HIP Services growth trends, we are starting to see capacity constraints ahead.
Our initial capacity pinch-point is in North America.
In response to this we have agreed to invest over $20m of expansion capital in this area which will be deployed over the next eighteen months.
Opportunities to expand the business continue to surface at a highrate in our more established markets in Europe and North America.
A good proportion of these are as a result of technology changes driven by environmental factors such as elimination of chrome plating or the pursuit of lighter vehicles with better fuel efficiency and lower emissions.
The services and processes we offer in these areas such as Corr-I-Dur and low pressure carburising provide our customers with a very high value proposition and consequently we are able to secure above averagereturns on investment.
The combination of the various elements of our strategy, in technology driven expansion, emerging markets expansion and specific secular growth market expansion, leads to a higher demand for capital investment.
Returns on investment in these areas are all very attractive and we expect in the near term that theGroup will invest in capital expenditure at a slightly higher level than the depreciation charge.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Business review
