Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2011 cHief executives revieW Booker made good progress in 2010 11 year.
We have just launched a euro Booker made and our plan to focus, Drive and Broaden shopper Water, sugar and cola which the business is on track.
Bryn satherley are performing well.
good progress in and his team continue to focus Booker.
chefs larder is our own label brand 2010 11 and our Guy farrant has joined to Drive the core for caterers.
its sales were 156m, cash & carry business and Mark aylwin up 5% on prior year.
During the plan to focus, is Broadening Booker into delivered year we improved chefs larders wholesale.
after five years Bryan Drew has Drive and Broaden credentials through the reformulation moved on to pursue his entrepreneurial and repackaging of 30 lines.
We will the business is interests.
We are very grateful for Bryans continue to drive chefs larder in the contribution and i am pleased that the new year ahead.
Prices Down FOCUS ours is a very price competitive commenced November 2005 market.
Booker surveys prices against through tight control of cash and costs, our competition each week.
During Booker seeks to focus on becoming the the year our price index remained most efficient operator in our sector.
thanks competitive and this has been noticed to the hard work of many colleagues we by customers.
We expect pricing to have improved business efficiency and become even more important as the cash generation.
We seek to stop, simplify economy remains challenging and and standardise work, with most of the commodity prices become more savings being invested in customer service.
During the year we rolled back through tight cash management we now prices on 850 lines and expanded euro have net cash of 27.1m.
shopper and Booker Basics, our value brands.
We expect to build on these DRIVE actions in the year ahead.
commenced March 2006 Booker serves 444,000 customers in the Better Service EUro ShoPPEr uK via the core cash and carry business.
stock availability was the best we have We continue to Drive choice, price and achieved in five years.
service and each year we survey 40,000 our people are doing a brilliant job.
customers to identify where improvements in spite of the terrible weather at can be made.
customers say we have christmas, our colleagues kept the done a better job this year and our business going.
customer count has increased again, up i am pleased that 77% of eligible by 13,000 customers.
business centre colleagues achieved the Choice Up customer satisfaction bonus last year.
partly due to Guy farrants expertise Catering in this area, our fresh departments catering sales grew by 6.3% to 1.1bn, ChEfS LarDEr have significantly improved.
sales of because our choice, price and service fruit and vegetables are up 53%.
We for caterers made excellent progress.
are confident that our fresh business our catering development sales will continue to power ahead in the force continues to serve our existing next few years.
customers and to introduce new in 2007 we launched euro shopper as customers to Booker.
During the year an entry price brand for independent the catering customer count increased retailers.
it now has sales of 56m at by 13,000. wholesale prices up from 44m last 4 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2011 Premier Booker Direct ritterExtra BranCh premier, Bookers symbol group, Courivaud Classic grew by 10%.
the estate grew to in 2007 Booker acquired Blueheath, 2,600 stores.
the retail development a delivered wholesale business.
Mark team put a lot of work into compliance aylwin the former chief executive and building the sales and profits of Blueheath and his team have of existing premier stores.
this has successfully converted Blueheath into worked and premier was awarded Booker Direct, winning some great symbol Group of the Year 2010 at customers including the prison service the retail industry awards.
in england and Wales, supplying branded foods to Marks & spencer BROADEN and serving most of the uKs cinema commenced April 2007 chains.
We seek to offer solutions for in the uK, Booker seeks to offer the best customers which they cannot obtain choice, price and service to caterers and elsewhere and help our suppliers retailers and to become the suppliers develop profitable routes to market.
We also want in october 2010 we improved our to sell new products and services and delivered wholesale capabilities with reach new customers.
in india we seek the acquisitions of ritter-courivaud to become the best supplier to Kirana ritter and classic.
to achieve these objectives, we ritter is a leading speciality food are Broadening the business.
it has a includes: fantastic food expertise and supplies many of the best restaurants in the Improving the cash and carry uK.
We have taken some of the business centre experience ritter range into Booker and are in We have now converted 115 of our the process of extending the ritter 172 business centres to the extra national coverage through using format.
this features a lighter, Booker cash and carry business brighter business centre environment centre space.
ritter and Booker are and an improved choice, price and starting to serve national accounts service.
the conversion pays back in with a choice, price and service they around a year and we plan to convert cannot obtain from other suppliers.
a further 20 business centres to extra in the year ahead.
classic is an on-trade wholesaler supplying pubs and licensed harnessing the Internet customers mainly in the north West.
co. uk were 526m, We are taking some of the classic up from 407m last year and 15m range into Booker and have saved in 2005. all these sales are delivered rental costs by moving some classic to our customers premises.
the warehouses into a neighbouring number of customers using the site Booker business centre.
We believe has doubled in the last year as we that in the next three years classic improved online functionality for all Booker can become a new force our customers.
in the uK on-trade sector, offering a low risk, low cost, high service, local solution.
5 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2011 cHief executives revieW continued in the last year Booker Group delivered We also look at sustainability in BookEr InDIa 930m of product to retailers and another way.
Booker is privileged to caterers in the uK.
With the inclusion serve 459,000 small and medium of ritter we can become a major force sized enterprises.
independent pubs, in foodservice and with classic we can caterers, nursing homes, convenience become a significant player in on-trade.
shops and the other customers we serve are crucial to their local communities.
Booker India if we can help our customers thrive, in september 2009 we opened our we can also contribute to sustaining first business centre in Mumbai.
We communities and neighbourhoods in now have 7,000 customers and the Britain and in india.
customer reaction has been excellent.
People We have also launched 31 Happy the progress at Booker has been shopper symbol retailers which harness achieved by our great team of the lessons from premier in the uK for people.
During the terrible weather the Kirana stores of Mumbai.
We are at christmas numerous Booker in the process of opening our second people worked harder than ever to business centre in Mumbai and our first keep the business centres trading, joint venture business centre in pune.
the wagons running and the supplies our partner in pune is satnam arora, moving.
However, for the other 50 who has expertise which compliments weeks of the year our people also our own.
We look forward to developing did a heroic job.
i am pleased that the Booker offer into other cities to we continue to train all business become the best choice, price and centre colleagues under our priDe service supplier to Kirana stores and programme that boosts skills.
fifth year running, the performance of the business means our people have Sustainability enjoyed in our success through our We want to improve our carbon bonus system.
With this great team of efficiency.
in 2008 Booker was the first people Booker will continue to make uK food wholesaler to be awarded the progress in the year ahead.
since then we have made good progress.
We have in summary, Booker made good progress recycled 4m litres of used cooking oil in 2010 11 and our plan to focus, Drive from our catering customers.
this is and Broaden the business is on track.
used to power our distribution centre customer satisfaction improved further, in Hatfield.
We have sent 7% less to we served 28,000 more customers and landfill, in spite of increasing sales by grew sales by over 200m.
internet sales 6.2%, and we are now trialling recycling were 526m, ritter and classic have centres in thirteen business centres.
made a real contribution to the Group through better distribution fleet and we are pleased with the performance management we cut emissions of co2 of Booker india.
the uK economy looks by 244 tonnes, new lighting systems challenging, but we are committed to saved 2,000 tonnes and with better helping our 459,000 customers prosper waste management we saved 1,000 in the year ahead.
We can see opportunities to help our customers reduce waste and Charles Wilson become more carbon efficient.
