16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:11 Page 4 04 | BUSINESS REVIEW | Chief Executives Report Some 52 per cent.
of the assets we manage Underlying operating costs, excluding Market Overview are in Euro-denominated portfolios, with amortisation of intangible assets and The ongoing European sovereign debt crisis strategic partners making up 67 per cent.
of exceptional items, were 202.1 million continued to cast a cloud of uncertainty this exposure.
These included a over the global economy during 2011 as full-year impact from the Thames River solvency fears spread beyond Greece, acquisition, including 18.3 million in respect Business Flows Ireland and Portugal to the much larger of distributions payable to Thames River economies of Spain and Italy.
Core operating expenses in the While the business saw overall net outflows the year also saw a number of significant legacy F&C business were slightly lower yearof 7.2 billion during the year, this was geopolitical developments and natural on-year, with cost reductions more than primarily attributable to strategic partner disasters which contributed to extreme offsetting inflationary increases.
The outflows reflected the volatility in global markets and poor investor underlying maturity profile of some of our sentiment.
These included the earthquake, The Group also incurred a number of strategic partners insurance books, the tsunami and nuclear reactor crisis in Japan, exceptional and non-recurring costs which market conditions in Portugal and Ireland violent upheaval in the Middle East and are excluded from our underlying results.
and specific developments including the North Africa and growing concerns over These included costs associated with the partial nationalisation of the BCP Pension Irans nuclear programme.
F&C Partners litigation, costs of Scheme in Portugal and the sale of Imperio implementing our back and middle office France by Achmea.
We estimate annualised While across the year the equity market outsourcing and one-off expenses related to revenues lost from these net outflows in ended only modestly down, with the FTSE our cost reduction programme.
Offset 2011 to be approximately 11.9 million.
100 Index posting a total return of -2.2 per against these, and also excluded from cent.
volatility as measured by the VIX underlying results, are exceptional gains Net flows from third-party clients were flat Index hit levels last seen at the height of the arising from the reassessment of conditional reflecting the difficult market environment, credit crisis in 2008 when the global consideration payable for Thames River, and particularly for retail and wholesale business.
financial system was on the brink of in respect of the reduction in F&C REIT put Institutional gross sales were strong, with collapse.
At its lowest point the FTSE 100 option liabilities.
The Group anticipates that, 4.6 billion new mandates funded and an Index had declined by -13.8 per cent.
from based on current and forecast financial additional 1.2 billion won but unfunded at the start of the year and the S&P 500 Index performance, no conditional consideration year end.
Institutional flows were indicative of leading US companies traded in a 24 per will be payable for the Thames River Group.
of our much improved position with cent.
range with an average daily move of investment consultants where our around 1 per cent.
The Group achieved an underlying operating credentials in areas such as fixed income profit for 2011 of 65.2 million 2010: 67.2 and Liability Driven Investments LDI have Volatile markets, combined with poor million, resulting in an underlying operating gained strong recognition.
liquidity, adversely affect the asset margin of 24.4 per cent.
2010: 27.6 per management industry by impacting both new cent..
In addition, the Group recognised business generation, particularly from retail Financial Results investment gains, which are included in investors, and the ability of fund managers to investment income, of 3.7 million during While net revenues increased to 267.0 position client portfolios in order to deliver the year.
million 2010: 243.2 million, this reflected out-performance.
During 2011 only 17 per the first full-year of Thames Rivers inclusion cent.
of funds in the IMA UK All Companies Underlying earnings per share for the year in the Group which also had a corresponding sector managed to outperform the FTSE All were 5.5 pence 2010: 5.7 pence.
impact on the expense base.
Net revenues Share Index on a total return basis included performance-related management On a statutory basis, which includes source: Lipper.
amortisation and exceptional items, the The reduction in performance fees over the Underlying asset performance was a 2.9 Group made a profit after tax of 2.6 million previous year partially reflected weaker billion positive contributor to assets under 2010: a loss of 13.4 million.
investment performance in the second half of management AUM over the year.
However, the year at Thames River, where the majority the Group saw its AUM decline 5.4 per cent.
of products have performance fee potential, to 100.1 billion 31 December 2010: 105.8 and also the reduced performance fee billion principally as a result of net outflows potential from certain F&C mandates.
and adverse foreign exchange movements associated with strategic partner assets.
16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:11 Page 5 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 05 address their solvency requirements and Netherlands, Millennium BCP Portugal, Statement of Financial pension schemes to immunise liabilities, Friends First Ireland and Friends Life UK.
Position gained important recognition with our These assets principally comprise insurance The Group closed the year with 196.9 appointment to the UKs Pension Protection funds but also include sub-advised mutual million of shareholders cash reserves Funds panel of LDI providers.
F&C also funds and certain pension scheme assets.
and net debt reduced to 77.8 million won the LDI Provider of the Year award These are long standing relationships which 2010: 95.9 million.
A significant proportion at the prestigious 2011 European have generally provided us with exclusivity to of the shareholders cash reserves are held Pensions Awards.
manage the assets of these partners for a in our regulated subsidiaries against their minimum period of time.
An exception to this As disclosed in our Interim Report, a further capital requirements.
is the Millennium BCP relationship in notable achievement during the year was Portugal, which is principally represented by Gross debt of some 275 million 2010: our appointment by the National a BCP-Ageas insurance joint venture, where 275 million comprises 125 million of Employment Savings Trust NEST to that exclusivity period has already come to subordinated loan notes and 150 million of manage their ethical fund option.
We are in discussions with BCPsenior loan notes, neither of which include new workplace defined contribution pension Ageas regarding the longer-term nature of any financial covenants.
scheme, into which UK employees who do our business relationship.
not currently have access to an occupational pension scheme will gradually be autoAt 31 December 2011 AUM for strategic Business Review enrolled by 2017.
This mandate provides partners were 60.2 billion 2010: 67.0 long-term potential for business flows and billion representing 60 per cent.
of our total While the Board conducted its review of further recognition of F&Cs scale and AUM.
Due to the lower fees that we receive strategy, the operational focus of the leadership in sustainable investing.
We see for managing these assets, our revenue from business during 2011 remained the delivery further opportunities for developing our strategic partners is considerably less at of good investment performance and client presence in socially responsible investment some 30 per cent.
servicing during a period of market arising from recent decisions by some other turbulence, and the project to outsource our Friends Life has set out its intention to asset managers to scale back their back and middle office functions.
establish an in-house asset management resources and activities in this area.
function and, as previously disclosed, has On an asset-weighted basis relative The tough market environment for the served notice to withdraw 2.3 billion of investment performance during the year was retail wholesale mutual fund business assets at the end of this year.
Our encouraging, particularly in fixed income, resulted in 2011 being a relatively subdued expectation is that all or most of the assets which is the core asset class for both defined year for new product innovation across the that we manage for Friends Life may be benefit pension schemes and insurance industry.
We closed a small number of funds withdrawn at the expiration of the contractual portfolios.
Importantly, three-year track and share classes which were sub-scale and exclusivity periods, which occur at various records continue to be competitive: on an where we saw little demand.
In the UK, we times up to October 2014.
Our strategy, as asset-weighted basis some 87 per cent.
of continued to focus heavily on multi-manager set out in October 2011, anticipated this fixed income, 64 per cent.
of equities and 98 products, including our Lifestyle risk-rated potential withdrawal and we intend to offset it per cent.
of property assets are above funds, where we are seeing support from through reductions of related costs and a benchmarks over three years.
Independent Financial Advisers IFAs focus on generating new business.
Our position with investment consultants seeking an outsourced core investment As disclosed in our Interim Report, the continues to improve and we have a highly proposition for their clients.
We have also agreement to outsource certain back and active programme of consultant been planning for the implementation of the middle office functions to State Street came engagement.
We now have 70 individual recommendations of the Retail Distribution into effect on 1 July with all impacted staff product buy ratings compared to 43 at the Review, which will replace the traditional now transferred to State Street.
This significant increase in commission-based IFA model with the has been managed successfully, with consultant ratings primarily reflects new explicit charging of fees for advice.
The new minimal disruption to client servicing.
As we ratings for a number of investment solutions regime will be fully implemented by the end complete our move to State Streets strategic products launched over the last two years, of 2012 and therefore we are in the process platform over the course of 2012, we expect including our equity-linked bond fund range of finalising our new fund pricing strategy.
to deliver the cost savings associated with and a suite of Dynamic LDI funds that we F&C manages significant assets for a number this project.
Our credentials of strategic partners: Achmea The in providing solutions to help insurers to 16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:11 Page 6 06 | BUSINESS REVIEW | Chief Executives Report Summary While the macroeconomic outlook remains challenging and geopolitical instabilities persist, markets have begun to make headway in 2012 with the FTSE 100 Index rising 5.4 per cent.
Encouragingly, our relative investment performance has also been strong in the first two months of 2012.
After six years as Chief Executive of F&C, this The ongoing European will be my last report as I will be retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual sovereign debt crisis continued General Meeting in May.
It has been a to cast a cloud of uncertainty privilege to serve as Chief Executive and in particular to guide F&C through a period over the global economy during which saw the two most significant market downturns in eighty years.
I wish my 2011 as solvency fears spread colleagues on the Board and all of the staff at beyond Greece, Ireland and F&C every success for the future.
Portugal to the much larger economies of Spain and Italy.
Alain Grisay Chief Executive 15 March 2012
