Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011 Back to contents Chief Executives review I am pleased to report a strong set of results in my first reporting period as Chief Executive.
The results clearly demonstrate the strength of our business model and continued success of our strategy.
Much of Western society remains heavily indebted both at a sovereign and personal level.
The resulting need for parsimony led to pressure on personal incomes and potentially fewer spare pounds in the pocket for saving and investment.
Concerns about the economy, future of the Euro and banking exposures were also a consistent theme.
Such uncertainty may offer opportunity for the speculator, but is rarely good for wider market confidence.
Whilst this was 21% up from 1 July 2010 it remains some 10% below the level it stood The management teams objective is to apply at when Hargreaves Lansdown became a The company delivered a substantial energy to building on our strong listed company in May 2007.
41% increase in assets under track record in order to create significant administration from 17.5 long-term value for our shareholders.
Hargreaves Lansdowns 2011 results Our strategy is unchanged: we continue to The backdrop makes Hargreaves billion to 24.6 billion, focus on growing our business by Lansdowns 2011 results all the more 50,000 new clients were increasing the level of assets administered creditable.
Once again we are pleased to on behalf of clients.
We shall do this by report record results.
continuing to provide clients with an excellent value-for-money service.
This The company delivered a 41% increase in will be supported by effective management assets under administration from 17.5 of costs and increasing the efficiency of our billion to 24.6 billion, 50,000 new clients operations.
In all aspects we have been were welcomed and we report a record extremely successful this year.
These results represent continued client Hargreaves Lansdown has a proven track confidence in the Hargreaves Lansdown record of innovation and entrepreneurial service.
Client satisfaction is the highest in flair.
As a result we have been very successthe companys history.
Our Corporate ful at creating and seizing opportunities.
Vantage initiative reported a 127% rise in Excellent progress has been made during members to 2417 since last reported on 31 the year, delivering a strong performance in December 2010, an annualised member spite of the economic challenges facing growth rate of 254%.
Within a year from retail investors.
In 2012 we shall continue launch, from a standing start, we have 27 to invest in our business and service to schemes live or in implementation.
Corporate business is naturally a long-term project but we are delighted with its Review of the economic background progress.
The year to 30 June 2011 posed many challenges for the retail investor.
New business advised upon by our financial advisers leapt by 13% to 625 The political environment remained million, further justification for our turbulent and uncertain, especially in key investment in this area.
Severe earthquakes experienced in Japan and New For these results we have to thank our Zealand completed a difficult clients, whose continued enjoyment of the environmental backdrop.
service, loyalty and feedback enhances the 8 Back to contents growth of our business.
It remains a in emerging economies.
There are indeed Our online overseas dealing service positive reflection on our service that tough times ahead but the quality of our launched in July, provides access to referrals from existing clients consistently service, information and pricing should European, US and Canadian markets at the feature as one of the main attractions to help us to prevail.
We plan to Hargreaves Lansdown.
In an era of menu improve coverage of other investments driven telephone systems and often mediocre Company outlook such as passive funds and investment client service Hargreaves Lansdown Despite the less than ideal economic trusts, of which a vast range are already demonstrates that a company with a environment, Hargreaves Lansdown is in a offered on Vantage.
modern outlook, high service values and strong position.
We have continued to low cost pricing can have great success.
invest in a range of enhancements to the These developments support the continued Vantage service and these new increase in the scope of our 'investment We must also thank our staff, whose energy developments have been delivered on time supermarket'.
This will position and appetite for client service and new and to budget.
We have also restructured Hargreaves Lansdown as the best place for developments is key to sustaining this our treasury strategy during the year to the an investor to invest in key asset classes.
benefit of both clients and the company.
This proposition, allied to our scale and service levels, will provide competitive 2012 market outlook The post year-end tariff reductions and advantage over traditional niche offerings.
Storm clouds have been brewing ever since functionality improvements in our The modern investor needs and expects the last round of quantitative easing.
Since stockbroking service have been designed to access to a wide range of good value our year end the markets have seen a improve the client experience.
This should investment choices, Hargreaves Lansdown worldwide sell-off of stocks and fide-risking.
encourage clients to consolidate all delivers just that.
Although commercially many firms look investments, including shares and funds, fundamentally sound there is only so much within their Vantage account.
We believe Our digital strategy is increasingly cost saving that can be affected.
To provide these enhancements represent a most important, with 27.5 million visits to our long-term growth economic stimulus is compelling proposition in the market.
The website during the year, a 24.3% increase.
essential, but the tools available to initial response from clients both existing We have developed and will continue policymakers are currently limited which and new has been very pleasing.
developing new routes for seeking, has led to fragile confidence.
Emerging markets have the advantage of not being burdened with either personal or sovereign We report a record debt, although those countries rely on the western world buying their products.
profit before tax of Uncertainty remains over the future of the Euro and the ramifications of repayment of 126.0m, up 46%.
sovereign debt to those western banks which have been foolhardy in their lending policies.
On a positive note the potential for raising interest rates fades further and further into the future, a situation which will drive investors to seek other income producing assets such as those in which Hargreaves Lansdown specialise.
It is also worth pointing out that although emerging markets have fallen short-term, their longterm prospects are bright.
It is likely their markets and currency will perform better than the UK as we see a shift in economic strength from West to East.
Any positive appreciation helps improve the earnings of Hargreaves Lansdown as a significant proportion of our client assets are invested 9 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011 Back to contents attracting and communicating with clients for 2011 compared to the same month last offset by increasing volumes.
We see no through electronic means which are year and August also significantly higher.
current reason why our revenue or profits increasing in scope and sophistication.
Our should be materially affected by the RDR.
new i-Phone and Android mobile phone Share dealing volumes were 11% higher in There is a range of recurring revenue applications provide investors access to July.
Market volatility during August models available to us.
Investing direct extensive fund, share and investment produced an exceptional level of trading through Hargreaves Lansdown will remain research, trading functionality, and allow which enhanced the effect of the highly competitive and in most clients to manage their portfolio on the introduction of our improved share dealing circumstances lower cost than through move.
Since launch in August 2011 our iservice and tariff.
August equity dealing financial advisers.
There is also Phone and Android applications have been volumes were 170,000 versus 82,000 in considerable time to make any transition downloaded over 11,000 times.
and we already successfully use alternative models in our business.
Uncertainty Direct business will remain core to remains but we will continue to fine tune We are satisfied with Hargreaves Lansdown but our fee based our strategy as the RDR progresses towards progress on our advice proposition presents opportunity for its two step implementation in the years growth, as the regulatory and economic ahead.
Corporate Vantage environment presents acute challenges to other firms in the financial advice sector.
proposition and continue We expect over time charging will become more explicit for the 46% of our net income to build our reputation in We are satisfied with progress on our received from fund groups.
Although Corporate Vantage proposition and clients like the current model it is clear that the corporate market.
continue to build our reputation in the various industry developments lead corporate market.
Our discretionary service towards more prevalent explicit charging.
"The impact of regulation We will continue to promote our view that The regulatory development of note ""bundled"" models have value for retail The cumulative effect of our many smaller remains the Retail Distribution Review investors but such a model is not an developments also makes a difference."
The reforms covered in this economic necessity.
Indeed some explicit They also reflect our energy and initiative divide broadly into two, being charging developments present new determination to capitalise on our market relevant to the provision of advice and to revenue opportunities.
position and continuously improve the platforms.
service to the benefit of our clients.
In terms of wider regulatory developments, We have previously stated that we consider as a highly compliant and ethical company, We are well aware that other companies ourselves already materially compliant we hope the restructured UK regulatory seek to compete, although as yet no one with the advisory part of the reforms.
regime will be effective but proportionate.
has managed to do so to any scale.
These changes should hold opportunity, The 3 million additional charge to Advantages such as proprietary ownership both for expansion of our advice business Hargreaves Lansdown this year in respect of our own platform, engagement with and increased interest in direct investment.
of a contribution to the Financial Services millions of investors, operating scale, Our view on this element of RDR remains Compensation Scheme for the Keydata reputation, brand and service levels give us positive.
fiasco, in which we played no part, a formidable position.
Nevertheless, we are highlighted the potential cost to innocent not complacent and continue to listen The platform paper issued by the FSA on 1 companies of regulatory mistakes.
The new carefully to clients and watch closely August 2011 PS11 9 represented a regulator must also keep a careful watch on competitor and industry developments.
potential significant U-turn in its position European developments and lobby on payments to platforms by fund groups appropriately for the best outcome for the In summary, we are extremely well placed.
and posed more questions than answers.
2012 will be about reaping the benefits of Whilst we are disappointed that this part of our hard work and further enhancements the FSA's work is not yet clearly resolved, Conclusion to the service to maintain the long-term we are confident that we will be able to I would like to thank our clients, future of the business.
adapt as a business to meet any regulatory shareholders, staff and my fellow directors.
requirements whilst maintaining a clear Their continued support has delivered Post year-end trading focus on client service and on the success another record year for Hargreaves Since the year end, the FTSE All-Share has of our business.
There is substantial water Lansdown.
We have seen many more fallen by 12% as at 30 August 2011. to go under the bridge in this debate.
people recognise the enjoyment and value However, levels of net new business in self-directed investment using our inflows since the year end have been strong Hargreaves Lansdown offers great prices, company's services.
This is a trend we shall with July and August combined showing an service and information and will continue do our utmost to promote and continue.
increase of more than 30% over the same to do so.
Scale and technological months in the prior year.
Client recruitment improvements will see costs for retail Ian Gorham has also been strong, with net new clients investors reduce over time.
This should Chief Executive joining the Vantage service in July up 14% result in reduced margins but be more than 13 September 2011 10 Back to contents... levels of net new business inows since the year end have been strong with July and August combined showing an increase of more than 30% over the same months in the prior year.
