Group Chief Executives Underlying profit before tax was US$17.7bn, Business Review down US$1.2bn on 2010 due to higher costs which were partly offset by a significant improvement in loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
We recorded a strong performance in each of the faster-growing regions.
Underlying revenues grew in Rest of Asia-Pacific by 12%, in Hong Kong by 6% and in Latin America by 13%.
The strong performance in these regions also led to record revenues in Commercial Banking.
We achieved strong revenue growth in key markets including mainland China, India, Malaysia, Brazil and Argentina, driving increases in profit before tax.
On an underlying basis, total revenues were broadly in line with 2010, despite the turmoil in the eurozone and its adverse effect on Credit and Rates revenue, combined with lower income in Balance Sheet Management and the continued 2011 was a year of change for HSBC as we reduction of our consumer finance portfolios in articulated a clear strategy to become the worlds the US.
We made significant progress in executing this strategy to reshape the As the process of internationalising the renminbi Group and improve returns.
First, we conducted a continued, we strengthened our leadership Group-wide portfolio review to improve our capital position with a bond clearing licence in deployment and have now announced the disposal or mainland China and as the market leader in the closure of 16 non-strategic businesses during the offshore Dim Sum bond market.
In addition, year, and a further 3 in 2012.
Second, we took action Commercial Banking and Global Banking and to improve our cost efficiency, achieving sustainable Markets successfully completed our first global cost saving of US$0.9bn.
Third, and most US dollar-renminbi cross-currency swap and we importantly, we continued to position the business extended our renminbi capability to over 50 for growth, increasing revenues in each of the markets, across all continents.
worlds faster-growing regions, particularly in Despite the eurozone sovereign debt concerns mainland China, India, Malaysia, Brazil and which dominated European market sentiment Argentina.
Commercial Banking achieved record and depressed revenues in Global Banking and revenue and profits, helped by loan growth as well as Markets, revenues grew strongly in over half of growth in cross-selling from Global Banking and our business lines in Global Banking and Markets.
In Wealth Management we made modest Markets, including Equities and Foreign progress towards our target of US$4bn of Exchange, and in Global Banking.
This in part incremental revenue over the medium term.
reflected the collaboration with Commercial Executing our strategy is the primary lever to Banking which has delivered more than improve the Groups performance.
A substantial US$500m in incremental revenues.
amount has been achieved during 2011 but this will In Wealth Management we made modest be a long journey with significant headwinds, so we progress towards our medium-term target of are increasing the intensity of execution in 2012.
US$4bn incremental revenue, with revenue growth of some US$300m.
Notably, we Group performance headlines generated strong sales of insurance products in HSBCs financial performance was resilient.
the Hong Kong, Latin America and Rest of Asia-Pacific, while revenue from distribution of Reported profit before tax was US$21.9bn, up investment products to our clients and Global US$2.8bn on 2010, including US$3.9bn of Asset Management was broadly unchanged, favourable fair value movements on our own reflecting difficult market conditions, debt attributable to credit spreads, compared particularly in the second half of the year.
with a negative movement of US$63m in 2010.
7 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Overview continued Group Chief Executives Business Review Costs rose by 10%, reflecting wage inflation Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders in key markets and higher average full-time increased by 27% to US$16.2bn, of which equivalent employee numbers for the year US$7.3bn was declared in dividends in respect although numbers have fallen since the first of the year.
This compared with US$3.4bn of quarter, as well as an increase in significant variable pay awarded net of tax to our items.
These included restructuring costs employees for 2011. including the impairment of certain intangible assets of US$1.1bn, UK customer redress Progress on strategy programmes of US$898m and a bank levy There are two major trends which are key to HSBCs introduced by the UK Government of future: the continuing growth of international trade US$570m, partly offset by a UK pension credit and capital flows: and wealth creation, particularly in of US$587m.
The rise in costs was partially faster-growing markets.
In May, we defined a new offset by US$0.9bn in sustainable cost savings strategy for the Group to capitalise on these trends achieved so far in executing our strategy.
and connect customers to opportunities by building As a result of these factors, the cost efficiency on our distinctive presence in the network of markets ratio worsened from 55.2% to 57.5% on a which generate the major trade and capital flows, reported basis, and from 55.6% to 61.0% on an capturing wealth creation in target markets and underlying basis.
focusing on retail banking only where we can achieve profitable scale.
Our results continue to be adversely affected by the losses in the US consumer finance business, In a difficult operating environment this strategy which, on an underlying basis, were US$2.4bn is key to improving our performance and we remain and US$2.2bn in 2011 and 2010, respectively.
focused on delivering our targets of a return on We have agreed the sale of the profitable US average shareholders equity of 12-15% and a cost Card and Retail Services portfolio with the efficiency ratio of 48-52% by the end of 2013.
We remainder of the loss-making US consumer are executing the strategy by deploying capital more finance business being run down.
effectively, implementing measures to improve our cost efficiency and positioning the business for Return on average ordinary shareholders equity growth.
We have made significant progress in all of was 10.9%, up from 9.5% in 2010, reflecting the these three areas.
favourable movement on the fair value of our own debt.
First, to ensure effective deployment of capital, we undertook a Group-wide review of our business, The Groups pre-tax return on risk-weighted testing each part of the portfolio against our five assets RoRWA for 2011 was 1.9%, or 1.5% filters framework.
This looks at the strategic on an underlying basis.
Adjusting for negative relevance of each country, and each business in each returns on US consumer finance business and country, assessing their connectivity, economic legacy credit in Global Banking and Markets, development, profitability, cost efficiency and the remainder of the Group achieved a RoRWA liquidity.
As a result, we announced 16 disposals or of 2.2% in 2011 and 2.3% in 2010. closures in 2011 and a further 3 in 2012, including Dividends declared in respect of 2011 totalled two large transactions in the US, the disposal of US$7.3bn, or US$0.41 per ordinary share, Retail Banking and Wealth Management operations an increase of 14%, with a fourth interim in Russia, Chile and Thailand and the exit of dividend for 2011 of US$0.14 per ordinary operations in Poland and Georgia.
these disposals and closures should represent a reduction of around US$50bn of risk-weighted assets The core tier 1 ratio was 10.1% at 31 December and the transfer to the acquirers of approximately 2011, down from 10.5% at 31 December 2010, 12,000 full-time equivalent employees.
We are reflecting an increase in risk-weighted assets continuing this process in 2012 and have identified a RWAs due to the introduction of Basel 2.5 in number of further transactions.
Global Banking and Markets and growth in lending balances including those classified as Second, to improve cost efficiency we achieved held for sale.
The growth in RWAs was notably US$0.9bn of sustainable savings.
Our programmes in Commercial Banking, which included an to implement consistent business models and increase in the RWAs of our mainland China restructure global businesses and global functions associates.
We are creating a leaner Group, removing layers of management to give staff greater 8 responsibility, improve decision making and reduce setting the highest standards of behaviour our aim is bureaucracy.
We have identified a strong pipeline of that all of our employees and customers can be further sustainable cost savings which we believe proud of our business.
will deliver at the upper end of our target of US$2.5- 3.5bn of sustainable savings by 2013.
Outlook Third, we continued to position the business for In 2012, notwithstanding the macroeconomic, growth, as outlined in the performance headlines.
regulatory and political uncertainties which we believe will persist, we expect continued strong We are increasing the intensity of strategy growth in the dynamic markets of Asia, Latin execution in 2012 and will provide a further update America and the Middle East, although at a more at our forthcoming Investor Strategy Day.
moderate pace than in 2011, and that mainland China will achieve a soft landing.
We believe that Our purpose and values trade and capital flows between emerging areas of HSBC is one of the worlds largest banking the world will also continue to grow, and could and financial services organisations.
We serve increase tenfold in the next 40 years.
around 89 million customers and our network As these results demonstrate, HSBC is wellcovers 85 countries and territories.
With around positioned in the faster-growing markets and across 7,200 offices in both established and faster-growing international trade flows to benefit from these markets, we aim to be where the growth is, engines of global growth.
connecting customers to opportunities, enabling businesses to thrive and economies to prosper, and In 2011 we generated a return on average ultimately helping people to realise their ambitions.
ordinary shareholders equity of 10.9% compared with 9.5% in 2010.
The strength of our position We are putting a new emphasis on values at gives us confidence that by the end of 2012 we will HSBC, so that our employees are empowered to do have developed a clear trajectory towards meeting the right thing and to act with courageous integrity.
our target of 12-15% by the end of 2013.
We recognise that we have not always got this right in the past.
The inappropriate advice given to Finally, I am pleased to report we had good customers of NHFA Limited was completely results in January.
We are profoundly sorry about what happened and are committed to standing fully behind our customers.
This case has reinforced our determination to address legacy issues in HSBC.
Over the past year we have made our values more explicit to ensure we meet the expectations of S T Gulliver, Group Chief Executive society, customers, regulators and investors.
Those 27 February 2012 values are that we are dependable, open to different ideas and cultures and connected to customers, communities, regulators and each other.
We are ensuring that everyone who works for HSBC lives by these values and have made them a key part of every individuals annual performance review.
By 9 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
