Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Chief Executives review Strong growth in revenue and profit Nicandro Durante Chief Executive We continued to grow market share in Our proven strategy 2011.
This growth was driven by the continues to deliver launch of product innovations such The strength of our brands, our as Click & Roll, Reloc and Convertibles consumer-centric innovative products in key markets, improved retailer and the quality of our people have relationships and by improving our delivered another year of very good speed to market.
The Group increased The last year has seen overall market share in 2010 and this Productivity continued in 2011 despite challenging considerable success Our productivity continued to improve economic conditions in some markets.
in 2011 as we further addressed our cost for the Group and I base through factory rationalisation, There are signs that the industry volume am excited when I systems standardisation and productivity decline seen in recent years is moderating savings.
This helped us achieve a but substantial excise-driven price look to our strengths.
substantial increase in operating margin increases in a few markets continue to We have some great from 33.5 to 35.8 per cent.
This is well affect overall volumes.
While industry ahead of our target of improving overall volume declined again in 2011, our brands and our margin by 50-100 basis points per annum.
share improvement ensured that Group marketing is based on volumes were virtually unchanged, Strengthening our business down just 0.4 per cent year on year.
powerful consumer In 2011 we grew market share, grew Our Global Drive Brands and other insights, supported our leading international brands in our international brands once again achieved most important markets and achieved by superior products good growth in 2011.
Group revenue significant productivity savings.
Our grew by 7 per cent on an organic basis and market-leading results demonstrate the strength of our and at constant rates of exchange, driven companies worldwide but we know we innovations.
The resulting can do better.
Our tried and tested increase in adjusted profit from operations strategy has not changed but we will of 11 per cent has helped us to deliver continue to improve how we execute it superior returns to shareholders once as we seek to grow market share.
again, with adjusted diluted earnings per Challenging ourselves to keep improving share up by 11 per cent on last year.
is critical to our continuing success, as we seek to grow market share by promoting Strong brands driving our key brands and bringing marketgrowth leading innovations to market.
Our brands, both international and local, performed well in 2011.
Collectively, our four Global Drive Brands GDBs Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike and Pall Mall achieved volume growth of 9 per cent.
Kent was up 10 per cent, growing in all of its top ten markets: Dunhill volumes were slightly higher: Pall Mall continued its recent success story with an 11 per cent increase in volumes: and Lucky Strike grew strongly by 14 per cent.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 05 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Chief Executives review continued Sustainable business Managing risks Revenue breakdown by region Of course, much of what we do today is We have identified a core list of potential about preparing for our future.
We are threats that we believe could represent proud of our record of sustainability significant risks to our business.
As can be 1 Asia-Pacic 28% across our Group operations and seen from our review of the key Group 2 Americas 23% throughout our supply chain.
In risk factors in this report, we regularly 3 Western Europe 23% particular, we are proud of our extensive monitor their potential impact and 4 EEMEA 26% scientific research programme looking at likelihood and controls are in place to modified cigarettes and low-toxicant ensure that they are carefully managed.
Tackling illicit trade Sustainability for us is about creating The expansion of illicit trade remains a shared value, which means creating threat globally, driven by sharp excise 4 economic value for shareholders while increases and pressure on consumers ensuring our business is run responsibly 2 disposable income.
We support the in the interests of all our stakeholders.
development of the World Health Organisations Framework Convention We continue to make progress on our 3 on Tobacco Control FCTC protocol sustainability agenda, not just reducing our aimed at creating an international impact on the environment and investing in regulatory framework for addressing illicit our people but also the way we conduct Adjusted profit breakdown by region trade.
However, we remain critical of our operations in the marketplace and other measures proposed by the FCTC throughout our supply chain.
that may drive significant excise Our key challenge for many decades 1 Asia-Pacic 28% increases, retail display bans and plain to come will be to provide tobacco 2 Americas 26% packaging all of these measures could consumers with exciting high quality 3 Western Europe 22% play into the hands of organised crime products, taking into account their 4 EEMEA 24% by creating ideal conditions for further changing preferences and expectations.
1 This means continuing to deliver the Acquisitions and most innovative cigarette products, as we competitive landscape do today.
It also means developing other 4 The tobacco industry remained fairly nicotine products consumers may choose stable during 2011, with little M&A activity in the future.
In 2011, we set up 2 among the leading industry players.
On Nicoventures as a stand-alone company 26 May 2011, the Group announced that it to develop and test alternative nicotine had agreed to acquire 100 per cent of products.
We believe that the debates 3 privately-owned Protabaco, the second around our product categories should be largest cigarette company in Colombia.
The founded on fact-based science and transaction was completed on 11 October we have made a significant commitment 2011 and the deal was financed from to this at our Group research and internal resources.
development facilities, where the work we are doing trying to develop lower We continue to monitor acquisition toxicant products has been recognised opportunities around the world and will by several key stakeholders.
participate where it makes financial and strategic sense to do so.
Global outlook For the foreseeable future, the world market is likely to remain fairly stable at around five and a half trillion cigarettes, more than 40 per cent of which are sold in China.
We expect overall market values to grow due to changes in the product mix and we believe the value of emerging markets will grow more quickly.
Because of this, our geographic diversity and strong positions in emerging markets remain a key strength.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 06 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Management Board changes Substantial opportunities 2011 highlights The last year has seen considerable 2011 saw the retirement of my success for the Group and I am excited predecessor, Paul Adams, as well as that when I look to our strengths.
of our long-standing Group Operations x Our overall market Director, Peter Taylor.
Des Naughton We have some great brands and our replaced Peter, while Giovanni Giordano share grew marketing is based on powerful succeeded Rudi Kindts as Group Human consumer insights, supported by Resources Director.
x Global Drive Brand differentiated and superior products.
We have market-leading innovations and In November 2011, I announced that volumes grew by we are getting better at deploying them.
Michael Prideaux, Director, Corporate & We have a great business mix, with a 9 per cent Regulatory Affairs CORA, had informed strong presence in emerging markets and the Board of his intention to retire with a balanced product portfolio across all effect from 30 June 2012.
At the same x Innovations continue segments.
We have a fully integrated time, I was pleased to announce the to drive growth supply chain and our systems are appointments of Kingsley Wheaton, becoming more efficient.
We have an Dr David OReilly and Naresh Sethi to x Operating margin industry-leading approach to science the Management Board.
Kingsley became and harm reduction and, importantly, Deputy CORA Director with effect from increased substantially we have the people capable of tackling 1 January 2012 and will take the role of the challenges ahead.
to 35.8 per cent CORA Director when Michael retires.
Also from 1 January 2012, David and Naresh I am confident that we are well placed took on the newly created roles of Group x We acquired Protabaco, to take advantage of the substantial Scientific Director and Director, Group opportunities ahead for our business and the second largest Business Development, respectively.
that we can continue to deliver superior tobacco company shareholder returns.
I would like to extend my personal thanks to our retiring directors for their excellent in Colombia Nicandro Durante contributions to our business over many Chief Executive years and welcome our new directors.
x Nicoventures was launched as a standalone company to develop alternative nicotine products British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 07
