16 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 61 ICAP plc Annual Report 2011 63 133 134 17 In this section we describe the main trends underlying the performance of the business and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
18 Group Chief Executive Officers review 22 Global Executive Management Group 24 Business review 24 Results for 2011 25 Segmental performance 31 Technology 32 Key performance indicators 33 Risk and control environment 40 Corporate social responsibility 18 Group Chief Executive Officers review ICAP delivered a solid performance during the financial year, facilitated by our global reach and diverse range of services.
It has been another period of substantial progress for our electronic broking and post trade risk services businesses and during the year we achieved a further increase in our market share.
This past year we concentrated on organic growth, leveraging existing assets and further developing the collaborative relationships we have with our bank customers.
In the first half of the year we saw generally quieter Michael Spencer markets but delivered good revenue and earnings growth driven primarily ICAP Group Chief Executive Officer by our electronic broking business.
We benefited from the strength of our emerging markets businesses, continuing turbulence in the worlds commodity markets, significant euro denominated bond issuance and rising concerns about higher inflation.
More recently the political and economic uncertainties in the Middle East and North Africa, as well as the tragic events in Japan, have contributed to volatility in global financial markets.
We have taken electronic markets into new asset classes following the launch in September 2010 of ICAPs electronic euro interest rates swaps IRS platform.
The platform, which has market maker support, brings In recent years we have increased transparency and greater efficiency as well as lower transaction costs to the worlds largest OTC derivative market.
This platform has now transacted over 360 billion in volume involving more than 4,300 trades followed a clear growth and representing over 20% of our euro IRS activity since its launch.
We continue to see month-on-month increases in activity on this electronic system and, diversification strategy and in March 2011, over 30% of our euro IRS trades were transacted on the platform.
We plan to expand the platform to include dollar IRS during 2011. our business is well positioned This is a prime example of how we work closely with our customers, aligning our interests with theirs and expanding their use of ICAPs developing to take advantage of any market infrastructure, to increase efficiency and reduce risk.
While the regulatory landscape is evolving, we continue to expect we will be changes in the structure and a substantial beneficiary of a shift to more transparent markets arising from increased electronic trading and clearing of more standardised transactions.
regulation of the financial In April 2011, ICAP received the Queens Award for Enterprise in the International Trade category in recognition of the large proportion of our business which is conducted either between the UK and international services industry.
customers or completely outside the UK.
Together with our executive management team and my fellow ICAP directors, I would like to thank each member of our staff for their individual and collective contributions to another successful year.
Progress in achieving our strategic objectives In recent years we have followed a clear growth and diversification strategy and our business is well positioned to take advantage of any changes in the structure and regulation of the financial services industry.
ICAP continues to benefit significantly from investments made in previous years and is more broadly based than it has ever been.
We have taken a disciplined approach to our new initiatives, produced a sound control environment and a robust approach to risk management.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 61 ICAP plc Annual Report 2011 63 133 134 A year ago we said that we would be concentrating on growing our business 19 Key achievements 2010 11 organically and working with our customers to expand the use of the market infrastructure in which we had previously invested.
We have R successful launch of the electronic euro IRS platform: consolidated our position as a leading global intermediary in the wholesale financial markets by a clear margin with a further increase in our market R integration of TriOptima into our post trade risk share.
Our leading voice broking business has expanded in emerging business: markets and commodities.
Lower levels of activity in credit and equity derivatives slowed our business in those products.
R further increase in our market share: and ICAPs electronic broking business has seen an encouraging increase in R generated superior EPS growth for our investors.
volumes with total electronic broking volumes for the month of March 2011 on the BrokerTec and EBS platforms reaching $851.5 billion, an Strategic priorities for 2011 12 increase of 19% year-on-year.
In the newer markets, activity on ICAPs electronic platform for credit derivatives in the US has risen progressively.
R seize opportunities created by regulatory reform: The successful launch of electronic broking in the euro IRS market has been most encouraging.
R leverage comparative advantage of voice plus electronic business model: The development of our post trade risk and information businesses in providing innovative services has continued apace.
Traianas Harmony FX R leverage investment made over 2007 to 2010: product has continued to gain significant market share with higher levels R focus on markets with higher growth fundamentals: of integration with our customer base and the CLSAS joint venture with and CLS Group in FX has seen a very large increase in volume.
In addition, Traiana recently launched real-time  connectivity for R leverage Group capital infrastructure.
our customers to CME Clearing for OTC FX derivatives and non-deliverable forwards NDFs.
Financial markets reform Significant progress is being made by regulators in proposing changes to Above all, however, we believe that the many changes proposed will financial regulation which aim to strengthen supervision and market stimulate the banks and market infrastructure providers, including ICAP, to infrastructure.
It is clear that there will be a long road to travel as, once the further technological innovation that will help achieve the objectives of the changes have been agreed, implementation of some aspects is likely to be regulators for more resilient markets and, thereby, create opportunities for phased over several years.
Following the publication of the Basel III capital and liquidity reform package ICAPs business model as well as the banks capital requirements, we expect a clearer view will now ICAPs businesses are based fundamentally on connecting customers emerge of the potential impact on the operations of banks and their through our wholesale financial networks.
We develop and operate these customers as a result of the way their trading operations both proprietary global networks and have successfully built a business providing value added and flow are treated for risk and capital purposes.
services to our customers and then charging them when they complete Regulators want to lower operational and systemic risk through greater their transactions using these networks.
Building physical, global networks is automation and increased transparency of trading execution.
The CFTC has technically challenging, time consuming and requires considerable customer not yet finalised the parameters that would define a swap execution facility, co-operation.
However, once a network is established there are significant a type of organised trading venue in the US, but we believe ICAP is well economies of scale.
In the broking businesses, as the number of buyers and placed to provide sophisticated technology platforms that are fully sellers utilising a network increases, liquidity increases as prices tighten compliant with the rules as they are finalised.
In Europe, there are positive making the network more attractive to new users.
In turn, the network signs of the EUs commitment to open, efficient and resilient markets in the becomes more valuable as transaction volumes increase and new proposed European Market Infrastructure Regulations EMIR.
The EUs customers and products are added.
MiFID II consultation is underway and the proposals are expected to Our business success relies on maintaining our leadership position in the be released in the second half of 2011. interdealer broking industry, our ability to identify and assess new business The regulatory push towards more electronic or hybrid trading of opportunities, the speed of our response and our management of the derivatives and central clearing are positive drivers for our sector.
leading provider of OTC market infrastructure, ICAP is in a very strong ICAP aspires to the highest ethical and professional standards and seeks position to work with market participants and lead new initiatives to address to set the standards for our industry in regulatory compliance.
committed to continuing to strengthen our control environment, both In addition to reducing counterparty risk through the extension of central geographically and across product lines, and have continued to make clearing of eligible derivatives, we believe that there will be significant substantial progress in the past year.
continuing demand for bilateral clearing of the many OTC derivatives that are not suitable for central counterparty CCP clearing.
Regulators are increasingly aware of the need to build resilience in these markets and ICAP is continuing to work on the development of automated collateral management networks to streamline the process for both banks and their customers.
This reduces costs, improves efficiency and mitigates risk.
20 Group Chief Executive Officers review continued Overall goals Business drivers ICAPs goals remain unchanged: we aim: ICAP continues to have the potential for further R to be the main infrastructure provider to the worlds wholesale sustainable growth and we have invested ahead of our OTC markets: competitors.
Factors that support this growth include: R to be the leading global intermediary: R continuing regulatory pressure on financial market R to be the leading post trade risk services provider: participants to overhaul OTC market infrastructure, R to generate operating profit evenly distributed between voice reducing systemic and operational risk by improving broking, electronic broking and post trade risk services: and back office procedures and reducing counterparty risk: R to deliver superior EPS growth for our investors.
R clearing of OTC derivatives trades to reduce risk, improve market efficiency and reduce costs: Our strategy for the medium term is to seize the opportunities created by regulatory change in trade execution and post trade and leverage the R increased political pressure for new regulations comparative advantage of our voice and electronic business model.
To requiring more electronic trading, improved achieve this we will seek to partner with our major customers, where transparency and higher capital requirements for possible, and leverage the significant investments in network businesses we OTC trades that are not cleared: have made in the past few years.
To accomplish this we will continue to strengthen the Groups infrastructure and focus our resources on higher R demand for improved operational and capital efficiency growth markets, particularly emerging markets and commodities.
for bank and hedge fund traders in these markets: Changing competitive environment R continued liberalisation of emerging markets.
Economic We continue to benefit from greater scale and broader diversity than our growth and increasing sophistication are driving growth competitors and have outperformed many of them in terms of market in onshore and offshore interest rate, FX and credit share.
When assessing our available market size we include interdealer markets in these countries: broking markets in rates, FX, commodities including shipping, emerging markets, credit and equities together with markets such as post trade R instability in currencies, interest rate and credit markets risk.
Markets like financial futures remain separate from this broader leading to price volatility and forming the basis for definition, although ICAP does act as an executing broker in listed futures further growth in interest rate and credit derivatives, markets.
By our estimates, overall industry revenue was unchanged in 2010 FX, commodities and listed financial markets: at $11 billion.
On this basis ICAP currently estimates its share of this market has grown to 23% 25%.
R use of derivatives to manage efficiently and hedge risk exposure to changes in interest rates and FX, We aim to have at least 35% of overall interdealer market revenue and to commodity and other price fluctuations: generate operating profit evenly distributed between voice broking, electronic broking and post trade risk and information services.
In 2010 11, R continuing high levels of government and corporate 54% of ICAPs operating profit was generated from electronic broking and bond issuance as structural change reduces bank post trade risk and information, their highest combined level in ICAPs history.
lending to corporates: and The competitive landscape we face has begun to change significantly and R reallocation of capital to commoditised flow will become more complex.
The changing regulatory environment means markets and the structural shift away from complex that interdealer brokers will need to adjust and increase their investment in structured products.
electronic platforms otherwise the traditional broking industry will face severe longer-term challenges.
This could lead to significant shifts in the market structure: a huge opportunity for a small number of electronic platform owners and a big problem for the losing brokers.
We believe that this environment will provide very significant opportunities for ICAP as a result of prior investment and current positioning.
Our voice broking business is a diverse, growing franchise that is an essential platform for the continued expansion of voice and electronic trading.
Revenue per voice broker has increased from 533,000 to 542,000 and the number of brokers has increased marginally to over 2,300.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 61 ICAP plc Annual Report 2011 63 133 134 In electronic broking we expect there will be fewer winners than in voice Social responsibility 21 broking, with a small number of successful platforms.
In other electronic It is very satisfying that ICAPs Charity Day has become an annual event in markets cheaper execution costs have led to more arbitrage opportunities the global financial markets calendar.
This is thanks entirely to our and we have seen the emergence of new sources of liquidity, including customers, suppliers and employees whose incredible support since it algorithmic trading, resulting in higher volumes of activity.
started in 1993 has made it such an annual success.
It is based on a powerful and simple formula: on one day each year, together, we give 100% Large areas of the post trade landscape will be impacted by regulatory of the Groups revenue, including brokers commissions, to more than 200 changes as trading facility rules, mandatory clearing and data repository charities worldwide.
rules all challenge incumbent technologies.
The combination of electronic execution and clearing means that the bulk of transactions are about to ICAP has raised over 76.6 million for more than 1,000 charities since become multilateral: the infrastructure supporting trading by banks was 1993 and in December 2010 we successfully raised 12.1 million in a originally designed to support bilateral transaction flow.
As trading volumes single day.
increase there will be greater demand for automation and new work-flow Dividend processes.
The Groups post trade risk businesses have significant The directors have based their final dividend recommendation on the growth capacity and can be leveraged across different asset classes to continuing adjusted EPS of 39.9p so that the total dividend for the year will reduce further risk and improve operational efficiency in the wholesale be 19.95p compared with 17.55p per share in 2009 10: subject to financial markets.
shareholder approval a final dividend of 14.68p per share will be paid on Our competitors in post trade risk are widely dispersed and there are no 19 August 2011 to shareholders on the register on 22 July 2011. other businesses with our combination of scale, technology or network Outlook connectivity covering the segments in which we operate.
We have made a good start to the new financial year and the short-term Resources and relationships outlook is underpinned by macroeconomic stress and market volatility.
The Group has the financial resources to continue to grow and develop.
As the banks and our regulators seek to create more resilient, robust and Our business continues to be highly cash generative with free cash flow of orderly OTC derivatives markets we believe that ICAPs business model is 189 million in 2010 11. well prepared for changes in the financial market infrastructure.
Investments in previous years have created a solid base for future growth The single biggest resource requirement for the coming year will be to and there are significant opportunities to expand the use of the market support electronic platform initiatives.
We will continue to invest around infrastructure we have built.
We are confident we can deliver sustainable 12% of our revenue on technology to support our growth and our long-term growth.
customers needs with leading platforms and innovative functionality.
The Group remains focused on the disciplined execution of our strategy and An important component of our success will continue to be our ability we have positioned the business for sustained long-term development.
to collaborate closely with our customers on major projects where Once again, this year we are concentrating on organic growth and remain our investment and their support are key to successful innovation in committed to developing collaborative relationships with our bank customers.
As the business has successfully expanded, the number of our staff has increased from 4,739 to 4,934 and we have increased our technology staff by 25% to almost 1,000.
These increases reflect our ability to recruit and retain the highest quality experienced staff and also the continuing success of our graduate recruitment programme.
This full-time programme operates in EMEA, the Americas and Asia Pacific providing training and support.
It delivers qualified entry level staff for broking, finance, business services, human resources, post trade risk services, research and risk.
176 staff have joined the Group as a result of this programme.
As ICAP implements its strategy the three principal risks that the Group will have exposure to are liquidity, operational and legal and compliance risk.
These risks reflect, in particular, the upcoming changes in financial regulations in Europe and the US and the consequences that these changes will have on the Groups operational capacity and strategic investments.
