DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW Chief Executive Officers statement The approach that we have taken over a number of years is designed to deliver the right balance between growth and returns.
We invest sensibly where we see attractive opportunities and where customers see value, while staying equally focused on the efficiency of our operations.
It is this approach that will best deliver sustainable growth in revenue, profit and cash flow over time.
Looking back at our performance during 2011, our results show that our strategy is working.
Against the backdrop of a challenging economic environment, Sky has continued to perform well on all fronts, with strong demand across the board, good progress on our priorities and excellent financial results.
More customers are choosing Sky than ever and they are taking a greater variety of products from us.
During the year, we added 3.8 million subscription products to take the total to more than 25 million.
Within that, more than 400,000 new customers joined Sky, which means that we now have a direct subscription relationship with almost 10.3 million households in the UK and Ireland.
Importantly, we never forget that such success comes only when consumers choose to reward us with their business.
Customers always have a choice and we must walk to their drumbeat.
For us, that means serving them with a set of entertainment and communications products which meet their needs better than anyone else.
The combination of great content and great innovation has been a driving Our goal at Sky is to build a force behind our growth over recent years: helping to build loyalty among larger and more profitable existing customers: attracting new customers: and driving take-up of new products.
It was fundamental to us passing the milestone of 10 million business for the long term homes this year and it will remain fundamental to our growth in the future.
and, in doing so, to create These strengths have also proved durable in a tougher economic the greatest sustainable environment.
At a time when customers are facing pressure on household budgets, we have found that many are staying in more and are looking for value for shareholders.
We better entertainment in the home.
So were investing sensibly in areas that believe there is significant play to our advantage and create more reasons to choose Sky.
potential for value creation INveSTING IN CONTeNT AND INNOvATION in the entertainment and A key element of this approach is continued investment in stand-out content in order to differentiate further the pay-Tv experience.
As part communications marketplace of this, we set out this year to create a step change in our entertainment in which we operate.
And, offering to complement our existing strengths in sport, news and movies.
Our new channel, Sky Atlantic, has become the UK home of HBO and muchincreasingly, we can grow in anticipated shows such as Game of Thrones and Boardwalk Empire.
The a variety of different ways: addition of Sky Living has further strengthened our entertainment line-up adding more customers: selling and we have stepped up our commitment to original British programmes with home-grown productions like Mad Dogs, Got to Dance and The more products: and developing Runaway for Sky 1. our other businesses.
In sport, we marked the 20th anniversary of Sky Sports with an outstanding year including the Ashes series from Australia, more live Premier League matches, live coverage of the Ryder Cup and Masters in golf.
Sky Arts continues to provide an unrivalled range of arts programming to more than two million viewers a month, while Sky News has offered exceptional coverage of the years momentous events around the world.
Alongside a better choice of content, we are innovating to improve the experience of watching television, both at home and increasingly on the move.
Today, almost four million customers enjoy the superior picture and sound quality of our high definition HD service, which now offers more than 50 HD channels.
The capability and connectivity of the Sky HD box has also allowed us to open up new opportunities for customers, with the launch of europes first 3D television channel and the introduction of our full video on demand service, Sky Anytime.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 4 Book 1. indb 4 12 10 11 20:46:53 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW Beyond the living room, our new Sky Go service allows customers to get financial returns from those investments.
At the same time, we will more value from their subscription by accessing live Tv on additional continue to focus hard on operational efficiency and stay flexible on devices such as PCs, laptops, tablets and smartphones.
acquisition of The Cloud, the UKs leading public Wi-Fi network, will allow MAKING A POSITIve CONTRIBUTION us to connect customers to our content in thousands of locations At Sky, we recognise that our future success is based on valuable, across the UK.
long-term relationships with millions of families.
So we understand In a highly competitive environment, we have remained the UKs fastest the importance of being a responsible business and making a positive growing provider of home communications services as customers contribution to life in the UK and Ireland.
We are committed to doing the respond to the value, reliability and simplicity of our offering.
We right thing in our day-to-day business and to working with our people continue to benefit from the trend for customers to take multiple and our customers to play our part in the communities in which we products from a single, trusted provider, with more than one in four operate.
Through our Bigger Picture programme, the focus of our work customers now choosing to take all three of Tv, broadband and is on three areas where we believe we can make a positive difference: telephony from Sky.
There remains a significant opportunity for helping to tackle climate change: improving lives through sport: and continued growth both within our existing customer base and beyond, opening up the arts to more people.
We have made good progress this following our decision to make our home communications services year and we have an appetite to do more in the future.
Our Sky Rainforest Rescue campaign, a partnership with WWF, is Our ability to invest in areas of advantage, such as content and progressing well towards its fundraising target of 4 million to help innovation, is underpinned by a strong focus on operational efficiency.
save one billion trees in the Amazon rainforest against the threat of We have continued to drive down costs across the business in the last deforestation.
To raise awareness of the campaign, we broadcast a year, for example by simplifying processes in our customer operations week of environment-themed programming, including the specially teams, and this will remain a priority as we move forward.
commissioned series Rooftop Rainforest on Sky 1 HD.
DeLIveRING exCeLLeNT FINANCIAL PeRFORMANCe In sport, our partnership with British Cycling is in its third year and on This approach has delivered an excellent financial performance for the track to achieve our ambition of getting one million more people cycling year, with double-digit growth across the board despite the challenging regularly.
Over 200,000 people of all ages took part in our second consumer environment.
Group revenues from continuing operations summer of Sky Ride events across the UK and we have expanded the grew by 16% to 6,597 million, with strong performances in wholesale, programme to include a total of 21 events in summer 2011.
Meanwhile, advertising and Sky Bet as well as our retail business.
Adjusted operating over a third of the UKs secondary schools have now joined in with the profit from continuing operations rose by 23% to 1,073 million and we Sky Sports Living for Sport programme, which aims to inspire young delivered adjusted basic ePS from continuing operations of 41.6 pence, people to be the best they can be.
Research among teachers shows an increase of 30% on the previous year.
Adjusted free cash flow from that over 80% of young people taking part have shown increased selfcontinuing operations rose by 51% to 869 million.
confidence and improvements in attitude towards learning.
As a leading investor in sport, we are also extending our support for British and Irish These results represent the continuation of a trend in which we have talent with a new scheme to sponsor a number of athletes over the next added almost 2 billion of revenue in the last three years, as well as 18 months.
growing adjusted basic ePS from continuing operations at an annualised rate of 16% and more than doubling adjusted free cash flow.
This In the arts, weve launched a major new programme, Sky Arts Ignition, sustained performance demonstrates that we are balancing investment, which will work with arts organisations to support the creation of new growth and returns across both the economic and investment cycles.
works, as well as providing five bursaries for young artists each year.
And our Sky Arts channels have continued to open up the arts to more In a reflection of the Companys strong financial position, the Board people, by bringing, for example, coverage of some of the UK and Irelands has proposed a 20% increase in the full year dividend, continuing our best literary and music festivals to a wider audience.
track record of dividend growth.
Additionally, we have announced our intention to return 750 million to shareholders through a share buyInitiatives such as The Bigger Picture are grounded in a strong back programme over the next 12 months.
News Corporation has agreed commercial rationale.
We believe strongly that building trust and to participate in the buy-back.
The effect of that agreement is to provide engagement among our customers, our people and the wider that there will be no change in News Corporations economic or voting community, is a vital foundation of long-term, sustainable success.
We interests in the Company as a result of the share buy-back programme.
will look to grow our contribution still further in the future.
Looking ahead, with a clear plan and a consistent set of priorities, we are Finally, throughout the year, Sky was the subject of a proposal from News confident in the long-term opportunity for the business.
We expect our Corporation, our largest shareholder, about a possible offer to take full growth will benefit from being more broadly based, with four key sources ownership of Sky.
That proposal was subsequently withdrawn in July 2011. of growth in the future.
First, we will continue to grow the number of pay It is to the credit of the entire team at Sky that, throughout this period, Tv households in the UK and Ireland.
Second, we will increase penetration the Company stayed focused on executing our plan and delivering of our premium Tv products, such as HD, Sky Sports and Sky Movies.
I would like to thank all of our employees for their Third, we will expand our presence in home communications, building on commitment, energy and creativity, and for the contribution that they the considerable success of the last year.
And finally, we will continue to make to our Companys success every day.
grow our other businesses, such as advertising, wholesale and Sky Bet.
We expect that the environment will remain challenging for all consumer businesses as government action to reduce the budget deficit continues to take effect.
Against that backdrop, we intend to maintain the same Jeremy Darroch consistent approach that has served us well in recent years.
That means Chief executive Officer AnnuAl report 2011 investing sensibly for the future and staying focused on delivering the BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 5 Book 1. indb 5 12 10 11 20:46:53
