business review overview c h i e f e x e c u t iv e s review In spite of the challenging economic backdrop, Britvic has increased group revenues by 14.6% and 0.8% excluding France.
Group EBITA of 138.1m was 4.3% higher than last year.
The 2011 financial year was a challenging GB stills was impacted by consumers period for the soft drinks markets.
We choosing more affordable products given saw accelerated cost inflation in February, the economic challenges that they face.
which resulted in the company increasing The poor summer impacted the number its raw material guidance from 5-6% to of outdoor occasions, such as barbecues 9-11%.
The timing of our GB pricing and and picnics at which drinks including business plan negotiations was aligned J 0 and Fruit Shoot could be enjoyed.
2 with the VAT increase in January and Our stills performance was also impacted consequently we were unable to offset by the transition from single to double the increased costs in February.
The concentrate on the Robinsons brand.
summer weather disappointed and We have great market leading stills impacted soft drinks sales in each of brands, all well positioned to take our markets.
Furthermore the growing advantage when the macro-economic economic challenges have altered the situation improves.
spending power and behaviour of The economic challenges in Ireland, consumers.
combined with a poor summer, continued Nonetheless our GB, France and to impact the Irish soft drinks market which International business units have all declined in volume and value, constraining delivered positive volume and revenue Britvic Irelands delivery at both revenue growth.
Britvic has benefited from the and profit level.
In the second half we diverse nature of its portfolio of great saw clear benefits from the significant brands and in GB saw strong growth restructuring we have delivered in the Irish in carbonates which more than offset business and we continue to review the declines in stills.
We remain fully committed to the Irish business and firmly believe the Our GB business delivered pricing growth, strength of our portfolio will deliver growth with average realised price ARP up 1.9%, when market recovery begins.
reflecting our price discipline in the market.
We have also grown volumes by 0.8% in We have seen a strong year of performance the full year.
in Britvic France, delivering high single digit revenue growth against a strong GB carbonates performance was strong comparative in the previous year which with revenue up 7.3% as we increased benefited from stronger sales in the syrups our ARP by 4.2% and also increased category during the hot summer.
Our value share of the 2011 we have seen the launch of Teisseire GB carbonates market, as measured by Fruit Shoot and we are very encouraged Nielsen, has increased by 20 basis points, by its progress to date.
the result of our successful innovation, including products such as Mountain Dew Britvic International saw double digit Energy, execution of the on-the-go strategy revenue growth as we refocused our and holding our value share in the resources behind the growing franchise competitive cola market place.
opportunities and away from the slower growing Nordic region.
We have seen exciting results in our existing US and Australian Fruit Shoot agreements and we have announced further material developments for the Fruit Shoot brand in the US.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2011 13 business review chief executives review continued Once again it was branded soft drinks The soft drinks market Britvics strategy execution that drove GB market growth in 2011 Nielsen data reveals 2011 GB take-home Management has continued its focus and apart from June and July, soft volume growth slowing down to 0.8% on developing the business in five drinks have consistently been the best versus its medium term average of 2-3%.
main areas: performing major impulse category.
The soft drinks category was impacted 1.
Supporting and growing by poor weather across the summer, The GB pub and club soft drinks market, our core GB brands lower spending and changing consumer as expected, continued to decline during Brand creation and development are at shopping decisions based on affordability, 2011, with volume down 2.2% but value the heart of what we do at Britvic.
Britvic which impacted the stills categories more up 1.3% MAT to August.
Managed pub GBs six core brands are Pepsi, 7UP, than carbonates.
Despite this, the soft operators grew volume in soft drinks by Robinsons, Tango, Fruit Shoot and J O.
2 drinks market remained resilient with 2.2% whilst the independent, leased and They are the key profit drivers of our GB volume growing, whilst price went up.
In the latest business and therefore the brands to which The GB take-home soft drinks market quarter to August, with the impact of we allocate greatest resource.
We continue value increased by 5.8%, bolstered by the poor summer, the GB pub and club to invest in our strong portfolio of brands the increased VAT rate from 17.5% to soft drinks market decline accelerated through both innovation and marketing, to 20.0% alongside manufacturers price with volume down 10.3% and value ensure that they are preferred by consumers.
increases to offset increasing raw down 6.3%.
Examples of our successful core GB brand material costs.
All soft drinks categories performances are shown below: delivered value growth this year with the In France market volume grew by 2.6% and value grew by 4.3%.
Britvic France exception of dairy and juice drinks.
Pepsi held its value share in the growing currently materially operates only in the cola category this year, building on Carbonates continued to grow ahead syrup and pure juice categories, which share gains in previous years: a strong of stills in both volume and value.
were up by 2.0% and 4.9% in value performance given the previously Carbonates volume growth was 3.6% respectively.
The fruit drinks category, documented competitive environment.
while value grew by an impressive 8.9%.
which we have just entered with Teisseire Pepsi Max has taken more share than Within carbonates, cola which represents Fruit Shoot, grew value by 9.5%.
any sub brand within the cola category 50% of the category by volume, grew 1 in volume and value.
Our successful Unsurprisingly given the difficult macro volume by 3.4% and value by 6.9%.
marketing programmes continue to focus economic background Irish consumers The strongest performance was from on the Pepsi Max brand.
This year we continue to seek value and rein in overall the glucose and stimulant category where successfully executed the ultimate test spending.
The soft drinks market has volume grew by an impressive 15.1% and of friendship are you the worlds best continued to decline with take-home value by 15.9%, albeit it represents around mate?
across a quarter of a billion packs.
market volume down by 2.2% although 10% of the overall carbonates category Every hour consumers had the chance the value performance was slightly better volume but more than double in value.
to win either cash for themselves, or the but down 1.6%.
The pub and club channel Stills volume declined by 1.8% and value ultimate live music VIP experience for has been severely impacted with volume grew by 3.1%.
Plain water, which is the them and their friends.
largest category, showed volume growth We continue to build on Pepsis long of 1.0%, but the next three scale categories heritage with music with the exclusive all showed volume decline: pure juice down three year partnership between Pepsi 5.1%, squash down 6.0% impacted by and the worlds largest live music the move to double concentrate on the promoter, Live Nation.
In 2011 Pepsi number one squash brand Robinsons consumers enjoyed the chance to have and juice drinks down 2.7%.
These four unrivalled access to the UKs biggest categories together make up over 80% music festivals.
of the volume of the category and around 75% of the value.
1 Source: Nielsen MAT value to October 2011 14 Britvic plc Annual Report 2011 We took the recently launched brand Our on-the-go strategy continues to build 2.
Innovation and product launches momentum as we leverage the strength 2011 saw the introduction of new brands, of Lipton Ice Tea into new channels with the introduction of a 250ml glass of Britvics broad carbonates and stills brand extensions and new pack formats portfolio, combined with strong consumer designed to deliver revenue and margin bottle for the food service channel, supplementing the 500ml on-the-go PET engagement programmes such as accretion.
These programmes bottle and 1.5 litre PET bottle for at-home The North American brand Mountain consumption.
In take-home Lipton Ice Tea have proved to be especially successful Dew was introduced in 2010 with a with both our impulse and foodservice has grown its market volume by 26.8% new energy formulation, initially available versus a year ago and has a category customers and entries into the on-pack in 500ml for the on-the-go occasion.
1 promotion have been 40% higher than share of 64.5%.
Early success led us to launch new pack the next best campaign we have run.
formats in 2011 such as multi-pack PET On the back of Mountain Dew Energys Robinsons maintained its position as the and a 440ml can, to allow the brand to success in the glucose category, we number one squash brand.
Once again be available in new channels and meet have this year launched SoBe Pure Rush we used the Wimbledon tennis association consumer demand.
Mountain Dew which plays to the stimulant section with a major on-pack promotion giving Energy has received numerous of the energy category.
It is available in families street tennis kits to experience accolades this year such as Product an on-the-go 250ml can with two great the fun and excitement of Wimbledon in Launch of the Year at the prestigious tasting flavours and contains no artificial the back garden or the local park.
This has driven SoBe Pure Rush to be an The Fruit Shoot brand remains the number In 2010 across the low and no sugar early success in the forecourts and 1 one childrens drink brand, with a choice carbonates brands we introduced a bigger high street channels.
of variants and pack sizes to meet all 600ml bottle offering better value across occasions.
This year we launched Fruit Pepsi Max, Diet Pepsi, Tango and 7UP To maximise the SoBe brand equity Shoot Hydro, designed to appeal to older Free.
The momentum has continued into to the full, we repositioned the PepsiCo children.
With a cooler image, a bigger 2011 and has successfully contributed brand V Water to become part of the 350ml bottle and a new formulation, in driving our carbonates ARP and SoBe family.
The packaging has been Hydro broadens the appeal of Fruit Shoot revenue growth.
In September this year redesigned to improve visibility.
New beyond the younger age demographic.
we launched a major carbonates pack flavours have been introduced and The launch was supported by TV initative with the launch of multipack cans reformulated to broaden its consumer advertising, a consumer engagement in a 250ml format, available in grocery appeal with its focus on low-calorie programme called champions of the stores.
Pepsi, Diet Pepsi and Pepsi Max content.
SoBe V Water has been the playground and great visibility in-store.
are available now and 7UP Free and fastest growing functional water this Tango will be available next spring.
year and has taken substantial share.
J O was back on TV this year with the 2 Smile Tastebuds!
Within the Robinsons squash large packs went Finally in 2011 we pushed the take-home market, J O continues to grow through a substantial development by boundaries of soft drinks innovation 2 volume share and hold value share but in moving from single to double concentrate.
with Turbo Tango, the worlds first use the current environment the premium juice This was supported by the a lot from a of a nitro-fuelled bottle, which provided drinks category has been under pressure.
drop campaign on TV and digital media real fun and enjoyment for consumers The heart of the brand is in the pub and across the summer.
Our consistent across the summer.
club channel, where despite the brands objective is to focus on driving value premium price position and the consumer and developing added value format looking for value, J O remains the clear innovation that differentiates our 2 number one juice drinks brand.
The Robinsons brand continues to command a clear number one position in the squash market and for the third consecutive year it was voted a superbrand of the year by the British public based on quality, reliability and distinction.
1 Source: Nielsen MAT value to October 2011 Britvic plc Annual Report 2011 15 business review chief executives review continued Pepsi Bottling Ventures PBV 3.
Britvic Ireland Britvic International is embarking on a We have signed a long-term agreement The economic challenges facing the for both the distribution and manufacture three-pronged growth strategy across Irish consumer are well documented its core export and travel business, of Fruit Shoot with PBV.
The distribution and continue to have a negative impact agreement cements the agreement European expansion through acquisition, on the performance of Britvic Ireland.
to distribute in both North and South Both volume and revenue have come Carolina.
The agreement to manufacture under pressure as the soft drinks market In Australia Fruit Shoot was launched in the US is an important next step in our has declined further.
Despite these with a concentrate model in November US development.
During the second half challenges the business has stayed 2010.
Under the agreement Bickfords of 2012 Britvic will supply a proprietary focused.
Firstly we implemented a manufacture, market and sell the brand, compound concentrate from our successful price increase for the first with Britvic supplying key juice and facilities in Dublin.
As well as producing time since acquisition.
Specific formulations for the PBV territory it will also allow carried out the previously announced and packaging solutions have been Britvic to supply other US Fruit Shoot restructuring, materially changing our designed for the Australian market bottlers, allowing us to move away from go-to-market model and enhancing our following extensive market research.
shipping finished goods from the UK.
Lastly the business In its first year we have seen Fruit Shoot launched innovation successfully.
1 achieve 17% market share, making it the Pepsi Beverages Company PBC Mountain Dew Energy and Juicy drench number two childrens drink.
As a measure We have reached agreement with Pepsi were two new brands launched into the of its success and the confidence that both Beverages Company PBC to distribute Irish market with both delivering ahead Britvic and Bickfords have in the brand Fruit Shoot in its Florida and Georgia of expectations.
MiWadi successfully we are discussing how we may expand territories.
PBC is the wholly-owned transitioned to double concentrate and the Fruit Shoot brand footprint in Australia.
manufacturing, sales and distribution with our single serve pack innovation In the US, Britvic began distributing operating unit of PepsiCo and accounts on Pepsi we have moved our on-the-go for approximately 75% of PepsiCos share in cola to its highest ever level.
Fruit Shoot in 2008 with Buffalo Rock, the fourth largest Pepsi bottler in the North America volume.
Britvic France States with an operational footprint in We have also invested in our manufacturing Alabama.
In 2009 Britvic signed a long Sixteen months on from the acquisition capability in Ireland to be able to supply of Britvic France, we are pleased with term distribution agreement with Buffalo concentrate from a newly created company Rock to formalise the partnership and the first full year of high single digit in Ireland called Britvic Worldwide Brands revenue growth.
The strong syrup brands capitalise on the early success of the BWB.
In our third of Teisseire and Moulin fide Valdonne have In the context of larger opportunities both taken share gains this year as a year in Alabama our growth is an impressive 32%.
that we believe exist within franchising result of strong through the line execution representing better utilisation of our and innovation launched this year.
Our During 2011 Britvic commenced trials resources, we took the decision to large private label juice business has also with other US Pepsi bottlers and has withdraw the Robinsons range from performed well.
now concluded three further substantial the Nordics region during the period.
and material agreements for Fruit Shoot Teisseire Fruit Shoot was launched These new Fruit Shoot agreements, in the US: successfully and supported by media and coupled with the ongoing growth of our sampling resulting in good distribution existing agreements, represent a major Gross & Jarson levels and surpassing our expectations We have signed an agreement with step forward in the development of our in the first few months since launch.
They build Gross & Jarson, the third largest Pepsi The way in which the business has taken bottler in the US, to distribute Fruit Shoot on the success Fruit Shoot has achieved Teisseire Fruit Shoot to market, combined in the UK where, since inception over in Kentucky.
Gross and Jarson currently with the growing group capability, has has the rights to distribute Pepsi as well 10 years ago, it has become a top-selling demonstrated we can develop our 1 childrens brand.
as Lipton, SoBe, Dole and the Starbucksbusiness with new product introductions.
Paul Moody Chief Executive 1 Nielsen grocery September 2011 16 Britvic plc Annual Report 2011 09:23 Cours Saleya, Nice 17 21:27 Bridge Street, Cardiff 18
