Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:16 Page 8 Business Review Chief Executives Review Another strong set of results in 2011, demonstrating our continued ability to deliver on our strategy against the backdrop of a challenging economic climate.
Dominic Burke Chief Executive Key financial highlights Our Risk & Insurance group delivered an increase in revenues of We have delivered another strong set of results in 2011, 11%, or 9% at constant rates of exchange.
This was driven by our demonstrating our continued ability to deliver on our strategy against international retail business which delivered organic growth for the the backdrop of a challenging economic climate.
This included particularly strong performances from our Overall, the Group achieved a 10% increase in revenues in 2011, operations in Asia and Latin America, with our businesses there representing an 8% increase at constant rates of exchange.
growing organically by 29% and 19% respectively.
Our organic growth remains strong at just over 7%, with no material Over the last three years, Asias trading profit contribution to the net impact from acquisitions in the year.
Group has doubled as we continue to raise our market profile and Our clear focus on growing our areas of specialty, strengthening our areas of activity in the region.
In Latin America, the profits from our international reach and delivering greater operational efficiency, combined operations has increased fourfold in the last three years.
provides us with confidence that we will continue to make financial Our Australasian operations also had a good year with revenues up progress in 2012.
16%, or 6% at constant rates of exchange, driven by some significant new business wins and enhanced client retention, particularly in the first half.
Our operations in Australasia now account for 24% of the Groups trading profit.
Thistle Insurance Services Risk & lnsurance Employee Benefits Total Revenue Underlying Trading Profit Total Revenue Underlying Trading Profit Total Revenue Underlying Trading Profit m m m m m m 642.4 140.3 26.0 39.6 137.0 39.4 5.8 576.6 129.7 130.1 5.5 21.7 10 11 10 11 10 11 10 11 10 11 10 11 Trading Margin Trading Margin Trading Margin 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 22% 22% 17% 19% 14% 15% 8 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011 Business Review Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:16 Page 9 The London Market remains particularly competitive and the fact that environment, low interest rates, aggressive price-based competition, our three London Market businesses delivered combined organic weak growth in most developed markets and continued macrogrowth of 7% is a testament to the value created by the growth economic uncertainty, particularly in the Eurozone.
initiatives that we have been investing in for the past three years.
Our results illustrate the strength of the underlying business and our Our UK and Ireland Employee Benefits division saw revenues focus on delivering our strategy.
It is by continuing to focus on this increase by 5% to 137 million with the trading profit margin strategy that we believe we will drive continued earnings growth.
improving by 200 basis points to 19%, reflecting the strength and success of the diversification of this business over recent years and Delivering on our specialty focus the realisation of the full benefits of the HSBC Actuaries and JLT has never sought to be all things to all people.
Instead, we focus Consultants acquisition made at the beginning of 2010. on those industries and risk classes where we can truly be distinctive Thistle Insurance Services, our UK based insurance distribution and through our greater knowledge, expertise, experience and depth of underwriting company, delivered flat growth in 2011, reflecting the resource.
fact that it is more exposed than most other parts of the Group to Five years ago, our speciality focus was primarily driven through our the impact of the financial crisis on consumer confidence, and as a London Market businesses.
Today however, specialty sits at the result has faced a very tough trading environment.
That said, core of our businesses in Australia, Asia, Canada, Latin America and excluding an unprofitable book of business which we exited in late increasingly in Europe.
In Employee Benefits too, we are building our 2010, Thistles underlying organic revenue growth was 4%.
international strategy around our expertise in healthcare.
Details of the performance of each individual business area are set Many of these specialty areas are common across our different out in the Review of Operations on pages 14 to 22. businesses, for example sectors such as natural resources, aviation, financial risks, construction and telecommunications.
We are Building on our momentum therefore increasingly able to collaborate and share knowledge Taken as a whole, 2011 marks another positive year for JLT, across these businesses to the benefit of our clients.
building on the success and momentum of previous years.
This Our reputation today as a specialty player is increasingly powerful in years results now mean that in the past five years JLT has delivered the race to secure talent around the world.
Over the past few years a 72% increase in revenue, a 96% increase in trading profit and an we have been able to attract a large number of leading industry increase of 90% in underlying EPS.
professionals and in the process have been able to grow our market Underpinning this success has been our ability to deliver consistently share in our chosen sectors significantly.
strong levels of organic growth as we drive the business forward.
Looking forward, we will continue to expand and deepen our This is a performance of which we are understandably proud, specialty focus, by recruiting talented individuals who share our although we are by no means complacent and recognise that there culture and values and making targeted acquisitions of specialty is still much more to be done.
We have achieved these year-on-year results in the face of a challenging set of economic and market headwinds, which worsened still further in 2011 in terms of the adverse rating Total Revenue Underlying Trading Profit Underlying Diluted EPS m m Pence 5 Year Compound 5 Year Compound 5 Year Compound Annual Growth Rate Annual Growth Rate 147.0 Annual Growth Rate 45.3 818.8 11.4% 14.4% 13.7% 476.4 75.1 23.8 06 11 06 11 06 11 5 year growth rate 5 year growth rate 5 year growth rate 72% 96% 90% Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011 9 Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:16 Page 10 Business Review Chief Executives Review Organic Growth 2011 marks another positive 08 6% year for JLT, building on the 09 5% 10 7% success and momentum of 11 7% previous years.
Organic growth is fees and commissions excluding the impact of acquisitions, disposals and currency.
Dominic Burke Chief Executive We have also continued to build out our European Network through Increasing our international reach and relevance the acquisitions of a 25% stake in specialist broker Marine & Aviation JLT now has one of the leading international broker networks in the S. p. A. in Italy and increasing our stake in Siaci Saint Honor, the world with representation in 135 countries.
Today, two thirds of our leading independent broker in France, from 20 to 26%.
In February clients are domiciled outside the UK.
2012, we also acquired a 25% stake in the largest independent This global presence is delivering tangible benefits.
It gives us specialty broker in Spain, March-Unipsa.
This is in line with our exposure to the faster growing economies of the world.
It helps European strategy of owning minority stakes in leading national support and drive growth in our London Market businesses.
independent players and these sit alongside our 20% shareholding in Finally, it gives us access to and knowledge of the growing number GrECo and our exclusive trading relationship with Ecclesia in of insurance capital centres around the world and our clients are Germany.
increasingly benefiting from our ability to access these markets for Looking forward, we intend to continue to grow through targeted the placement of their risks.
acquisitions and investments around the world to support our Risk & In 2011, we continued to deliver against this strategy both by Insurance, Employee Benefits and Thistle businesses.
broadening our reach for example, our acquisition of Orbital in Chile and the establishment of our new start-up business in South Africa and by strengthening our existing operations for example, the acquisition of TK Benefits in Canada.
JLT now has one of the leading international broker networks in the world with representation in 135 countries.
JLT Representation 10 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011 Business Review Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:16 Page 11 Today JLT is a much more balanced business than it was five years Enhancing our efficiency and effectiveness ago, in terms of the mix of businesses and the lines of business and 2011 has seen a continued investment in improving our efficiency diversity of economies through which we generate our income.
In June 2012, we will conclude our successful three year Business Transformation Programme delivering recurring As a result, our earnings are of a higher quality and we are better annual savings of 23 million for a total cost of 27 million.
We have equipped to deliver against our strategy.
This gives us the confidence been investing those savings back into the business, reflected in the that we can build upon this year's strong results to achieve even hiring of leading industry professionals and product innovation.
As our operation in Mumbai has grown from 30 people five years ago to over 700 today, it has evolved from processing simple transactions to providing complex actuarial, accounting and legal services and become a knowledge centre for JLT rather than just a processing hub.
As our ambitions for Mumbai have grown, we have been able to deliver significant improvements in quality and client service.
It has also been the catalyst for far greater internal collaboration, as a One JLT mindset has been required to make the initiative a success.
Dominic Burke Chief Executive This transition of Mumbai to a more knowledge-based and 20th March 2012 collaborative operation provides us with the opportunity to grow revenues in the future at a faster rate than our costs, as we derive increasing operating leverage from our activities there.
Driving our strategy The overall economic outlook for 2012 remains challenging and although there are currently some signs of the rating environment hardening, with the exception of catastrophe risks there is little consistency at this time in how the market is pricing risk.
However, JLT's prospects are more tied to GDP growth than market rates and we still see a generally positive environment given our increasing presence in the faster growing economies and our weighting towards areas of specialty such as mining, construction, aviation and financial services, which continue to experience strong growth in these regions.
In 2011, Jardine Matheson increased its shareholding in JLT from 30% to 40% representing a clear statement of its commitment to our strategy, our wider management team and our prospects.
Importantly, Jardine Mathesons increased investment in JLT has provided certainty around our ownership.
This has strengthened our competitive advantage as it has reaffirmed to our staff, our clients and the insurance markets of our long-term commitment to them and made us an even more attractive employer.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011 11
