Chief Executive Officers review By bringing together three strong companies, we have created a financially strong, diversified specialist healthcare business with excellent growth potential.
Estimated incidents of In line with our strategy to migrate from a many of our new employees and have spent snakebite envenomation pure licensing business into one that also time with the operational management each year in the US sells its own products, thereby benefiting teams at our new sites in the UK, the US from enhanced revenues and margins, in and Germany.
I have been impressed by 8,000 December 2008 we acquired Protherics the commercial focus and professionalism and two acute care products, CroFab and of everyone I have met.
These are approved in the US has operated to a very similar set of values Percentage of patients and were being sold there by Nycomed.
and standards to BTG, which has made prescribed digoxin who may We saw the opportunity to build our own integration of the business that much easier.
experience toxicity US commercial operations in a fide-risked way around these established, profitable Our approach to the integration has been 1%4% products by taking over direct sales.
In to recognise that the enlarged company October 2010, following an agreement now has three distinct areas of focus: with Nycomed to accelerate the return specialty pharmaceuticals, interventional of marketing rights to BTG, our new acute medicine and licensing and biotechnology.
care sales force commenced selling Each area already generates revenues from the products.
marketed products or royalties, has ongoing development programmes which, if Having established US commercial successful, would lead to new revenue operations, our strategy has been to streams, and has opportunities for further acquire further products that meet the growth through acquisition, development needs of specialist physicians and their and geographic expansion activities.
This led to the acquisition in January 2011 of Biocompatibles and its Specialty pharmaceuticals range of interventional oncology products Our acute care sales force launched on that are sold in the US, the EU and other 1October 2010 with ten representatives territories including growing Asian markets.
and grew to 19 representatives in February Biocompatibles has brought a new focus 2011 in preparation for the main season area to BTG interventional medicine, a for CroFab in the US.
We are pleased with progress to date and encouraged by initial branch of medicine that is growing rapidly customer responses to our engagement and is practised by specialist physicians with them and to new initiatives.
example, we provided an educational grant to opinion leaders in the toxicology The strong financial profile of the Group community to enable them to develop and planned commercial capabilities the first unified treatment algorithm for enabled us to confirm we would fund the managing crotaline snake bites in the US.
remaining development of Varisolve PEM and market it ourselves in the With DigiFab, we are optimising US reimbursed sector if approved.
This geographical sales coverage in the US and product is a key value driver for BTG.
seeking to improve awareness amongst physicians of the signs of digoxin toxicity Integration of Biocompatibles which, due to its relative rarity, may not be Since completing the acquisition of immediately recognisable.
We have received Biocompatibles in January I have met 16 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Our new acute care sales team has made a strong start selling CroFab and DigiFab direct in the US.
Biocompatibles has now bought us another focus area in interventional medicine.
We are now confidently building another sales team as we prepare to start selling the LC Bead directly in the US from 2012.
Louise Makin Chief Executive Officer 17 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Chief Executive Officers review continued regulatory approvals in Canada and agreement with AngioDynamics, Inc. on Switzerland, are progressing a regulatory 31 December 2011.
To this end, we are application in the UK and intend to seek recruiting 21 additional MSLs and account additional approvals elsewhere.
managers, who will join the existing small team and will be supported by the same We have signed an agreement with commercial infrastructure that supports Glenveigh Pharmaceuticals, LLC whereby our acute care team.
rights to develop DigiFab for pre-eclampsia revert back to Glenveigh in return for Through BrachySciences we also sell a range undisclosed milestone and royalty payments of radioactive seeds and delivery systems to BTG.
Glenveigh will be responsible for in the US that are used to treat early-stage development and commercialisation and prostate cancer.
As we sell more products BTG will supply clinical trial materials and, directly in the US, we see opportunities for subject to further agreement, commercial increased efficiency from sharing resources scale supplies.
and infrastructure, which will enable us to drive margin and profit improvements.
Estimated global market potential for oncology Our strategy is to build our specialty We estimate that in 2009 our Bead products bead implants pharmaceuticals revenues through both had around one-third of a global market that organic development activities and through reached around $95m, and we believe that $400m product acquisitions.
From our own pipeline, our global Bead sales grew at around twice we expect to submit the final part of the the rate of the overall market from 2007 $800m rolling BLA for Voraxaze glucarpidase to 2009.
We see multiple opportunities to the US FDA in mid 2011, leading to a to drive further growth, and we estimate potential US approval during 2012.
If that the total global market could reach Estimated peak sales potential approved, the existing acute care sales $400m$800m.
The drivers of growth for Varisolve PEM in the US force would sell glucarpidase, which is include: reimbursed sector under development to treat toxicity Product innovation we are developing associated with high-dose methotrexate innovations such as M1 Beads that $250m in patients with renal impairment, would allow access to different sizes supplemented by a few medical sales of tumour, and pre-loaded drug-eluting $500m liaisons MSLs.
We are also reviewing a beads that would eliminate the need for number of external opportunities, which compounding in the hospital pharmacy: include products that would be used in the Geographical expansion we are hospital emergency room and products that progressing registrations in China and would be prescribed by specialist physicians Japan and are awaiting reimbursement outside of the hospital setting.
approval in Taiwan and Korea: and Segmental expansion we are Interventional medicine supporting a number of clinical studies Biocompatibles embolisation beads and designed to explore the safety and drug-eluting beads and BrachySciences efficacy of the Beads for treating different brachytherapy products are medical devices types of liver tumours: the results of that are used to address the needs of these studies will inform the clinical and patients with cancer of the liver and prostate regulatory strategy for further studies respectively.
The products are sold in the designed to expand the uses for which US, the EU and in other territories, and the Beads are indicated.
they are in registration studies or pending reimbursement in a number of important Many interventional radiologists are Asian markets see product availability treating varicose veins and it is becoming map on page 2.
Primary liver cancer is increasingly clear that this physician group estimated to be seven times more common could be important to the future adoption in certain Asian countries than in Western of PEM.
As we interact with these physicians countries owing to widespread infection in connection with the Bead products, with hepatitis B and C: we believe Asia will we are gaining invaluable experience that become an increasingly important market we believe will be of benefit for the future for these products.
marketing of PEM if it is approved in the US.
The PEM trials are progressing well, We currently sell Bead Block directly in with recruitment on track in all three.
the US and plan to sell LC Bead directly We are on track to submit a US regulatory following expiry of the current distribution 18 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review application in H2 2012, leading to potential approval in H2 2013.
We continue to believe that the market opportunity in the US reimbursed sector is $250m$500m per annum, and we intend to retain maximum value by marketing the product ourselves if approved.
Licensing and biotechnology We generated 60.1m 09 10: 54.1m in recurring royalties from our licensing activities.
Although future revenues on BeneFIX, the largest contributor in 2010 11, will cease following sale of inventory existing when the final licensed patents expired in February and March 2011, we anticipate new contributors.
These include ZYTIGA abiraterone acetate, which was approved in the US in April 2011 as a treatment for men with advanced prostate cancer who have previously been treated with docataxel chemotherapy.
Development and commercialisation activities continue to be important to BTG.
In our current development pipeline are a number of programmes that we intend to partner once they have completed their current studies if the data are supportive, including BGC20-0134 Pleneva, which is currently in a Phase IIa study for relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis.
With Biocompatibles we acquired CellMed, a research and development company in Germany that has a number of early stage programmes based on its CellBeads technology.
These aim to deliver therapeutic proteins generated by mesenchymal stromal cells, and they seek to overcome certain difficulties by being encapsulated in a biopolymer coated bead.
The target indications include stroke, which is not a strategic fit for BTG.
We are currently exploring options to develop the CellBeads programmes to the point where we can partner them to realise both immediate and future value.
Building for the future By bringing together three strong companies over the past 30 months we have created a company with the capabilities, resources and opportunities to become a substantial, sustainably profitable specialist healthcare business.
19 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review
