Bumi plc | Introduction 8 Annual Report 2011 Chief Executive Officers Statement I am pleased to report a strong operational performance for 2011 thanks to increased production volumes and higher thermal coal prices.
To date, we are able to report good progress against these targets.
In 2011, PTBerau increased coal mined The Wider by 2m tonnes to 19.4m tonnes, an increase of 12%, and PTBumi increased production by 5.5m tonnes to 66m Group is tonnes, an increase of9%.
currently At PTBerau the expansion plans are on track with undertaking approval to construct a 42kilometre overland conveyor one of at Binungan.
the largest At PTBumis KPC operation, work began on the expansions Sangatta expansion.
The second overland conveyor at KPC is under construction and should be completed in thermal in the first half of 2012.
Likewise, the Melawan crusher coal.
and conveyor are on track for completion in 2012, and work has now commenced on upgrading the Bengalonfacilities.
Ari Hudaya At Arutmin, construction of the West Mulia and Chief Executive officer Asam-Asam coal processing plants and conveyors is underway, with completion expected by the second half of2012.
Optimising our asset base In this, our first year of existence as Bumiplc, I am In August 2011 we began a benchmarking review pleased to report a strong operating and financial of all our major coal operations.
The aim of the exercise performance for 2011.
Thanks to increased production is to maximise operational and cost efficiencies at all volumes and higher realised thermal coal prices, we mines and the results of the study will be implemented achieved an operating profit of $280m and underlying across the Wider Group.
The review will also enable earnings of $33m.
It is an operating performance which us to benchmark performance and share best practice.
everyone at Bumiplc should be extremely proud of.
Reducing overall cost and level of debt Performance against strategy Levels of net debt vary across the Wider Group.
Our aim is to be the leading UK listed thermal Our subsidiary, PTBerau, had net debt of $291m as coal producer.
As outlined by our Chairman in the at 31December 2011.
PTBerau successfully launched introduction to this report, we have devised a clear a $500m bond at a xed rate of 7.25% in March2012 strategy in support of this goal which focuses on: to renance an existing debt facility, as well as to fund a capex programme to construct an overland conveyor Delivering sector leading growth and related power plant.
Optimising our asset base Reducing overall levels and cost of debt At PTBumi, net debt stands at $4.2billion.
During the year PTBumi made progress in renancing a In 2011 we performed well in each of these core portion of this debt and identifying further ways to strategic areas.
reduce overall levels of indebtedness.
In November, PTBumi announced they had completed repayment, Delivering sector leading growth two years ahead of schedule, of $600m of the The Wider Group is currently undertaking one of $1.9billion CIC debt.
The amount was renanced the largest expansions in thermal coal.
This will see with the China Development Bank at LIBOR 6.7%.
total volumes of coal mined on a 100% basis rising from The effect of this debt renancing will reduce 85m tonnes in 2011 to 140m tonnes in 2014, an increase PTBumis annual interest expense by around $72m.
Over this period PTBerau will increase It also expects to repay early the remainder of the coal mined from 19.4m tonnes in 2011 to 30m tonnes, $1.3billion CIC debt in October 2012 $600m, and PTBumi from 66m tonnes to 110mtonnes.
Introduction 9 Growth Optimisation Deleveraging The Wider Group is undertaking A major benchmarking A key goal is to reduce the cost and one of the largest expansions exercise across the Wider levels of indebtedness at PT Berau in thermal coal.
This will see Group is underway.
PT Bumi has renanced PT Berau and PT Bumi increasing is to maximse operational $600m of $1.9bn debt owing to the output signicantly.
China Investment Corporation which will reduce PT Bumis annual interest expense.
In addition, in 2011 PTBumi reached an agreement In terms of thermal coal, the demand picture looks well on the repayment to PTBumi of a $231m investment supported for the Pacic region, with growing demand with Recapital in the first half of 2012.
It was also for lower caloric value coal from Indonesia forecast for agreed that a $251m loan to Bukit Mutiara, another India and China.
While the Newcastle price has fallen Recapital company, would be repaid, half in 2012 in the final quarter of 2011, with weak demand in and the balance in 2013.
Europe affecting even Asian markets, growing demand from India and China is expected to support current Bumi Resources Minerals BRM pricing in the near term, particularly as restocking In June we announced a proposed restructuring for the summer period begins in the second quarter.
involving the acquisition of 75% of BRM, a diversied Readily available natural gas in the US is pushing base metals exploration company, for $2.1billion some thermal coal volumes into the Atlantic region, from PTBumi.
Due to ongoing market uncertainties already impacted by weak European coal markets.
the proposed acquisition did not proceed.
With one of the strongest growth proles in the industry Health, Safety, Environment over the next few years, the Wider Group expects and Communities to be a major beneciary of strong thermal coal We believe that running our business in a socially fundamentals over the medium and long term.
and environmentally responsible way is fundamental to our licence to operate.
Lastly, I would like to thank all our employees for their hard work during the year and wish my In terms of safety, we had a disappointing successor, Nalin Rathod, all the best for the future.
performance at PTBerau where we recorded four contractor fatalities.
Any loss of life is totally unacceptable and PTBerau is currently reviewing its health and safetyprocedures.
Ari Hudaya Outlook Chief Executive officer, Bumi plc While the global economic recovery continues to be fragile, there is increasing evidence of some improvement in fundamentals.
Recent data indicates that Chinese GDP is expected to grow at around 7% for 2012.
Improving economic data from the US is also encouraging.
As such, while European industrial activity remains weak, global demand for key commodities remains robust.
Nalin Rathod was appointed as CEO of Bumi plc on 26 March 2012, replacing Ari Hudaya.
He is currently President Commissioner of KPC and Arutmin and a Commissioner of PT Bumi, BRM and PT Gorontalo Minerals.
He was also managing director of Capital Managers Asia Pte Ltd, a financial advisory rm operating in Asia.
Nalin has over 20 years experience in the Indonesian coal mining sector.
