Introduction 5 Chief Executives statement We remain focused on delivering strong fund performance for our clients and investing in our business to capitalise on these opportunities when sentiment improves.
The defensive positioning adopted by many of our fund managers early in the year proved beneficial as market conditions deteriorated, Edward Bonham Carter enabling us to maintain our strong performance record.
Over three years to 31 December 2011, 26 of our 41 mutual funds 63 per cent.
outperformed their benchmarks, with 11 in the first quartile and 15 in the second quartile.
Over the year to 31 December 2011, 27 of our 51 mutual funds 53 per cent.
outperformed their benchmarks with 10 in the first quartile and 17 in the second quartile.
Our investment team is at the heart of our ability to maintain our culture and performance.
We believe our approach to developing the team successfully balances the requirement for experience and fresh talent, ensuring we are able to deliver investment outperformance for our clients over the long term.
In this regard, we appointed two further investment professionals to our fund of funds team and widened the responsibilities of a number of individuals over the year.
The team, 18 of whom have worked at Jupiter for more than 10 years, continue to achieve recognition for their investment skills and 2011 was a positive year for Jupiter, despite the significant in February, independent fund analysts Financial Express awarded headwinds presented by the Eurozone crisis and decline in the Alpha manager status to 12 Jupiter managers more than any other propensity to save.
Financial markets endured significant volatility during the year with We refined our product range during the year, extending our UK sentiment impacted early in the year by concerns over Japans mutual fund range with the launch of the Jupiter Global Energy Fund earthquake and tsunami and the Arab Spring.
However, it was the and rolling two hedge funds into alternative products in recognition of sovereign debt crisis in Europe that dominated the year, with the lack the trend for clients to buy regulated products with similar investment of a credible solution to the regions problems and the generally strategies.
This led to a decision in the fourth quarter to close our unhelpful backdrop of rising unemployment and inflation resulting in office in Bermuda in 2012. significant market volatility and a worsening environment for asset managers across Europe.
Building out our distribution capabilities remains a key focus and during 2011 we introduced I classes on a number of our unit trusts In Continental Europe, investors withdrew some 90bn of assets to meet demand from institutional investors and registered our from UCITS funds during 2011 2010: invested 172bn.
UK retail SICAV in Belgium, the Netherlands and Portugal, as well as five of its investors proved more resilient for most of the year but there was sub-funds in Hong Kong.
Our success in developing our European a marked retrenchment in fund sales in the second half, with equity distribution in recent years led us to create a new sales role to cover funds in net outflow for each of the last four months of the year.
This German-speaking Switzerland during 2011 and to extend our included November, where overall net retail sales were only 267m existing third party distribution agreement in France to Frenchthe lowest monthly net sales since October 2008 and with the speaking Switzerland.
largest equity net outflows on record.
Despite the challenges presented by market conditions, Jupiter continued to make progress, delivering cumulative net inflows of 746m during the year on the back of strong performance and the benefits of continued investment in our brand and distribution capabilities.
This enabled us to maintain our market share on fund distribution platforms and assets under management were just shy of 23bn at the end of the year.
This is pleasing in the context of the wider market environment and the bias of our AUM towards equities.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 6 Outlook Financial results Our financial performance and balance sheet continued to While financial markets have rebounded since the start of 2012 on the back of the ECBs long term refinancing operation and signs of strengthen during 2011.
Revenues increased eight per cent.
which was ahead of the four per cent.
rise in average market levels, economic stability in the US and China, the significant public and private debt issues faced by Western economies will take some boosting EBITDA by eight per cent.
During the year, we continued to degear the business, halving the size of our gross debt.
years to unwind and are likely to cause some volatility yet.
Fund flows are likely to remain subdued in the near term as a result.
This allowed us to pay our first interim dividend of 2.5p and increase our total dividend to 7.8p.
We have also moved to a net cash position Despite this recent turbulence, the structural growth drivers for the and, while we do have a competitively priced debt facility, we will continue to assess our level of debt and balance this with the need to savings market remain intact and the growth opportunities for a highly-regarded brand such as Jupiter are considerable.
As we have maintain an efficient capital structure.
previously demonstrated, success in this regard requires consistent investment through the market cycle, a focus on retaining and Net revenue, at 248.5 million, was eight per cent.
ahead of the 230.5m recorded in 2010, while EBITDA was 134.9m, an increase attracting outstanding talent who can deliver the continued of eight per cent.
Our EBITDA margin remained investment outperformance that is the hallmark of our brand as well stable at 54 per cent.
as continuing to develop our distribution presence in both the UK and abroad.
Such an approach will enable us to capture the benefits of our scalable platform.
By building on the strong foundations we have established over the past decade, Jupiter can continue to grow and prosper to the benefit of clients and shareholders.
Edward Bonham Carter Chief Executive 23 March 2012 Jupiter Fund Management plc Business review 7 8 Value creation, strategy and performance 10 Operating model 12 Market review 15 Operational review 18 Financial review 22 Principal risks and mitigations 24 Corporate responsibility report 28 Awards
