CHIEF ExECUTIVES REVIEW Against the background of challenging macroeconomic conditions, Bunzl has achieved excellent results.
As a focused organisation we have again demonstrated the strength and depth of our customer proposition and shown our ability to grow and develop both organically and by acquisition in the markets michael Roney in which we compete.
Chief Executive OpeRAtinG peRFORmAnCe In North America revenue rose 7% 4% at Cash flow remained strong, with cash The positive momentum from 2010 continued actual exchange rates due to strong organic generated from operations of 390.1 million in 2011 as we had another successful year growth and the impact of Cool-Pak and which was partly used to finance a cash due to a combination of organic growth, good Netpak, which we acquired in August 2010 outflow for acquisitions of 161.3 million and performance from the acquisitions made in and July 2011 respectively, while operating net capital expenditure of 20.9 million.
Net 2010 and increased acquisition spend during profit increased 9% 6% at actual exchange debt at the year end was 652.9 million the year.
Revenue in Continental Europe rose compared to 716.8 million at the end of 2010.
12% 14% at actual exchange rates as a result Our net debt to EBITDA ratio reduced to 1.7 Although some currencies, notably the euro, of good organic growth and the impact of times compared to 2.1 times at the previous were marginally stronger than in 2010, the acquisitions completed in 2010 and 2011 and year end.
translation effects of the weaker US dollar operating profit was up 17% 20% at actual and overall currency movements have slightly exchange rates.
In UK & Ireland revenue The efficiency of our operations has been reduced the reported growth rates of revenue decreased by 1% at both constant and actual further evidenced this year by the reduction, and operating profit.
The operations, including exchange rates primarily due to the persisting relative to revenue, of our Scope 1 and 2 the relevant growth rates, are therefore difficult economic conditions and weakness carbon emissions.
This has been achieved by reviewed below at constant exchange rates to in some businesses.
However operating profit a continued focus on the sustainability of our remove the distorting impact of these currency rose 1% at both constant and actual exchange business, specifically by continuing to review movements.
Changes in the level of revenue rates due to the positive impact of earlier cost the footprint of our facilities and installing and profits at constant exchange rates have reduction initiatives, product mix improvements energy saving equipment within them and been calculated by retranslating the results in some businesses and the disposal of using effective route planning and appropriate for 2010 at the average rates used for 2011. vending.
In Rest of the World revenue vehicles in those businesses which operate Unless otherwise stated, all references in this increased 12% 20% at actual exchange rates their own transport fleets.
Our consolidated review to operating profit are to operating profit and operating profit was up 13% 19% at delivery of products supports our customers before intangible amortisation and acquisition actual exchange rates due to both good efforts to reduce their environmental impact related costs.
organic growth and the impact of acquisitions.
and this is further enhanced by our ever increasing offering of more environmentally Revenue increased 7% 6% at actual exchange Basic earnings per share were lower at 38.2p friendly products.
rates to 5,109.5 million and operating profit 2010: 49.1p due to the loss on disposal of the was 335.7 million, an increase of 10% 9% at vending business but adjusted earnings per ACquiSitiOnS actual exchange rates.
The percentage growth share, after eliminating the effect of intangible During the year we announced ten acquisitions in operating profit was greater than that of amortisation, acquisition related costs and the and committed to spend 185 million.
revenue due to the improvement in operating loss on disposal of vending, were 68.5p 2010: margins in all business areas which has 60.6p, an increase of 13% at both constant We expanded our business supplying catering resulted in a 20 basis point improvement and actual exchange rates.
Return on average equipment and disposables in Australia in Group operating margin to 6.6%.
operating capital increased from 54.4% to 57.4% through the acquisition of Omega Hospitality in due to the improvement in operating margin and March and Hospitality Depot in May.
Together continued good working capital management.
these businesses have annualised revenue of approximately A$27 million and have allowed us to penetrate further in this sector in New South Wales and Queensland.
10 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 mAnAGement teAm Managers from across the Groupmeet regularly to review performance, discuss trends affecting our businesses and seek further opportunities for growth and competitive advantage.
patrick larmon Celia baxter brian may paul budge President and CEO Director of Group Finance Director Managing Director North America Human Resources UK & Ireland paul Hussey Frank van Zanten nancy lester Kim Hetherington General Counsel and Managing Director Director of Corporate Managing Director Company Secretary Continental Europe Development Australasia At the end of March we acquired the business In September we also acquired Ideal in Brazil pROSpeCtS of Cannon Consumables which is principally which had revenue in 2010 of R$42 million Even though the outlook for economic growth engaged in the supply of cleaning and hygiene and is a leading supplier of cleaning and remains uncertain, especially for Europe, we consumable products throughout the UK.
This was an believe that our resilient business model and Revenue for the year ended 31 March 2011 important step for Bunzl as it expanded our strong market position will provide further was 16 million.
business in Brazil into the cleaning and hygiene opportunities for the development of the Group.
sector for the first time.
The acquisition of In North America we expect continued strong During May we purchased King Espana D-Care in the Netherlands, also in September, organic growth with stable operating margins.
whichis a leading distributor of foodservice strengthened our healthcare business there.
In Continental Europe, while we anticipate disposables and cleaning and hygiene supplies Revenue in 2010 was 5 million.
lower organic growth compared to 2011 as to the catering and cleaning sectors throughout a result of the reduced economic growth Spain and has established a presence for In November we completed the acquisition of forecasts for many European economies, Bunzl in Madrid and Valencia as well as Danny which was our fourth acquisition in the we will benefit from the positive impact of reinforcing our business in Barcelona.
Revenue Brazilian market since we entered the country the acquisitions completed in 2011.
The business, which had revenue in & Ireland, in spite of the ongoing sluggish completed the acquisition of the SIG Safety and 2010 of R$56 million and is growing strongly, economy, we expect to see an improved Workwear business, a leading distributor of isa leading supplier of personal protection performance this year.
Rest of the World personal protection equipment and workwear equipment and complements our existing should experience strong organic growth and to a variety of market sectors in the UK with personal protection equipment operations the full year impact of the acquisitions made revenue in 2010 of 22 million.
in 2011 will enhance the overallresults.
complements and has expanded our existing business in the UK serving these markets.
Today we are announcing the acquisition of Acquisition growth continues to be a key part CDW Merchants in the US.
With revenue of of our strategy.
The pipeline for acquisitions is Netpak, with revenue of C$12 million in the $12 million in 2011, the business is engaged promising as we continue discussions with a year ended 30 June 2011, was acquired in July.
in the sale of retail gift packaging and visual number of potential targets.
Based in Canada, the business specialises in the merchandising solutions and products to the supply of packaging supplies and equipment for specialty retail and online retailing sectors and Despite the continuing economic uncertainties, both food and non-food products to a number will complement our existing non-food retail the Board believes that our business will of different sectors, including fruit and vegetable supplies business in North America.
continue to grow and develop due to our strong growers, and complements the business of market position, our consistent cash flow and Cool-Pak which was acquired in the US during DiSpOSAl the numerous opportunities we have to the second half of the previous year.
In August we sold our vending business consolidate further the markets in which which was based in the UK and was no longer wecompete.
The acquisition of Majestic Products and considered to be a strategic fit within the Group.
its associated businesses, which had revenue Revenue in 2010 was 68 million.
We believed of 62 million in 2010, was completed in that the funds generated from the disposal September and has extended our operations would be more usefully employed in our core, in the Netherlands into the personal protection higher return and higher growth businesses.
equipment and safety sectors and expanded our safety supplies business in the US while at michael Roney Chief Executive the same time providing a platform to develop the business further in Belgium and Germany.
27 February 2012 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 11 CHIEF ExECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED In North America revenue increased by 7% import and global sourcing capabilities to to 2,727.9 million due to both sales growth find packaging solutions that will help our NORTH AmERICA with existing customers and new business customers market their own products as well wins, particularly in our largest business sector, as address environmental issues through the grocery, and some product price increases.
use of additional green products and initiatives.
This sales growth, together with the impact of Our ability to partner with other Group our margin enhancement programmes and cost companies in Europe and Australasia is an 9% saving initiatives, contributed to a 9% increase advantage that we use to develop and supply in operating profit to 169.2 million.
new packaging concepts and the acquisition of CDW Merchants in February 2012 will Increase in operating We continued to expand in grocery by further extend our customer base, particularly increasing our business with existing accounts in the specialty and online retail sectors.
profit at constant as well as adding new customers, including exchange rates with one of the largest retailers in North America.
Despite higher fuel costs impacting consumers Our ability to provide direct store delivery, cross throughout the year and increased competition improvement in dock or warehouse replenishment programmes from cross channel distributors, our continues to provide us with new opportunities.
convenience store sector experienced strong operating margin.
Our well trained and experienced Activity levels in the foodservice sector sales force has worked closely with the large improved during the year, contributing to convenience store chains to provide services increased sales in our redistribution business.
and products that respond to their needs and Additionally, new programmes for imported those of the customers they serve.
Additionally items and private label and new products we have developed several programmes with expanded our position with several national suppliers to provide some small retail products foodservice customers as well as others to these chains.
Our one stop shop approach, on time delivery programme, Our strategic sourcing initiative has once again availability of products and committed sales helped us to strengthen our relationships with teams have all contributed to increased sales.
our preferred suppliers resulting in the Our suppliers have also taken advantage of our development of unique programmes and efficient warehouse network and dependable products which have contributed to more delivery system to handle their smaller, less competitive prices for our customers.
We also than truckload, accounts.
continue to expand our range of private label products and import product lines to provide a Our food processor business continued to number of different options for our customers deliver strong sales gains as the result of new and meet the needs of all of the sectors we customer wins, increased product penetration service.
Investment in our state of the art within existing accounts and innovative consolidation warehouse in Shanghai has products and systems to help our customers continued and we have further developed our become more cost competitive and efficient resources there which enable us to provide on the production side.
The installation of our comprehensive quality control services and first carousel picking system in R3 Safety has audit our suppliers.
This has improved our contributed to warehouse efficiencies and has marketing abilities when presenting to also allowed us to handle more small and prospective customers as we can provide such individual items needed by many of our services to many of our customers who do not customers.
We continue to service a broad have the same capabilities.
range of customers including meat processors, fresh cut produce processors, bakeries, home Despite continuing increases in fuel, freight meal processors and other specialty food and healthcare expenses, our operating costs processors in all areas of the foodservice decreased as a percentage of sales principally supply chain.
Cool-Pak, acquired in 2010, has due to the revenue growth and several cost been successfully integrated and has opened reduction initiatives implemented during the up new opportunities for us in the field pack year including further consolidation of facilities.
produce market as well as new geographical New warehouse technology and equipment areas such as Mexico for these types of such as the carousel system in our R3 Safety products and the recent acquisition of Netpak business and increased opportunities for has further expanded our business in this freight backhaul revenue from our suppliers sector.
We continue to invest in traceability have contributed to this decrease.
Additionally products since this is becoming an important our safety statistics improved during the year part of the food processor safety initiative.
which resulted in less lost time throughout the warehouse network.
The non-food retail business continued to grow with several new customer wins during the Our value proposition, single IT platform, strong year, the introduction of new and unique financial position and coast to coast distribution packaging designs and products for a variety network continue to position us well to meet of retailers and incremental business with our thefuture needs of our customers in all of our existing customers.
We continue to use our market sectors.
12 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 CONTINENTAL EUROPE 1,067m Record level of sales as business area revenue exceeds 1 billion for the first time.
Revenue rose by 12% to 1,067.1 million In September we also completed the In Denmark, sales growth has been modest and operating profit rose 17% to 95.6 million.
acquisition of Majestic Products in the in retail consumables and safety products Overall our businesses delivered good organic Netherlands and its associated companies and strong in horeca disposables.
Further sales growth and continued tight cost control in Belgium, Germany and the US which are cost reduction measures from warehouse offset the impact of ongoing pricing pressure principally engaged in the supply of personal integrations have led to a significant in our markets, thereby improving our operating protection equipment and safety products.
The business area also benefited from The businesses have continued to deliver the impact of acquisitions and the associated strong sales and profit growth since acquisition In Spain, sales growth in cleaning and hygiene synergies which have been achieved.
and are integrating well into the Group.
has been modest with some margin pressure in continuing challenging economic In France, our cleaning and hygiene business In Belgium, we recorded sales growth in both circumstances.
The acquisition of King Espana saw a return to modest sales growth after a the cleaning and hygiene and retail sectors.
in May significantly increased our coverage in decline in 2010.
Although the healthcare and Margin pressure, particularly in the public and the cleaning and hygiene market and improved public sectors in particular have been under healthcare sectors, was partially offset by the our position in horeca.
The business is some pressure due to spending cuts which full year impact of synergies generated from integrating well into the Group.
Although our continue to impact our business, the cost the July 2010 acquisition of Global Net which safety business has seen volume declines, reduction measures undertaken during 2010 continues to outperform expectations at the it has managed to pass on significant raw and in early 2011 have led to an improvement time of acquisition.
material price rises which helped to improve in operating profit.
Our personal protection operating margins during the course of the year.
equipment business enjoyed robust sales growth, In Germany, sales grew well, especially in particular from increasing our share of business with larger accounts and in the hotel, bakery In central Europe, growth in the cleaning with a number of larger customers, leading to and wholesale sectors which, together with and hygiene and safety sectors was offset an increase in operating profit.
some cost benefits particularly relating to by a decline in the retail sector as some improved transport efficiencies, resulted in larger customers sourced directly from In the Netherlands, sales grew significantly in improved profits.
However, towards the end of our businesses supplying the food and non-food the year we saw the first signs for some years retail sectors as well as in healthcare although In Switzerland, our business which we of retailers investing in new stores in the region.
the horeca hotel, restaurant and catering sector acquired in March 2010 has delivered strong Operating margins improved due to further continues to be more challenging.
Vant Veer sales growth in the medical and industrial cost reductions in what remains a difficult Verpakkingen, acquired in October 2010, has sectors and good growth in the horeca sector, economic environment.
integrated well into our existing healthcare more than offsetting some weakness in retail.
In September we acquired D-Care Margins have benefited from the strengthening In Israel, Silco, our horeca disposables which distributes medical disposable products of the Swiss franc although this has partly business has delivered strong sales growth to the healthcare sector.
This acquisition held back sales growth in recent months.
from some new customer wins and has significantly enhances our position in healthcare Costs have been tightly controlled, further improved operating margins such that and has traded ahead of expectations.
contributing to the significant improvement profits are well ahead of expectations.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 13 CHIEF ExECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED UK & IRELAND 66.4% Return on operating capital, the highest of all of the business areas.
Our businesses in UK & Ireland have continued In our food retail business we have seen The healthcare business continues to operate to focus on margins and operating costs to reduced levels of trading with some customers, in an environment which is strongly affected counter the lower demand we are experiencing particularly in the latter part of the year, and bygovernment spending constraints.
Constant in certain sectors of the market due to the customers are seeking lower prices and more tender activity has commoditised a number difficult trading environment which many of our efficient solutions.
However we have been able ofproduct ranges which has put pressure on customers are currently facing.
The pressure to respond to these demands and achieved margins but to counter this we have continued on sales has led to a 1% decline in revenue good results which were bolstered by winning to expand our range of own label branded to 996.6 million although operating profit amajor new account which helped to offset products that have an established reputation increased 1% to 60.2 million.
Working capital lower sales with other customers.
Our non-food for quality in the medical and surgical has again been tightly managed resulting in retail packaging business has continued to consumables market.
Although its customer base on the high street is facing significant challenges, In Ireland our businesses have been able In spite of lower levels of demand, we have strong performances from existing customers to stabilise sales in 2011 and an improvement seen inflationary pressures which have resulted together with some good new customer wins in margins and a reduction in costs led to an in rising fuel costs and price increases on have helped the overall results.
increase in profitability which is a creditable products purchased from most sources of performance in a very difficult market.
We have worked hard to pass these In cleaning and safety, a decline in spend by Achieving some growth in our market share increases on to our customers in a difficult both the public sector and the construction and an improvement in tourism has helped to market in order to minimise the impact on market has been offset by strong demand from grow the hospitality supplies business and new margins.
We continue to examine and key contract cleaning customers.
Our safety customer wins have increased our penetration rationalise our operating platform.
As leases supplies business has needed to make further of the contract cleaning sector.
These two have come to an end, we have been able to cuts to its cost base in response to the weaker strong performances have offset the continued reduce the warehouse footprint further.
market and is now well positioned to target decline in the convenience retail and fresh opportunities.
The two acquisitions which redistribution sectors.
We have also worked Our portfolio of hospitality businesses has we completed during the year, SIG Safety and closely with chosen suppliers and further beensimplified with the sale of the vending Workwear and Cannon Consumables, have developed our range of imported and own operations which had revenue of 42 million been successfully integrated into the Group label products which has helped relieve some and made no contribution to profits in 2011. and helped to enhance our existing businesses of the pressure on margins.
This leaves us focused solely on the activity through new customer relationships and ofdistribution to our customers.
The catering product procurement synergies.
disposables business has performed well through developing its own exclusive brands which have proved attractive to the market.
This programme has helped to retain customers and relieve the pressure on margins.
Our catering equipment business has performed well, helped by increased levels of direct marketing and continued development ofour range of imported products.
14 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 REST OF THE WORLD 12% Increase in revenue at constant exchange rates due to good organic growth and impact from acquisitions.
In Rest of the World revenue increased 12% to will now follow in 2012 and this will improve our In Brazil we continued to show strong growth 317.9 million while operating profit rose 13% capability to trade electronically with customers in both revenue and operating profit, despite to 28.4 million.
Both Australasia and Brazil and suppliers and become more efficient the distortions in the economic environment experienced good organic revenue growth and operationally.
Our two newly acquired due to high interest rates and a very strong improvements in operating margins with the businesses, Omega Hospitality and Hospitality real, as a result of good organic growth and the results also boosted by the impact Depot, are integrating well.
Their additional scale impact ofacquisitions.
has created improved buying opportunities significantly during the second half of the year which will benefit margins for all of our branches as a result of two acquisitions.
Ideal, which In Australasia our largest business, Outsourcing in this sector.
was acquired in September, has extended our Services, which supplies the healthcare, business into the cleaning and hygiene sector cleaning and catering sectors continued to To facilitate the growth in New South Wales we for the first time and has provided a platform perform strongly and delivered excellent results.
are investing in a new distribution centre near for us to develop a strong presence in this The business has successfully grown market Sydney where we will consolidate all of our sector in Brazil.
Danny, which was completed share and in particular made significant inroads businesses in the area as their individual leases in November, has substantially expanded our into the supply of medical consumables into expire.
This will bring significant operational personal protection equipment business in existing healthcare customers, further efficiencies and facilitate future growth in theregion.
Although our Australias most populated region.
During the food processor business performed below year we made further enhancements to our expectations, it made good progress with new Shanghai consolidation facilities with business gains in the last quarter of the year improvements to our systems and supply with non-meat food processors and this should chain.
In 2012 we plan to expand these help drive momentum in 2012.
The business operations into Southern China which will has also made significant improvements in its provide similar efficiencies for our supplier operational platform following the implementation network in this region.
These initiatives remain of the main IT system in late 2010.
Our catering a source of competitive advantage enabling equipment businesses had a better year, with faster implementation of new product some new business wins with quick service categories while enabling more effective restaurant customers and the introduction of our use ofworking capital.
own label branded products helping the results.
In September we successfully implemented the first of our catering equipment businesses onto the main IT platform.
The remaining businesses BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 15 16 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 TRUSTED SUPPLIER As a critical supplier of everyday essential items, our customers rely on our sourcing expertise, the depth and breadth of our product offering and the service that we provide from our extensive network of distribution facilities.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 17 CONSISTENT GROWTH Over the last 10 years we have delivered year on year increases in operating profit and dividends through a consistent strategy of developing the business by organic growth, improved operating efficiencies and acquisitions.
During this period we have extended both our range of service and our global reach from 11 countries to 23 countries.
CHICAGO, USA PARIS, FRANCE 18 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 LONDON, UK SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 19 ONE STOP SHOP We support businesses everywhere by providing a consolidated product offering of goods our customers need to run their businesses.
From coffee stirrers, floor cleaning materials and safety equipment to retail packaging supplies and healthcare consumables, we provide a one stop shop solution for everything they require.
20 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 21
