Chief executive officers letter At the most fundamental level, managements primary objectives are the continued development of the Burberry brand and delivering sustained, profitable growth over the long term.
These objectives are addressed through a precise vision for the Group, a consistent strategy and a distinctive set of values.
Although the global recession of 2008-2009 slowed progress in some respects, we did not compromise pursuit of either objective.
With an improving external environment in 2010 11, the team capitalised on the expertise and infrastructure developed during preceding years and the Groups strong financial position to accelerate investment in the brand and reassert the strategic growth agenda.
Brand Investment We have long held that great brands project a pure, consistent experience across all channels in order to standout in todays cluttered consumer arena.
Sharp definition communicates the point of difference and informs consumer choice, while also conveying authenticity and integrity, which are vitally important to a heritage brand such as Burberry.
A pure brand image captures mindshare.
Further, globally pervasive digital technology is altering consumers relationships with brands both expectations of, and ways of interacting with, them.
Digitals capabilities of movement, sound, information capacity and self-navigation allow for an all-encompassing emotive brand experience, which can be achieved anywhere not confined to a brands physical environment, such as a retail store.
The technology has raised consumers expectations for a voice in, and greater access to, the brand.
Consumers also increasingly expect transparency and clarity with respect to the company behind the brand.
In line with these principles, the Group launched Burberry World a website providing the complete expression of the Burberry brand, as well as full e-commerce capability in the final quarter of 2010 11.
Burberry World offers access to the brands defining features, including heritage and archival imagery, behind-the-scenes footage of key events, such as runway shows and photo shoots, philanthropic activity and comprehensive product views and information the site contains the most complete product assortment available for purchase anywhere.
Burberry World also connects the broader Burberry community through Burberry Acoustic a site featuring music and videos from emerging British artists and 12 artofthetrench.
com, our social media site allowing Reasserting the Growth Agenda members to explore and share experiences of the iconic Confident in the long-term potential of the Burberry brand trench coat.
Beyond simply delivering an on-brand and our design, marketing and retail-led business, we interface online, our goal is to provide the perfect, reasserted the strategic growth agenda as the world complete Burberry experience.
We are also reorienting began to emerge from recession.
other consumer-related activity, including retail stores, China acquisition.
In September, Burberry acquired for multi-channel connectivity however a consumer its store network in China from a longstanding franchise engages with the brand, the experience should be partner for approximately 65m.
China is the most consistent.
In terms of its direct commerce implications, exciting luxury market in the world today, whether we expect Burberry World to drive sales across all defined by current size, growth rate or long-term channels digital currently transactional in 45 countries potential.
Already estimated to be the fourth largest and six languages, retail, wholesale and licences luxury customer group globally, the Chinese consumer through long-term consumer engagement and direct is projected to be the most important sector growth merchandise access and information.
Achieved through driver both domestically and internationally over at substantial investment, this global platform is the focal least the next few years.
In addition to the transaction, point for the brand.
under which the Group acquired 50 stores, the local Correcting legacy issues.
Although great progress team opened an additional net seven stores during has been made in revitalising the Burberry brand over the year.
Since acquisition, the stores have achieved the last decade, inconsistencies with the modern approximately 30% sales gains on a year-over-year democratic luxury positioning remain.
Burberry is well positioned in this market, the Group intensified investment in correcting these and the acquisition is a key growth platform for the legacy brand issues.
In retail, while the outlet store brands future.
format is primarily an inventory management tool, parts Retail expansion.
Retail investment accelerated with a of the portfolio are not appropriately aligned with the 62% increase in store-related capital expenditure during brand: as a result, several outlet stores were closed the year.
Average space expanded 9%, excluding the in the year, as others were upgraded, renovated and China acquisition, led by 28 mainline store additions, expanded.
In the wholesale channel, management many of which were clustered in high potential markets.
is concentrating distribution in fewer doors, those Investments included flagship stores in new markets, consistent with the brands status, and improving including Beijing and Sydney the first flagships in in-store presentation through several initiatives, China and Australia as well as established markets including an emphasis on dedicated real estate.
In the such as London, Milan and Paris.
Store renovation licensing arena, the year saw the impact of the Japan activity also intensified to ensure the entire portfolio leather goods licence termination, as part of the multikeeps pace with the brands aspirations and digital year process to align that market with the global brand.
presentation standards: major projects included Finally, with the Spring Summer 2011 season, Burberry Las Vegas and Boston.
largely completed the local-to-global product transition in Spain.
Each of these activities was undertaken Marketing in the digital dimension.
Marketing efforts at a significant cost to earnings, which will only be enlarging the brands digital dimension also intensified recaptured over time through greater brand vitality.
With digital content becoming a primary Group will continue to take similar action to purify brand vehicle to communicate brand identity and engage presence in the seasons ahead.
consumers, we continued to invest in content, both in terms of creation capability and volume.
An expanded team of digital experts develops rich bodies of consumer-oriented content around any brand activity the traditional still images of Burberrys main advertising campaigns are now accompanied by sets of video 13 Chief executive officers letter continued stories, while simple product shots have become video New market investment.
Investment in new markets clips.
A local fashion show or store opening becomes also accelerated.
Burberry launched its Latin America a global event through live-streamed production.
strategy with a dedicated regional management team Digital innovations, such as virtual trunk shows, and headquarters located in So Paulo, Brazil.
The which allow runway show viewers to select items for team opened stores in Brasilia, So Paulo and Puebla, immediate purchase, further immerse consumers in Mexico during the year.
Looking east, the Group further the brand.
To extend consumer reach, Burberry works developed its joint operation to capitalise on the rapidly with leading digital media companies to distribute this growing consumer economy in India.
Burberry now exciting content across their platforms.
The Group has five stores in this exciting market.
Although in the has also increased digital marketing investment through near term these operations incur significant start-up greater use of email and online advertising.
During expenses, we expect them to contribute meaningfully the year, the brand deepened engagement with its to future profit growth.
In addition, through franchise social media communities including the proprietary partners, the Group entered four new markets in artofthetrench.
com through the addition of dedicated 2010 11, including Egypt and Mongolia.
content and more frequent interaction.
With almost five Infrastructure investment.
Reasserting the growth million fans at 31 March, Burberry is the leading luxury agenda required continued evolution and investment in brand on Facebook.
Burberry has achieved a leadership infrastructure finance, information technology, human position within the luxury sector in the digital marketing resources, legal.
Across the agenda from disciplined arena, and will continue to invest substantially in these management of replenishment inventory to producing activities.
Referencing these and related initiatives, digital events to meeting the structural requirements Fast Company magazine named Burberry to its 2011 of new markets these resources enabled and list of the worlds 50 most innovative companies.
contributed to growth in the year.
In the product arena, Culture and values Burberry directed investment to both core and young Alongside brand and growth, we continued to invest in our categories.
To drive innovation in the core womens and culture.
As a team, we look to reinforce a company culture mens outerwear and large leather goods categories, characterised by the design and merchandising teams explored a wider range of exotic and luxury materials, pursued Shared vision for the future of brand and business technical innovation and broadened the highest fashion Democratic and meritocratic ethos components of the lines.
The teams also reoriented development processes around creating distinct Connected, collaborative style of interaction monthly product capsules to ensure a continuous flow Focus on the Burberry brand as the touchstone against of new and compelling merchandise to stores.
The which all activity is measured Group continued to invest in replenishment capability with the goal of constant availability of continuity core These principles relate directly to the brands core values: product at retail.
Looking at young businesses, the to protect, explore and inspire.
Investing both mental childrenswear operations, previously located in Spain, and financial resources in this culture encompasses a were integrated with the London-based product broad range of initiatives, from communication activities to divisions, with additional resource commitment in compensation structures and other employee benefits to design and merchandising.
The underdeveloped encouraging performance standards which also extend womens shoe category benefitted from similar resource beyond the organisation to our partners.
These uniting intensification, as well as assortment expansion and cultural forces, along with our passion, emotion and greater space allocation within our store network, conviction, are as important to Burberrys success as the where sales growth accelerated in the year.
Though a commercial enabler, this culture equally defines the type of community we believe in, and the type of company we want to be.
14 Record financial results Growth in adjusted diluted EPS In addition to investing for the future, the team continued is a key valuation metric for Burberrys shareholders to execute, achieving record revenue and profit in the year.
An 11% comparable store sales gain combined with 9% space expansion and 48.9P in 2010 11 39% a 12% contribution from China to produce 36% retail 11 48.9 39% revenue growth 22% excluding the China acquisition to 10 35.1 10 962m.
Licensing revenue was marginally ahead with 08 31.6 9% the effect of terminated Japan and apparel licences offset 07 29.1 21% by strength across global licences and currency gains.
2007-2009 and 2010 include the result of the discontinued Spanish operations.
Under the single brand, the Group is a well balanced 2010 has been represented to exclude the discontinued Spanish operations.
portfolio of businesses balanced diversity within each of product, channel and region.
With the exception of the Japan licences, all parts of this portfolio performed well in the year.
Adjusted operating profit increased 37% to 301m with adjusted retail wholesale operating profit growing 59% on a 29% revenue gain achieving an historical high 15.6% adjusted retail wholesale operating margin.
Notwithstanding the substantial investment, the Group ended the year with net cash of 298m.
Looking ahead In summary, its been an historic year for the Group, the result of a united effort of employees, suppliers, customers and licensing and franchise partners.
We thank this extended team for their commitment and partnership.
Turning to 2011 12, although the external environment may be less certain, we look forward with optimism.
The brand is well positioned, the strategies are effective, the team is united and the consumer engaged.
We will continue to invest to realise the potential of this great brand and business.
Angela Ahrendts, Chief Executive Officer 15
