8 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Our results for 2011 show continued OUR STRATEGY progress in growing and reshaping Legal & General.
At the same time, we are generating a healthy return CONTINUES for shareholders, and contributing in a variety of ways to broader economic growth and wellbeing, TODELIVER.
whilst looking after more than seven million individual, corporate and institutional customers.
The macroeconomic and market background in 2011 remained uncertain: the effects of the credit We remain confident in our business crisis continued to work through the system, while both the economic model and strategy.
Our leading data and a period of market volatility market positions in UK savings, underlined concerns about the potential for a second stage of the annuities, protection and asset credit crunch, with instability in the management are delivering healthy eurozone a particular concern.
STRONG PERFORMANCE Legal & General, however, performed well, with growth in sales, operational cash generation and operating profits.
With a Total Shareholder Return of 11%, we outperformed our sector in terms of returns for investors in 2011, and on a longer-term view, we rank amongst the leading life assurance companies in the world in terms of returns to shareholders.
The Companys strategy remains clear, and focused.
Legal & Generals strong operational cash generation continues to be a key metric, and through our four profitable business divisions we seek to ensure that we deliver balanced, high quality earnings.
In 2011 each of these divisions performed well, with significant progress across many product areas including large bulk purchase annuities, workplace pensions, and the increasing internationalisation of our investment management and pension fund fide-risking capability.
OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 9 WORLDWIDE SALES APE and which would enable the insurance OUTLOOK sector in the UK to continue to make The macroeconomic, regulatory and a positive contribution to the broader social policy environment continues economy.
While the EUs timetable to be unstable and challenging for 1.9bn for implementing the new capital the life assurance industry.
However, 2010: 1.8bn rules has slipped back, and much your Company has a future rich of the detail has still to be nalised, in opportunity as a result.
And a I am pleased that the long-term nature change in post-credit crisis attitudes FULL YEAR DIVIDEND PAYABLE of many insurance products is now will create a premium for those a proper focus of debate within the companies, such as ours, which do EUinstitutions.
business responsibly, paying due 376m regard to their broader social purpose 2010: 279m Among the long list of other regulatory and putting the customer at the heart changes we face, the most significant of their business model.
Acommon feature of these successes is the Retail Distribution Review RDR, was our operational efficiency and which comes into effect at the end Your role as shareholders is vital in effectiveness: characteristics which of 2012.
Here I am pleased to report securing this future, as is the return we also emphasise strongly at a that Legal & Generals multi-channel we are able to deliver back to you.
Group-wide level, especially in the distribution, with its network of strong I am pleased therefore that this years increasingly efficient use of capital partnerships, is likely to stand us in higher recommended final dividend and the containment of costs as we good stead.
We intend, however, to of 4.74p, and the capacity we have upgrade operational systems.
further augment our already strong outlined for further growth, are service levels for our customers indicative of our continued confidence Last year, this Report gave greater over the next few years.
Ultimately, in the outlook for thebusiness.
emphasis than usual to risk we are only as good as the service management.
In an uncertain we provide to our customers, and Thank you for your support, environment this is still very a radical improvement in customer important.
Legal & Generals overall engagement has been set as one capital position remains strong, with of our top five strategic objectives 3.8bn of surplus regulatory IGD between now and 2014. capital, and our investment portfolio is actively managed with very minimal PEOPLE exposures to areas of concern Last September, I notied the Board including sovereign and bank debt of my intention to retire from Legal & in the peripheral eurozone countries.
I would TIM BREEDON like to thank my colleagues and all of GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE REGULATORY CHANGE Legal & Generals employees for their This capital strength and operational support and commitment since my capability also enables us to prepare appointment as Group Chief Executive with confidence for the sweeping on 1 January 2006.
It has been very regulatory changes in prospect over much a collective effort, but I believe the next few years.
I have often said that todays Legal & General has the publicly that regulatory uncertainty, right skills, attitudes and strategies, and the associated risk of an illand the financial strength, to serve its judged and indiscriminate regulatory customers and shareholders well in over-correction, is among the largest the years to come.
During 2011 we worked hard to secure outcomes to the EUs Solvency II process which properly reect the interests of UK savers and pensioners,
