Lloyds Banking Group 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Antnio Horta-Osrio Becoming the Best Bank for customers In 2011, we delivered a resilient performance and made good progress against the key elements of our strategic plan to become the best bank for customers.
Introduction 1 Lloyds Banking Group Group performance 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 15 Key performance indicators 6 At a glance 8 Chairmans statement 10 Group Chief Executives review 14 20 171 205 355 Deposit growth and our progress in funding and non-core asset Summary reductions facilitated further substantial pay-down of government and In 2011, we established our longer term strategy for the Group, central bank facilities from 97 billion at the 2010 year end to 24 billion acted quickly and decisively to mitigate the effects of a challenging at the end of 2011 with nothing outstanding under the UK Special environment and put in place the right foundations to deliver on our Liquidity Scheme.
Non-core asset reductions, which were made objectives over the next 3-5 years, whilst continuing to support the broadly in line with book value, were a substantial driver behind the UK economy.
Using the framework set out in our Strategic Review, improvement in our core tier 1 capital ratio from 10.2 per cent at the we accelerated strengthening our balance sheet, decreasing risk 2010 year end to 10.8 per cent, notwithstanding the impact of the PPI and reducing costs.
The investments we made behind our brands, provision of around 60 basis points.
distribution, customer relationships and people have strengthened The Group reported a combined businesses profit before tax of our franchise, and created new opportunities which will enable us to realise over time the Groups full potential for growth.
We also 2,685 million in 2011 2010: 2,212 million, and excluding the effects of liability management, volatile items and asset sales, profit before tax made good progress on the EC mandated business disposal Project Verde, and saw greater clarity emerge on the future UK regulatory was 2,022 million 2010: 1,651 million.
The core business delivered a resilient performance, with profit before tax of 6,349 million framework following the publication of the Independent Commission on Bankings ICBs final report and the Governments response on 2010: 6,152 million, and excluding volatile items, liability management effects and asset sales profit before tax was 5,746 million 19 December 2011.
On a statutory basis, the Group reported As a result, in 2011, we delivered a resilient performance and made a loss before tax of 3,542 million in the year, which includes the good progress against the key elements of our strategic plan to PPI related provision.
become the best bank for our customers, despite a weakening UK Subdued markets in the core business and the effect of non-core asset economy, ongoing financial market volatility, continued high levels reductions resulted in a reduction in income excluding volatile items, of regulatory scrutiny and competitive markets.
We are now better liability management effects and asset sales, and net of insurance positioned to adapt to the changing economic environment and claims of 10 per cent to 21,197 million.
This was partly offset by a to realise over time the full potential of our franchise, brands and 6 per cent reduction in operating expenses, despite the headwinds of capabilities, and therefore to deliver strong, stable and sustainable inflation and higher taxes, as a result of the management actions we returns for our shareholders.
took during the year, and a 26 per cent reduction in the impairment charge, reflecting improving credit quality in our portfolios.
2011 results overview The benefits from the improvements we achieved in the Groups The results reflect our focus on rapidly improving the Groups risk funding mix, increasing deposit balances and reducing the proportion profile and further strengthening the balance sheet, through improving of wholesale funding, were most clearly evident in our core net interest the Groups capital and funding position and making substantial margin.
This declined by only 6 basis points to 2.42 per cent, despite progress on non-core asset reductions, deposit growth, and our the impact of higher funding costs, the effect of refinancing a significant funding programme.
amount of government and central bank facilities and lower interest While this means that we now have a much more resilient balance rates in general.
However, our Group net interest margin declined sheet, our income performance was affected by these risk and asset by 14 basis points to 2.07 per cent, in line with guidance, given that reductions, as well as by the subdued UK economic environment.
On a it reflected the full impact of these effects on our predominantly statutory basis, our results were affected by, amongst other things, the wholesale funded non-core business.
responsible position we took on Payment Protection Insurance PPI, which resulted in a 3.2 billion provision.
In addition, with over 2 billion Our strategy and action plan to deliver for of run-rate cost savings now realised from integration, we have customers and shareholders now commenced the simplification initiatives which will significantly improve our efficiency and are allowing us to invest in growing our core Our strategy, which we set out on 30 June 2011 following an extensive customer business.
and detailed review of the business, is focused on the UK, where we have distinctive assets and capabilities including our valuable customer In reducing risk and strengthening the balance sheet, our proactive franchise and market position, and multiple strong brands.
management of the non-core portfolio and of our funding position meant that we reduced non-core assets by 53 billion to 141 billion, It is built on being the best bank for our personal, commercial and against a commitment to decrease the non-core portfolio to less than corporate customers, creating value by investing in initiatives where 90 billion by the end of 2014, and significantly strengthened our we can make a real difference for them, and focusing on operating funding position, raising 35 billion of total term wholesale funding, sustainably and responsibly with the objective of delivering strong, around 10 billion more than initially budgeted.
stable and sustainable returns for shareholders over time.
The new pricing management of savings products we introduced in the While our focus is on restoring the Group to sustainable profitability year and our multi-brand strategy resulted in customer deposit growth and delivering returns for all shareholders, we expect the delivery of excluding repos of 6 per cent, significantly above market growth, our strategic targets to provide, over time, an opportunity for the UK and without leading the market on rates.
We had a particularly strong Government to dispose of its shareholding in the Group in an orderly performance in our Halifax challenger brand as a result of innovative manner, and deliver value for taxpayers.
products launched in the year.
As a consequence of our actions in reducing non-core loans and increasing deposits, we substantially improved our loan to deposit ratio, by 19 percentage points to 135 per cent.
Overview Business review r Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW The Group benefits from the depth and diversity of experience within Delivering our vision the management team.
The complementary skill sets across the team strengthens the Groups ability to effectively adjust to changing market managing a more environments, deliver on our strategic plan and become the best bank for customers.
Brief biographies of the management team are agile organisation outlined below: Standing L to R: Seated L to R: David Nicholson Mark Fisher Angie Risley Juan Colombs Group Director, Director, Group Operations Group HR Director Chief Risk Officer Halifax Community Bank Mark joined the Group in March 2009 Angie joined in May 2007 and outside Juan joined the Group in January 2011 as Director, Group Operations and David joined Halifax in 1995, and has over of Lloyds Banking Group is also a having previously been Chief Risk Officer Integration.
He is a career banker having 25 years experience in Retail financial Non-Executive Director of Serco Group at Santander UK.
Juan has over 25 years started his career in 1981 with NatWest.
Having developed his career plc and a member of the governments of banking experience, with Risk, Control Over the past 15 years, Mark has run scale inside the Group, he now has responsibility Employment Engagement Task-Force.
and Business Management roles across banking and technology operations, for the Halifax Community Bank.
He is Before joining the Group, Angie was Corporate, Investment, Retail and including complex change programmes.
also a director of Sainsburys bank and Group HR Director and an Executive Risk divisions.
Chairman of the Your Tomorrow pension Director on the board for Whitbread Plc.
Antonio Lorenzo Group Director, Wealth & International Tim Tookey Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Alison Brittain and Group Strategy Antnio joined the Board in January 2011 Group Director, Retail as an Executive Director and become Antonio joined the Group in March 2011.
Tim joined the Group in 2006 as Deputy Group Chief Executive in March 2011.
Previously at Santander, Antonio was CFO Group Finance Director, before being Alison joined the Group in September Further details can be found on page 35. for the UK business and managed the appointed acting Group Finance 2011.
Alison has 25 years Retail and Wealth and Intermediaries businesses, Director in April 2008.
Appointed to Commercial Banking experience, having John Maltby and performed in several other the Board in October 2008 as Group previously been Executive Director for Group Director, Commercial international roles since joining Santander Finance Director.
Tim left the Group on Retail Distribution at Santander and in 1998.
Prior to this Antonio worked for 24 February 2012. prior to that worked at Barclays in senior John joined Lloyds TSB in 2007 as Arthur Andersen in the financial sector management roles across a variety of Managing Director, Commercial and whilst he was also a Professor at the business areas and functions.
was appointed to the Group Executive Universidad Europea fide Madrid.
He has over 20 years experience of delivering Matthew Young business growth, transformation, Group Corporate Affairs Director IPOs, acquisitions and divestments in multi-national and specialist Financial Matthew joined the Group in Services organisations and was February 2011, having previously been previously CEO Kensington Group Plc.
Communications Director at Santander UK.
Matt has worked in a variety of senior Toby Strauss management roles within the industry, Group Director, Insurance including Abbey National and NatWest.
Toby joined the Group in October 2011 having previously been UK Life CEO at Aviva, joining them in 2008.
He has a range of experiences in financial services and technology sectors, with much time spent at McKinsey.
Introduction 1 Lloyds Banking Group Group performance 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 17 Key performance indicators 6 At a glance 8 Chairmans statement 10 Group Chief Executives review 14 20 171 205 355 We have also begun to invest behind increasing our share of capitalOur strategy will create shareholder value through simplifying processes, systems and products and policies, and investing a light business in our corporate and commercial businesses.
Key successes included the launch of Arena, our online foreign exchange proportion of the savings realised from this simplification in growth initiatives targeted at high-return areas of our business, and by ensuring and money market deposit platform and our UK government bond market making operation in our Wholesale business.
In Insurance, that capital is primarily allocated to core growth businesses.
our focus on UK customer needs delivered a 23 per cent increase in The four elements of our action plan to deliver our strategy are to: LP&I UK protection sales PVNBP, which now account for 22 per cent Strengthen our balance sheet and liquidity position 2010: 13 per cent of bancassurance sales.
Reshape our business portfolio to fit our assets, capabilities Further details on the good progress we have made against our and risk appetite strategic initiatives in each business are given in each of the divisional reviews in this document.
Simplify the Group to improve agility, service and efficiency Invest to be the best bank for our customers and to grow our Management team changes core customer businesses On 1 February 2012, we announced changes to the Groups senior management team to ensure we have the right organisational Good progress against strategic initiatives structure to deliver on our strategy and move to the next phase of We are already making good progress against the key initiatives set out the Groups transformation.
As a result, five business lines, Retail, in our strategy.
Wholesale, Commercial, Wealth and International, and Insurance, now report directly to me and, further to the centralisation of all In reshaping our business portfolio, we have fully embedded across the control functions as part of the Strategic Review, five control and business a conservative approach to, and prudent appetite for, risk.
We support functions also report to me, namely Group Corporate have in place rigorous controls over the risk profile of all new business, Functions into which Human Resources, Legal and Secretariat and as evidenced, for example, in the Retail mortgage book where we Group Audit report, Risk, Finance, Operations, and Corporate Affairs.
have seen impaired loans decreasing but where our coverage ratio has increased, and are managing and successfully reducing our non-core assets in a disciplined manner and broadly in line with book value.
In Supporting our customers and the UK economy the core business, the improving quality of our portfolios and their As part of our strategy to be the best bank for customers, and as a decreasing risk profile, has been reflected in a 7 per cent decrease in leading financial services provider in the UK, we continue to actively risk-weighted assets.
We have also reviewed our existing portfolios and support sustainable growth in the UK economy through the focused confirmed them as adequately provisioned.
range of products and services we provide to our business and personal customers, as well as through partnerships we have built Given our UK-focused strategy to capitalise on the strength of with industry and Government.
our capabilities in the UK, we have also committed to reduce our international presence from 30 countries to less than 15 by 2014.
To The banking industry has faced much criticism in recent years and date we have announced the exit from operations in seven countries.
we recognise that significant work is required to rebuild trust with customers and other stakeholders.
The financial services sector does Our integration programme has now delivered single platforms however have a fundamental role to play in society in supporting supporting the Halifax, Bank of Scotland and Lloyds TSB brands and, both individuals and businesses through the provision of financial and by the end of 2011, had achieved more than 2 billion per annum of payment services, and can be instrumental in helping the economy run-rate cost synergies and other operating efficiencies.
The industry can help ensure the future strength Simplifying the Group is a cornerstone of our strategy, not only in its and economic well being of the UK and its people and given our delivery of cost savings, but also importantly in simplifying our products strategic assets we aim to play an important part in this.
and services from the customers point of view, and allowing us to I am pleased to report that during 2011, despite the challenging increase investment in our franchise.
We have now commenced the economic climate, the Group exceeded its full year contribution to delivery of the simplification initiatives set out in our strategy, and by the Merlin lending commitments which were agreed in February the end of 2011 had achieved initial run rate savings of 242 million in with the UK Government, both for SMEs and in total.
In the full year the first six months of the programme.
We have also greatly improved we provided 45 billion of committed gross lending to UK businesses, our cost management through instituting a rigorous process overseen of which 12.5 billion was to SMEs.
In the same period, the Group by a Cost Board, which has helped the Group drive significant supported the start-up of 124,000 new SME businesses.
For 2012, we reductions in our operating expenses.
have relaunched our SME Charter in which we have pledged to make A portion of the savings realised from our simplification programme at least 12 billion of gross new lending available to SMEs.
will allow us to further invest to be the best bank for our customers, SMEs are a particularly important source of job creation and growth and to grow our core customer businesses which is at the heart of in the UK.
Our core Commercial business is focused on serving these our strategy.
We commenced the implementation of a number of customers, and we demonstrated our support for SME customers key initiatives in 2011, with the revitalisation of the Halifax brand and in 2011 with year on year net lending growth of 3 per cent in this strengthening our support for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises business area.
This compared favourably with the negative growth both resulting in a significant outperformance of those business areas in SME lending across the industry reported in the latest available against market trends.
market statistics from the Bank of England.
In 2012, we have pledged to make at least 12 billion of gross new lending available to SMEs, with a further pledge to deliver positive net lending growth, to help stimulate economic output and improve confidence in the sector.
Overview Business review r Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW As a member of the Business Finance Taskforce, we have led work to Our commitment to our employees improve SME customer relationships through mentoring and a right Our success depends on our employees, the service they provide to appeal and have agreed to contribute 300 million to the Business for our customers, and the long-term partnerships they build with Growth Fund to provide better access to equity finance.
We are committed to attracting, retaining and developing our For our Retail customers, the Group completed 28 billion of new people, and in 2011 launched a number of initiatives to identify and mortgage business in 2011, achieving a market share of approximately develop our future leaders, to simplify the link between performance 20 per cent of gross new residential mortgage lending.
We are and reward, and to ensure colleagues have the capabilities to deliver committed to supporting the UK housing market and first-time buyers excellent service through learning and development resources such as in particular.
We advanced more than 5.6 billion of new lending to our Learning Academies, through supporting external qualifications, first-time buyers in 2011, helping over 52,000 customers own their and by introducing development and review programmes.
Our market share of new first-time buyer business was While the results of the colleague engagement survey we conducted approximately 24 per cent by value in 2011.
In total, we advanced in the second half of the year reflected both the challenging external more than 15.5 billion of new mortgages to over 124,000 customers environment and the work that remains to be done in ensuring Lloyds buying their home in the UK in 2011.
Our Halifax brand is a leading Banking Group is a great place to work, the progress we have made lender in the affordable housing sector, with a dedicated product range during the year reflects the strong capabilities and dedication of our designed for borrowers seeking shared equity or shared ownership people which will continue to support the delivery of our strategy.
Remuneration is an important issue for our stakeholders and the Group.
Looking forward, as part of our commitment to customers, we will keep We are keen to ensure we recruit and retain the right employees to the same net number of branches in our network for the next three drive our business forward and deliver on our strategy while ensuring years, excluding Verde, and we will not close a branch if it is the last one that there is alignment between remuneration and results.
is reflective of the performance of the business and total discretionary We also committed to reduce the level of FSA reportable complaints bonus awards are approximately 30 per cent lower than last year with we receive, excluding PPI complaints, by 20 per cent in 2011 compared bonuses above 2,000 subject to deferral and adjustment.
We achieved a 24 per cent reduction, and reduced our given the continued challenging economic conditions salary awards banking complaints per 1,000 accounts to 1.5.
We achieved this have been limited, especially at more senior levels.
through initiatives such as our Phone a Friend service, training of our 40,000 front line colleagues, and the roll out in the second half of an EC mandated business disposal Project Verde externally accredited complaint handling qualification.
This makes us Following our decision early in 2011 to accelerate Project Verde, we the first financial services organisation to have professionally qualified have made good progress, and, having reviewed the formal offers complaint handlers.
To enable our customers get the right outcome for the Verde business, the preferred bidder for the business is The faster, we are extending the opening hours of our specialist complaints Co-operative Group.
Any final transaction will be subject to regulatory teams to 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
As a result of these initiatives, approval and certain other conditions.
The Group will continue to we are now resolving over 90 per cent of complaints at first touch.
In progress an IPO as an alternative to a direct sale.
We remain on track 2012, we have committed to improving this performance further, by to complete the transfer of the business before the end of 2013. reducing banking complaints to just 1.3 per 1,000 current accounts, and in 2014 to 1.0 per 1,000 current accounts.
Equity dividends The European Commissions restriction on equity dividend payments Meeting our customers needs with successful new was part of the conditions of the State Aid restructuring plan which products and services expired in early 2012.
We understand that the absence of dividends Our strategy recognises our customers needs for product simplicity and has created difficulties for many of our shareholders and we remain transparency, access through multiple channels, and value-for-money committed to recommencing progressive dividend payments as soon products and services.
I am therefore pleased at the success of the as we are able.
new products and services launched in 2011, and the widespread It is our intention to do so when the financial position of the Group and recognition and broad range of external awards achieved across the market conditions permit, and after regulatory capital requirements Group.
In Retail, notable product successes included a number of are defined and prudently met.
At this time those requirements remain innovative Halifax savings products, which while not rate-leading, unclear and although we have made good progress against our delivered strong deposit growth.
These included, in the first half, the strategic priorities during the year we are not yet able to forecast when ISA Promise which saw our cash ISA balances grow significantly above we will be able to resume dividend payments, although we continue to our historic share, and, in the second half, the Savers Prize Draw which strive to recommence them as soon as possible.
saw over 450,000 customers registered for the first draw.
We also received a number of external awards recognising the quality Greater clarity emerging on UK regulatory and consistency of delivery to our customers.
Within Wholesale, our framework Corporate Markets area won the Best Bank of the Year award for the seventh consecutive year at the Real FD CBI Excellence awards, while The publication of the ICBs final report in September and the in Retail we were named Best Overall Mortgage Lender for the tenth Governments response to the report in December are significant steps year running in the Your Mortgage Magazine Awards and in Insurance in providing greater clarity on changes to the regulatory framework for we were named as Britains most popular home insurance provider by the UK banking industry to secure greater financial stability.
the independent market researchers GFK NOP for the tenth year in a row.
In responding to our customers need for access through multiple channels, in Retail, we launched a suite of Mobile Banking apps, and have now recorded one and a half million downloads.
Introduction 1 Lloyds Banking Group Group performance 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19 Key performance indicators 6 At a glance 8 Chairmans statement 10 Group Chief Executives review 14 20 171 205 355 On competition, we are pleased that the Verde sale is seen as creating In relation to our balance sheet, this progress includes the 53 billion an effective new challenger in our market, and that our proposals, reduction in non-core assets achieved in the year and the 60 basis point developed with the Payments Council, to make it quicker and simpler increase in our core tier 1 ratio to 10.8 per cent.
As regards our income for customers to switch accounts, were recommended by the ICB and targets, we have reduced our asset quality ratio impairment as a backed by the Government.
percentage of average advances by 39 basis points to 1.62 per cent, a significant step towards our target of 50 to 60 basis points.
The positive We also welcome the Governments endorsement of the ICBs strong momentum of our Simplification programme, with 242 million proposals to ring-fence retail banking operations as part of a wider of run-rate cost savings already achieved at the end of 2011, means that regulatory framework including capital and liquidity and effective we are now increasing our target cost savings from this programme by macroand micro-prudential supervision, which should remove any 200 million, to 1.9 billion from 1.7 billion by the end of 2014, and to implicit tax-payers guarantee for the ring-fenced entities.
Given that 1.7 billion from 1.5 billion in 2014. we are predominantly a retail and commercial bank, we would expect to be less affected by the implementation of a retail ring-fence, but Given the economic outlook, in 2012, on a combined businesses basis, believe it will be important for any transition period to be flexible in we expect income to be lower than in 2011, given further non-core order to minimise any impact on economic growth, and for banks to asset reductions, subdued demand in the core business leading to a implement the required structural changes.
broadly stable core book, higher wholesale funding costs, and interest rates likely to remain at low levels for longer.
We retain significant The ICB also recommended that ring-fenced banks should hold a capacity to grow core assets subject to demand and to maintaining our capital base of at least 10 per cent to absorb the impact of potential prudent appetite for risk.
Our banking net interest margin, as expected, losses or financial crises.
The Governments proposals on capital are was marginally below 2 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2011.
We consistent with the capital targets we set in our strategic review in 2011 expect our full year banking net interest margin to be below 2 per cent and, although much work remains to be done on the detail of the in 2012, falling year-on-year by approximately the same amount in 2012 implementation capital requirements, we are on track to achieve the as in 2011, as a result of continued higher wholesale funding costs, the capital levels the ICB recommends.
repricing of interest earning assets and higher costs from the spread We expect the Government to provide further details of its plans in between base rates and LIBOR.
We expect the benefit from fair value the spring of 2012 and to outline which of the proposals it intends to unwind to reduce to approximately 0.5 billion in 2012.
However, we progress to legislation.
We will continue to work with HM Treasury and expect a further reduction in costs, and a similar reduction in Group our regulators in the coming months ahead of the publication of the impairment in 2012 as seen in 2011, as a result of further asset quality final white paper.
improvements across the divisions, with the largest improvement coming from International.
Economic outlook We expect to continue to strengthen our balance sheet in 2012, by While the outlook for the UK economy remains uncertain, and a further reduction in non-core assets of approximately 25 billion, vulnerable to developments in the Eurozone, we believe the most through targeting further deposit growth of around 3 per cent based likely scenario is for further weakness in the first half of 2012 followed on a continuation of current market conditions, by strengthening our by a relatively modest recovery in the second half resulting in broadly funding position, with approximately 50 per cent of our term wholesale flat real GDP for the year as a whole, with further modest recovery in funding target for 2012 already completed, and by further improving 2013.
As a result, we expect UK base rates to remain at current levels our core tier 1 ratio.
Growth in customer deposits remains a key part into 2013, and unemployment to rise from current levels to peak at of our funding strategy, and, assuming a continuation of current trends, around 9 per cent in 2013.
However, we expect inflation CPI to fall we would expect to reach our medium-term Group loan-to-deposit from current high levels to below 3 per cent in 2012 and possibly below ratio target of 130 per cent or below by the end of 2012, two years 2 per cent in 2013.
UK property prices are likely to reflect the weak ahead of plan.
economic environment, with house prices remaining broadly flat in While we remain mindful of the challenges of the external environment, 2012 and 2013 and commercial property prices likely to be marginally Lloyds Banking Group is now in a significantly stronger position than weaker in 2012, and marginally stronger in 2013. it was twelve months ago, and I would like to thank all our people for their contribution to our progress in 2011.
Given we are likely to have Outlook and financial guidance lower interest rates for longer and higher regulatory costs along with deleveraging in credit markets, it will be those banks who can create We expect the external environment to remain challenging in 2012, competitive advantage through a lower risk premium combined with with a subdued economy, continued high levels of regulatory scrutiny best in class efficiency who will achieve superior returns and will capture and political uncertainty relating to the banking sector, and the the opportunities as economic conditions improve.
Absent a material continued potential for downside effects from financial market volatility deterioration in the economic environment, we remain confident in our and instability in the Eurozone.
ability to continue to execute against our strategic plan, and therefore Nevertheless, we remain confident that our medium-term financial continue to believe we are well positioned to realise over time the full targets, as set out in our June 2011 Strategic Review are achievable potential of our organisation, brands and capabilities, and to achieve over time, although, as we anticipated in our Q3 2011 Interim strong, stable and sustainable returns for shareholders.
Management Statement, we now expect the attainment of our income related targets, including for Other Operating Income, to be Antnio Horta-Osrio Group Chief Executive delayed as a result of the weaker than expected economic outlook.
As a consequence, we now also expect the attainment of our return on equity target to be delayed beyond 2014.
On the other hand, we continue to expect to deliver our balance sheet, cost and impairment targets in 2014, and in some cases sooner, given the good progress made so far.
Overview Business review r Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Marketplace trends 21 Business model and strategy 24 Delivering our action plan 26 Relationships and responsibility 30 Customers 31 Colleagues 34 Communities 38 Our London 2012 partnership 42 Summary of Group results 44 Divisional results 54 Retail 54 Wholesale 59 Commercial 66 Wealth and International 70 Insurance 77 Group Operations 84 Other financial information 86 Core and non-core business analysis 86 Volatility arising in insurance businesses 94 Liability management gains 95 Integration costs and benefits 96 Simplification costs and benefits 96 Banking net interest margin 97 Five year financial summary 98 Risk management 99
