12 Overview Chief Executives Review We are a business in transformation, Introduction and overview We have made good progress over the last year, with improved operating in a highly dynamic and financial performance and significant steps taken in delivering on our ambition to be, by scale and offering, a world-leading evolving global industry: development diversified exchange group.
of growth opportunities, continued Against a background of more stable although highly competitive markets, we achieved total income of 675 million, a seven delivery on cost reductions, enhancing per cent increase.
Adjusted operating profit was 341 million, a 22 per cent increase, as we maintained focus on cost control.
our competitiveness and improving Growth across a range of Group operations illustrates the increasingly diversified nature of our business.
customer service will remain pivotal to The past year saw the cautious return of optimism to the further progress in the year ahead.
economy and global capital markets.
London remains a world-leading centre for companies seeking to raise capital, both domestically and internationally, and the Group retains an enviable franchise in helping issuers access capital and generate liquidity in secondary markets.
We saw strong growth in the number of new issues and the pipeline across geography, sector and markets remains encouraging.
Following the introduction of a number of key initiatives designed to bring the Group closer to its clients, our share of order book trading in UK cash equities has been stable over the year.
Our fixed income markets, MTS and MOT, performed well and the IDEM derivatives market in Italy also delivered good growth.
Our Information Services and Technology Services divisions made good progress.
The number of users of the Groups real time data remained broadly unchanged over the year compared with a period of reduced demand last year.
Our other reference data, desktop products, and FTSE Indices businesses all delivered growth over the twelve months.
Contributing to growth in the Technology segment were MillenniumIT and other specialist technology services, including network connections and co-location of clients servers in our data centres.
Further details on business performance and new developments are provided in the review of strategy below and also in the Business Review section of this report.
Strategy Review Last year we set out a clear strategy for the development of the business, with customer focus and improving operational efficiency very much central to our plans.
Our strategy is broadly characterised as getting in shape, leveraging our assets and developing opportunities.
The imperatives are fourfold, namely to drive efficiency, build scale, increase scope and extend reach.
Our strategic outline is more than a one year plan but we are undoubtedly making good progress.
Getting in shape drive efficiency The focus of initial management attention, getting in shape, was on reducing costs: implementing low cost, high performance technology: improving client relationships: and adjusting tariffs, particularly with regard to improving our competitive position in cash equities trading.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Overview Chief Executives review 13 Pleasingly, we reduced our adjusted organic operating cost base had a transformational year, having been completely restructured, by eight per cent, reflecting previously implemented headcount partnering with FactSet and recording a significant surge in retail reductions and other savings.
We have also extended the UnaVista service to provide a Swaps Portal and a Confirmation Portal to help Last year we conducted a full review of our technology clients automate processes and reduce costs and risk.
We have requirements, resulting in the acquisition of MillenniumIT, introduced optionality for clients with new reporting structures an innovative, capital markets-focused software services for real time data use, and introduced new post trade data business.
We embarked on an ambitious programme to swiftly services, providing data in new forms to increase client choice implement MillenniumITs leading, high speed and high of the information they receive.
performance equities trading technology across the Groups markets.
In October, we successfully completed the migration In Technology Services, MillenniumIT has signed agreements of Turquoise, our pan-European MTF, onto the Millennium to supply technology to a number of third parties, extending Exchange trading system.
This was followed by the London Stock the number of users of its innovative systems including the Exchange main UK equity trading market in February 2011.
The Johannesburg Stock Exchange which recently announced its new platform is running at least 10 times faster than its predecessor intention to use Millennium Exchange, and the Mongolian TradElect and delivering consistent world-leading average latency Stock Exchange which signed a strategic partnership with of below 125 microseconds, fully meeting our requirements for the Group to restructure and develop the national exchange a low cost and highly competitive trading system.
of the worlds third fastest growing economy.
We continued the process started last year with the roll out of the Developing opportunities building scale and extending TMX Groups derivatives trading technology, SOLA, to our IDEM international operations market, following the successful earlier launch on EDX.
This has The last quarter of our financial year saw the Group announce provided IDEM clients with a faster and improved trading system.
a merger of equals with Canadian-based exchange business TMX Work to enhance our equity markets offering has driven significant Group Inc. to create a leading diversified international exchange improvements.
We have negotiated improved pricing for clearing group.
As we set out at the time of the announcement, the merger and settlement services by external providers, which reduce the will create a group highly diversified across asset classes and overall cost of trading on our UK market: and we introduced new geographies, a leading global listings franchise, with significant tariffs last May intended to incentivise trading which was well efficiencies for customers, increased scale and reach, a strong received.
Our share of trading, in what remains a competitive balance sheet and considerable growth opportunities.
Over the marketplace, was stable throughout the financial year at an coming months we will continue to work on achieving the average 63.5 per cent, and in Italy the share of order book value customary shareholder and regulatory approvals with the aim traded was also steady at 84.0 per cent.
of completing the transaction in the autumn of 2011.
Leveraging assets increasing scope and reach Outlook Turquoise, our pan-European MTF joint venture with 12 banks, We have had a good year, reporting a strong financial which became part of the Group shortly before the start of the performance.
I am especially proud of the energised team financial year has made good progress, with a significantly reduced I am surrounded by.
People remain at the core of all that cost base and a growing share of trading.
Of particular note was we do: from those on our highly successful new international the increase in dark pool trading, regularly occupying the number graduate scheme to experienced market practitioners, we are one or two position among MTFs for much of the past year.
We actively working together to drive the business forward.
There have also recently announced plans to launch a pan-European are many opportunities, especially in post trade, derivatives derivatives business through the creation of Turquoise Derivatives and financial technology and I am excited about the future.
in combination with the Groups existing derivatives market, EDX, We are a business in transformation, operating in a highly and use the SOLA platform already adopted by EDX.
FTSE 100 dynamic and evolving global industry: development of growth Futures will begin trading on this platform in June 2011, with opportunities, continued delivery on cost reductions, enhancing further products planned, subject to obtaining relevant trading our competitiveness and improving customer service will licences in some instances.
remain pivotal to further progress in the year ahead.
Post Trade had a strong year with total income up 30 per cent, driven in part by clearing an increased number of Italian derivatives and fixed income trades which also resulted in higher margin held by the clearing operation.
Active risk and treasury management of the cash margin in turn contributed to increased net treasury management income.
The European Xavier Rolet post trade landscape remains poised for widespread structural Chief Executive re-definition and we continue to pursue a number of opportunities that are available to the Group.
In Information Services, Proquote, a cornerstone of our important retail strategy, has For further information visit: www.
