Man Group plc Report and accounts 06 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Section summary Trading conditions were 2011: record sales: spike in redemptions after the volatile summer months difficult for Man and A full spectrum of alternative investment the broader asset styles with cross cycle appeal management industry 2012: focus on investment performance, efficiency and meeting client needs in 2011, especially in the final six months.
To watch an interview with Peter giving an update on our strategic progress.
com Peter Clarke Chief Executive 31 December 2011 Man Group plc Report and accounts 07 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 We ended the year with lower funds under Chief Executives review management FUM of $58.4 billion.
Lower management and performance fees combined to reduce diluted earnings per share for the nine months to 31 December 2011 to 7.6 cents.
Man remains soundly profitable, strongly capitalised and well positioned strategically.
In 2012, our focus on investment performance, meeting client needs and efficiency will move us towards our long term goal to be the leading alternative investment manager globally.
Liquid alternative investments remain a growing sector of the asset management industry.
Our careful positioning, long established performance track record and capital strength position us to participate in this growth as investor sentiment improves.
2011 results PG 12 The nine months to 31 December 2011 were a challenging trading period for Man.
Record sales early in the period contributed to gross sales for the nine months of $16.7 billion.
These were spread across strategies, investor types and geographies and reflect the breadth and depth of our enlarged business.
Inflows were strongest in open-ended products, reflecting increased investor focus on liquidity, regulation and ease of access.
Extreme market volatility over the summer severely tested investor risk appetite across the asset management industry and caused redemptions to spike in September before they normalised in the final quarter.
We ended the period with funds under management of $58.4 billion, down from $69.1 billion at the end of March 2011.
Movement in funds under management FUM $bn 20 16.7 10 $69.1bn $58.4bn 0 -4.0 -3.8 -1.4 -10 -18.2 -20 31 March Sales & Performance FX and Other 2011 redemptions acquired FUM Man Group plc Report and accounts 08 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Chief Executives review continued These challenging conditions impacted many markets, with the Mans corporate strategy is HFRX global hedge fund index ending the year down 8.9%.
AHL, To deliver strong long-term investment performance our systematic, trend-following managed futures manager, gave across a unique range of alternative investment strategies up about half of its 2010 gains in 2011 to finish the year down and formats 6.8%, with short duration price trends and significant sharp to a growing global investor base reversals proving difficult to navigate.
Performance at GLG varied significantly across investment styles.
The European long short with a strong framework of people management, strategy outperformed industry benchmarks to finish the year up governance, risk management, innovation and capital 7.0%.
There was good relative performance from European allocation.
distressed, equity market neutral, credit and macro styles, but emerging markets and equity styles driven primarily by stock A full spectrum of investment styles with cross cycle selection recorded double digit negative performance.
Man appeal PG 38 Multi-Manager also had a challenging year, but demonstrated that With the integration of GLG now complete, we are actively diversification across styles, disciplined strategy selection and marketing a comprehensive suite of systematic and defensive risk positioning could provide downside protection.
discretionary liquid alternative investment strategies to existing and potential new investors.
Our 2011 sales featured $2.5 billion Adjusted profit before tax for the nine month period was $262 from sources new to the enlarged firm including a $1 billion million, compared to $599 million for the twelve months to GLG managed currency overlay in Japan, $600 million in March 2011.
Negative AHL performance and the resulting guaranteed products including the new Man-IP 220 GLG, $800 fide-gear were key drivers of a substantial reduction in million of allocations into GLG from new territories such as guaranteed product funds under management the highest Australia and a $145 million UCITS multi strategy product margin part of our product range.
This adverse change in drawing on the trading capabilities of all our internal styles.
product mix, together with reduced performance fees, resulted in lower earnings.
Sales synergies following GLG acquisition While we remain well positioned for profitable growth as markets and investor demand improve, we have stepped up our focus $2.5bn on efficiency to reflect changes in our product and margin mix.
In 2011, our biggest operational efficiency project was to outsource services such as valuations, fund accounting and registrar We acted to fill gaps in the market for new systematic strategies functions.
This enabled our investors to benefit from the scale by bringing together quantitative expertise from AHL, GLG and and expertise of a third party provider and will generate cost Man Multi-Manager to form Man Systematic Strategies MSS.
We also looked at our funding Over the course of the year MSS successfully launched its first requirements and bought back some of our outstanding debt to systematic equity fund, delivered positive returns of 25.6% from generate a further $20 million of interest expense savings in 2012.
With a further $75 million of savings announced in January FUM by style 2012, $50 million of which will be delivered in 2012 and $25 $bn million in 2013, we have measures in place to reduce our 2012 25 cost base by a total of $90 million.
21.0 Man remains well capitalised and cash positive.
The Board has 20 proposed a final dividend for the three month period to 31 December 2011 of 7.0 cents per share, to give a maintained total dividend, pro-rated for the nine month period, of 16.5 15 cents per share.
Given our financial strength and confidence in the long term prospects for our business, we intend to pay a total dividend of 22 cents per share in 2012.
The Chairmans 11.2 10.7 review sets out our dividend policy.
PG 02 10 2011 operating progress 6.3 6.1 In our previous Annual Report, we said that our key priority for 5 this reporting period was to capitalise on the substantial business transformation we undertook with the acquisition of 2.3 0.8 GLG.
We made significant progress over the last nine months 0 in shaping our enlarged business for future growth.
AHL GLG equity alternatives GLG credit and convertibles GLG emerging markets GLG macro and special situations GLG long only Man Multi-Manager Man Group plc Report and accounts 09 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 its volatility based TailProtect product and is bringing to market The firm now benefits from a senior management team systematic offerings in fixed income and commodities.
MSS participating more directly in the markets we invest in, the finished the year with assets of around $1 billion and money we run for clients and in developments across asset considerable interest in TailProtect in particular, which has management, with the composition of our Executive translated into early 2012 allocations.
I am grateful not only to my Executive Committee colleagues but to everyone at Man who has Investment management excellence, close to markets contributed to the progress we have made this year.
with proven ability to integrate new trading talent PG 32 Man Group Executive Committee Our ability to perform for investors is a function of the talent and Peter Clarke Chief Executive commitment of everybody at Man.
We continued our Luke Ellis Man Multi-Manager programme of investing in our investment management Kevin Hayes Finance Director capabilities through 2011.
Pierre Lagrange GLG Christoph Mller Global Sales AHL expanded the number of instruments traded with beneficial effects on returns: recalibrated predictors: refined Michael Robinson Human Resources portfolio construction techniques: and formalised a sector team Emmanuel Roman Chief Operating Officer structure which aligned research more closely to price Stephen Ross General Counsel behaviour in specific markets.
AHLs Hong Kong operation, Jonathan Sorrell Corporate Finance and Strategy expanded in May 2011 to create standalone trading capability, Tim Wong AHL now covers 49 Asian markets and traded around $4 billion a day in 2011.
In the past two years, the Asia desk has reduced Asian trading costs by more than 20%.
Accessing deep markets by addressing investor preferences PG 40 The integration of GLG provides a robust and versatile In 2011, we saw private investors, in particular in Europe, investment management platform with significant potential to accessing the liquidity offered by our open-ended regulated expand existing strategies and add new styles.
Ore Hill was products to build up cash holdings at a time of significant brought onto the GLG platform in New York to strengthen our volatility.
The resulting reduction in open-ended FUM says more credit capabilities and enhance Ore Hills operational about short term market dynamics than the popularity of these effectiveness.
A new Asian team is building out our Asian formats, which remain firmly part of investor preference for discretionary investment capabilities to meet investor demand onshore, regulated investment vehicles.
We will continue to for exposure to Asian assets.
participate in these markets and expect an increasing proportion of our private investor assets to be in this form.
In Man Multi-Manager, more detailed position level analysis through an increased proportion of allocations to managed Our biggest launch last year was Nomura Global Trend, an accounts has fed through into a more proactive approach to AHL fund offering daily liquidity and exposure to high yielding managing investor portfolios.
Assets have steadied, and we currencies, with the potential to pay a monthly dividend, now have $8.1 billion under management in managed features which are especially appealing to the Japanese private accounts.
The GLG multi-strategy portfolio which dynamically investor sector.
We were the first manager to offer a managed invests across the firms in-house styles finished the year over futures product with these popular features to the $760 billion 400 basis points ahead of the industrys investable benchmark.
Japanese onshore mutual fund market.
I was particularly pleased in the period with the way we used We continued to develop our institutional capabilities in markets our expanded knowledge of the markets and trading dynamics as geographically diverse as Australia, where we saw our first to protect the firm and its investors from challenging institutional allocations to GLG, and the United States.
These arose in futures clearing markets continued to make progress in the United States, where we have and more broadly, as Eurozone exposures threatened to created a tailored suite of US institution friendly products and undermine finance counterparties in Europe and beyond.
have a range of strategies rated favourably by tier one consulting firms.
We surpassed the billion dollar annual asset raising mark in the United States for the first time in 2011.
Man Group plc Report and accounts 10 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Chief Executives review continued 2012 priorities Building on our progress in 2011, we are focused on three priorities.
Very simply, this begins with investment performance.
Investment performance Meeting client needs At AHL, we are bringing renewed focus to broad themes Looking at our 2012 product pipeline, we continue to see such as speed of trading and, through our sector teams, opportunities in both private investor and institutional markets.
to the specific markets where we have seen weaker relative performance.
We will step up our collaboration with the Oxford We expect private investor demand to continue to be focused Man Institute of Quantitative Finance on specific projects.
on ease of access through onshore products, reflecting a trend we have participated in over several years.
The liquid nature of At GLG, we continued to refine our focus on capturing the our chosen investment styles make them well suited for upside from markets and managing the risks to capital from onshore formats, and we have $8.5 billion of our funds under volatility and uncertainty, as we work hard to build products management in UCITS formats across 35 strategies.
A number of styles, notably equity long short, emerging markets and market neutral, have started The transition in our product mix from guaranteed formats to 2012 very strongly.
open-ended products will be reflected in our revenue base as well as in increased frequency in our redemptions and In Man Multi-Manager, we will continue our 2011 work to subscriptions.
Creating onshore products within the constraints create conviction-led returns from controlled risk taking, of sometimes embryonic regulatory frameworks and competing leveraging our managed account infrastructure and analytics.
for assets in broader markets is a slower, more patient build The Man Multi-Manager team is also responsible for managing process than we see in some of our other channels.
However, our guaranteed product range, where the level of funds under having the scale and resources to participate in the growth of management in AHL combination products is highly variable these markets remains a very significant competitive advantage.
PG 25 On the institutional side, we will access demand through Our strong capital position and versatile investment managed account platforms, detailed reporting, regulated management platforms enable us to contemplate additional structures and over thirty years of in depth knowledge and investment opportunities on a targeted basis.
However, we experience working with pension funds, insurance companies anticipate that our growth will be largely organic, as we and sovereign wealth funds globally.
capitalise on our investment management talent and infrastructure to build assets and demonstrate performance.
While the projected mix between institutional and private investor assets is always hard to assess, our structuring capabilities and local knowledge position us to participate in all sources of allocation.
Through uncertain markets, maintaining existing assets is as important for us as delivering new flows.
Reporting on a clear and timely basis, operational excellence, informed regular dialogue with investors and being prepared for product rollovers and able to facilitate switches are all key to retaining assets.
Man Group plc Performance report 11 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Efficiency Outlook While we have maintained our focus on investing for growth Our discretionary investment managers have made a strong against a tough market backdrop, we continue to pursue start to 2012, demonstrating the power of the combined efficiency gains to reflect changes in our product and margin business to counterbalance periods of weaker performance at mix.
Sources of efficiency which we have already worked on AHL.
At 27 February 2012, AHL was 10.9% below high water include increasing screen-based reporting to clients, reducing mark on a weighted average basis, and at 24 February 2012 transaction costs in the execution of our trading and two thirds of GLG funds were above or within 5% of expanding GLGs derivatives trading platform for use by AHL.
Our greatest asset is our people, and we continue to balance While the product pipeline remains healthy and investor interest the need to attract, motivate and retain top talent with the is rebuilding, in particular for some of the stronger performers imperative to distribute returns equitably between employees from last year, I am expecting that the pace of asset raising will and shareholders.
Our remuneration arrangements are closely remain slow in the first half of 2012 in the absence of linked to performance, with the result that cash bonus spend substantial performance catalysts.
Redemption levels will for the nine-month period reduced by 28%, in line with remain prone to swings in investor sentiment.
Our compensation cost to revenue ratio for the period was 33% and we aim to keep this ratio within a range Funds under management at the end of February 2012 are of 3040% well in line with industry averages.
estimated to be $59.5 billion, reflecting positive investment performance but slightly negative asset flows so far this year.
In 2012, we are intensifying our focus on working more effectively, without compromising investment performance My conversations with our largest fund investors and or client service.
In total in 2012, we will deliver $70 million distributors reinforce the more general industry commentary of operational savings, with a further $20 million to be saved that appetite for liquid alternative investments continues to from a reduction in financing costs and another $25 million build, and that established industry participants will be the of savings identified for 2013.
After 18 months of integrated largest gainers from this trend.
operations, we have identified opportunities to consolidate infrastructure, buildings and teams, rationalise product lines Although 2012 has the potential to be another challenging year and reduce headcount.
With the majority of the savings for markets, recent performance suggests that market coming from operations functions rather than investment participants are pragmatic about the global economic outlook.
management or distribution, I am confident that we will be At Man, we remain focused on maintaining the firms unique able to grow funds under management from our reduced positioning and managing the transition in our product and cost base, and improve our earnings growth.
The fundamental strength of our business will enable us to adapt and grow as market sentiment improves.
