Norbert Teufelberger Jim Ryan Co-CEO Co-CEO Co-CEOs review Integration and regulation bwin.
party 11 Overview 02 Co-CEOs review Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 We have provided a detailed review of theoperational performance in 2011 and ourprogress on integrating bwin and PartyGaming.
Inaddition, we have set outour business strategy, achievements against that strategy to-date and our objectives for 2012.
We made excellent progress in 2011.
As more governments embrace the Theswift execution of a number of regulation of online gaming markets, Spotlight on: integration plans for our technology, sothe dynamics of our industry are 1 2011 people, products and brands has been shifting.
Real money and social gaming rewarded with financial synergies together with other forms of digital Revenue slightly ahead to 816.0m.
coming through more quickly than entertainment are converging.
expected, offsetting increased gaming Atthesame time mobile platforms Clean EBITDA up 3% to 199.3m duties payable as markets regulate.
areincreasingly important channels of Clean EPS of 18.5 cents Weremain on-track to deliver distribution each of these developments 2 approximately 40m of synergies is being driven by advances in technology, DPS of 3.12p thisyear and 65m in 2013. new regulations and changes in Alliances with MGM, Boyd Gaming consumer demand.
2011 results and Danske Licens Spil The Groups robust operating Sale of Ongame for up to 29.5m performance in 2011 is confirmation of Synergies of 23.3m realised in 2011, our progress.
Despite the operational ahead of plan challenges of integrating two businesses in such a dynamic business On-track to deliver 40m of synergies environment, the Group delivered total in 2012 and 65m in 2013 as planned pro forma revenue from Continuing Current trading robust operations of 816.0m 2010: 814.0m and pro forma Clean EBITDA from Continuing operations of 199.3m 2010:193.2m.
However, the financial numbers do nottell the whole story: a simple comparison of the year-on-year financial performance appears to show modest growth on both metrics, but, asexplained in our Review of 2011, thisbelies the transformation of our business, an increasing proportion ofwhich is now licensed, regulated andtaxed.
1 Pro forma, Continuing operations 2 Including recommended final dividend of 1.56p per share bwin.
party 12 Co-CEOs review Annual report & accounts 2011 Technology Integration One advantage of the long lead-time The integration process touched between the merger announcement uponeach of our core assets in 2011: on29 July 2010 and completion on our people, technology, products 31March 2011 was that we had several andbrands.
months to plan the integration, People including the assessment of our We expect to move technology needs.
Having two of Following completion, our first step to a single e-gaming everything it was clear that choosing wasto appoint the members of the one technology platform for each task senior management team, each platform by the end would release resources and generate withresponsibility for leading the value.
This was challenging for the integration of their respective of 2012 senior team given the implications for disciplines and designing and our staff and key locations.
Drafting the implementing an organisation technology roadmap was relatively structureto deliver the business straightforward compared with the strategy and synergies already complexity of moving from two systems identified.
We reorganised the business to a unified back-office platform, as well into four product verticals so that all as having asingle gaming platform for personnel, so far as practicable, are each of theproduct verticals.
This was allocated to one of the verticals.
This complicated further by the introduction structure should help us maintain our of new regulated markets such as leadership position in each vertical Denmark and Spain, that each have which is now able to allocate its own different technology requirements.
development and financial resources Although these interruptions delayed toexecute its plans.
Following some the integration of our technology initial adjustments, the target platforms, we expect to move to a single organisation structure was completed e-gaming platform by the end of 2012 in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Aligning and deliver the 40m of synergies as business processes and controls is an previously announced.
A further 25m ongoing task but just 12 months after of synergies are expected in 2013. completion, the majority of our internal procedures are already up and running.
With employees located on three Chip leader continents, differences of language and PartyPoker is our global culture posed additional challenges as pokerbrand we executed the integration plan and continued to drive the business forward.
Thanks to the direction and diligence of our dedicated Integration Management Office and the enormous efforts of our management and employees, we are delivering on ourplans.
party 13 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 Products and brands amainstream activity, one that can and response on 20 March 2012 stating that should be regulated see Spotlight on: the Lnder needed to provide detailed Choosing bwin as our lead brand for our business environment on pages evidence in order for the Commission to sports betting was obvious given its 6to 7.
While these long-term drivers assess whether or not the restrictions leading presence across Europe.
remain, shifts in the regulatory, embodied within the draft State Treaty Choosing PartyPoker as our lead poker competitive as well as technological comply with EU law.
The Commission brand was also straightforward given landscapes can and already have had a was also unable to assess the its brand strength not just in existing significant impact on the online gaming consistency and coherence of the markets across Europe, but also market in the short-term.
proposals due to a lack of notification potential new markets, such as the offederal legislation amending the United States.
Notwithstanding this, Regulation rules for slot machines and horse race wewill also continue to offer bwinPoker A number of national developments betting.
In the absence of such across all key markets and intend to took place in 2011, most of which notifications and evidence, the continue to make full use of the World represented a further positive step Commission did not give the Lnder the Poker Tour WPT.
In Italy we will inthe transition from an embryonic green light they required to proceed.
In casino, unregulated activity just a few years Meanwhile, Schleswig-Holstein, asalarge proportion of our customers ago into one that is increasingly Germanys most northern Land has continue to come from poker and becoming fully licensed and regulated.
adopted its own licensing regime for sports betting, we will continue to 4 While this transition brings additional online sports betting, poker and casino offergames through both bwin and compliance costs and gaming taxes, with a 20% tax on gross gaming revenue PartyPoker, as well as the industryitisalso likely to prompt industry and which has been approved by the leading PartyCasino brand.
We believe consolidation as consumers gravitate European Commission.
party that the quality of the product offering to the larger operators and brands.
along with many other reputable in casino is key and so have continued operators has applied for a licence to add new games to our suite using our Germany 22% of pro forma net 3 inSchleswig-Holstein and intends in-house development team as well as gaming revenue in 2011 tooperate under that licence across through selective licensing deals with In April 2011, 15 out of the 16 German Germany.
While the position of the third parties.
Bingo remains a localised states or Lnder, put forward a proposal other 15 Lnder remains unclear, product and Foxy Bingo and Cheeky for a new regulatory framework.
While weremain committed to securing a Bingo will remain our core brands in it proposed to regulate, license and tax commercially viable regulatory regime, theUK and Gioco Digitale in Italy.
As we online sports betting for the first time, one that complies with EU law and move into new markets we will launch itproposed to do so in a very restrictive meets the needs and desires of additional bingo brands that will be way that was not compliant with EU consumers, operators and regulators.
Following criticism from the European Commission, the draft was Italy 10% of pro forma net gaming Market environment amended in December 2011 but 3 revenue in 2011 We believe thatthe underlying drivers remains highly restrictive.
Limited to Italy expanded its online gaming of revenue growth in the online gaming sports betting only it includes a fide facto regimeto include cash game poker and sector remain strong: the increasing ban on live betting, limits on the stakes certain casino table games in July 2011. prevalence of broadband: growth in wagered in any month and a maximum The Group launched both products smartphone and tablet technology: of 20 licensees.
We believe this revised underits main brands including anexpanding population of online proposal also fails to meet the bwin, PartyPoker and Gioco Digitale consumers with an increasing requirements of EU law.
Having been andnow has a strong market share propensity to socialise, transact and asked by the Lnder for a green light inall products.
play games online: and a growing toproceed with the proposals, the acceptance that gaming online is European Commission issued a 3 Share of pro forma net gaming revenue in 2011 Continuingoperations 4 Excludes blackjack, baccarat and roulette bwin.
party 14 Co-CEOs review Annual report & accounts 2011 speculation in the media that some United Kingdom 10% of pro forma 5 changes might be effected before the netgaming revenue in 2011 end of 2012 although any such changes The UK Government has announced are unlikely to take place until after that it intends to amend the existing thePresidential election in May 2012.
Gambling Act and extend its licensing Whether or not this will include any regime to include offshore online reduction in taxation or an expansion operators.
It is unclear when the inthe number of regulated products legislation to effect such a change isunclear.
Meanwhile, the UK Treasury has announced a consultation Tower block Greece 4% of pro forma net gaming on changing the taxation regime in France is expected to review its 5 revenue in 2011 restrictive gaming regulations after linewith the Department for Culture, Greece has pressed ahead with its the Presidential election in May 2012 Media and Sports proposals and proposals for a new gaming law that taxingoperators on the basis of was enacted in August 2011 despite customer location.
The potential thereceipt of a detailed opinion from outcome of its conclusions remain the European Commission that raised unclear.
The industry argued strongly anumber of concerns.
The requirement that any changes to the basis of to have a legal presence in Greece taxation should only be introduced together with a proposal to impose ifand when the requisite amendments taxes on operators retrospectively from to the UK Gambling Act have already 1 January 2010 are just two aspects that been effected, if at all.
Such proposals, we believe are in breach of EU law and ifintroduced, may be subject to legal which are the subject of a formal challenge by online gaming operators.
complaint submitted by the Remote France 7% of pro forma net gaming Gambling Association.
In the absence 5 revenue in 2011 ofany clarity we continue to keep the Despite the calls for changes tothe situation under review.
French regulatory model put forward Spain 5% of pro forma net gaming by Monsieur Villotte, president of the 5 revenue in 2011 French regulator, ARJEL, who argues It has been reported that over 290 that the regime is not working licence applications have been filed effectively, no change has yet been with the Spanish regulator by 59 made.
Other senior figures such as companies, including bwin.
party Senator Trucy and Jean-Francois aheadof the countrys new regulatory Lamour MP have also expressed framework coming into force.
Whilst concerns that the regime is preventing the exact date upon which licences will regulated operators from making be issued remains unclear, we expect aneconomic return as they cannot that this will take place during the compete with black market operators second quarter of 2012.
The regulations evidenced by the decline in the French cover all forms of online gaming, regulated sports betting market in the including live betting and bingo fourth quarter 2011.
There has been butexcludes online slot games, with a25% tax on gross gaming revenue.
Inaccordance with the regulations we have been paying taxes on all Spanish revenue generated since 29May 2011.
5 Share of pro forma net gaming revenue in 2011 continuing operations bwin.
party 15 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 that it needs to regulate this activity at Separately, the past 18 months have Denmark 2% of pro forma net gaming 5 a national level.
Estimated to have been seen the emergence of a new gaming revenue in 2011 worth approximately $1.6 billion of phenomenon on the internet: social The new regulatory framework that gross gaming revenue GGR in 2006, gaming.
Zynga, Playdom, Playfish and covers sports betting, casino and assuming a federal bill was introduced other social gaming platforms have all pokerwent live on 1 January 2012. the US online poker market could be experienced spectacular growth with Welaunched services in each licensed 7 worth up to $4.2 billion inGGR in the their virtual currency and virtual goodsproduct category as well as on behalf first full year after regulation.
driven business models that have ofour local B2Bcustomer, Danske attracted millions of customers across Licens Spil, the leading Danish landThrough our joint venture agreements the globe.
Zyngas CEO, Mark Pincus was based gaming operator.
Gaming duty with MGM Resorts International and quoted recently saying that online ispayable at 20% of gross Boyd Gaming Corporation that were gambling is a natural fit with virtual gamingrevenue.
concluded during the year, we believe goods and social games.
While several other countries are in that we are well-placed to capitalise on thethroes of discussing, drafting as any such opportunities as and when We believe it is only a matter of time wellas legislating new laws to regulate, they arise.
before the worlds of real money gaming the trend is clear: online gaming is and social gaming converge.
This Competition becoming increasingly recognised as a represents a major opportunity for The competitive landscape is also legitimate activity in most EU countries bwin.
party and we have a number of continuing to evolve rapidly, partly and is a branch of eCommerce that can initiatives already underway in this asaresult of some of the regulatory and should be regulated.
Following the areathat we expect to drive value for changes outlined above and partly due adoption of a report by the European shareholders in the medium to long-term.
The indictment of the Parliament in 2011, there is also an founders of PokerStars, Full Tilt Poker acceptance that agreeing a common and Absolute Poker Ultimate Bet on 15 approach to the regulation of online April 2011 represented the start of what gaming is in the interests of European we believe will prove to be a stakeholders and consumers.
fundamental shift in the shape and United States Nil share of pro forma structure of the global online poker 5 net gaming revenue in 2011 market.
With the exception of An opinion from the US Department PokerStars, all of these sites have now ofJustice on 23December 2011 made closed.
PokerStars relative size meant clear that regulated intra-state online that it was able to capture the lions games of chance did not breach any share of Full Tilts non-US players, federal laws.
This prompted several consolidating its position as market initiatives in a number of states seeking leader in most territories.
This makesfor to regulate license and tax online a challenging operating environment gaming activities including California, for our poker business but we believe Iowa, Hawaii, New Jersey and that we can remain one of the largest Mississippi.
The state of Nevada has networks in each market.
Our position already enacted the requisite legislation should be further enhanced when we to allow intra-state online poker.
With pool our player liquidity across our the prospect of a patchwork quilt of poker brands in thedotcom as well as regulation, compliance and tax rules, the ring-fenced markets in Italy and the federal government may yet decide France later thisyear.
6 Source: Online Gambling in the Internal Market own initiative report by the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, adopted in Plenary Session of theEuropean Parliament on 15 November 2011 7 Source: H2 Gambling Capital bwin.
party 16 Co-CEOs review Annual report & accounts 2011 Technology developments announced funding for ultrafast broadband and Wi-Fi in ten of the UKs The continued evolution of smartphone, biggest cities, with additional funding tablet and other mobile technology for smaller cities too.
hasdriven strong growth in the consumption of gaming products Against this backdrop, our business through the mobile channel.
Customers iscontinuing to perform well and we no longer have to be in front of their PC remain on-track.
or laptop to enjoy playing online games.
Summary, current trading We expect this trend to continue as andoutlook newdevices emerge butalso as network infrastructure continues to Since 31 December 2011, the Group improve and as payment processing hasperformed in-line with the Boards and personal identification expectations with growth in all technologies evolve.
verticals versus the previous quarter.
In its recent filing with the Securities A summary of the current trading and Exchange Commission, Facebook performance relative to the fourth stated that 425 million or 50.2% of quarter of 2011 is shown below: usersaccessed its services via a mobiledevice.
The penetration of Pro forma and Actual Period ended smartphones is continuing to expand Gross average 24 March and is already greater than PCs or daily revenue 2012 Q4 11 Change laptops.
In its recent fourth quarter Sports betting 932,600 900,200 4% results for 2011, Apple Inc. announced Casino & games 923,800 902,700 2% that it had sold 37 million iPhones and Poker 747,300 747,200 0% over 15 million iPads, a 128% and Bingo 324,100 319,000 2% 11%increase respectively over the Total 2,927,800 2,869,100 2% previous year.
Whilst transactional-based gambling The pace of regulatory, technological such as sports betting is already and competitive change is showing no flourishing over existing networks, sign of slowing down.
But, the scale and thenext generation of networks are breadth of our revenue base, coupled emerging and can be expected to with our significant resources all mean revolutionise the gaming experience that we are in a strong position to onmobile platforms.
With transmission capture a bigger share of the expanding speeds of up to 10 Mbps Megabits per digital entertainment market.
Current second these networks will be over trading has been robust with gross fivetimes the speed of existing 3G average daily revenue in the 12 weeks networks, significantly improving the to 24 March 2012 up 2% versus the mobile gaming experience, particularly fourth quarter of 2011 to 2,927,800 for games such as poker, casino and Q411: 2,869,100.
While the current bingo that typically require greater macroeconomic environment appears volumes of data traffic.
The other to be impacting performance in parts of dynamic that is driving the accessibility southern Europe, this is being offset by of online games is the increasing stronger performances elsewhere.
prevalence of Wi-Fi that is available in Active player days increased in all public locations and that most mobile verticals versus the previous quarter devices are now able to use.
In its March and amounts wagered in both sports 2012 budget the UK Government and casino were up strongly although bwin.
party 17 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 there was a small drop in gross win impact onour financial performance.
margin to 7.9% in sports Q4 11: 8.5% While regulatory uncertainties and 3.9% in casino Q4 11: 4.1%.
continue, the prospect of the Euro 2012 championship later this year, the Should the proposed regulatory opening of the regulated Spanish framework in Schleswig-Holstein market and our delivery of additional become effective and we are awarded synergies mean that we remain alicence, we propose to offer sports confident about the Groups prospects.
betting, casino and poker products across Germany and pay the proposed 2011 was the year of integration and tax of 20% of gross gaming revenue regulation.
2012 will be the year of onall products.
While this will impact integration, regulation and innovation Clean EBITDA in 2012, we have identified we have made an excellent start.
10m 15m of savings in 2012 and 2013that will partially mitigate the Even in such a challenging business environment we continue to deliver positive cashflow thanks to the strength of our business model.
Key players Left to right Jim Ryan, Joachim Baca, Norbert Teufelberger and Martin Weigold head the Groups executive management team
