How do you assess the Companys Its in a region we understand well and in which Chief Executives we have scale.
Its also a partnership with the performance in 2010 11?
This was our first year following demerger local Government, which is a structure we have review made work successfully in other territories.
and overall I am pleased with the progress we made in delivering our strategy and improving There is also a restructuring opportunity at BTC, which will provide further impetus to the our operations.
We faced, and continue to face, headwinds in the Caribbean, but to turnaround of our Caribbean business.
We are delighted to welcome our new colleagues from finish the year with revenues up 4% and EBITDA up 1% is a respectable performance, BTC to the Group and expect the business to make a major contribution in the future.
Our Macau, Panama and Monaco & Islands businesses performed Bermuda was not a full-service business.
We found a committed buyer who received the well.
The environment in the Caribbean clearly Chief Executive, has been difficult, but the strength of our support of the Bermudan Government, so we took the opportunity to sell the business.
portfolio is apparent in the fact that we have TonyRice shares limited the impact of reduced profitability histhoughts on The Caribbean is facing a challenging in the Caribbean to our income statement.
When do you Most importantly, all of the businesses theperformance expect the situation to improve there?
have been doing the right things to position The economies of our Caribbean region of Cable & Wireless the Company for the future developing remained weak last year which, when combined propositions for mobile data, pay TV Communications with austerity budgets in many of the islands, triple-play, high speed broadband, impacted disposable incomes significantly.
It managed services and undersea cables.
is disposable income that dictates consumer Finally, we maintained our commitment to spending on telephony, and our business felt our social responsibility programmes in each the strain.
We dont expect to see much of our business units.
Further details of what improvement in the market this year.
Jamaica, we have been up to are set out in the CSR in particular, remains difficult with potential section on pages 26 and 27, and in our CSR for further structural declines if there is no Report which will be available on our website change to the regulatory environment.
Id like to thank all Our Caribbean team is taking the right steps of our colleagues who have supported these to drive better performance however initiatives and made a positive difference to upgrading networks, improving customer the societies in which we operate.
services and revitalising our branding and we also expect to bring the iPhone to Caribbean What are your aims for the business markets for the first time in this calendar year.
Last year we launched a fightback in the Revenue This year will be about putting in place the Jamaica mobile market, and stole a march building blocks to grow the business.
We want with our mobile TV product.
to capture the opportunity of mobile data, and will be diverting a greater proportion of Panamas performance was down slightly, our investment into mobile data networks although the second half was strong.
and accelerating the roll out of smartphones, What were the key levers?
We have made an Mobile, enterprise, broadband and pay TV excellent start on mobile data in Macau and were the key levers.
Once again our mobile Panama, and expect further growth across business delivered an excellent performance all of our businesses.
EBITDA in the face of intense competition.
In a now four player market, it maintained its market share We will also drive forward on other service growth initiatives.
I want to see more business above 50% and posted a 1% rise in revenue.
Broadband and TV revenue also increased units providing managed services for enterprises and our social telecoms services with our TV Digital service growing to over 44,200 subscribers at year end.
Broadband for governments will also be a key priority.
That said, I am determined we do not relax subscribers also grew by 4%.
our do it better strategy cost discipline and In enterprise services we had a particularly efficiency remain central to the way we work.
good second half, being selected on several Well also continue to pursue opportunities to Operating cash flow government projects.
I am very proud of reshape our Group, building on areas of strength, these social telecoms projects, which utilise as we did with the acquisition of a controlling our telecoms expertise to deliver public stake in the Bahamas Telecommunications services more efficiently.
Last year we were Company BTC, the leading operator in The chosen to provide a telemammography Bahamas.
We will also exit from businesses service, which will ensure more Panamanian that no longer make sense to us, as we did women have access to preventative breast last year from Bermuda.
In April, we were selected by the Government of El Salvador to provide How important were the decisions to a 911 emergency services platform, similar sell the business in Bermuda and invest to the one we provide in Panama, showing in The Bahamas?
our social telecoms expertise can be exported Both transactions showed our commitment beyond Panama and is relevant to all of to bring more focus to the Group.
BTC in The our business units.
Bahamas is a business that plays to our strengths.
