Undoubtedly I would have liked to have made with each of our key enterprise customers who were up for renewal and growing our wholesale more rapid progress on EBITDA in our first year as an independent company.
With revenue flat partnerships with more fixed, mobile and content service providers.
The Europe India Gateway and a slight decline in gross margin, it was strong cost control that enabled us to deliver the 2.6% EIG cable system is nearing completion and the West Africa Cable System WACS is progressing uplift in EBITDA to 442 million.
We were free cash flow positive for the first time, 62 million well and is expected to complete in 2012. ahead of the prior year.
As we look forward beyond this years financial The patterns that we have seen and driven performance I expect recent trends to continue.
across the business for a number of years were The speed of decline in traditional voice has evident again, with the industry-wide decline in increased slightly, such that we now expect voice and legacy products masking the progress margin here to decline in the near term by between we made in our strategic product set.
Traditional 10% and 15% and we are experiencing increased voice and legacy gross margin was down by price pressure in the market for raw connectivity.
32million 11%, but was partially offset by It is no longer sufficient to be able to provide just continued growth in the strategic data product individual products or connectivity.
Cloud is set, where gross margin grew by 22 million.
The scale of the cuts in the UK public sector This movement to Cloud, along with the ongoing convergence between mobile and fixed line challenged us in the first half of the year.
Weexpected that the new Government would communications and the rapid growth in global data traffic make it a very exciting time to be in scrutinise budgets and put in place spending reductions but we did not anticipate the immediacy fixed line communications.
The opportunities Cable&Wireless Worldwide have are extensive, and depth of the cuts.
Although the UK public sector remained relatively subdued for the rest of given our network strength, our hosting infrastructure and capabilities and our close the year, we did win key data contracts which were tendered, including our most significant public relationships with our key customers.
sector contract to date for a global network usable Looking to the year ahead, we expect EBITDA to by all government agencies, with the Foreign and be at much the same level as the 2010 11 year.
Commonwealth Office and the Department for Growth in gross margin of around 30 million is International Development already signed up.
expected to be offset by higher operating costs In UK enterprise we continued to win new due to cost inflation, the network rates credit in customers and extend our relationships with the 2010 11 year and investment in exploiting the ourexisting customers.
Notably we became the cloud opportunity.
However, we expect to grow single telecoms supplier to Babcock in a deal trading cash flow by around 50 million.
It is this tolink 250 sites and extended our relationship expanding cash flow profile which gives the Board with Boots in an agreement to provide a single, the confidence to maintain the current dividend secure and high-speed network to underpin all level into the 2011 12 year.
Once the dividend ofits UK critical communications.
payment is covered by free cash flow the Board intends to adopt a progressive dividend policy, It was a tough year in UK carrier, as lower pricing which will reflect the growth in cash generation.
and consolidation within the industry put pressure on the numbers.
Performance in the Finally, I am also pleased to report that Ian Gibson mid-market was disappointing, with the first half has been confirmed by the Board as the successor particularly so.
The channel stabilised in the to Tim Weller as Chief Financial Officer when second half of the year as the direct mid market Timsteps down from the Board and leaves the business, THUS, began to offset the decline in Company on the day of our Annual General Meeting, 21 July 2011. itslegacy consumer broadband product with growth in its newer commercial product suite.
The Global business performed better, with margin growth in both enterprise and carrier.
Wedeepened our engagement with our biggest Jim Marsh customers, re-signing longer-term contracts Chief Executive 08 09
