Undoubtedly I would have liked to have network and Application Performance market.
This will require further investment todeliver the growth that is available in this made more rapid progress on EBITDA in Management APM, enabling business ourfirst year as an independent company.
critical applications to be prioritised.
area, which we outlined in our pre close statement in March 2011.
With revenue flat and a slight decline in gross margin, it was strong cost control It was a tough year in UK carrier, as lower This movement to cloud, along with the thatenabled us to deliver the 2.6% uplift in pricing and consolidation within the industry EBITDA to 442 million.
We were free cash put pressure on the numbers.
Performance continuing convergence between mobile and fixed line communications and the flow positive for the first time, 62 million in the mid-market was disappointing, with ahead of the prior year.
the first half particularly so.
The channel rapidgrowth in global data traffic make it a very exciting time to be in fixed line stabilised in the second half of the year as The patterns that we have seen and driven the direct mid-market business, THUS, communications.
The opportunities Cable&Wireless Worldwide have are across the business for a number of years began to offset the decline in its legacy were evident again, with the industry-wide consumer broadband product with growth extensive, given our network strength, our hosting infrastructure and capabilities and decline in voice and legacy products in its newer commercial product suite.
masking the progress we made in our our close relationships with our key customers.
The journey for our customers strategic product set.
Traditional voice The Global business performed better, andlegacy gross margin was down by withmargin growth in both enterprise and from here will be complex.
This complexity will increase the importance and value of 32million 11%, but was partially offset by carrier.
We deepened our engagement continued growth in the strategic data withour biggest customers, re-signing the advisory role that we already play today, as we assist customers to restructure the product set, where gross margin grew by longer-term contracts with each of our key 22 million.
The proportion of Group gross enterprise customers who were up for way they operate in order to take full advantage of technology advances.
margin which came from voice and legacy renewal and growing our wholesale products fell again and now forms less than partnerships with more fixed, mobile and 25% of Group gross margin.
Sales were Looking to the year ahead, we expect strong as we developed further our EBITDA to be at much the same level as the The scale of the cuts in the UK public sector relationships with regional incumbent 2010 11 year.
Growth in gross margin of challenged us in the first half of the year.
telecom operators by providing them with around 30 million is expected to be offset Weexpected that the new government would global access for their customers.
The by higher operating costs due to cost scrutinise budgets and put in place spending Europe India Gateway EIG cable system inflation, the network rates credit in the reductions but we did not anticipate the isnearing completion and the West Africa 2010 11 year and investment in exploiting immediacy and depth of the cuts: all Cable System WACS is progressing well thecloud opportunity.
However, we expect non-contracted spend came under review and is expected to complete in 2012.
These to grow trading cash flow by around almost immediately and everything except routes provide us with increased reach and 50million.
It is this expanding cash flow added resilience and will help satisfy the essential maintenance spend appeared to profile which gives the Board the confidence behalted.
However, we do agree that there burgeoning demand in India and Africa, to maintain the current dividend level into the twokey geographies.
are very significant efficiencies that can be 2011 12 year.
Once the dividend payment is identified during the term of this Parliament covered by free cash flow the Board intends As we look forward beyond this years through the introduction of greater to adopt a progressive dividend policy, which competition, and we are committed to financial performance I expect recent trends will reflect the growth in cash generation.
The speed of decline in traditional working with the government to help the public sector benefit from a simpler, voice has increased slightly, such that we now We have established a clear route map for expect margin here to decline in the near term integrated communications infrastructure.
this business in an evolving environment Although the UK public sector remained by between 10% and 15%, and we are and I am convinced that we can deliver the experiencing increased price pressure in the relatively subdued for the rest of the year, value that our shareholders, colleagues and wedid win key data contracts which were market for raw connectivity.
However, as we our customers expect and deserve.
noted in our statement in March, we are also tendered, including our most significant public sector contract to date for a global seeing increasing customer appetite for more Finally, I am also pleased to report that Ian complex solutions, requiring a suite of network usable by all government agencies, Gibson has been confirmed by the Board as with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office network, hosting and applications services.
the successor to Tim Weller as Chief Financial This should more than offset the margin and the Department for International Officer.
Ian will join the Board and assume Development already signed up.
It is no longer therole on the day of the Annual General sufficient to be able to provide just individual Meeting, 21 July 2011.
In UK enterprise we continued to win new products or connectivity.
Customers are keen to explore customers and extend our relationships with our existing customers.
Notably we thecomplete provision of services in a virtualised environment, which can remove became the single telecoms supplier to Babcock in a deal to link 250 sites and their need to carry infrastructure, lower theircost base, compress their product Jim Marsh extended our relationship with Boots in an agreement to provide a high-speed secure development cycle and reduce their time to Chief Executive 18 19
