HOW DO yOu FEEL yOu NOW gENERATE ABOuT yOuR FIRST POSITIVE CASH FLOWS, yEAR AS THE CEO HOW DO yOu LOOk TO OFA PuBLIC COMPANy?
IMPROVE yOuR PROFIT AND CASH gENERATION Clearly this is not the year I had expected, nor that Iwould have wanted.
We have achieved IN THE FuTuRE?
significant milestones by turning free cash flow We have turned this business around over the last positive and generating profit before tax from a loss of 94 million to a profit of 140 million.
fiveyears to the point where we are free cash flow positive for the first time this year.
Growing But not withstanding this, the market has been challenging, particularly in the public sector.
our cash flow remains the most important goal over the coming years.
We want to ensure that We are continuing to build a strong business focused on our customers and leveraging the the main driver of this is profit growth but we will continue to implement tight control around considerable skills of our outstanding colleague base.
I am very proud to be the CEO of a capital expenditure, reduce our working capital outflow and stick to our promise of falling business with such outstanding capabilities and prospects.
exceptional cash charges over time.
WHAT ARE THE MAIN WHAT HAVE BEEN yOuR INDuSTRy TRENDS yOu BIggEST CHALLENgES OVER HAVE SEEN THIS yEAR?
THE LAST 12 MONTHS AND HOW HAVE yOu ADJuSTED The trends which are evident in the business are not asurprise.
Voice and legacy products yOuR BuSINESS STRATEgy continue to decline: these now make up only TO OVERCOME THESE 25% of our total margin and generate lower individual margins than ourstrategic products CHALLENgES?
We are experiencing increasing customer Every year brings new challenges.
In the last appetite for more complex solutions, particularly year wehad to overcome a sharp downturn in encompassing hosted data andapplications and UK public sector communications spend and moving towards a cloud-based infrastructure, broader economic headwinds which meant that enabled by a high-quality IP-based network.
ourenterprise customers remained careful and This is perhaps a faster transition than we disciplined around their external discretionary wereexpecting.
We expect this growth in spend.
We had to cut our cloth appropriately in strategic products to more than offset the terms of our own operating cost base and work decline in voice andlegacy products.
evenmore proactively with our customers todevelop clear business cases for significant investment in their communications infrastructure.
Thecontinued decline in legacy voice activity also challenged the revenue stream of our business.
Even given these challenges we managed to hold our revenue flat and make significant progress onboth profit and cash, turning free cash flow positive for the first time.
20 yOuR COMPETITORS HOW WILL yOu ENSuRE ARE gENERALLy LARgER THAT THE COMPANy THAN yOu AND BETTER DOESNT ENCOuNTER CAPITALISED THAN yOu: THE SAME EVENTS IT ISNT THIS A LONg-TERM DID THIS yEAR WHICH DISADVANTAgE?
Being small isnt necessarily a disadvantage in an This year was definitely tough and we have learnt industry where customers need responsiveness from that.
The main issue we encountered this and agility.
We have thrived on being nimble, year was the magnitude of the impact of allowing us to minimise the time between governments austerity measures on our identifying opportunities and addressing them.
The result of these measures was We have stayed close to our customers, worked that non-contracted spend dropped sharply hard at understanding their priorities and and rapidly.
It remains difficult to forecast with differentiated ourselves with the service we offer, absolute precision but there appears to be little which allows us to offer flexible, individual and additional pressure on this spend and the competitive fixed line packages.
We continue to increasing potential to increase our share of invest in our sales teams and have reorganised public sector spend as government seeks to our enterprise business to better address specific drive greater diversity and competition in the industry sectors, which will allow us to become communications services it procures.
We have more aligned with our customers to offer a made strides in our forecasting processes in the selection of products which meets their last year and we continue to seek to improve the requirements and needs.
visibility and predictability of our business which will allow us to better foresee changes in the market in which we compete.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Report 21
