Business Review Chief executives Review Cairn wishes to offer investors exposure to transformational organic growth potential through securing high equity exploration positions in prospective frontier geological basins.
Simon THomSon Chief exeCutive 2 24 4 C Ca ai ir rn E n En ne er rg gy P y PL LC A C An nn nu ua al R l R e e p p o o rr t 2 t 2 00 11 11 Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information airn is in a process of evolution, Greenland Mediterranean triggered by the sale of a majority Cairn has built a strategic and leading early The Company was awarded two exploration C shareholding in CIL to Vedanta.
entry position offshore Greenland, a country permits in Spain in January 2011.
These permits The Companys strategy remains the same: which we believe has the necessary geological comprise five blocks at 100% interest in the to focus on exploration-led organic growth.
ingredients for oil and gas exploration success.
Gulf of Valencia, which is underexplored.
It is planned to acquire a 3D seismic survey Cairn wishes to offer investors exposure Commercial quantities of hydrocarbons 1,500km over part of the acreage in 2012. to transformational organic growth potential have yet to be discovered, but the first phase through securing high equity exploration of our exploration programme in Greenland Commercial terms in Spain are attractive positions in prospective frontier geological has demonstrated that all of the geological as the authorities try to stimulate exploration basins.
Exploration in these basins, if ingredients necessary for success are present.
Cairn has recently successful, can have a material impact on We remain encouraged by the prospects and opened a small office in Madrid and is currently the Companys net worth because of the opportunities presented by exploration offshore pursuing other acreage in Spain because of prospective volumes and the normally attractive Greenland and our understanding of where to the perceived exploration potential.
commercial terms appropriate for the risk.
direct future activity continually evolves as we This exploration activity, however, needs to interpret our extensive and growing database, As previously reported, Cairn also intends to be funded from within a balanced portfolio allowing us to focus on where we best see participate, along with our consortium partners, of assets capable of generating sustainable material and transformational potential.
After CC Energy Development S. A. I an associated cash flow from producing properties and pioneering four years of active exploration company of CCC, a Lebanese private company augmented with industry farm-downs.
operations across several basins of Western and Cove Energy PLC, in the upcoming bid Greenland, the Company has a unique data rounds expected this year in both offshore As has previously been demonstrated, Cairn base from which it is well positioned to be Lebanon and Cyprus, subject to commercially aims to return value to shareholders at the selective and focused in high grading certain suitable terms.
The Cyprus round has recently appropriate time through mechanisms such areas.
Future exploration drilling activity will been announced and bids are to be submitted as one off special dividends, following the initially be focused on prospects within the Pitu in May 2012 with awards expected towards the grow-and-shrink, or saw-tooth, exploration-led block in the undrilled Baffin Bay Basin.
The Lebanon round has not yet strategy, which has served the Company well in farm-in to the Pitu block confirms Cairns view been formally announced but it is currently the past.
of its potential and supports the industry view anticipated mid-year.
of the Baffin Bay potential, as exemplified by The Vedanta transaction has been one of the presence of Shell, Conoco, GdF, Maersk Conclusion the key strategic goals for the Company to and Statoil in adjacent acreage.
In the last year, we committed to delivering four complete in the last twelve months.
It allowed strategic priorities: first of all, completing the a return of $3.5 billion of cash to shareholders A number of exciting play types have been sale of our Indian business: secondly, returning and provides the Company with the financial identified on the Pitu block, which is geologically cash to shareholders: thirdly, beginning the flexibility and strength to pursue new separate from other parts of West Greenland.
farm-out process in Greenland: and, finally, opportunities in areas where the Company The extensive shallow coring programme opening up new business opportunities.
believes it has the ability to build and grow.
undertaken by Cairn across the block in 2011 confirms the presence of micro oil seeps above We have delivered on the first three strategic The Rajasthan project is of national importance structural closures already identified.
All of the priorities and managements focus is now on and, at current prices, can be expected to exploration evidence acquired to date points to corporate development and future growth generate well over $100 billion of revenues the Baffin Bay Basin being oil generative and opportunities.
for the GoI and the Rajasthan State.
The having multi-billion barrel potential.
residual 22% shareholding Cairn now holds in I look forward, along with the rest of the CIL is viewed by the Company as an important The 3D seismic acquired over Pitu in H1 2011 management team, to leading Cairn as we investment asset from which further value can is currently being processed, with final results seek to create and deliver value for shareholders.
be realised at the appropriate time.
Subject to the final Cairns key strength of entrepreneurial interpretation of those results, exploration wells exploration remains the focus of the Group, Cairn will aim to maintain its focus on balance will be planned for the Pitu prospects.
We are offering investors significant growth potential sheet strength which provides an engine for delighted to be working with Statoil on this in combination with underlying asset value future growth.
At all times, we seek to apply block given their extensive knowledge and and balance sheet strength.
strategic and capital discipline across the track record in exploration, development and business in both existing operations and in production in the Arctic.
Our growth Simon Thomson strategy is to seek exposure for shareholders In Disko and other basins to the South, we Chief Executive to transformational exploration potential but have already fulfilled our work obligations.
23 March 2012 to deliver this within a sustainable and balanced We continue to evaluate the data acquired portfolio.
In practice, this means we will seek across these basins, but will not be proposing to build cash flow from near term exploration, further exploration activity until we have development and producing properties.
The partners in selected areas, including the management focus is on delivering growth and undrilled southern Greenland basin where corporate development opportunities in line we are currently processing the 3D seismic with robust corporate development criteria.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 25
