BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Introduction When we announced this strategy in March 2010, we undertook to create value for both shareholders and A year of delivery policyholders.
In 2011, we have made significant progress This has been a year of both operational and strategic in this regard.
We continued to streamline and simplify delivery for Old Mutual, including the imminent sale ourbusiness: ofour Nordic operations, which are therefore not included in the Groups adjusted operating results for Q Concluded the sale of US Life for $350 million 2011.
Our IFRS basis adjusted operating profit IFRS Q Closed Switzerland to new business AOP or AOP was up 14% due to improved trading andthe operational improvements implemented by Q Agreed the sale of our Nordic business to Skandia Liv for 2.1 billion management over thelast few years.
Group return onequity RoE was up 40 basis points at 14.6%.
Q Announced the sale of our Finnish business to OP-Pohjola Group This excellent performance was delivered against a backdrop Q Decided to consolidate our other European businesses of testing macro-economic conditions and continued under one management team.
economic uncertainty in a number of our markets.
We have continued to focus on delivering our strategy and remain on We continue to explore a partial IPO of our US Asset track to meet, and in some cases exceed, our 2012 targets.
Management USAM business in line with our stated strategy, but we remain focused on building margins, The Group is in a strong financial position.
At 31 December improving investment performance and driving growth 2011, our FGD surplus was 2.0 billion and we had total inthe business.
On 21 March 2012 we expect to receive 2.1 billion in cash from the disposal of While we have already taken considerable steps in the Nordic business.
restructuring the Group, we will continue to evaluate the optimum shape of the business and will consider all Streamlining and simplifying the business optionsin the pursuit of creating value for shareholders In 2011, we made significant progress in delivering our andpolicyholders alike.
We will continue to be guided by strategy: to build a long-term savings, protection and our strict criteria for keeping businesses within the Group.
investment group by leveraging the strength of our people and capabilities in South Africa and the rest of the world, which will enhance value for both our customers and shareholders, and enhance our overall RoE.
12 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Meeting our targets We have continued to seek ways of leveraging our strengths across our businesses.
We are looking to roll out our In March 2010, we set ourselves challenging targets: two Greenlight protection product into more territories this year, thirds of the way through our three-year strategy, we have following its successful launch into Mexico in 2011.
Our tied either met, exceeded or are well on track to achieve these agency force in Mexico has benefited from the expertise goals.
We set ourselves a target of reducing 100 million we have in South Africa.
We launched a new product into ofcosts across the Group and at the 2011 year end had Colombia, with South Africa providing the back office delivered 111 million in run-rate savings.
Our Long-Term servicing, information technology IT and product support.
Savings LTS business was tasked with improving its RoE to between 16% and 18%: in 2011, it achieved an RoE of IT is an area where we see significant scope to gain 20% 18% including Nordic.
We said we would reduce our efficiencies by using our combined Group purchasing Group net debt by 1.5 billion by the end of 2012 and, with power, and we have undertaken two initiatives in this area.
the proposed disposal of the Nordic business, we will We outsourced the South African IT, voice and data achieve this target and now intend to repay debt of 1.7 infrastructure network services of Old Mutual, Nedbank billion, having achieved a 0.6 billion reduction so far.
andMutual & Federal M&F to Dimension Data, and we expect to generate significant local savings for the operating businesses over the next five years.
In addition, we have a We set ourselves seven-year deal with T-Systems for them to provide IT support services for Old Mutual South Africa and M&F.
challenging targets: Wewill look at rolling out this agreement to other Emerging Markets businesses, including Rest of Africa, Colombia andMexico.
We have plans for further IT efficiencies and twothirds of the way operational improvements as we apply best practice techniques, remove duplication and improve delivery through our three-year standards and customer service.
strategy, we have either We will continue our restructuring programme with USAM, working to achieve the required operating margin and net met, exceeded or are client cash flow NCCF targets and we will invest in M&F tostrengthen its franchise.
well on track to achieve these goals.
1,515m Focusing the business Our strategic imperative is to become more customerAdjusted Operating Profit focused and to leverage our strengths across our businesses.
We have refocused our LTS businesses to ensure that they are aligned with customer needs and We have further strengthened our operational management haveidentified four key customer segments which we will team across the Group.
Ian Gladman, previously Co-Head serve: the Retail Mass market in Emerging Markets: the of Financial Institutions, EMEA for UBS Investment Bank, Retail Affluent market, primarily in Europe and South Africa: was appointed Group Strategy Director and a member of the International Affluent: and the Institutional market.
the Group Executive Committee GEC.
As part of the strategy portfolio handover, Don Hope has now stepped We are rolling out a measure of customer advocacy, down from the GEC and will retire at the end of 2012.
Sue theNetPromoter Score, across our Group to monitor Kean was appointed Group Risk Officer and has joined the howsatisfied our customers are with our service.
Our GEC: Ralph Mupita has been appointed Chief Executive of businesses in South Africa, the UK, Sweden and the LTSs Emerging Markets business: Paul Feeney, formerly Skandia International business all won various awards in head of distribution of BNY Mellon, has been appointed 2011 for superior customer service.
Nedbank successfully Chief Executive of LTSs Asset Management business: and launched mobile banking in South Africa, with 652,000 Peter Todd has been appointed Managing Director of M&F.
Old Mutual plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Looking forward We now have an attractive and resilient business portfolio.
We will continue to We have three excellent businesses in South Africa: the life and savings business of Old Mutual: Nedbank: and M&F.
deliver shareholder value We have significant presence in selected emerging markets which have sizeable populations, under-penetrated financial by putting the customer services markets and strong gross domestic product GDP growth.
We also have specialist, low-risk businesses in first in everything we do.
European markets, which include the leading platform in the UK.
The new management team at USAM is addressing the issues of margin, investment performance and growth.
Emerging Markets While there has been a significant amount of change over This has been another good year for Emerging Markets, the past two years, we remain committed to building a longwith the business continuing its growth momentum and term savings, protection and investment Group and to drive showing an increasing breadth across its geographic and and support Nedbank to become Africas most admired customer footprints.
Local currency sales were up and bank.
We will continue to put the customer at the centre of NCCF showed a particularly good uplift from the prior year.
the business and provide them with innovative, transparent In 2011 South Africa delivered another good performance, and flexible products.
We will maintain tight control on costs: a disciplined approach to risk management, with AOP growing by 5%.
The Mass Foundation Cluster, which sits within the Retail Mass customer segment and is governance and allocation of capital: we will seek to ensure that everything we do improves the businesses we own and a key area of growth for us, has had another excellent year and we expect this strong growth to continue.
In Retail will provide value to our shareholders and our customers.
Affluent, we saw double-digit profit growth in the year.
This Our vision, strategy and strategic priorities remain market grew in excess of 15% from 2007 to 2010, with the unchanged.
We will continue to deliver shareholder value by growth skewed to the younger age group and previously putting the customer first in everything we do, building high disadvantaged communities.
We believe that the retail performance businesses, sharing our core competencies affluent market in South Africa will continue to show across the Group, embedding our culture of excellence and goodgrowth potential for us.
Our South African Corporate simplifying the Groups structure to unlock shareholder value.
business had an excellent second half.
Dividend Our South African business is managing the issue of Given the continued progress in achieving our debt regulatory examinations very carefully, and we have extensive training plans and other measures to help our repayment programme, the Board has considered the position in respect of a final dividend for 2011, and is representatives pass their exams ahead of the 30 June 2012 deadline.
Additionally, the Group created more than recommending the payment of a final 2011 dividend of 3.5p per share or its equivalent in other applicable currencies.
February 2012, we announced we would pay a 1.0 billion We see exciting growth opportunities for Old Mutual across special dividend, 18p per share, subject to shareholder sub-Saharan Africa and we are actively exploring means approval of the Nordic disposal and its completion, and fororganic and inorganic growth on the continent.
As part shareholder approval of the related share consolidation.
of this growth plan, and as we announced in February 2012, our non-binding offer has been accepted by Ecobank The Board intends to pursue a progressive dividend policyconsistent with our strategy, having regard to overall Transnational Incorporated ETI for the purchase of Oceanic Life, a Nigerian life assurance company acquired by ETI capital requirements, liquidity and profitability, and targeting dividend cover of at least 2.5 times IFRS AOP earnings over when it bought the Oceanic Group in November 2011.
Oceanic Life has a Net Asset Value of $16 million and time.
In future, we expect to set interim dividends routinely as 30% of the prior years full dividend.
approximately 2% of the Nigerian life assurance market.
ETI, with whom Nedbank has a strategic alliance, is the leading Review of Operations independent regional banking group in Africa, with operations in 32 countries across the continent.
We have Long-Term Savings signed a 10-year agreement with ETI in Nigeria to distribute Our LTS division delivered strong results for the year with our products through their branch network.
operating profits of 793 million, up 3% on a constant currency basis.
This was driven by strong profit growth in our Emerging Markets business.
We have strengthened the capabilities of these businesses and are seeing cohesion in the management of business units across geographies.
14 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information We already have a management team in Nigeria and We are combining our Wealth Management Continental Nigeriawill act as a hub for our expansion into West Africa.
Europe business, which comprises France and Italy, Similarly we plan to expand into East Africa from our withSkandia Retail Europe Germany, Austria, Poland established base in Kenya and into other African countries andSwitzerland to create Wealth Management Europe.
where we see value-creating opportunities.
This expansion This new business unit will increasingly focus on the will be via our business in a box model which uses RetailAffluent market, which encompasses 30 million common products, IT, systems and processes that can households, holding 2.3 trillion of assets, growing at bereplicated across markets, after allowing for local 5%per annum and is a market we believe is currently marketrequirements, with limited customisation.
These customers are active and highly approach increases the speed to market, while reducing demanding: they are seeking transparent, flexible and costs and in-country risk.
We are on track to meet our modern products and are increasingly looking to target of the Rest of Africa recording profits equal to 10% e-channels to service them.
The new business unit ofSouth Africas profits by the end of 2012 and 15% by bringstogether 736,000 customers, over 11 billion of theend of2015.
The integration will continue throughout 2012 and we will be implementing further Wealth Management plansto improveour product offering and customer service.
WealthManagement Europe will be reported Wealth Management performed well, building on 2010smomentum, despite the effects of the eurozone aspart ofWealth Management in future.
crisis, which squeezed incomes and lowered investment confidence, particularly in the final quarter of the year.
IntheUK, we saw a continuation of the trend of Independent Financial Advisers IFAs transferring their business to platforms.
We now have around 9,000 IFAs 5.0p using our platform, with our assets increasing by 13% toapproximately 19 billion and NCCF of a pleasing Total dividend for 2011 4.0p in 2010 3.3billion.
Over the last three years, assets held on UK platforms have more than doubled to over 170 billion and, while currently around 33% of the UKs retail longAsset Management termsavings are conducted via platforms, we expect that We have appointed Paul Feeney as Chief Executive of tobecome more than two thirds by the end of the decade.
theLTS Asset Management business, which primarily comprises Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa We see a number of areas of growth for our platform OMIGSA and Skandia Investment Group SIG.
In line whichwe are actively addressing, including increasing withour client-centric business philosophy, OMIGSA is decumulation options, alternative investment options splitting its central research team to align the research andpassive investments.
It is apparent that our platform analysts better with specific equity boutiques and their customers would like to have more online access to their unique philosophies.
This means that two equity boutiques, investments on our platform, and we are working with IFAs Toros and Value, fall away, and the remaining equity to determine the level of demand for them to be able to boutiques now comprise complete investment teams, authorise wider access to the platform for their customers.
eachwith substantial experience and appropriate We are excited about the opportunities we believe that the investment skills, inorder to achieve even better Retail Distribution Review RDR will present to our business equityreturns for our clients.
and we are confident that we are well placed to succeed through: our size, as the platform with the most funds During the period, OMIGSA raised R9.3 billion for its undermanagement FUM : our financial strength and Housing Impact fund, which aims to provide 120,000 new stability: and our effective technology.
Skandia International low-cost houses, and a further R1.2 billion for a schools and is also developing a market-leading end-to-end wealth education fund in South Africa.
In total across Old Mutual, management service called Wealth Interactive, which we had 2.8 billion of FUM in social, environmental and willalso be RDR-compliant for UK clients.
 investments, including OMIGSAs Housing Impact fund, the South African Schools and Education fund, Futuregrowths Agri fund in South Africa and the African Infrastructure Investment Managers fund.
Old Mutual plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Nedbank Nedbank performed well for the year ended 31 December We now have an 2011, reflecting the benefits of disciplined execution of its business plans and excellent progress with key strategic attractive and resilient initiatives.
Headline earnings grew strongly, by 26.2%, to R6,184 million for the year 2010: R4,900 million, driven business portfolio.
primarily by 16.6% growth in non-interest revenue NIR, net interest margin expansion and continued improvement in Nedbank Retails credit loss ratio.
US Asset Management The new management team at USAM are focused on These results were underpinned by continued delivery on building the multi-boutique business around long-term, ourkey strategic focus areas of repositioning Nedbank Retail, , active asset management to generate growing NIR and implementing the portfolio tilt strategy.
This focus has led to the announcement the Rest of Africa we deepened our strategic alliance with of the disposal of the Dwight, Old Mutual Capital OMCAP ETIby providing a facility in support of ETIs corporate and Lincluden affiliates.
Building our global distribution development programmes, including its transformational capability is key for USAMs future growth and we have banking acquisition in Nigeria, and as a result secured rights appointed Julian Ide, who was previously Head of Institutional to acquire up to 20% of ETI within two to three years.
Business at BBVA Asset Management, to lead OMAM UK and the global distribution effort.
We have also appointed Mutual & Federal Olivier Lebleu as Head of non-US Distribution.
Olivier was M&F delivered a sound underwriting result in 2011, with previously a partner and member of the investment advisory results reflecting a more normalised year compared to the committee at Stenham Montier & Partners.
very favourable trading conditions and benign claims environment in 2010.
Management is focused on managing In USAMs continuing operations we are seeing improving its expense base and on driving premium growth through margins and an improvement in investment performance at alternative distribution channels including: direct through the affiliates.
For the year ended 31 December 2011, 62% iWyze: underwriting management agencies: and niche of assets outperformed benchmarks, compared to 57% at businesses.
iWyze continues to meet its targets for growth 31 December 2010.
Over the threeand five-year periods to in premiums and is performing in line with our expectations.
31 December 2011, 68% and 67% of assets outperformed benchmarks, compared to 49% and 65% at 31 December As part of the Groups ongoing capital management 2010.
The increase was driven by improving performance in programme, M&F restructured its capital base and paid International Equity and Global Fixed Income.
There are nearly R1 billion in ordinary and special dividends in 2011. early signs of an improvement in NCCF and we believe thatthis trend will continue, providing we maintain good investment performance.
13% EPS up 13% constant currency basis 16 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Board changes We are pleased to welcome Nku Nyembezi-Heita to the Board as an independent non-executive director.
Ms Nyembezi-Heita is CEO of ArcelorMittal South Africa.
She is currently an independent non-executive director of Old Mutuals wholly-owned life subsidiary, OldMutual Life Assurance Company South Africa Limited OMLACSA, but will be stepping down from the latter position as part ofher arrangements for joining the OldMutual Board.
Following the Annual General Meeting on 12 May 2011, the following changes to the Board came into effect: Q Rudi Bogni and Nigel Andrews, who had both served on the Board as non-executive directors for nine years, retired from the Board Q Alan Gillespie succeeded Rudi Bogni as the Companys Senior Independent Director Q Russell Edey succeeded Rudi Bogni as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
South African Empowerment In South Africa in 2011, OMSA and Nedbank maintained aLevel 2 rating status and M&F a Level 3 rating status as Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment contributors.
Outlook While we remain cautious over the timing of any end to thecurrent uncertain and volatile economic climate, we areconfident that our unique mix of businesses, and our financial strength and flexibility, will allow us to continue todeliver value to our shareholders.
Julian Roberts Group Chief Executive 9 March 2012 Old Mutual plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
