BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES Q&A Julian Roberts answers questions on OldMutuals achievements in 2011 andwhatlies ahead for the Group.
Now you have sold the Companys key achievements Nordic business, what is next over the course of 2011?
This has been a year of significant delivery both Our vision and strategy remain unchanged.
We are focused operationally and strategically for Old Mutual.
We have on building a long-term savings, protection and investment seengood growth across the Group and a particularly business group.
pleasing performance from our Emerging Markets We will continue to put our customers first.
We believe that business, and I am delighted the Board was able to declare for us to be successful, understanding what our customers a total dividend for the year of 5p per share, 25% up on want, and providing it in a transparent and flexible manner 2010 and in line with our progressive dividend policy.
This is will be key to our future growth.
in addition tothe planned special dividend of 18p per share following the sale ofourNordic operation.
In 2012, we must ensure that we keep building value in the Long-Term Savings businesses.
We have remained focused on delivering the strategy that we announced in March 2010 and on creating sustainable, Our Emerging Markets business has grown very well long-term shareholder value.
overthe past two years, and we will aim to maintain this We said we would streamline and simplify the Group and levelof growth.
In the UK, this is a vital year asthe Retail Distribution Review will be implemented from 1January have taken significant steps towards doing this.
We have sold our Nordicbusiness for a cash consideration of 2.1 billion 2013.
While we have the largest market share ofassets under management amongst UK platforms, akey focus will subject to shareholder approval: we have agreed the sale of our Finnish business: we have closed Switzerland tonew be to broaden customer choice by offering more of our own products that customers can elect to include on the business: and we have completed the sale of US Life.
Furthermore, we are consolidating our mainland European platform and therefore capture more margin.
At US Asset Management, the volatile markets in 2011 made it businesses Retail Europe and the Italian and French businesses under a new entity to be managed within achallenging year for our asset managers, but we have seen our investment performance continue to improve.
iscritical that we maintain this improvement in 2012 as In March 2010, we set out a number of targets to achieve better investment performance should lead to improved by the end of 2012 and, two years into this three-year netinflows.
programme, we are well on the way to meeting our aims.
While we did not actively try to sell the Nordic business, we Excluding Nordic, we have delivered 89 million of run-rate savings versus our target of 90 million a year, the target have always said that we will look to create shareholder value where we can.
In our view this deal creates value for having been adjusted for the Nordic sale.
For our LongTerm Savings business, we set a return on equity target of both Old Mutual shareholders and Skandia policyholders.
We are making good progress in achieving our 1.5 billion debt-reduction target for the end of 2012, with 600 million already repaid by March 2012.
Following the sale of our Nordic business, we have decided to look to repay an additional 200 million of debt in due course.
18 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 3.
How are you leveraging the the Groups footprint in both strengths of your operations in developed and emerging different regions across the markets?
In emerging markets, our focus is very much on subThis is one of the cornerstones of our strategy and I am Saharan Africa, where we are already the largest life pleased to say that we are making significant progress, insurance and asset management company and where although we still have more to achieve.
we plan to become a dominant financial services company.
Our greatest asset is the deep and broad experience of our These are markets that are demonstrating very attractive people and to this end we have substantially improved growth levels and have a rapidly growing population that international mobility and opportunities.
I am very pleased is increasing its wealth, has limited Government provision of with how this has gone and provided role models for others.
welfare and is currently underserved by financial services companies.
We have used our expertise of running a tied agency in South Africa to help improve the productivity of our Mexican agency We have more than 165 years of experience of operating force.
We believe this agency expertise will be vital when it in Africa.
We will look to build on our existing capabilities comes to building our franchise in sub-Saharan Africa where and technical expertise in South Africa to drive our growth.
we see using agents to distribute our products as key to growth.
We know how to design and distribute products in In terms of product-sharing, we have launched the South emerging markets.
We are experienced in running tied agency forces which we believe are key to distribution in African Greenlight product into Mexico and have already sold 1,534 policies.
We see further opportunities to roll out Africa, but we are also harnessing new distribution channels such as cell phones.
We can use a world-class and Greenlight into other markets we operate in, for example in the UK.
The joint venture between Old Mutual South Africa low-cost administrative base in South Africa.
and Mutual & Federal to provide a direct offering, iWyze, is We have stated our objective that Africas profit contribution meeting our internal targets and Old Mutual Finance is to the Group will be 15% of South Africas by 2015.
We will interacting with our Mass Foundation customers in a way that look to expand our footprint in the Rest of Africa through they value and that leads to better service and lower costs.
infill acquisitions and or new business investment.
We are able to benefit from leveraging our strength as a In developed markets, financial services are evolving rapidly, Group in our deployment of Information Technology and we driven by regulatory developments, changing customer have already taken some significant steps to achieve cost demand and reduced state support for people in synergies in this area.
These include outsourcing of voice and retirement.
The business models that will succeed in these data infrastructure network services for our three South markets are capital-efficient and offer transparency, choice African businesses to Dimension Data and a seven-year deal and flexibility to consumers.
We have the business model to with T-Systems for IT support services for Old Mutual South thrive in this environment.
We have set ambitious targets for further IT savings as we apply best practice techniques, remove duplication and redundancy, and improve delivery standards and customer service.
Old Mutual plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
