18 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW AND MANAGEMENT REPORT: CHIEF ExECUTIVES REVIEW chief executives revieW a yEar of dElivEry We have increased our profits by 12.2%, despite the very tough economic conditions in both the UK and the rest of the world.
We have grown the receivables book by 9.3% whilst maintaining tight underwriting standards which has allowed us to deliver a very good impairment performance.
Very importantly, this has allowed us to increase the groups dividend by 8.7%, the first dividend increase since the demerger of the international business in 2007.
Peter crook, Chief Executive Group profit We have not only delivered an excellent been identified for 2012.
The business is before tax financial performance but we have also also pursuing a programme of consolidating 162.1 delivered some key operational milestones smaller, less profitable agencies into larger in2011: agencies which will help attract more Growth in EPS highly motivated agents who have more 1.
The Consumer Credit Division CCD time to spend on their agencies and 14.0% successfully rolled-out the changes who tend to be breadwinners.
To date, required to implement the EU Consumer these initiatives have allowed a reduction Credit Directive in the early part of 2011. in agency numbers of 8% to 10,500 Dividend cover This required significant changes to IT whilst increasing capacity and improving 1.30 systems, processes and documentation, collections performance.
all of which has been delivered with 4.
Vanquis Bank successfully completed minimal disruption.
the migration of its customer processing Gearing ratio to First Datas First Vision platform during 2.
A number of changes to arrears the first half of the year with no interruption 3.2 management were made in CCD during to customer service levels or business April, including a number of enhancements efficiency.
This migration ensures that to agents commission to encourage greater Vanquis Banks systems remain at the focus on early stage arrears.
These changes forefront of technology.
are proving very effective in improving the quality of the receivables book and have 5.
A second Vanquis Bank contact centre was also led to a large proportion of agents opened in CCDs head office in Bradford generating more commission.
Despite tight underwriting standards, provides the additional operational capacity developing opportunities for growth and required to accommodate the future growth greater operational effectiveness in CCD of Vanquis Bank.
Vanquis Bank successfully launched its 2011, the business opened six branches retail deposits programme in July.
The in secondary towns such as Stafford and platform and product distribution are both Kidderminster in which Home Credit working very well.
Retail deposit-taking appeared significantly under-represented.
provides a further, valuable diversification They are also locations where Home Credit of the groups funding sources and provides had closed the branch a number of years stand-alone financing for the fastestago and moved management responsibility growing part of the group.
to an adjacent, more remote branch.
These The delivery of these milestones during 2011 branches are proving successful and will leaves the business well-placed to continue to break even after approximately 12 months.
deliver further profitable growth during 2012 A number of further opportunities have and beyond.
2010 earnings stated before an exceptional cost of 2.5m.
Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review anD management report 19 market conDitions 2011 2010 Change The competitive landscape for the Home m m m Credit business remains unchanged with Home Credit 127.5 129.1 1.6 around 500 active participants in the UK Real Personal Finance 1.8 1.8 Home Credit market.
Home Credit customers tend to be hourly paid with a bias towards Total CCD 127.5 127.3 0.2 more casual, temporary and part-time Vanquis Bank 44.2 26.7 17.5 employment.
Whilst household incomes of Central: Home Credit customers have shown modest costs 10.2 8.1 2.1 growth over the past year, disposable incomes interest receivable payable 0.6 1.4 2.0 remain under pressure from food, fuel and utility price increases.
As a result, customer Total central 9.6 9.5 0.1 and agent behaviour is relatively cautious, Group profit before tax 162.1 144.5 17.6 which is moderating the demand for credit.
Tight underwriting standards remain in place and the focus of the business has continued changes in the employment market than Bank over the last two years.
During the second to be on lending to good-quality existing mainstream card issuers.
This is a result of only half of 2011, delinquency rates stabilised at an customers and moderating the amount of serving customers with limited indebtedness all-time low for the business.
To date, there has credit advanced to new customers.
together with our low and grow approach to been no discernible pressure on delinquency Vanquis Bank continues to be the most active extending credit which produces high levels rates from the rise in UK unemployment over participant in the under-served, non-standard of credit line utilisation and minimises the recent months.
Nonetheless, the business credit card market and is experiencing strong contingent risk associated with undrawn credit plan for 2012 assumes that unemployment response rates to its marketing programmes.
The relative stability of the employment will rise to around 3 million and that this will Whilst customers are typically in more regular market since mid-2009, coupled with feed through into a modest rise in delinquency employment than Home Credit customers, consistently tight underwriting, has contributed and some moderation in Vanquis Banks the business is significantly less sensitive to to the favourable delinquency trends in Vanquis risk-adjusted margin.
Generating shareholder returns our 4. acting responsibly in our relationships strategy strategy of developing businesses which with customers and making a positive to deliver our mission, we have four generate strong returns on equity capital contribution to the communities served strategic aims: underpins our generous dividend policy by the groups businesses we are which aims to distribute up to 80% of our passionate about ensuring that we provide 1. the organic growth of high return on profits to shareholders.
During 2011, we our customers with an excellent product equity businesses we specialise in delivered on our commitments set at the proposition and service and I am proud investing in and developing businesses time of the demerger of the international that we continue to earn extremely high that provide high returns on a relatively business, by increasing the dividend for levels of customer satisfaction in both small amount of equity capital deployed.
the first time whilst producing a dividend our businesses.
We support this by We are focussed on maintaining cover above our minimum target of 1.25 investing approximately 1% of our pre-tax steady growth in CCD whilst improving times.
Our overall total shareholder return profits into our community programme operational efficiency to continue to performance has been very good since the which provides valuable benefits to the deliver significant returns.
We aim to generate sustainable communities in which our customers and excellent business which is capable of growth in profits and dividends to continue agents live and in which our staff work.
growing its receivables book during normal to deliver attractive shareholder returns.
economic conditions at around 3% to 5% our leading positions in both the Home per annum and providing earnings growth 3. maintaining a secure funding and capital credit and non-standard credit card markets at above these levels.
At Vanquis Bank, structure we maintain a strong balance provide a very good base from which to we aim to maintain the post-tax return on sheet and prudent funding.
Our business deliver a strong performance as the equity of the business at over 30% whilst model is based upon borrowing long and economy recovers.
continuing to grow the receivables book at lending short and maintaining a diverse similar levels to recent years.
We believe funding base, which has been further there is the potential for the business enhanced by the commencement of depositto grow to between 1.0m and 1.2m taking in Vanquis Bank in 2011.
Our target customers in the UK, albeit that the speed gearing ratio is 3.5 times, comfortably of progress will be dictated by economic inside our banking covenant of 5.0 times.
conditions and the competitive landscape.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 20 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW AND MANAGEMENT REPORT: CHIEF ExECUTIVES REVIEW chief executives revieW Pressure on customers real incomes and a key perFormance inDicators kpis weak employment market dictate that tight i am confidenT ThaT we The group uses a number of KPIs to assess underwriting standards will remain in place progress against each of its strategic have The righT sTraTegy, in both businesses for the foreseeable future.
objectives, including both financial and non-financial measures.
Our performance business model, people mission anD values during 2011, measured using these KPIs, The groups mission is to be the leading and resources To together with our plans for 2012, are set out non-standard lender in the UK, acting on pages 22 to 25. conTinue To deliver.
responsibly in all our relationships and playing a positive role in the communities we serve.
These KPIs are helpful in assessing progress but are not exhaustive as management also To assist in the delivery of our mission, takes account of other measures in assessing we have a number of core values that are performance.
embedded in the business: Business moDel 1.
Fair we are fair and reasonable in our The key to Provident Financials success and dealings with stakeholders.
the delivery of high returns for our 2. responsible we conduct our business shareholders is our different approach and dealings responsibly and ensure that we our robust business model.
have a positive impact on the environment and communities we serve.
We lend to customers who others find it difficult to serve.
The UK non-standard market 3. accessible we provide our customers with of over 10 million people has become the access to products which meet their needs.
Straightforward we are straightforward, who have operated in this market have either open and honest in all our dealings.
failed, withdrawn or restructured whilst 5.
Progressive we anticipate and respond Provident Financial has continued to be to the challenges of a changing world.
We have over 130 years of expertise serving the non-standard market and Our values help us to run our business in a will continue to focus all of our expertise and sustainable, responsible way, to the benefit of resources in this sector.
all our stakeholders and to be a source of pride for our employees.
Our business is simple we provide small amounts of money to help ordinary people on below-average incomes get on with their lives and participate in society.
The stability and soundness of our business is rooted in our intimate understanding of our customers.
Unlike most mainstream credit organisations, we make a point of maintaining close contact with our customers throughout the whole cycle of a loan.
We work hard to get to know our customers well and build productive relationships with them.
Our products are designed to be simple and transparent and we adopt a low and grow approach to responsible lending.
Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review anD management report 21 We underpin our business with solid Provident Financials future prospects are foundations.
We borrow long and lend short, attractive: maintain diverse funding sources and ensure we have a long track record of successfully e v a that we adopt prudent, appropriate accounting h e operating in the non-standard market which W policies.
We focus on investing in highly has become the domain of specialists like us: capital-generative businesses that allow us we have an attractive business model with increased to maintain the investment in the group and businesses that are well managed and provide our shareholders with good returns.
inherently more resilient through difficult Further detail on our business model is set market conditions: our profits out on page 9. we have a Home Credit business with opportunities for growth through growing during the looking aheaD agent capacity and expanding the geographic The UK non-standard credit market currently footprint: comprises over 10 million people and is very tough we continue to generate strong profitable and expected to show steady growth in 2012 and capital-generative growth in Vanquis Bank beyond.
It is our aim to remain the leading and we believe we have the potential to reach lender in this market and I am confident that economic 1.0 to 1.2 million customers and 1bn we have the right strategy, business model, of receivables: people and resources to continue to deliver.
conditions in our businesses generate high shareholder After a year of significant operational changes returns and are very capital-generative, in 2011, 2012 will see less change as we supporting a high and sustainable focus on managing the business tightly both the uk distribution policy: and through the tough economic conditions which we have a strong balance sheet and we expect to persist at least for the next and a prudent funding structure.
Our key aim in CCD will be to maintain the quality of the receivables book, 2011 has been a year of delivery.
I am the rest seek out growth opportunities and continue confident that we can continue to deliver to improve the operational efficiency of the in 2012. business.
In Vanquis Bank, we will look to of the maintain the strong momentum built up over peter crook the last two years and look into ways of Chief Executive World increasing the revenue streams from our 28 February 2012 well-established platform.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011
