08 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Former Chief Executives review Our year-end net debt increased to 59.2 million 2010: 52.9 Martin K May million driven by increased working capital requirements, Former Chief Executive reflecting record activity levels in Q4 and the phasing of investments and receipts on four significant projects.
Our net working capital to revenue ratio increased to 16.8% against our normal sub 13% level.
We expect this to normalise over the first half of 2012.
We invested 20.0 million 2010: 11.6 million in capital expenditure during the year with the asset replacement ratio calculated by dividing gross capex spend by the depreciation charge increasing to 119% 2010: 71% and 4.3 million 2010: nil on acquisitions.
Delivering on our strategy We have a well defined growth strategy built on five key elements.
Our focus on executing this strategy throughout the year has generated positive progress on all these objectives.
On 29 March 2012, Cape announced that Martin May was to stand down as Chief Executive and as a Director of the 1.
Building strong positions in high growth international Company with immediate effect.
markets such as Far East Pacific Rim and Gulf Middle East Cape delivered further strong revenue growth of 17% at The strength of the Cape brand constant exchange rates CER in the Far East Pacific Rim We made good progress in executing each of our strategic Region in 2011 and our annual revenues in the region have objectives in 2011.
The development of the Cape brand has now increased by over 100 million since 2009 levels.
In the also been at the forefront of the restructuring carried out in the Gulf Middle East we have won packages on several major year and the strength of Capes franchise was again illustrated downstream projects and enter 2012 with record order books.
by the increase in breadth and depth of our business.
We Our strategy is to invest only where we can generate superior delivered essential maintenance and shutdown support services returns for our shareholders.
We look to invest in markets on 287 industrial assets onshore and offshore in 2011 including that offer strong growth prospects and will continue to avoid 39 power stations, 31 oil & gas processing plants, 12LNG and mainland Europe.
GTL plants, 39 petrochemical plants and 66 offshore sites.
In the nuclear environment we continue to provide maintenance 2.
Capitalising on the increasing industry trend towards services at all 8 of the EDF former British Energy stations sourcing cost effective bundled multi-disciplinary services in the UK as well as comprehensive services at both Sellafield from a single source provider and the Winfrith and Harwell research sites.
Cape also Capes core disciplines remain insulation, access and delivered construction support services on 65 construction coatings.
Cape is one of a handful of specialist international projects in 2011 and is recognised by major international E&C service providers able to carry out the full suite of services contractors for consistently delivering the highest safety including passive fire protection and refractory.
In 2011 we standards in challenging and remote environments.
completed the acquisition of York Linings, a specialist refractory lining business in the UK, and Shoreguard Marine, Financial performance an offshore coatings and blasting business in Australia, Cape delivered its expected return to meaningful revenue building on our client offering in these regions.
growth in the second half of the year.
Revenue growth in H2 was 21.5%, driving full year revenues to a record 722.5 million 3.
Building on Capes world class reputation and track 2010: 650.1 million.
We have been anticipating that a record for consistent project execution and delivery on sustained period of growth in demand for Capes services time and on budget would commence in the second half of 2011 driven by the We supported 65 major construction projects in 2011 and release of work packages on a number of large construction successfully completed some landmark projects including projects in the Far East Pacific Rim and Gulf Middle East the Saudi Kayan project, the worlds largest ethylene plant, markets as well as the increasing demand for our essential where our peak manpower exceeded 1,000 and the Pearl maintenance support activities in the UK.
GTL plant in Qatar where our peak manpower reached 500.
In Singapore, our workforce on the Exxon Singapore Parallel The adjusted profit before tax of 69.4 million 2010: 69.1 million Trains SPT Olefins project reached c. 1,600.
When the was impacted by the two one-off charges highlighted in our insulation schedule came under pressure at the Pluto LNG IMS on 9 November 2011.
We recognised a higher than project in Western Australia, the EPC contractor was able to anticipated final charge of 4.1 million in respect of the rig turn to Cape to provide additional resource at short notice.
refurbishment contract in the UK which we completed in the Capes reputation for delivery of major projects in challenging first week of January 2012.
Cape does not seek to undertake and often remote environments to the highest international this type of high risk contract and I am confident that the safety standards continues to set us apart from the circumstances surrounding the acceptance of this contract competition.
have been fully investigated and appropriate actions taken to ensure that contracts of this nature are not accepted in future.
Capturing increasing levels of maintenance and capital The charge of 1.4 million in respect of the costs relating to spending to maintain and extend the life of ageing energy our decision to cease hire and sales activity at our depot in infrastructure in the UK Queensland remains unchanged.
Our focus is on delivering Our UK revenues increased by 9.4% year-on-year driven profitable growth with a low risk profile and, notwithstanding primarily by onshore work in the power generation sector the above, Cape continues to outperform its principal where we enjoy a dominant position with a presence on competitors in margin delivery.
2011 Operations Governance Financial statements Cape plc Annual Report 2011 09 5.
Maintaining our uncompromising safety proposition The size of the onshore opportunity in Iraq for our services with a strive to provide injury free project execution is now increasingly being recognised as we start to provide Cape delivered 55 million man hours in 2011 and our budgetary pricing to our E&C clients active in that country.
safety performance has again been outstanding with an LTI Loss Time Injury Frequency Rate of 0.025 per 100,000 Our people development programmes are producing man hours an improvement of 12.3% on last years positive results performance.
This significant improvement from an already We recognise that labour resourcing for major projects will excellent performance last year is a testament to Capes increasingly be a key issue for our business.
In April we uncompromising approach to safety and our willingness appointed a Group Head of International Resourcing to head to take the lead on safety standards.
This was again up our drive to attract the best talent available to support recognised by our clients during the year with numerous our growth strategy.
This is already proving successful and awards.
We can never be complacent about safety, and we as an example we have now mobilised in excess of 500 men remain committed to continuously improving safety standards.
for the Kumul, Lihir and Bayu-Undan projects in Papua New Guinea and Timor alone demonstrating our capability to Developing the quality of our asset provide skilled labour on a scale our international clients We implemented our new corporate structure in 2011 with require in the most challenging of locations.
the establishment of our International Headquarters IHQ in Singapore.
This improves the alignment of our business Following the hugely successful first phase of our Future with our market opportunities.
Leaders Programme, we commenced a second phase with a further 70 of our key managers participating in our flagship Capes developed intellectual property and the strength of leadership development initiative.
Also in September, a further the Cape brand will normally result in our automatic inclusion 8 new graduate trainees embarked on a two-year training on bidder lists.
We will often work at an early stage with programme.
I am pleased that, with initiatives such as these, our clients on insulation specifications for major projects.
Cape was again recognised for its sustained commitment to The consequences of thermal cryogenic insulation failure the development of our people at the Shell sponsored UK Oil are serious and Capes expertise and quality assurance, and Gas Industry awards held in Aberdeen in November.
developed over the past 30 years, places us at the forefront in the field.
Forward Order Book In overall terms the Groups Forward Order Book has With our experience and design capability Cape provides increased by 9.7% to 940 million 2010: c. 850 million with complex scaffolding and access solutions for irregular and some 68% of consensus revenues for 2012 already secured challenging structures.
For example, in an LNG export 2010: 63%.
terminal, vessels such as a cryogenic heat exchanger, being of welded stainless steel construction and 60 metres high, The multi-year term nature of our maintenance contracts require complex scaffold design solutions.
Cape has the combined with the long lead-time of large construction facility to provide design scaffolds and calculations online projects, where the main demand for our core services takes from its design offices in the UK, Middle East and Australia.
place towards the end of the construction phase and often Scaffold material and design will generally be based on during the pre-commissioning phase, means we enjoy good BS European standards.
visibility of future sources of revenue across our business.
Cape Environmentals newly developed Syphonvac IV system Prospects for the year ahead for online vessel fide-sanding was adopted by both Shell UK Our focus in the year ahead will be to build on the value of the at the Gannet and Shearwater platforms and Nexen at their Cape international brand and to realise the significant growth Buzzard platform in the second half of the year.
opportunities ahead of us in our target markets.
Momentum is building in a number of key regions and projects indicating Acquisitions and entry into new territories that Cape is entering a sustained period of demand growth We completed two bolt-on acquisitions in the year.
In April, for its services.
We expect strong organic revenue growth in we announced the acquisition of Shoreguard Marine Pty 2012 supported by the recent growth in the order book, a specialist marine corrosion protection business in although our operating margin is expected to reduce.
In terms Australia and in August we completed the acquisition of of capital expenditure we expect the asset replacement ratio York Linings International Limited, a refractory linings design to continue at broadly 100% which will enable the Group to and installation contractor.
Both acquisitions have now been generate strong cash flow in 2012. fully integrated into the Group and are performing well.
I am confident that we are well placed to continue executing A key component of our growth strategy is the continued our strategy and delivering growth in shareholder returns in acquisition of businesses that increase our market share, add the year ahead.
to our intellectual property, broaden our service offering in local markets or will assist us with entering target markets.
We have a growing list of opportunities and expect to complete further acquisitions as and when businesses meet our criteria and valuation objectives.
Martin K May We successfully established operational bases in three new Chief Executive territories in 2011.
Our newly established operations in Papua 6 March 2012 New Guinea and India both received early contract awards and we expect our operations in Turkmenistan to commence Throughout this document, various non-statutory measures are used and referred in 2012.
Following our initial work towards the end of last to as adjusted.
These are defined and reconciled to their statutory equivalents in note 5 year we will establish a permanent base in Iraq this year.
