Chief Executives statement Andy Pomfret Financial markets Chief Executive Investment markets 2011 was a difficult year overall although it divided into two distinct halves.
In the first half, markets rose as investors concluded that there would not be a double-dip recession and that the problems in the eurozone could be resolved.
Our first half was therefore positive as markets presented investment managers with some good opportunities for clients and this was evident in first half commission levels of 20.0 million Results and financial highlights 2010: 18.7 million.
Sentiment changed in the second half In spite of often difficult market conditions, our profit though as the eurozone crisis led to questions about whether before tax for the year to 31 December 2011 was up 30.2% Greece would default, which in turn increased speculation on to 39.2 million compared to 30.1 million in 2010, and the future of the Euro and the position of other indebted basic earnings per share of 66.72p were up 34.1% on 49.76p countries such as Italy and Spain.
These results include some 3.0 million of costs change unsettled markets and reduced trading volumes incurred in respect of the planned relocation of our London across the industry.
We thankfully did not see a repeat We expect that asset allocation will continue to be of last years 3.6 million exceptional Financial Services difficult in 2012 as global markets rebalance and, in many Compensation Scheme levy largely caused by the failure developed economies, we see a weak banking sector, of Keydata Investment Services.
inflation uncertainties and continued low interest rates, Underlying profit before tax which excludes client compounding fears of recession.
relationship amortisation charges and exceptional income Loans and money markets and expense items as defined on page 17 was 46.2 million, up 20.0% compared to 38.5 million in 2010.
Underlying As Rathbones has a banking licence, the vast majority earnings per share were 78.79p, up 23.6% on the 63.76p of cash in client portfolios is held with us as a deposit.
We increased the number of Rathbone We invest this cash in the money markets and therefore Investment Management clients to 38,380 at 31 December have exposure to a number of banks around Europe 2011 from 37,400 one year ago, attracting net new funds as part of a well diversified treasury portfolio.
In light of of 1.10 billion in the year 2010: 1.24 billion.
developments in the eurozone, the banking committee responded by reallocating monies held with Spanish and Notwithstanding current economic uncertainties, the Italian banks to UK treasury bills.
These UK Government Board is recommending a final dividend of 29.0p per share, securities represented 9.6% 2010: 0% of the total making a total dividend per share of 46.0p for the year: up treasury assets of 0.91 billion at 31 December 2011.
The final dividend will be paid At 31 December 2011, all 2010: all treasury assets were on 17 May 2012.
In this economic climate it is important rated Fitch single A or above.
Outstanding loans to to report that our balance sheet at 31 December 2011 clients were 47.8 million at 31 December 2011 is now ungeared as external borrowings of 3.1 million 2010: 40.0 million and continue to be an important at 31 December 2010 were repaid in the year.
Our Group part of our relationship with clients.
Tier 1 capital ratio was 26.9% at 31 December 2011 2010: 28.3% on a Basel III basis, which gives an indication of the strength of our capital base.
Our approach For many years our strategy has been to be a leading provider of high-quality, personalised investment and wealth management services... and in these difficult times our consistency has served us well.
We believe that this stability is precisely what clients are looking for in difficult times and this, combined with our independent ownership, has led to high client retention as well as being one of the reasons why many investment managers have chosen to join us with their clients over the last decade.
4 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011 Chief Executives statement continued Our approach continued It will be interesting to see how these two bodies interact and we believe that ensuring that these organisations Key to the success of the firm is the quality of our staff, work well together is in our interests and the interests and we now employ over 750 people in 12 locations.
of the financial services industry as a whole.
We are doing Although the current economic climate means that it has all we can to continue to develop and improve our been difficult to increase levels of pay, profit share and regulatory relationships.
reward to match inflation, we continue to look at additional ways of incentivising staff.
For many years we have There has been much discussion in the press around had in place a Share Incentive Plan and more recently resolution planning for banks living wills and, given our introduced a Save As You Earn scheme, both of which banking licence, we will be developing plans accordingly.
are government-approved ways of encouraging employee We are supportive of this regulation and consider it a good share ownership.
Over 90% of employees participate in opportunity to test and improve our current procedures one or both of these schemes.
Board and management changes A new head office It was with great sadness that we said goodbye to In 2011, considerable time was invested in finding, Mark Powell at the AGM in 2011.
Mark was very much negotiating, and then fitting-out our new head office in part of Rathbones for more than twenty years and we London at 1 Curzon Street.
We will be moving all London thanked him at the AGM for his outstanding contribution, staff currently located in 159 and 161 New Bond Street into both to the Company and to our industry.
At the AGM these premises in February 2012.
This new space about one we were pleased to welcome Mark Nicholls as our new and a third floors of a six storey building will enable us to non-executive chairman.
Mark had been on the Board put the majority of our staff onto a single open plan floor since December 2010, when he was appointed with the with the other floor used for internal and external meeting intention of succeeding Mark Powell.
It will be a significant improvement to get everybody We announced at the half year that Richard Lanyon in London into one location and I am sure all will benefit would be standing down from the Board and his managerial from working in a more open environment which will responsibilities as head of investment management during promote greater internal communication.
The location of 2012 and that he would be succeeded by Paul Chavasse.
the new office will also mean there is little change for either Paul will take up this role at the beginning of March 2012 staff or clients as Curzon Street is only some 400 yards when we have completed our London head office move from our existing offices.
In December 2011 we announced the appointment Regulation of Andrew Butcher as our new chief operating officer, Suitability who will join us in March 2012 from Charles Stanley.
We very much look forward to working with him.
During the year there has been a great deal of attention placed by the FSA on the industrys approach to ensuring that investment portfolios are suitable for clients.
Although Outlook the FSAs 2011 thematic review reported serious concerns Rathbones is cautiously optimistic about the prospects for around whether portfolios were suitable for clients 2012 with the UK equity market ending 2011 on a more among many of our peer group, we are not and have positive note.
There is no doubt that the uncertainties over not been subject to any regulatory action in this regard.
Europe persist but these are balanced by indications that We continue to believe that our approach to managing the world economy continues to grow and some developed suitability is appropriate.
economies are showing small signs of improvement, The Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA and the particularly the USA.
We are seeing signs of underlying cost Financial Conduct Authority FCA inflation but we will continue to invest in and grow our business.
We continue to be well positioned to take During 2012 the FSA will be moving to parallel running advantage of opportunities to welcome more investment the new twin peaks regulatory structure which is expected managers and clients to Rathbones.
to come into effect in 2013 following the passing of the relevant legislation.
As Rathbones holds a banking licence, Andy Pomfret we will be regulated by both the PRA and the FCA.
The Chief Executive PRA will be the lead regulator for all banks in the UK and in many ways we see it as acting in a similar way to how 20 February 2012 the Bank of England has done in the past.
Our conduct of business will be regulated and supervised by the FCA.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011 5 Our business 7 Our business model 8 Rathbones at a glance 10 Strategy and business performance 12 Business review 17 Financial review 23 Risk management report 6 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011
