Our business and our strategy Group Chief Executives review RBS has completed the first three years of its recovery plan.
Over that period the Banks results across our key goals Customers, Risk and Value have exceeded the Plan targets we put together in 2009.
This is pleasing and puts the Bank in a vastly better position than before to serve our dierent constituencies.
We are dealing with the new economic and impairments, which to date have totalled 43 We all understand that a company that is regulatory challenges within the strategic plan billion.
Operating costs have been reduced making losses at the bottom line tests the and have retained our focus on building an by an average of 1 billion annually.
Each of patience of those who depend on it.
However, RBS for all to be proud of.
Great credit is due these totals is better than originally forecast the restructuring task we have undertaken at to our people for the accomplishments to date despite a tougher economic environment.
RBS is unique in its scale and complexity, and to those who have supported us with their and needs to be phased in line with our ability capital or their custom.
2011 Results to fund and execute it.
In dealing with these 2011 saw good progress across all measures legacy losses we expect to put the company Priorities of risk reduction and increased financial on a sustainable footing for generations to We are clear on RBSs priorities: soundness: important given the much tougher come.
2011 proved what we already knew: market conditions.
Customer service and that there are no shortcuts to this endpoint.
to serve customers well: support was sustained well.
to restore the Bank to a sustainable and Strategy conservative risk profile: and However, RBS has reported a pre-tax loss of The new RBS is built upon customer-driven to rebuild value for all shareholders.
766 million overall and, in common with businesses with substantial competitive others, has seen a share price fall, albeit still at strengths in their respective markets: together These priorities are interconnected and levels much higher than the 10p starting point our Core business.
Each unit is being mutually supporting.
These outcomes reflect the reshaped to provide improved and enduring stage of our recovery and the external performance and to meet new external 2009-11 Report Card environment.
They mask real and important challenges.
The businesses are managed to During the last three years RBS has: accomplishments, however.
add value in their own right but to provide a sustained its customer franchises across our stronger, more balanced and valuable whole Core business in the face of restructuring Core bank operating profits were 6.1 billion.
Market shares Within this total, operating profits in 2011 are stable overall.
Service standards are across RBSs Retail and Commercial business The weaknesses uncovered by the financial generally up.
Lending support across the excluding Ulster Bank were up 9% to 4.9 crisis of leverage, risk concentration and UK business substantially exceeds our billion.
RBS Insurance turned loss into profit, business stretch are being fixed.
The primary natural customer market share.
GBM vehicle for this is the run-off and sale of assets rebuilt its financial resilience.
Core Tier 1 ratio suffered a 54% fall in profit to 1.6 billion, in our Non-Core division though there are increased to 10.6%, total assets reduced reflecting tough market conditions, but still many other parallel tasks.
RBSs total assets by 712 billion from peak levels, short-term a substantial result and one generally in line have already been reduced by 712 billion wholesale borrowing reduced by 195 billion, with other investment banking businesses.
from their peak in 2008 more than any other converting a 207 billion deficit versus liquid Non-Core losses declined 24% to 4.2 billion entity worldwide has achieved.
Balance sheet as the risk run-off continued ahead of leverage reduced from 21.2x to 16.9x and the schedule.
Exceptional charges for past Adjustments to Plan loan:deposit ratio improved to 108% 94% in business associated with PPI and Greek The principles of RBS strategy are working Core.
In each case the 2011 position is well write-downs were also taken.
The tougher external environment will ahead of that originally forecast.
handed over to HMT HMRC Bank of England slow progress and reduce profitability but produced 34 billion in pre-impairment in fees for APS Credit Guarantee Scheme, requires largely tactical change from the profits from Core businesses.
These were taxes both on our behalf and on that of our original plan for the majority of our business.
used to self-fund our legacy losses and loan employees and capital support schemes.
10 RBS Group 2011 Our priorities However, all banks, and especially in the UK, climate is tough for people in many walks We are clear on must adjust to much higher capital and of life, that does not take away from the liquidity requirements, and substantially exceptional demands we make on our staff RBS priorities changed wholesale funding markets.
There and the continuing need we have for their are particular pressures on the funding, talents, engagement and motivation.
profitability and capital intensity of crossto serve border, wholesale and investment banking Concluding remarks customers well business lines.
In this letter a year ago I re-affirmed the path ahead for RBS and how we planned RBS has therefore adjusted its business plan to travel down it.
I am pleased to say we to target a still more conservative capital and remain on that track.
to restore the Bank funding structure overall in order to meet to a sustainable current and prospective market and regulatory However, I also warned of the risks from challenges.
This also includes further reduction economic and regulatory policy change.
and conservative in balance sheet, capital usage and expense These have indeed impacted strongly and base in the investment banking area, including remain uppermost in our minds when looking risk profile exit of the cash equities business, reduction at 2012.
We will continue to prioritise customer of the Groups fixed income markets balance service and risk reduction.
We will strive to sheet and combination of its international complement this with determined measures to rebuild value for corporate banking businesses.
We expect to improve business performance to pay for all shareholders these moves to make the client proposition the remaining clean-up and then to produce in our wholesale businesses more focused, results for shareholders.
We are building the and so stronger and more sustainable.
It will capacity of our business to earn its cost of improve the stability of their funding and their capital and produce solid returns as external These priorities are prospects for an improved return on equity.
interconnected and These enduring principles around Customer, RBS is an enduring financial institution playing mutually supporting.
Risk and Shareholder continue to drive our a key part in our markets and communities.
The actions they give rise to should We support others.
We depend on the support enable RBS to prosper over the long term as of customers and our communities in turn.
a leading international bank, anchored firmly in We are working our way out of a tough legacy the UK and serving customers, shareholders whilst sustaining business as usual for the and society well.
vast majority of what we do.
People I thank our staff and all our stakeholders RBS people are doing a great job in serving for their continued support.
customers whilst driving the change we need.
Their engagement and efforts are essential to Stephen Hester our task.
While the Group Chief Executive RBS Group 2011 11
