GROUP CEOS REVIEW CONTINUED DELIVERY In my first report to shareholders as Group net written premiums rose by 9% Profitability was once again excellent.
We Group CEO, I would like to express to 8.1bn in 2011.
Five points of this growth delivered an underwriting result of 264m how privileged I feel to have the came from our 2010 deals, including GCAN and a combined operating ratio of 85.4% opportunity to lead this business in Canada, 123. ie in Ireland and Tesco Pet in while maintaining a strong reserve position.
I joined RSA in 2003 and the UK, which all performed ahead of The Personal underwriting result was very in running the International division, expectations.
Rate on renewed business strong and was driven by Swedish Motor and have been a member of the team drove four points of premium growth as Personal Accident where retention remains that transformed the business into we continued to take positive rating action high.
In Commercial, the underwriting profit the high performing company it is across the Group.
was adversely impacted by storms in July and today.
I truly believe the Group has November, which hit our Property account.
qualities and strengths that most of We also achieved a significant improvement our competitors cannot match and in profitability.
The underwriting result was up Canada we will build on these foundations to by 58% to 375m, with a combined operating Canada reported excellent top line growth generate even stronger performance.
ratio of 94.9%, and the investment result was with premiums up by 19% to 1.5bn, driven by up by 19% to 642m, giving an insurance result a combination of acquisitions, organic initiatives My objective is to have RSA outperform of over 1bn, with strong contributions from and rate.
Personal premiums exceeded 1bn against peers in each of our local markets all regions.
in 2011 with Personal Broker up by 7%, and as a Group as a whole.
I am confident benefiting from strong rate and retention that we can accomplish this goal.
The operating result was up by 38% to and led by growth in Household and the 884m and profit before tax was up by 29% Travel book.
Johnson again outperformed with To help achieve this, I have restructured the to 613m.
The underlying return on average 10% growth, 17 new affinity partners and two business to reflect the significant contribution equity was 11.6%, an improvement of 1.7 acquisitions.
In Commercial, premiums were our Scandinavian and Canadian businesses points.
Net asset value per share of 104p up by 50% to 471m, largely as a result of the make to the Groups results.
I would like to was in line with 2010.
GCAN acquisition but also from 10% organic welcome Mike Holliday-Williams, CEO of growth with strong contributions from Risk Scandinavia, and Rowan Saunders, CEO of REGIONAL OVERVIEW Managed and SME.
Canada, along with Vanessa Evans, our new With effect from 1 January 2012, we have Group Customer and HR Director, to my restructured the business into four regions, Canada delivered a record underwriting executive team.
In June 2012, we will also be Scandinavia, Canada, UK and Western result of 116m, up 45% year on year despite joined by Richard Houghton as CFO.
They Europe and Emerging Markets.
the Slave Lake fire in May, the second most are great additions and I look forward to costly catastrophe in Canadian history.
working with the whole team to take Scandinavia the Group to the next level.
In Scandinavia, premiums were up by 6% to The integration of GCAN is almost complete, 1.8bn.
Personal was up by 5% with growth and the business is performing ahead of A GOOD RESULT IN 2011 in Household, Personal Accident and Danish expectations, delivering 18% premium growth In 2011, we delivered a good performance Motor offset by Norway, where the focus was and market-leading profitability in 2011. in really tough economic and market on improving the profitability of the book.
conditions, with the industry experiencing Commercial was up by 6%, driven by Marine, UK and Western Europe a record level of natural catastrophes and Renewable Energy and Norway, which offset In the UK, premiums were up 6% to 3.1bn.
I am the non-renewal of a small number of large This was led by 10% growth in Personal lines, confident that we are well positioned to accounts in Property and targeted reductions driven by Pet and Household.
outperform in the short term and really in Workers Compensation in the first six well placed as economic growth returns.
10 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 INTRODUCTION In Pet, the Tesco deal is performing ahead of plan with around 130m of premium in its first full year.
Home was up 11%, driven by growth in all distribution channels including a strong performance in Affinity, where we developed a new product for building societies.
We recently secured a deal with the Home Retail Group which, together with a couple of other deals in the pipeline, will maintain momentum in 2012.
In Motor, we continued to focus on profit over growth, pushing hard on rate and premiums dropped by 10%.
In Commercial, we saw growth of 2% with My objective is to outperform against peers Risk Managed Europe up by 19% and Marine in each of our local markets and as a Group up by 9%.
This was offset by a 10% decline in as a whole.
our Regional Mid-Market business where we continued to stick to our guns on price.
Simon Lee, Group CEO The UK underwriting profit was 40m.
Personal delivered an underwriting profit of 60m, led by a strong contribution from Underlying return on Employee engagement Household along with a break-even result in average equity % Survey Engagement participation % score out of 5 Motor.
In Commercial, the underwriting loss reduced to 20m.
Positive contributions from 94 4.34 Marine and Liability were offset by Property, 92 4.21 which was impacted by large losses, and 11.
6% Commercial Motor, where a single large 2010: 9.9% contract will continue to be a drag on profitability.
In Italy, it was a disappointing year.
Market conditions remain very difficult and it is Regulatory capital NAV per share, excluding taking longer to fix the business than we had surplus pension deficit p expected.
The underwriting loss was 63m and comprised further deterioration in Motor and reserve strengthening in General Liability.
The Motor losses reflect changes to and a 1.
3bn 10 8p wider adoption of the Milan Bodily Injury 2.0 x the requirement 2010: 108p Tables and adverse experience on large losses.
While Im not happy with the result, I am convinced we are taking the right action to remediate the business.
Over the last couple Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 11 2010 2011 2010 2011 GROUP CEOS REVIEW CONTINUED of years, we have changed the management In Latin America, we had a really good year.
INVESTING IN PEOPLE team, pushed double digit rate increases, We saw continued strong growth, with double I want to create an environment where people improved our risk mix and have cancelled digit increases led by Argentina and Brazil, and are inspired, encouraged and rewarded to work a large number of unprofitable agents.
In the last four together, develop themselves and be their best.
We expect the impact of these actions to years, premiums have doubled in Latin significantly reduce losses in 2012 and we America and we remain very excited about In 2008, we partnered with Gallup on our staff now expect the business to be close to the potential and prospects for engagement programme, setting ourselves an break-even in 2013. the region.
ambitious target to achieve upper quartile engagement by 2011.
I am pleased to report In contrast, our Irish business had another STRONG FINANCIAL POSITION that we have achieved this.
Gallup has described strong year, despite the economic conditions, The Group maintains a strong financial this achievement as unprecedented, with most with growth of 16%.
123. ie performed well position with a regulatory capital surplus organisations taking five years to accomplish ahead of expectations with 33% premium of 1.3bn or twice the requirement.
what we have managed in three.
We are now growth and we successfully pushed rate the worlds most engaged insurance company across all our main lines of business.
Despite In recognition of our strong competitive in the Gallup database and rank in the top three the November floods, we generated an position and capitalisation, S&P upgraded the financial services companies globally.
In March underwriting profit of 24m and an excellent Groups credit rating to A stable outlook 2012, our UK business ranked 6th in the Sunday COR of 92.6%.
Times Best Big Companies to Work For.
Emerging Markets SUPPORTING CUSTOMERS Id like to take this opportunity to thank Emerging Markets continued its impressive As an insurer, we play a vital role in helping our staff for their continued hard work and top line performance.
Coupled with solid people and businesses recover when the commitment to serving our customers and GDP growth in a number of our markets, worst happens.
Helping customers get their driving the business forward.
we drove an increase in net written lives back on track is our first priority.
premiums of 14% to 1.1bn and, including CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY our Indian associate, to over 1.2bn.
The During 2011, we helped customers recover Behaving responsibly and ethically has underwriting profit was 3m, with Latin from severe weather events in locations a positive impact on our people, our America performing well but the overall around the world including Ireland, Denmark, communities and the environment in which result being hampered by severe weather Thailand and the Baltics.
In addition, the Slave we operate.
Our approach to corporate events in Thailand and the Baltics.
Lake wildfire was the second most costly responsibility remains practical and is focused catastrophe in Canadian history.
I am proud on three key themes: the environment, In Asia and the Middle East, premium of how our staff handled all of these events, road safety and social inclusion.
growth of 14% to 214m was led by and what they did to help our customers Specialty lines and our businesses in get back on their feet as quickly as possible.
The launch of RSAs Arctic Challenge in 2011 Oman and Singapore.
Our Indian associate saw over 10,000 of our employees actively continued to grow rapidly, with premiums In 2011, we also laid the groundwork for the participate to reduce their carbon footprint, up by 19%.
launch of our global Customer Engagement develop the best business green ideas Survey, which will give us a consistent view of and fundraise for WWF or for other green Across Central and Eastern Europe, growth how our customers view us.
This will help us charities.
The campaign increased awareness returned with premiums up by 8%.
We to understand our customers better and make of our partnership with WWF and highlighted remain the number one insurer in the Baltics, improvements to the services we offer.
the role insurers should play in combating maintaining our market leading positions climate change.
In Estonia, our recent partnership with SEB will build scale in that business.
12 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 I am confident in our ability to deliver sustained outperformance.
We have built a Net written premiums m 8,138 7,455 6,737 6,462 5,837 diversified general insurance business and are Underwriting result m 375 238 386 384 278 rightly known for the quality of our people, Operating result m 884 641 777 867 814 our focus on technical capability and our track Combined operating ratio % 94.9 96.4 94.6 94.5 94.9 record of delivering operational efficiencies.
Underlying return on average equity % 11.6 9.9 13.4 16.4 19.3 We have a strong and experienced management team who provide continuity In 2011, we extended our work on Road more heavily indebted economies, such and are determined to build on our existing Safety around the world.
This included a new as those in peripheral Europe and the UK, track record of success.
eyesight campaign in the UK, encouraging struggled to generate economic growth as stronger regulation around eyesight tests they implemented fiscal austerity measures.
Retain fundamental strengths for driving licence renewals.
Our child safety In contrast, the lower debt economies such We have transformed RSA since 2003 and, programme was extended to another as Canada and Sweden generated more solid as we move forward, the qualities that have 40 primary schools in the UK.
growth and some emerging market economies contributed to that success will stay in place.
We will remain a pure-play general insurer Across the Group, we also launched our with a well diversified portfolio of businesses: Global Charitable Programme to support Our portfolio of diversified businesses in both we will persist with our rigorous focus on employees who help in their local mature and emerging markets is one of our underwriting discipline: we will maintain our communities.
Employees anywhere within key strengths in enabling the Group to deliver conservative approach to reinsurance and RSA can now apply for matched funding, consistent and resilient earnings performance reserving: we will stick with our high quality, a charitable grant or a charitable secondment in this challenging environment.
low risk investment strategy: and we will for up to three months.
The programme continue to deliver sustainable is aimed at helping improve employee REGULATION underwriting profitability.
engagement, supporting local charitable As an industry, European insurers are facing organisations and promoting RSA in the largest regulatory change experienced in Build on firm foundations the community.
many years, in the form of Solvency II.
We We are building on firm foundations.
continue to make good progress on this and Firstly, we have a unique footprint with INDUSTRY AND MARKET OVERVIEW RSA is investing significant time and resources our portfolio of diversified businesses The industry experienced record natural to meet all the requirements of the directive in both mature and emerging markets catastrophe losses in 2011, with earthquakes, in the proposed time frame.
which has helped us outperform in both a devastating tsunami, destructive floods and profitability and growth.
severe weather affecting many lives.
We welcome the Governments commitment to reforming the practices that have led to In the UK, we have leading positions in both We also faced challenging economic times.
a growing compensation culture in the UK Personal and Commercial lines.
This is an Global economic recovery lost momentum in and a dysfunctional motor market.
We extremely competitive market which brings the latter part of 2011, with the combination of fundamentally believe that wholesale reform real advantages to the Group in terms of fiscal policy tightening and the continuing crisis is required that includes a market-wide ban technical expertise and pricing sophistication.
in the Eurozone taking its toll on both business on referral fees, changes to the structure of However, it has also brought a challenge to and consumer confidence.
Once again, the personal injury legal fees and in payments deliver sustainable profitability and, while I for soft tissue injuries.
am pleased with the progress made, there Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 13 GROUP CEOS REVIEW CONTINUED is more to be done.
In Ireland, we have a We have a well deserved reputation for Scandinavia really well run business which has significantly disciplined, high quality underwriting and Scandinavia is led by Mike Holliday-Williams.
outperformed its competition over a claims management.
Mike has been there for 12 months after number of years and will continue to do so.
a successful period running our UK Personal Thirdly, we have a powerful track record business.
I have been working with Mike In Canada and Scandinavia, we have strong of delivering operational efficiencies.
Since on a new strategy which draws upon positions in attractive and mature markets.
2004, we have generated significant annualised both the benefits of the Group and Mikes These businesses have driven the profitability cost savings and in 2011, the UK achieved its own experience of customer-led initiatives.
of the Group and will continue to be expense ratio target of around 14% a year This will protect our leadership positions in significant contributors.
This rigorous focus on Swedish Motor and Personal Accident and efficiency will continue.
drive improved performance in our Danish We have an exciting franchise in Emerging and Norwegian operations.
We will build out Markets with good businesses in our chosen Finally, we have a talented and experienced our sub-scale Specialty franchise and generate markets.
Strong GDP growth and increasing management team who collectively have more business through our global broking insurance penetration mean that these driven our success over a number of years.
partners Willis, AON and Marsh.
We are markets will continue to do well.
determined to take advantage of our position Diversified Portfolio as the only scale player in Scandinavia with Secondly, one of our main sources of One of our key strengths is our diversified a global presence.
competitive advantage is technical capability.
portfolio with around 64% of NWP generated Over the years weve recruited some high outside of the UK.
I want to further drive the quality technical specialists as well as invested growth of our overseas businesses while in best in class training and development.
enhancing their already strong profitability.
DELIVER SUSTAINED OUTPERFORMANCE ORGANIC INITIATIVES SUPPORTED BY BOLT-ON ACQUISITIONS CAPITALISE ON GLOBAL NETWORK AND TECHNICAL EXPERTISE IN SPECIALTY CUSTOMER-LED STRATEGY CONTINUED STRONG BUILD SCALE IMPROVE PROFITABILITY IN IN SCANDINAVIA GROWTH IN CANADA IN EMERGING MARKETS UK AND WESTERN EUROPE TALENTED AND EXPERIENCED MANAGEMENT TEAM RIGOROUS FOCUS ON OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCIES DISCIPLINED, HIGH QUALITY UNDERWRITING AND CLAIMS MANAGEMENT WITH CONSERVATIVE APPROACH TO REINSURANCE AND RESERVING PURE-PLAY GENERAL INSURER WITH A DIVERSIFIED PORTFOLIO OF BUSINESSES IN MATURE AND EMERGING MARKETS 14 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FOUNDATIONS REGIONAL GROUP INTRODUCTION Canada Across the Group, we have a range of actions continue to outperform and take the In Canada, Rowan Saunders has done a great that will drive the business forward and continue Group to the next level.
job for a number of years, taking us from to deliver strong profitability.
In terms of overall number ten to number three in the market, shape, last year we set a target for overseas CONFIDENT OUTLOOK while producing market-leading profitability.
premiums to be around 70% of total NWP In terms of 2012, it is clear that the external The priorities I have given Rowan are to by 2015.
I now want to be close to that in 2014. environment is going to remain tough, with continue to extract value from the GCAN I also want to make clear that this is a staging record low yields and subdued economic deal, strengthen the geographical footprint post rather than an end in itself.
growth in some of our markets.
Despite this, of our business, including greater scale in we remain confident of driving another Quebec, and build on our outstanding track Product Diversification strong operating performance and expect to record at Johnson, where I would expect Another of our strengths is our product deliver good premium growth, a combined continued double digit growth.
diversification, split roughly half and half operating ratio of better than 95%, and between Personal and Commercial.
Within investment income of around 500m.
Emerging Markets Personal, weve made good progress, growing In Emerging Markets, Paul Whittaker will be the top line by around 50% since 2007.
Looking further ahead, we have a successful looking to build scale and capitalise on the and diversified portfolio of operations, a potential of these markets.
Growth will In Commercial, growth has been more high quality, low risk investment strategy, be led by organic initiatives but will also modest.
The exception is Specialty, which has an excellent and experienced management be supplemented by bolt-on acquisitions.
Even so, we have yet to team and a clear strategy to drive the Group We have previously set a target of generating fully capitalise on our global network and forward.
We have a resilient business and are 2.2bn in premiums by 2015.
I will be working technical expertise.
I really want to focus strongly placed as economic growth returns with Paul to see how we can beat this.
on developing our strengths in Marine, and yields improve.
Renewable Energy, Construction & UK and Western Europe Engineering and Risk Managed business.
Finally, I would also like to thank Andy Haste, In the UK and Western Europe, Adrian Brown who led this business so well for many years and I have been re-positioning the UK to M&A and George Culmer, who has been maximise its contribution and make it a more This has been a key part of the way we have invaluable to both the business over the focused business.
We will do this by growing built the Group over the past few years and longer term and to me personally during in areas of strategic advantage including Home, we have had particular success in International my transition to Group CEO.
It has been Pet and Risk Managed.
In Motor, we will focus with deals such as 123. ie, GCAN and the a pleasure to work with both of them over on fewer segments and in Commercial Property Codan minority buy-out.
Going forward, the last eight years and I wish them all the we will convert our leading market share into my focus will be on bolt-on acquisitions.
We will also take a more targeted approach to our broker distribution.
Summary I remain pragmatic about the challenges In Italy, the focus will be on fixing the business and opportunities that we face.
Where and returning it to profit.
Whereas in Ireland, I see underperforming businesses or we will create strong value from 123. ie and lines of business with no viable routes to continue to deliver market-leading profitability outperformance we will take decisive action.
With these steps, I am confident Group Chief Executive that our businesses in the UK and Western With the combination of the strong platform Europe will come to contribute much weve built and the actions we are now greater levels of profitability.
emphasising, Im confident that we will visit www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 15 BUSINESS REVIEW 18 Scandinavia business review 20 Canada business review 22 UK and Western Europe business review 24 Emerging Markets business review 26 Financial review 30 Risk review 34 Corporate responsibility GLOBAL SPECIALTY LINES OUR GLOBAL SPECIALTY LINES BUSINESS SUPPORTS THE INSURANCE NEEDS OF LARGE AND SPECIALIST BUSINESSES AROUND THE WORLD.
OUR PHILOSOPHY IS SIMPLE, ITS ABOUT UNDERSTANDING OUR CUSTOMERS BUSINESSES, INSIDE OUT AND BACK TO FRONT.
This means we can provide solutions tailored to suit each individual business requirements.
We bring our experience to bear at every stage, providing the right people and expertise for the lifetime of the partnership.
OUR SPECIALIST EXPERTISE Our reputation has been built upon consistent delivery from our highly skilled and market-leading Underwriting, Operations, Claims and Risk Management teams, as well as a deep expertise in all lines of business and specific industry sectors.
With our expertise in complex, non-conventional arrangements, we are able to arrange bespoke, multinational insurance programmes, giving customers consistency in cover while complying with local regulations.
Global Specialty Lines is organised into these areas of expertise Construction, Engineering and Renewable Energy Marine Large and Risk Managed businesses.
All of our specialisms are supported by our dedicated team of risk engineers, who identify and assess the customers risks and design customised and comprehensive risk improvement programmes.
Global Specialty Lines is represented in most of our key RSA operations around the world, utilising our network of partners to deliver solutions locally in around 140 countries, ensuring we can match the global footprints of our customers.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 17
