16 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Chief Executives review Strong and resilient business In this, my first annual review since becoming Group Chief Executive on 1 January 2012, I should like to begin by saying that it is a privilege to take over the leadership of a company with such a strong track record that is also well-positioned to build on its success and its targets for growth.
Carillions ability to deliver strong, cash-backed earnings and dividend growth reflects the continuing success of our strategy in creating a resilient and well-balanced UK support services and international business mix, with good positions in markets offering opportunities for growth.
Having worked for Carillion for 16 years, most recently as Chief Operating Officer, I have been closely involved in the development and implementation of the Groups strategy, which I believe will continue to deliver sustainable profitable growth.
A consistent and successful strategy Implementing our strategy for sustainable, profitable growth has created a resilient and well balanced UK support services and international business mix, through a combination of strong organic growth and transformational acquisitions delivered nine successive years of significant cash-backed, earnings and dividend growth Richard Howson created a strong balance sheet to support our strategy for growth Group Chief Executive positioned the Group to make further progress in 2012 and beyond by targeting growth in support services 1 doubling our revenues in the Middle East and in Canada, in each Underlying operating profit by reporting segment case to around 1 billion, by 2015 re-scaling UK construction to reduce its revenue from the 2009 level of some 1.8 billion to around 1.2 billion 247.7m Importantly, our strategy is supported by commitments to being a recognised leader in Health & Safety and sustainability, to behaving in 2010: 222.5m accordance with our core values and to strong operational and financial risk management.
Construction services excluding the Middle East Support services 57.9m 120.8m 2010: 41.2m 2010: 110.4m Middle East Public Private construction services Partnership projects 49.1m 19.9m 2010: 47.5m 2010: 23.4m 1 Before Group eliminations and unallocated items, intangible amortisation, non-recurring operating items and share of Joint Ventures net financial expense and taxation.
s e c i v r e s y g r e n E E t n n g e i n e m e e r g i n a g n a & Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 17 A consistent and successful strategy for sustainable, profitable growth growing support services, Public Private Partnership PPP projects and our international businesses developing and marketing integrated solutions tailored to the needs of customers, including project finance, design and construction, maintenance and lifetime support services and asset management maintaining a high-quality and selective construction capability, focused on higher added-value contracts for long-term customers, especially the delivery of integrated solutions for PPP projects and support services customers Creating value Through our integrated business model Support Services Sector leading FM and energy services Long term contracts & good visibility Resilient revenue platform Growth underpinned by outsourcing ASSET CREATION & WhOLE-LIFE PPP projects Construction MANAGEMENT Specialist skills give competitive Strong engineering capabilities advantage in winning projects Selectively focused on quality Valuable equity investments, and delivery recycled to generate cash and profit Rigorous risk management Secures long-term support services Strong track record of good contracts quality earnings Secures good quality Positive cash flow dynamics construction We have specifically developed our capabilities in support services, construction and project finance to create a strong and resilient business model, focused on providing integrated solutions tailored to the needs of our customers from the provision of project finance, design and construction of buildings and infrastructure, through to life-time management of these assets.
With strong management teams in our each of our business units, we are implementing this model in all the territories in which we operate.
m C o s n e s i t r t i u l c i c t i a o F n t s o c e f i l - e l o h w Financial statements governance OUR PERFORMANCE what we do about us & e c n a n fi t c e j o r P 18 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Chief Executives review continued Health & Safety and sustainability Overall, the integration of CES is well ahead of expectations and we We are committed to being a recognised leader in Health & Safety and are on track to deliver the previously announced increase in synergy sustainability, because providing a safe working environment for all our and restructuring cost savings from a run rate of 15 million per people is our first priority and because we have a responsibility and the annum to 25 million per annum by the end of 2013, at a one-off cost opportunity to create positive impacts on the environment and on the of 40 million.
communities in which we operate.
Our performance in these areas is measured annually through Key Performance Indicators KPI and our A resilient and well-balanced business performance in respect of these KPIs in 2011 is reported in the table In 2011, 57 per cent of underlying operating profit came from on page 19. long-term contracts for support services and PPP projects, which provide considerable resilience in the current challenging In 2011, we launched a new 2020 strategy for sustainability, which economic climate.
forms an integral part of our business plans to support our objectives for growth over the next decade.
Our new 2020 sustainability The remaining 43 per cent of underlying operating profit came from strategy is described in more detail on page 34 of this report.
construction services, which also generate resilient, good quality earnings, as a result of our strategy of Our values Our commitment to behaving in accordance with our six core values applying strict contract selectivity and rigorous risk management in everything we do determines the culture of our business.
processes growing our international construction revenue, while reducing openness UK construction revenue to anticipate the effect of a one-third collaboration cut in Government capital spending on infrastructure over its mutual dependency current four-year spending plan.
professional delivery sustainable profitable growth In 2011, we made further good progress with re-scaling UK innovation construction by tightening our selectivity criteria to base our UK construction activities around the delivery of integrated solutions for The acquisition of Carillion Energy Services CES PPP projects and support services customers.
Consequently, we remain The acquisition of CES formerly Eaga plc in April 2011 was an on track to achieve our objective of reducing UK construction revenue important strategic development, driven primarily by the need to to around 1.2 billion by 2013. extend our support services capabilities to include energy efficiency services.
These services are becoming an increasingly important part Our decision to re-scale UK construction not only anticipated the of the integrated facilities management and maintenance solutions impact of cuts in Government capital investment, but is also helping us required by our commercial and non-domestic customers, due to improve margins, because we can avoid bidding for low margin primarily to the rising cost of energy and Government legislation to work at a time when the UK construction market is becoming reduce carbon emissions.
The acquisition of CES has also taken the increasingly competitive.
Group into other new growth markets for energy services, namely private housing and Local Authority and Social Landlord housing.
Nine successive years of significant, cash-backed earnings and dividend growth The prospects for growth in our energy services markets have been Delivering a nine per cent increase in underlying earnings and dividend further enhanced by UK Government announcements regarding the per share in 2011 extended our strong track record to a ninth successive implementation of the Energy Act 2011 and in particular, The Green year of significant earnings and dividend growth, backed by strong Deal and the Energy Company Obligation.
The Green Deal, which is to cash flow from operations.
Over the last five years, underlying earnings receive an additional 200 million of Government funding, is expected per share and our full-year dividend have increased at compound to kick-start some 14 billion of investment in energy efficiency annual growth rates of 12 per cent and 13 per cent, respectively.
measures over the next decade.
The Energy Company Obligation, which the Government is committed to introduce in October 2012, A strong balance sheet is expected to create a market worth some 1.3 billion a year, initially A strong focus on cash management and financial discipline has up to 2015, but the present Government intends to extend this period resulted in the consistent delivery of cash-backed profit.
This has to 2020. supported our growth and enabled us to transform Carillion into a leading support services company, notably through a combination of The UK Governments decision to reduce Feed-in-Tariffs FITs for solar strong organic growth and three major acquisitions, namely Mowlem photovoltaic systems Solar PV sooner and by far more than expected, plc in 2006, Alfred McAlpine plc in 2008 and CES in 2011.
These will limit growth in the Solar PV market.
But to put this into acquisitions were funded in part by 528 million of borrowing, but perspective, before the UK Government announced this decision, the through strong cash generation the Groups net borrowing at 31 total value of the UK Solar PV market was expected to be worth December 2011 was only 50.7 million, which was considerably better between 800 million and 900 million per annum.
This, together with a committed syndicated bank around six per cent of the total UK energy services market, which we facility of 737.5 million maturing in March 2016 and a 100 million currently estimate to be worth some 15 billion per annum.
As a result private placement arranged in August 2011, comprising a seven-year of the decision to reduce FITs, we estimate that the UK Solar PV market 49 million facility and a 10-year 51 million facility, gives the Group will reduce to around 400 million per annum, or some three per cent an extremely strong balance sheet to support our strategy for growth.
of the total UK energy services market.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19 Key performance indicators which we also topped the support services sector, we came 10th in the In 2010, the Group set eight Key Performance Indicators KPI for 2011.
Sunday Times list of Best Green Companies and fourth in our category for These are described below together with our achievements.
large and medium sized companies with high environmental impact.
We also maintained our membership of the FTSE4Good Index.
Being a leader in To attract, develop and retain excellent people delivering sustainable solutions for our customers differentiates Carillion from its peers and helps us to win work.
In 2011, we launched our 2020 Attracting, developing and retaining excellent people continues to be our Sustainability Strategy to support our business plans and targets for growth top priority, as this underpins every aspect of our performance.
Our ability over the next decade.
More details about this and how we are becoming a to deliver the high-quality services our customers expect, which is vital to more sustainable business can be found in the sustainability section of this Carillions reputation and profitability, depends on having excellent people report on page 34. with the appropriate skills and commitment at every level throughout the Group.
We therefore continue to invest in the development and Continuously improve customer satisfaction and brand reputation implementation of bespoke leadership, personal development and employee engagement programmes, which are designed to enable all our people Our performance against this KPI which was introduced for the first time to achieve their full potential.
We also believe that good communication in 2010, is being measured by an independent annual survey of customer with all our people to create a culture of openness and trust, is essential to perception.
The results of the 2011 survey showed that, while our average engaging and empowering them to contribute to the development of our customer perception scores across our businesses and market sectors business.
We do this through managers and supervisors holding regular remained unchanged in 2011, it was ahead of the average for peer group one-to-one meetings with all their people, monthly Team Talks, our companies and well above a commercially acceptable level.
award-winning company newspaper Spectrum and internal newsletters.
Grow revenue in support services We monitor and measure our progress, through employee surveys, notably Support services revenue increased by 11 per cent as a result of the The Great Debate, an annual interactive survey of people selected acquisition of CES in April 2011.
The revenue acquired with CES was randomly from across all our businesses.
In 2011, 12,480 people took part partially offset by the effects of demobilising certain contracts in 2010 and in The Great Debate, the results of which showed that overall the by our continuing focus on contract selectivity and financial discipline to satisfaction of our people and the extent to which they feel valued and support margins.
proud to work for Carillion, continued to improve.
Grow annual revenues in Canada and in the Middle East consistent Be a recognised leader in health & Safety and sustainability in the with our objective of doubling each of them to around 1 billion sectors in which we operate by 2015 Our absolute commitment to the Health & Safety of our people and of In 2011, revenue in the Middle East increased by 11 per cent to everyone who works with us or is affected by our operations remains 561.3 million and revenue in Canada increased by 10 per cent to paramount, together with our objective, known as Target Zero, of 782.3 million.
Given the strength of our pipelines of contract eliminating all reportable accidents.
To achieve this challenging objective, opportunities in the Middle East and in Canada, we remain confident we continue to use a wide range of measures, including training, audits, of achieving our target of doubling their annual revenues to around Safety Action Groups, strong visible leadership, such as Directors Safety 1 billion by 2015.
Tours and employee engagement tools.
Our hazard reporting programme, Dont Walk By, encourages our people to report for immediate action Continue to re-scale our UK construction capability consistent anything they believe to be unsafe.
In 2011, our Accident Frequency Rate with our objective of reducing annual revenue by one third AFR reduced to 0.07 reportable accidents per 100,000 employee hours to around 1.2 billion.
worked 2010: 0.10, with four out of five projects achieving zero reportable accidents during the year.
An AFR of 0.07 represents a sector-leading We have made further good progress with re-scaling our UK construction performance.
Despite this further improvement in our overall safety activities, reducing their revenue to 1.3 billion in 2011, in line with this performance, we deeply regret that three fatal accidents occurred at objective, which we set in 2010.
Re-scaling is being achieved by being very Carillion work sites during 2011.
An employee of a sub-contractor fell from selective in terms of the contracts for which we bid, which has resulted in a window opening after climbing onto the guard-rail.
An employee of a significant improvements in operating margin and profit for UK construction.
sub-contractor was struck by a steel beam as it was being lifted.
A Carillion employee was struck by a glass panel that toppled over while it was being Continue to reduce costs and improve efficiency to support unloaded from a container.
These accidents are all personal tragedies and margins and earnings growth our thoughts are with the families and friends of those who died.
We continue to focus on cost management and efficiency savings across our business.
Our ongoing success is evident in the substantial improvement During 2011, two prosecutions of Carillion companies were completed by we achieved in the Groups total underlying operating margin, which the Health & Safety Executive.
One arose as a result of an accident in 2004 increased from 4.2 per cent in 2010 to 4.7 per cent in 2011, with underlying that occurred in the M25 Holmesdale Tunnel where an employee of a earnings per share increasing by nine per cent.
sub-contractor was fatally injured during roadworks as a result of being struck by a vehicle unconnected to the roadworks.
The other related to Generate cash-backed profit after adjusting for the strategic an accident on a Carillion Energy Services worksite prior to its acquisition re-scaling of our UK construction business by Carillion, due to a failure to protect an opening in a floor during the In 2011, we maintained our strong track record of consistently delivering installation of central heating.
Underlying cash flow from operations of 230.3 million was equal to 107 per cent of underlying profit from operations, without Carillion continues to be a leader in sustainability.
We retained our Platinum adjusting for the effects of re-scaling UK Construction.
ranking in Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index, in Financial statements governance OUR PERFORMANCE what we do about us 20 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Chief Executives review continued Operational risk management Risk Potential impact Mitigation Carillion has rigorous Continuing to win contracts consistent with our Failure to achieve targets for growth in revenue, Continually seeking to differentiate our offering operational risk management target margins in markets that are more competitive cash-backed profits and earnings.
by reviewing our competitive strategy and target markets policies and processes to Living our values and listening to our customers in order to develop services that meet their needs identify, mitigate and manage Focusing on our efficiency and cost reduction programmes to remain competitive strategic Group-wide risks and risks specific to our individual Managing our pension schemes to ensure that An increase in liabilities that would reduce Carillions The Groups main defined benefit pension business units and contracts, scheme liabilities are within a range appropriate to net assets and adversely affect the Markets valuation schemes have been closed to future accrual our capital base of Carillion and its share price.
Regular reviews of our investment policies to including economic, social, ensure that employee and company contributions, together with scheme benefits, remain appropriate environmental and ethical Managing our major contracts to ensure that they Failure to achieve the margins, profits and cash Applying selectivity criteria to ensure we take risks.
are delivered on time, to budget and to the flows we expect from contracts and also damage on contracts only where we understand, and required standards to Carillions brand reputation.
can manage, the risks involved The Group Head of Risk is responsible for Applying rigorous policies and processes to a dvising on strategic risks affecting the Group monitor and manage contract performance c onducting independent risk appraisals of all projects prior to Ensuring we have high-quality people delivering them being submitted to the Major Projects Committee, which is a committee of the Board with delegated authority to sanction projects major commitments and transactions, including capital expenditure, major contracts and business acquisitions and disposals, up to Business integration and re-scaling, notably Failure to deliver the Groups strategic objectives, Experienced and dedicated teams are in place specified levels of risk, beyond which they are referred to the Board of Carillion Energy Services and UK construction adversely affecting its financial performance.
to deliver integration and re-scaling o verseeing risk training across the Group.
Progress is closely monitored and measured by Our risk management processes are applied to every aspect of our the Executive Directors operations, from choosing the geographies in which we operate, our market sectors and the contracts for which we bid, to the selection of Attracting, developing and retaining excellent people Failure to deliver high-quality services to our customers, Developing and implementing leadership, our customers, partners and suppliers.
We also apply them to every stage of a contract, from its inception to completion, in order to deliver with consequent effects on profit, reputation and personal development and employee engagement value-for-money services for our customers and the cash-backed profit our ability to win new contracts and achieve our programmes that encourage and support all our we expect.
people to achieve their full potential Maintaining high standards of performance in Adverse effects on the confidence and morale of our Applying rigorous risk management processes respect of security, Health & Safety and other employees leading to increased employee turnover supported by robust business continuity plans statutory requirements rates, loss of customer, supplier and partner An ongoing commitment to Target Zero, our confidence, and damage to Carillions brand programme to eliminate reportable accidents, reputation, with consequent impacts on our ability including implementing management systems to win new contacts.
that conform to Occupational Health & Safety Assessment System 18001 Implementing thorough, mandatory staff training programmes to support the delivery of our objectives and to ensure compliance with our statutory obligations and company policies in respect of ethics and values Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21 Identifying and assessing significant risk Carillion plc Board Major Projects Committee Performance Review Meetings Strategic Group-Wide Risks Group Risk Forum Business Unit Risk Managers Contract Risk Managers Tenders for New Contracts Contract Performance Monitoring Risk Potential impact Mitigation Continuing to win contracts consistent with our Failure to achieve targets for growth in revenue, C ontinually seeking to differentiate our offering target margins in markets that are more competitive cash-backed profits and earnings.
by reviewing our competitive strategy and target markets Living our values and listening to our customers in order to develop services that meet their needs F ocusing on our efficiency and cost reduction programmes to remain competitive Managing our pension schemes to ensure that An increase in liabilities that would reduce Carillions T he Groups main defined benefit pension scheme liabilities are within a range appropriate to net assets and adversely affect the Markets valuation schemes have been closed to future accrual our capital base of Carillion and its share price.
R egular reviews of our investment policies to ensure that employee and company contributions, together with scheme benefits, remain appropriate Managing our major contracts to ensure that they Failure to achieve the margins, profits and cash A pplying selectivity criteria to ensure we take are delivered on time, to budget and to the flows we expect from contracts and also damage on contracts only where we understand, and required standards to Carillions brand reputation.
can manage, the risks involved A pplying rigorous policies and processes to monitor and manage contract performance E nsuring we have high-quality people delivering projects Business integration and re-scaling, notably Failure to deliver the Groups strategic objectives, E xperienced and dedicated teams are in place of Carillion Energy Services and UK construction adversely affecting its financial performance.
to deliver integration and re-scaling P rogress is closely monitored and measured by the Executive Directors Attracting, developing and retaining excellent people Failure to deliver high-quality services to our customers, D eveloping and implementing leadership, with consequent effects on profit, reputation and personal development and employee engagement our ability to win new contracts and achieve our programmes that encourage and support all our targets for growth.
people to achieve their full potential Maintaining high standards of performance in Adverse effects on the confidence and morale of our A pplying rigorous risk management processes respect of security, Health & Safety and other employees leading to increased employee turnover supported by robust business continuity plans statutory requirements rates, loss of customer, supplier and partner A n ongoing commitment to Target Zero, our confidence, and damage to Carillions brand programme to eliminate reportable accidents, reputation, with consequent impacts on our ability including implementing management systems to win new contacts.
that conform to Occupational Health & Safety Assessment System 18001 I mplementing thorough, mandatory staff training programmes to support the delivery of our objectives and to ensure compliance with our statutory obligations and company policies in respect of ethics and values Financial statements governance OUR PERFORMANCE what we do about us 22 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Chief Executives review continued Order book and probable orders Order book plus probable orders The Group maintained a strong forward order book plus probable new orders, which at 31 December 2011 was worth some 19.1 billion 2010: 19.1 billion, where a probable order is defined as an order that we believe we have a greater than 90 per cent chance of securing.
Within this total, the order book was worth 17.9 billion at 31 December 19.
The value of orders and probable orders acquired with Carillion Energy Services was broadly offset by the reduction due Construction services to the planned re-scaling of UK construction.
At 31 December 2010, the 1 excluding the Middle East Support services Groups revenue visibility for 2011 was 75 per cent 2010: 82 per cent.
2.4bn 12.9bn Pipeline of contract opportunities 2010: 3.2bn 2010: 12.2bn Our pipeline of contract opportunities, namely contracts for which we are either currently bidding or which we expect to bid, increased significantly to a record level of 33.1 billion 2010: 25.7 billion.
This Middle East reflected increases within each of our business segments, notably in construction services Public Private support services, which increased by 48 per cent, and in Middle East Partnership projects 1.0bn construction services, which increased by 30 per cent.
2.8bn 2010: 1.0bn 2010: 2.7bn Well positioned to achieve our targets for growth Although trading conditions are expected to remain difficult, with good revenue visibility, and a record pipeline of contract opportunities, we remain well-positioned to make further progress in 2012 and Pipeline of contract opportunities beyond by targeting growth in support services doubling our revenues in the Middle East and in Canada, in each case to around 1 billion, by 2015 33.1bn re-scaling UK construction to reduce its revenue from the 2009 level of some 1.8 billion to around 1.2 billion 2010: 25.7bn Construction services excluding the Middle East Support services 8.4bn 12.3bn 2010: 7.7bn 2010: 8.3bn Richard Howson Public Private Group Chief Executive Middle East Partnership projects 29 February 2012 construction services 1.0bn 11.4bn 2010: 0.9bn 2010: 8.8bn 1 B ased on expected revenue and secure and probable orders, which exclude variable work and re-bids.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 23 To attract, develop and retain excellent people The Group has set the following Be a recognised leader in Health & Safety key performance and Sustainability indicators for 2012.
Continuously improve customer satisfaction Deliver growth in support services Grow annual revenues in Canada and in the Middle East, by doubling each of them to around 1 billion by 2015 Continue to re-scale our UK construction activities consistent with our objective of reducing their annual revenue to around 1.2 billion Continue reducing costs and improving efficiency to support margins and earnings growth Generate cash-backed profit after adjusting for the strategic re-scaling of our UK construction activities Financial statements governance OUR PERFORMANCE what we do about us
