Chief Executives Statement Last year, I began my statement with the words In spite of an uncertain economic environment, 2010 proved to be an extremely good year for St. Jamess Place.
2011 saw the economic uncertainty continue, as the problems of the Eurozone took centre stage and stock markets exhibited considerable volatility in the second half of the year.
Despite these challenges, our results in 2011 were again very good, and demonstrated another robust performance across all aspects of the business.
Our business is centred on the UK, attracting clients from the mass affluent and, increasingly, the high net worth markets.
And whilst the road to recovery for the UK economy remains challenging, the need for trusted financial advice is greater than ever.
We aim to grow the business by increasing funds under management through a combination of attracting new clients and new funds new business, maintaining strong retention of existing funds under management and driving investment growth.
Since we founded the business in 1992, we have become recognised and respected as a trusted provider of good quality advice and wealth management services.
Today, as we celebrate our 20th Anniversary, we manage over 28 billion of client investments for over 300,000 clients.
Measured in terms of funds under management, the business has doubled over the last five years as well as in the David Bellamy I will cover the results in more detail below, but before Chief Executive five years preceding that, a rate of growth which we believe doing so, I wanted to take this opportunity to remind we can repeat in the next five years, subject of course to shareholders of the key principles which underpin the vagaries of the market.
We believe that the strength of ourbusiness.
relationship between our Partners and our clients, together with our approach to investment management, leaves us Business Strategy uniquely positioned to continue to succeed in the wealth The Groups strategy is to attract new clients and new management market.
funds under management by providing face to face wealth management advice, based on clients individual needs and New Business and Funds Under Management circumstances, through our dedicated advisers, the Turning to 2011s performance, total new funds invested St. Jamess Place Partnership.
Our advisers monitor and were up 10% to a record 5.2billion 2010: 4.7 billion review clients financial needs over time, adapting advice whilst new business measured on an Annual Premium where necessary in order to ensure that recommendations Equivalent APE basis at 642.3 million 2010: 581.8 remain appropriate.
By focusing on getting this right, we million was also up 10%.
retain both the client relationship and the funds under management for the long-term.
Of equal importance to growing new funds under management is retaining existing client funds, and our retention experience in this regard remains very strong, resulting in a net inflow of funds for the year of 3.3 billion 2010: 3.0 billion.
4 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Total funds under management at 31 December 2011 were Despite the stock market volatility seen in the second half 28.5 billion 2010: 27.0 billion an increase of 6% over of last year, the growth in cash earnings remained strong the year.
and the Board has therefore resolved to increase the full year dividend by 33%.
Given our ongoing confidence in Financial Performance the profile of the cash emergence going forward The financial commentary on pages 12 to 26 provides an shareholders can expect a similarly significant increase in explanation of the presentation of the financial results and the 2012 dividend, for the third consecutive year.
Beyond detail of the Group financial performance for the year.
that we hope to progressively grow the dividend in line with the underlying growth of the business.
We have achieved strong growth in all of the key profit measures as highlighted below.
Subject to the approval of shareholders at the AGM, the Board proposes to increase the final dividend by 21% to 4.8 IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards profit before pence per share.
This provides for a full year dividend of shareholder tax increased during the year by 30% to 109.7 8.0 pence per share 2010: 6.0 pence per share up 33%, to million 2010: 84.2 million with the key driver to be paid on 16 May 2012 to shareholders on the register at growth being the annual management fees resulting from the close of business on 30 March 2012. the increased funds under management and the growing maturity of the business.
As announced in our Interim results, there will no longer be a scrip dividend alternative but there will be a Dividend The EEV European Embedded Value operating profit at Reinvestment Plan DRP available for shareholders.
371.5million 2010: 332.6 million was up 12% over the year as a result of the profit from new business, better Key Business Drivers than expected retention rates and lower ongoing Underpinning our business results and central to achieving administration costs.
our medium-term goals are three principal objectives.
Firstly, we aim to continue the development of the The cash result which ultimately determines the dividend Partnership both in terms of the numbers of Partners and was up 39% to 67.0 million 2010: 48.3 million their professionalism, year on year.
Secondly, we must reflecting the increasing maturity of funds continue to look after our clients and meet, if not exceed, undermanagement.
Thirdly, we need to ensure we continue to provide Partners and clients with Dividend the breadth in our investment proposition and the support The main sources of income for the Group are the fees and services necessary to enhance Partner and client charged for advising on and managing client investments.
relationships and grow our business.
In the early years after taking on a client, the fees earned The next few sections cover progress in these areas.
are used to finance the acquisition costs of the business and in helping to grow our distribution arm, the St. Jamess Place Partnership.
Thereafter, cash flows through to the bottom line.
Net Inflow of Funds Indeed, the combination of the longer-term nature of the 3.3bn business and the strong growth in new funds under Funds Under Management management in recent years is now providing an increasing level of cash flow, over and above the cash needed for reinvestment, such that we are able to progressively grow 28.5bn the dividend return for shareholders.
Cash Result Last year, this enabled us to announce a rebasing of the dividend over two years which resulted in a 33% increase 39% in the 2010 full year dividend with the stated intention for a similarly significant increase in 2011.
Full Y ear Dividend 33% 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Chief Executives Statement continued The St. Jamess Place Partnership The success of our approach can be seen from the fact that The size of the Partnership increased during the year to over 90% of new investments is estimated to come from 1,649, growth of over 6% and in line with our stated existing clients or from referrals and introductions from long-term objective.
Over the last five years the them and once invested, clients tend to stay invested with Partnership has grown by almost 500, representing a retention figure of 95% excluding regular withdrawals compound growth over the period in excess of 7% pa. and maturities.
The market place for advisers continues to be very active at The strength of these relationships is also underscored the moment and we are confident we can continue to through our annual client survey, conducted by Ledbury attract the appropriate number and quality of new Partner Research, where we consistently outperform the businesses to St. Jamess Place.
We anticipate that a small marketplace on all core satisfaction metrics.
Nonetheless, number of existing Partners will retire earlier than as in previous years, where our clients tell us that there are previously expected this year, in advance of the changes areas we need to improve, we will take on board the brought about by the Retail Distribution Review and feedback and take strides to improve the client experience.
consequently we expect the 2012 net growth in the Partnership to be slightly lower than recent years.
During 2012, we are looking to further enhance our client offering by again broadening our investment proposition, During the year, the progress made by the Partnership to as detailed below, whilst at the same time developing a achieve the new regulatory qualifications has been more bespoke Private Client service offering to include outstanding, with over 4,500 exams taken in 2011 access to alternative investment offerings.
resulting in over 80% of advisers achieving the Diploma qualification, and a further 11% within one or two exams.
Investment Management At the heart of the proposition to our clients is our Whilst we expect to see our main source of new advisers investment management approach.
come from the existing market, we have proceeded to launch the second phase of the St. Jamess Place Academy Regular readers of these reports will be familiar with the with an investment of some 2 to 2.5 million in 2012. approach and will know that we believe no one institution Thisinitiative aims to help grow our own advisers to has a monopoly on investment talent and hence we seek to supplement our recruitment efforts in the medium to find the very best investment managers from across the long-term.
The first intake of 16 individuals following the globe.
Indeed, we have no in-house investment managers.
re-launch joined the academy in January.
Instead, through our Investment Committee, aided by the Our Clients respected independent investment research consultants Building and maintaining long-term relationships with Stamford Associates, we seek to select, monitor, and if clients is core to our business strategy and we achieve this necessary change, fund managers on behalf of all of primarily through the St. Jamess Place Partnership.
Partners recognise that no one clients objectives or circumstances are the same as another.
The relationships The Investment Committee meets regularly throughout between Partners and clients endure because they are the year to review performance.
If a change in the market founded on mutual respect and trust, with the emphasis on calls for the addition of a new manager, the Committee building and maintaining a long-term relationship.
Equally, if the Committee loses confidence large majority of clients choose to continue the working in the ability of an existing manager, it will replace them.
relationship with their Partner indefinitely, appreciating a source of trusted advice as their financial needs evolve over We remain committed to monitoring and reviewing all of the years.
our fund managers to ensure we generate good returns for clients over the medium-term.
6 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review New Fund Managers and Fund Manager Changes In 2011, we raised 3.1 million 2010: 2.8 million which At the beginning of 2011, we launched a range of model is a fantastic achievement and enabled us to help many or example portfolios incorporating four growth charities during the year at a time when the charitable portfolios, ranging from conservative to adventurous, and sector has been suffering funding cuts and hardship in the three income portfolios catering for immediate income wake of the economic downturn.
needs through to a deferred income portfolio.
These have Full details of the St. Jamess Place Foundation and more proved to be very helpful to both Partners and clients.
information on our fund raising initiatives and the charities supported can be found on pages 38 to 43.
During the second half of 2011, we launched a new Global Equity Fund which included the introduction of three new The support we provide for the charitable sector and the investment managers: New York based Tweedy, Browne engagement we have within our own community wouldnt Company, Sands Capital Management operating from be possible without the generous support of the Company, Virginia and London based Majedie Asset Management.
who on behalf of shareholders, match pound for pound everything that our Partners and staff raise, so can I take In February 2012, we added two new funds to our range, this opportunity to thank shareholders on behalf of our a new multi-asset proposition managed by Pacific community and the charities they support.
Investment Management Company PIMCO based in Newport Beach, California and a Global Equity The Community Income Fund managed by Paul Boyne and Doug McGraw In addition to our charitable ethos we also have a of Invesco Perpetual.
responsibility to help build strong and healthy communities in the areas where our business operates.
We do this by We also took this opportunity to extend our range of supporting a number of local initiatives details of which example portfolios by adding a defensive portfolio and, can be found on pages 46 and 47. as part of this, an Index Linked Gilt fund managed byBlackRock.
For the last three years we have also been supporting the Loughborough University Elite Swimming Programme In April this year, we will appoint Ken Buntrock of Loomis with a view to this years London Olympics.
Were Sayles, based in Boston, to manage our Investment Grade delighted that our support has helped and wish all the Corporate Bond fund.
At the same time we will hand swimmers involved in the programme the best of luck at over the running of the UK Growth fund to Majedie the forthcoming London Olympics.
Partners and Employees Finally on behalf of the Board and shareholders, I would Having significantly broadened our fund range over the last like to thank all of the members of the St. Jamess Place couple of years, we are now able to offer our clients a range Partnership, all of our employees and the staff in our of funds managed by over 30 leading fund managers from administration centres for their exceptional commitment, across the globe.
dedication and enthusiasm without which this strong set of results would not have been achieved.
St. Jamess Place Foundation As shareholders will know, giving back and helping those Outlook less fortunate than ourselves is one of our principal beliefs The growth in Partner numbers, the addition of new and forms part of the very fabric of St. Jamess Place.
investment funds and the progress made in achieving the TheSt.
Jamess Place Foundation is our own charitable new regulatory qualification levels all bode well for the company and each year we set out to raise money for the future.
Consequently, while mindful of the difficult Foundation in all manner of forms of sponsored events.
economic conditions that persist, we have a good platform for further growth in new business in 2012 and we remain As well as these and many other fund raising events, over confident of achieving our medium-term growth objectives.
80% of our community contribute to the Foundation on aregular monthly basis.
It was very pleasing to see this recognised by the Government, with St. Jamess Place used as an example in last years White Paper on Giving.
David Bellamy Chief Executive 21 February 2012 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
