6 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Group Chief Executives review Exciting growth opportunities These results represent our ninth consecutive year Peter Sands of record income and profits.
We are superbly placed in some of the worlds fastest-growing markets.
Group Chief Executive We have the right strategy, a distinctive culture and a strong brand.
We are focused on delivering for our shareholders, supporting our customers and clients, and making a positive impact on the communities in which we live and work.
However, the consistency of our performance should not detract from our underlying achievement.
Every year brings new challenges, and 2011 was no exception.
Two of our largest markets saw sharp falls in profits.
Some of our business streams, particularly in Wholesale Banking, faced very difficult conditions.
The increasing burden of regulation and the UK bank levy created significant headwinds.
Yet, our 2011 performance demonstrates, once again, the power of our strategy and the resilience of our business model.
Global macroeconomic outlook The crisis that began in 2007 and brought markets to a halt in the autumn of 2008 continues to unfold.
The roots of the crisis The clouds over the West should not are now laid bare too much debt, too little growth, an erosion obscure the sheer scale of wealth creation of competitiveness and massive macroeconomic imbalances.
Restoring the vitality of the worlds most developed and social progress in the developing world.
economies is an enormous endeavour with profound social We see huge opportunities in our core and economic consequences.
markets, both within individual markets, The crisis has undoubtedly accelerated the fundamental and in facilitating the explosive growth of shifts in the world economy.
Whilst not immune to the trade and investment ows.
problems of the West, countries like China, India, Brazil and Indonesia continue to grow at pace, building industries and infrastructure, turning hundreds of millions of people into consumers.
The clouds over the West should not obscure the sheer scale of wealth creation and social progress in the developing world.
Of course such growth brings challenges ination, friction over resources, social inequality and environmental degradation.
Moreover, the lack of consumption growth in the West undermines the export-driven model that has powered most Asian economies.
Whilst we should not underestimate such challenges, neither should we underestimate Asian countries ability to respond.
Intra-regional trade and investment is growing extremely rapidly.
Domestic consumption is growing fast.
Policy makers in Asia and particularly in China have much more monetary, regulatory and scal exibility than their counterparts in the West.
Group overview Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 7 Taken as a whole, emerging Asia should continue to grow at Sticking to our strategy mid to high single-digit rates slower than before the crisis, Despite all that is changing around us, dont expect big shifts but still much faster than the West.
This sharp polarisation in in our strategy.
We still want to be the worlds best international economic performance and prospects is one reason different bank, leading the way in Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
We banks are in such different positions.
build deep, longstanding relationships with our customers and clients.
We are focused on organic growth, investing at pace Turning the turmoil to our advantage in both of our businesses.
We are obsessed with the basics At Standard Chartered, we remain confident about our ability of banking: being strongly capitalised and highly liquid: to grow and perform.
Even as economic growth in our markets managing risk proactively: keeping tight control of costs: slows to more sustainable levels, we can win more market staying well diversied.
This makes our balance sheet and share.
Our capital and funding strength allows us to be open earnings extraordinarily resilient.
It should be no surprise that for business whilst others are pulling down the shutters.
We we are the only international bank to have been upgraded by are taking share in core products like trade finance, with all three major ratings agencies since the financial crisis.
volume growth of 25 per cent.
Underpinning our strategy is a distinctive culture and set of We see huge opportunities in our core markets of Asia, Africa values.
Standard Chartered is Here for good.
Here for good and the Middle East both within individual markets, and in in the sense of commitment and permanence.
Here for good facilitating the explosive growth of trade and investment ows in the sense of always seeking to do the right thing.
We also see huge opportunities in However, whilst the fundamentals of our strategy wont being the bridge for trade and investment ows between change, we will be constantly anticipating and adapting to Europe, the Americas and Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
the opportunities and challenges we see.
Regulatory change Whether it is helping Unilever or Diageo make the most of the will force us to do some things differently, and will change the opportunities in Asia: or Tata invest in Jaguar Land Rover in economics of some of our businesses.
But our mindset is as the UK: or Volkswagen, Tesco and Caterpillar issue renminbi much about how we turn such changes to our advantage, RMB bonds.
as it is about mitigating the impact.
It is by doing exactly this kind of thing lending to clients, We are also focused on the opportunities emerging from facilitating their trade, helping them manage foreign exchange technological change.
Like any digitisable business, banking and commodity price risk, identifying and supporting new can be transformed through technological innovation.
Indeed, partnerships and investments, helping them access capital compared with many such industries, we have arguably been markets that we are fullling our social purpose, helping to slow, partly because regulation creates barriers to such drive economic growth, helping to create jobs.
changes, partly because financial innovation became seen At Standard Chartered, we have never lost sight of the role as a bad thing in the wake of the crisis.
we play and of the impact we can have on the broader We have stepped up the pace of technology-led innovation economy.
In the five years since 2006 we have increased across the Group: launching the worlds first trade finance our lending by 91 per cent, from large multinationals to apps for iPad: rolling out lifestyle-linked personal finance apps SMEs, from credit cards to mortgages.
In the same period, for the iPhone: piloting radically different operational models.
our profits increased by 113 per cent.
We have even got our own internal app store.
We believe technology will transform the industry.
And we want to make it happen, rather than have it happen to us.
8 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Group Chief Executives review continued Korea I t is by lending to clients, facilitating their trade, As you know, we have not been satisfied with our performance helping them manage foreign exchange and in Korea.
The cost-income ratio has been too high, and the commodity price risk, identifying and return on capital too low.
The core issue was labour productivity.
We were unable to reward strong performance, supporting new partnerships and investments, or deal with poor performance.
Pay was driven more by helping them access capital markets, that we seniority than merit.
Sustained efforts to get the union to are fullling our social purpose, helping to drive agreeto a more exible approach had failed, so in 2011 economic growth, helping to create jobs.
This sparked a strike, which lasted 10 weeks and then collapsed.
We stayed open throughout the strike, testament to the commitment and professionalism of many of our staff.
While it had some impact on income momentum of the order of $50 million overall income remained resilient and customer deposits grew during 2011.
In December we launched an Early Retirement Programme ERP.
This had a big impact on Koreas profits in 2011, but it was undoubtedly the right thing to do.
The programme will deliver annualised savings of $95 million and, coupled with the enhancement of performance management, will enable a big shift in culture, making Korea much more like the rest of the Group.
To further underscore our commitment to Korea, in January we rebranded the locally incorporated bank, dropping the SC First Bank name that harked back to the acquisition of Korea First Bank, and replacing it with Standard Chartered.
Korea is now a seamless part of Standard Chartered as a whole.
There is still a lot to do before we have Korea performing the way we want, given the scale of the opportunities in the market, but we have taken significant steps in the right direction.
India India was the second of our big markets to see a decline in profits in 2011.
However, unlike in Korea this followed a spectacular year, with India being our most profitable market in 2010.
That 2011 proved challenging in India was no surprise.
To tackle ination, the Reserve Bank of India hiked interest rates 13 times in two years.
This had a predictable impact on economic growth down from 8.5 per cent in 2010 to 7 per cent in 2011 and also affected business confidence.
In addition, a combination of protracted political and corporate governance issues further sapped business confidence, resulting in many investment projects being delayed or cancelled.
Group overview Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 9 Our brand is one of our greatest assets andwe continue to invest in it through ourshirt sponsorship deal with Liverpool Football Club Whilst this correction was very real, and the slowdown in Our business in Greater China is increasingly focused as much regulatory reforms and vital infrastructure projects will have on the ows between these markets, as on the opportunities lasting consequences, we remain confident about the longer within them.
As Chinas international financial centre, Hong term growth prospects of India.
The underlying drivers of Kong is central to the internationalisation of the RMB.
We have growth urbanisation, demographics, better education and played a leading role in the explosive growth of offshore RMB an extraordinarily dynamic and entrepreneurial business from the beginning.
We conducted the first offshore trade culture remain robust.
Indeed, there are already some settlement transaction in July 2009.
We led the development signs that the climate is changing clear signals of an end of the dim sum bond market and priced and launched to the rate cycle, some steps on critical reforms, progress on 56 such bond issues last year.
Moreover, looking only at onshore income understates the strength of our India franchise.
Singapore Whilst onshore Wholesale Banking income fell by 14 per cent, Greater China is not the only region in which we have seen income from Indian clients elsewhere in the network more than strong performance in 2011.
Across the Association of South doubled, largely offsetting this decline, as we leverage our East Asian Nations ASEAN countries of South East Asia network to support our Indian clients international objectives.
we delivered income of $4.2 billion and profits of $1.9 billion, up 21 per cent and 32 per cent, respectively.
Our enthusiasm for India as a market remains undiminished.
We have continued to invest at pace, in people, products, Singapore was the star performer with income up 26 per cent technology and branches.
We remain convinced that India and profits up 40 per cent.
Singapore is now the third of our will become one of the worlds largest economies, and is one markets to have delivered more than $1 billion of profit, of our biggest growth opportunities.
following Hong Kong, which hit the mark for the first time in 2007, and India, which did so in 2009.
Like Korea, India had a tough 2011, but I am confident both will resume their growth path in 2012.
The fact that we could In Singapore we are reaping the benets of sustained be hit by declines in profits in two of our biggest markets, investment for growth primarily organic, but complemented but still deliver double-digit growth in profits and income by select capability acquisitions.
This is a market in which we demonstrates once again the resilience of our model, the have more than doubled income and profit since 2007. advantages of having multiple and diverse engines of growth.
We have announced that we will subsidiarise our Consumer Whilst India and Korea faltered, other markets surged.
and SME Banking activities in Singapore.
Our Wholesale Banking and Private Banking businesses in Singapore will Greater China remain within the branch.
This decision reects both our Taken together, Hong Kong, Taiwan and mainland China success, and the growing scale and signicance of the delivered income of $4.4 billion and profits of $2.1 billion, up Groups Consumer Banking business in Singapore.
We have 18 per cent and 46 per cent, respectively.
Greater China thus taken the decision in consultation with the Monetary Authority represents 25 per cent of the Groups total income and of Singapore, and it is in line with its thinking.
Subsidiarisation 31 per cent of total profits.
of our consumer and SME businesses will have minimal Hong Kong had an outstanding year, with income up impact on the Groups capital or liquidity ratios, and little or no 22 per cent to over $3 billion and profits up 41 per cent to impact on the vast majority of our customers.
over $1.5 billion a record for any of our markets.
In Taiwan, We see considerable opportunities for further growth in profits were up by 44 per cent to $342 million, helped in part Singapore.
In the consumer and SME segments there are by recoveries on structured notes.
In mainland China, income opportunities to continue to make market share gains, increased by 17 per cent to $825 million, whilst profits doubled which we believe will be facilitated by moving to a locallyto over $220 million.
We are still making losses in Consumer incorporated structure.
In Private Banking, we continue to Banking in mainland China around $100 million in 2011 as capitalise on Singapores strengths as an international asset we continue to invest in building the franchise.
We opened management and private banking centre.
And in Wholesale another 19 branches and sub-branches in 2011, taking our Banking, we see significant opportunities stemming from total network to 81 branches across 21 cities.
In Wholesale Singapores role as a hub for trade, for investment, Banking, profits hit $278 million.
Yet even this number for commodities.
massively understates the development of our China client franchise, since income from Chinese clients booked elsewhere in our network grew at over three times the pace of onshore client income.
10 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Group Chief Executives review continued Diversied sources of growth Dont expect big shifts in our strategy.
Elsewhere in ASEAN our businesses have performed strongly.
We still want to be the worlds best Thailand grew income by 16 per cent and profits by 18 per international bank, leading the way in cent.
Malaysia grew income by 11 per cent and profits by 18 per cent.
Indonesia, including both Permata and our branch, Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
We build grew income by 24 per cent and profits by 44 per cent.
deep, longstanding relationships with our As in Greater China, we are leveraging our network strengths customers and clients.
We are focused on to exploit the rapid growth of trade and investment between organic growth, investing at pace in both of the countries of ASEAN and with the rest of the world.
We are obsessed with the has been somewhat overshadowed by Greater China.
Yet with basics of banking.
over 600 million people, an aggregate GDP of $2.2 trillion, and growth of 5.3 per cent per year, it represents one of the most exciting parts of the world economy.
The themes illustrated by Greater China and ASEAN multiple engines of growth, opportunities in markets and between them are not just true of Asia, but hold true across our franchise.
Our Africa business continues to grow well, with income up 8 per cent, or 13 per cent on a constant currency basis.
Our Middle East franchise has proved resilient despite all the political turmoil in the region, with income up 2 per cent.
In our biggest market, the UAE, we are seeing a return of confidence, despite the debt overhang, with hotel bookings, airport arrivals and container trafc all up strongly.
Meanwhile, in Pakistan income was up 13 per cent and in Bangladesh, 16 per cent.
In the West Europe and the Americas income was up 16 per cent and profits increased by 58 per cent.
With Western banks in disarray, with Western companies reaching out to the emerging world for growth, and with Asian companies investing in the West to acquire technology and brands, we are taking advantage of the opportunities to be a bridge between East and West.
To give a sense of our diversity, we now have 24 markets contributing over $100 million of income, up from 23 in 2010 and 19 in 2007.
Outlook Delivering record income and profits in any year is always a good result.
To do this every year for nine years through a period of crisis and exceptional volatility is testament to the dedication, discipline and professionalism of the people of Standard Chartered.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to take this opportunity to thank them once again for their hard work in making this happen.
I would also like to thank our investors for their continued support, not least in giving us the capital required to absorb new regulation and sustain our growth.
Our balance sheet strength remains a powerful source of competitive advantage.
Group overview Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 11 Our markets are robust and resilient.
We have the right strategy and we are sticking to it.
We have a powerful brand, a distinctive culture and fantastic people.
Our client and customer franchise is stronger than it has ever been.
We remain committed to our performance aspirations: over the medium term and through the cycle, we expect to deliver double-digit income growth, double-digit earnings per share EPS growth, cost growth in line with income and mid-teens return on equity RoE.
In 2011 we delivered on double-digit income growth and at jaws, but fell short on EPS and RoE, as a result of the dilutive impact of the rights issue in late 2010.
We have started 2012 strongly, following a very strong nish to 2011.
Looking at January and our momentum into February, Consumer Banking has had a good start, with income ahead of the comparable period last year.
Wholesale Banking has had a strong start, with income well ahead.
Expenses are under tight control across the Bank and credit quality remains good.
So for 2012, we are on track to deliver double-digit income, double-digit EPS and at jaws, but it is very early days and there are a number of factors that might affect our performance.
First of all, the material and increasing drag on both income and costs from an ever more complex set of regulatory requirements.
Second, the continued strength of the US dollar against Asian currencies.
Third, we are not immune to potential turbulence in the global economy, whether arising from the eurozone, high oil prices, or elsewhere.
RoE will likely still be somewhat under our aspiration, partly as a result of ongoing regulatory drag and the lag before this gets fully reected in margins, and partly because of the impact of a low interest rate environment on a deposit-rich institution.
The Group enters 2012 with good momentum, an exceptionally strong balance sheet and a full transaction pipeline.
We remain focused on the fundamentals of our business and on the disciplined execution of our strategy.
We are well positioned in some of the most exciting growth markets in the world and well placed to make the most of the opportunities they present.
Peter Sands Group Chief Executive 29 February 2012
