SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2011 10 Chief Executives statement We believe that the medium tolonger term investment environment plays to the strengths of the private equity model, especially in a capital constrained environment.
This has been another positive year for SVG Capital.
We continue to see good performance As a strategic investor from the large majority of the underlying Permira portfolio companies, anddespite the negative impact of market volatility on comparable earnings multiples during the year, inthe asset class, we are able report a positive total return of 11.2% on the investment portfolio over SVGCapital is well theyear.
This has been driven by sustained earnings and revenue growth from the underlying portfolio companies, and strong performance from the quoted investments.
placed to take In the latter part of the year, SVG Capital benefited from a number of significant advantage of these distributions from the portfolio, principally the partial realisation of Galaxy, the full realisation of Provimi and the renancing of the P25 subordinated debt.
Total distributions opportunities as in 2011 were 253.4 million, a two fold increase on 2010, and the Company ended the year with cash balances of 121.0 million and net debt as apercentageof Shareholders theyarise.
The management team have continued their focus on balance sheet strength, both through the buy-back of Senior Notes and convertible bonds, and also in the extension of 100 million of the Companys revolving credit facility until December 2015.
All of these actions, combined with the continued improvement in the performance and valueof our investment portfolio, have meant that it was apposite for the Board to look to the future investment strategy and inDecember we outlined a strategy focused onmaximising both short and longer term shareholder returns.
We have a strong belief in the quality of our underlying investment portfolio and Permirasability to realise value for investors.
In the near-term, the Board is very much focused on improving returns through returning capital to shareholders via share buy-backs and tender offers.
The first of the tender offers for 50 million is expected totake place next month.
This tender offer will be priced at a discount of 10% to the December 2011 netasset value per share excluding the value of SVG Advisers and SVGInvestment Managers and rolled forward for movements in quoted holdings, finance costs, foreign exchange, realisations andfees.
Inaddition to this, we have beenusing authorities granted at the 2011 AGM tobuy-back shares in the market andsince 20 December 2011 we have bought back 1.8 million shares atanaverage discount of 37% to the December2010 net asset value of the Company excluding the value of SVG Advisers and SVG Investment Managers.
The timing of future returns will be dependent on distributions from the portfolio which will be supplemented by more active management of the assets of the Company through the sale of non-core assets.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2011 11 Over the medium term, we expect the investment portfolio to evolve from its current Hugo Boss and Valentino concentrated strategy to one of a portfolio made up of a limited number of private equity Fashion Group managers and potentially, in time, co-investments alongside funds.
This strategy will Hugo Boss and VFG was the largest value driver over build upon SVG Advisers strong fund selection, monitoring and risk management skills the year and represents 25.0% of the gross private equity funds portfolio value at 31 December 2011. which will be augmented by the formation of an investment committee made up of Hugo Boss reported an increase in revenues and investment professionals and senior members of the SVGAdvisers team.
Theinvestment earnings over the first nine months of 2011 of 20% committee will be responsible for allocating capitalwith the over-riding objective of and 36% respectively in local currency terms, with allregions reporting double-digit sales growth, largely maximising value for shareholders.
This may beby improving the capital structure driven by a solid wholesale order book and sales from through deleveraging, making new investments, orreturning capital to shareholders new stores.
Following the stronger than expected ifthe discount that the shares trade at remains relatively wide.
results, Hugo Boss raised its forecast for the year as a whole, projecting an increase in sales of 15% to 17% previously: at least 12% and EBITDA of 25% to 30% SVG Advisers and SVG Investment Managers previously: at least 15%.
In addition, they increased The strong performance across the investment portfolios of the funds advised by their sales and earnings targets for 2015 to 3 billion previously: 2.5 billion and 750 million previously: SVGAdvisers in 2010 has continued into 2011.
The funds managed or advised by 500 million respectively.
In Q4 2011, the Permira SVGAdvisers continue to perform well, with most funds reporting both increases funds sold a small stake in the company 4.5 million inNAVandpositive portfolio returns at the latest reporting date.
SVG Investment preference shares, using the c. 300 million proceeds to deleverage the investment.
 was mixed with the strategic funds delivering positive returns despitea sharp fall in smaller company valuations while the unconstrained mandates underperformed their respective indices.
The SVG Advisers investment platform is a key source of intellectual capital for the Group.
We have continued to invest in both the people and the infrastructure of the business in order to support longer term growth and we expect to see the benets ofthis over the course of 2012 and 2013.
The fundraising environment is challenging, however, we are beginning to see renewed interest in private equity funds of funds andexpect to be fundraising with a new primary offering during the course of 2012.
At 31 December 2011, the businesses had funds under management or advice of 3.7billion.
Total fee income was 31.8 million, compared to 30.7 million for 2010. profits before tax for the year have increased by 8% to 8.4million, driven by tight costcontrols.
The Directors have placed an unaudited valuation on the business of 40.4 million, adecline of 24.8% on the previous year.
This decline has predominantly been driven byafall in comparable earnings multiples.
Outlook The Company has reported another year of good progress.
The growth in the investment portfolio has continued to outperform public markets and as a management team we have reduced the interest costs of the business by approximately 17%.
The profits from SVGAdvisers continue to make a positive contribution to the Group, partially offsetting running costs and in September 2012 the management fees paid to our underlying managers will reduce by 46% to approximately 22.0 million p. a.
For the 12 months to December 2011, the Permira IV companies that SVG Capital has anexposure to reported weighted average earnings growth of 40% and revenue growth 1 of 32%, year-on-year.
Permira is still not seeing much evidence of a meaningful softness in earnings, however, we remain cautious on the outlook for the macroeconomic environment, which we believe will remain challenging in the near-term and may impact the timing of distributions from the portfolio.
The significant deleveraging required across the western world will likely hamper growth for some time and the challenge forcompanies will be to maintain earnings momentum in a low growth environment.
Looking at our underlying portfolio more than half of the companies are multinational, and the bulk of these have a significant and increasing percentage of revenues from higher growth economies.
We believe that the medium to longer term investment environment plays to the strengths of the private equity model, especially in a capital constrained environment.
Asa strategic investor in the asset class, SVG Capital is well placed to take advantage ofthese opportunities as they arise.
Lynn Fordham Chief Executive 15 February 2012 1 Permira IVa companies only.
Earnings and revenue growth across all of the Permira IV companies was 28% and25% respectively Overview
