GOVERNANCE 42 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 43 Base salaries Josef El-Raghy has an enhanced notice period of 24 The release of benefits under the Director Plan is dependent Base salaries are usually reviewed in the first quarter of Share price performance months in the event of a change of control.
Harry Michael upon the achievement of comparative Total Shareholder each year.
Salaries in are compared with those paid in the Production cost performance against budget also had such a provision.
Return with 50% based upon the FTSE 250 and 50% FTSE 250 index, the mining sector, companies with similar Expansion capital cost within time and budget based upon comparator companies.
25% of the award turnover and those with a similar market capitalisation.
Securing of addition exploration acreage Non-Executive Directors will vest for median performance and 100% for upper While the base pay in represented by the blue arrows Under the Articles of Association adopted by the Company quartile performance under each element.
There is no Director Stock Production Expansion Acreage Max bonus below is very similar for each executive director, the as part of the re-domicile, all directors are now subject formal performance requirement for the release of benefits Price Capital Cost as % of positioning of the base against the market data is not.
All members of the Board offered under the Employee or Option plans, although performance base Director of Operations is paid towards the upper quartile of themselves for either election or re-election at the last criteria are included in respect of senior management Chairman 50% 20% 10% 20% 166% the range, while the other executive directors are paid just Annual General Meeting of the Company.
based upon share price, financial, production or key tasks.
Chief Executive below the median.
The Director of Operations enhanced Comparator companies are selected by the Remuneration Officer 30% 50% 10% 10% 182% base salary reflects his considerable experience in the Long Term Incentive Arrangements - Current Committee from peers in the mining sector.
Director of mining industry, which is invaluable to the Group.
Arrangements Operations 20% 20% 50% 10% 182% The awards made under the plan during the year are shown The Company has one primary long-term incentive in the share awards table on page 45.
Bonus achieved for 2011 700 arrangement, which is similar to an option scheme and was In the 18 month period up to the review date, the 600 designed to allow the recipient to benefit from growth in the Past Arrangements Committee was of the view that the production and share price over a three year period.
The arrangement has Options were previously issued to Directors and senior 500 additional acreage targets had been achieved and that the three plans that are all intended to achieve similar benefits.
management under the Employee Option Plan 2006 400 capital expansion target was not achieved.
Furthermore, n Upper Quartile These are: previously under the Employee Option Plan 2002 as part 300 the Committees view was that, but for discount attributable n Median of their remuneration.
The Company has not issued any 200 to the political instability in Egypt, over which management n Lower Quartile The Employee Share Loan Funded Share Plan 2012 options under the plan since 6 August 2009 and there is had no control, the share price criteria would have been 100 Employee Plan - this is the rollover plan for the no current intention to issue any further options under satisfied.
Accordingly, the committee decided that a 0 Centamin Egypt Ltd 2011 Employee Loan Funded Share the Plan.
No options were issued to Directors and senior discretionary award of half the allocated percentage would Plan.
Under the plan, employees receive a loan to buy management up to 31 December 2011 be paid.
The bonus payments are therefore as follows: shares in the Company.
The shares are then held in trust for the employee and at the end of three years the Shareholding Director % Amount As$ employees can repay the loan and receive the shares.
There is no formal shareholding requirement but the Chairman 65% A$650,000 The loan is subject to a maximum repayment period of 3 directors are encouraged to hold a meaningful quantity of CEO 75% A$750,000 years.
Shares under the Employee Plan vest in tranches shares.
The following table shows the current shareholding Director of Operations 40% A$400,000 on the first, second and third year following grant and of each of the directors and in addition, for the executive vesting is subject to the satisfaction of applicable directors the shareholding is shown as a percentage of their 2012 2012 performance criteria.
The salary review for 2012 has resulted in no change in The Remuneration Committee intends to review of the The Director Loan Funded Share Plan 2012 Director base pay, as indicated in the table below.
Name As at 31 Dec 2011 As at 31 Dec 2010 current arrangements with the aim of ensuring that the Plan - this is again a roll-over plan of the Centamin Egypt Number of shares Number of shares criteria used to determine the bonuses better reflects the 2011 Executive Director Loan Funded Share Plan.
The Director Salary for 2011 Proposed Salary for 2012 fact that the Group is now an established gold producer.
plan operates in exactly the same way as the Employee Executive Directors Chairman A$ 600,000 383,000 A$ 600,000 383,000 However, it is also intends to introduce a safety target, Plan, except that there are mandatory performance Josef El-Raghy 71,445,086 69,195,086 Chief Executive Officer A$ 550,000 351,000 N A which if not achieved, will operate to reduce any bonus conditions attached to the Director Plan, and that the Harry Michael N A 75,000 Director of Operations A$ 550,000 351,000 A$ 550,000 351,000 otherwise payable by a proportionate amount.
shares vest in one tranche, three years from grant.
Trevor Schultz 1,000,000 - The Employee Share Option Plan.
This plan was Non-Executive Directors While the Chairman is acting in the additional role of CEO, Pension Arrangements introduced for UK participants in order to provide similar Thomas Elder N A 250,000 neither his base pay nor other aspects of his remuneration Other than statutory superannuation for Australian resident benefits to those which were available to participants Colin Cowden N A 1,203,626 will be increased to reflect these additional responsibilities.
directors, Professor Robert Bowker and Mr Mark Arnesen in the other plans.
This plan was established as part H. Stuart Bottomley N A 2,150,000 no pensions or payments in lieu of pensions are made.
of the re-domicile given that the provision of loans Robert Bowker - - Annual Bonus and the holding of shares was not appropriate for UK Gordon Edward Haslam 50,000 N A Centamins bonus plan supports the collegiate nature of our Benefits in Kind participants.
Mark Bankes 60,000 N A executive director team.
Each director can earn the same Medical insurance is provided at the Companys expense to Mark Arnesen 15,000 N A maximum amount of A$1,000,000 US$1,032,900, which is Josef El-Raghy and Trevor Schultz, both of whom work in The maximum award level under each plan is 400% of base unusual, as well as receiving very similar base pay.
The Company also pays Josef El-Raghy and Trevor salary at the date of grant.
Awards are expected to be made Kevin Tomlinson - N A Schultzs Egyptian salary taxes.
Options must be exercised loans repaid Payment of the bonus to the executive directors is based after three years from the date of grant.
upon the achievement of four performance measures and Service Agreements for Executive Directors the weighting of each measure differs for each director: The executive directors have contracts that provide for the service of notice of six months for Josef El-Raghy and three months for Trevor Schultz.
Chairman CEO Operations Director GOVERNANCE 44 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 45 The following section of this remuneration report had been audited by Deloitte Shares Award Table EDLFSP and ESOP LLP Non-Executive Director Fees Name Plan Date of Grant Exercise Price Balance Awards Vesting Forfeited Balance 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec2011 Non-executive directors receive annual fees within an aggregate Directors fee pool limited to an amount which is approved by shareholders.
The Committee reviews and recommends, for Board approval, remuneration levels and policies Josef El-Raghy EDLFSP 21 March 2011 US$2.045 - 1,000,000 - - 1,000,000 for Directors within this overall Directors fee pool.
The fees which are paid are Harry Michael EDLFSP 21 March 2011 US$2.045 - 1,000,000 - 777,778 222,222 also periodically reviewed and were reviewed and increased during the year.
The Trevor Schultz EDLFSP 21 March 2011 US$2.045 - 1,000,000 - - 1,000,000 current annual fee rate for non-executive directors is as follows: ESOP 1 December 2008 AS$1.00 0.675 1,000,000 - 1,000,000 - - Previous Current Notes on the Shares Award Table: 1 Trevor Schultz exercised his ESOP option during 2011 2 There were no other options outstanding during the year.
Annual Base Fee A$40,000 US$41,316 50,000 US$77,000 Chairman of a Board Committee A$10,000 US$10,329 10,000 US$15,400 This report was approved by the board of directors and signed on its behalf by: Member of a Board Committee A$5,000 US$5,165 5,000 US$7,700 Senior Independent Non Executive Director A$Nil US$Nil 10,000 US$15,400 These amounts include any statutory superannuation payments where applicable.
Gordon Edward Haslam The Company reviewed the fees of the non-executive directors during the Chair of the Remuneration Committee year and determined that no increase in non-executive director fees should be 30 March 2012 awarded during the year.
The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Companys share plans or incentive plans.
2 Kevin Tomlinson joined on 17th January 2012 after the year end so no fees are shown.
3 Where state superannuation is payable in respect of non-executive directors, this is included in the fees shown above 4 Remuneration for 2010 is for 6 months from 1 July 2010 to 31 December 2010.
5 Directors remuneration paid in foreign currency was converted at an average rate for the year.
The average AUD:US exchange rate for 2011 is 1.0329.
GOVERNANCE 46 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 47 I believe strongly that the CORPORATE blend of behaviours and skills around the Centamin Board GOVERNANCE STATEMENT table are well suited to the Letter from the Chairman task and consistent with the Companys values Corporate governance is both a framework by which the interests of various stakeholders are balanced and a structure through which the objectives of a company are set.
It also includes how the path to achieving those objectives is outlined and how performance is measured along the way.
As a company with a premium listing on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, the Company is subject to the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules and the requirement to explain how it has applied the Main Principles A formal review of these matters is scheduled for the accordingly remains compliant with the principles of the of the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance second quarter of this year, which review will cover all UK Corporate Governance Code, which dictates the Board Code the Code.
A copy of the Code is available from the material controls, including financial, operational and should have a greater number of non-executive directors FRCs website, www.
The Listing Rules also require a compliance controls.
company with such a company to confirm that it has complied with all relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Succession planning Board committees Code or explain areas of non compliance.
A key part of my role as Chairman is to ensure the right Our committees are a valuable part of Centamins corporate people are doing the right jobs and that there is a sufficient governance structure.
The workload of the committees The Board is also committed to the principles of corporate core of individuals being nurtured throughout the Company is far greater than the table of scheduled meetings would governance contained in the best practice recommendations to enable effective succession planning.
Centamins ability indicate, as ad hoc meetings and communications between of the Toronto Stock Exchange and the best practice to succession plan suffered a severe setback in 2011 due to meetings frequently require considerable amounts of time.
recommendations prescribed under National Policy 58-201 the untimely passing of Harry Michael.
Our appointment of three non-executive Directors early in Corporate Governance Guidelines NP 58-201, for which the 2011 enabled us to review the committee allocations during board is accountable to shareholders.
The Board remains committed to succession planning the year to ensure their composition matched the resources and the sad events of 2011 reinforced its importance to available.
Throughout the year, the Board considers that the Company us.
Reviews of management capabilities and potential has complied with the relevant provisions of the 2010 UK are performed on a routine basis and I am satisfied that I believe strongly that the blend of behaviours and skills Corporate Governance Code and has applied such best sufficient resource within the Group exists and continues around the Centamin Board table are well suited to the practice recommendations with the exception that, for part to be developed.
Where a need for improvement to task and consistent with the Companys values, and I am of the period under review, the roles of Chairman and Chief management resources is identified, the necessary keen for a formal system to reconfirm this.
With a Board Executive were both exercised by me.
This was due to the attention is provided to ensure full strength is attained as that is free to openly express concerns comes more sudden and unexpected death of Mr Harry Michael, our Chief soon as practicable, which was demonstrated by Chris considered outcomes emphasising collective responsibility, Executive Officer in November 2011.
It is intended that the two Aujards appointment as General Counsel and Company transparency, clarity and sustainable conduct.
roles will cease to be combined once a new Chief Executive Secretary in the first half of the year.
It should also be noted that both the Code and the two transactions undertaken by Centamin in 2011 the Shareholder communication the best practice recommendations favour that the Chairman acquisition of Sheba Exploration UK Plc and the redomicile I would like to encourage all shareholders to find the time be an independent Director whereas until 3 March 2010 the to Jersey and his experience in corporate transactions to attend our AGM on 30 May 2012.
It is an excellent Company retained my services as Managing Director CEO across a number of geographies has already proven to be a opportunity to meet the Board, the Executive Board and and accordingly I am not an independent non executive great asset to the Group.
members of our Senior Management team.
Chairman within the meaning of the Code.
The reasons why the Board believed that my appointment to the position of Board appointments Chairman was appropriate were set out in last years Annual The Board has been strengthened during 2011 by the Report and Accounts, and in compliance with the Code, major appointments of Ed Haslam, Mark Bankes and Mark shareholders were consulted before my appointment was Arnesen: in addition Kevin Tomlinson joined our ranks in confirmed.
In addition, the effectiveness of the groups risk January 2012.
Their combined knowledge and experience management and internal control systems and the policy on of law, finance, investment banking and the mining sector Josef El-Raghy how concerns could be raised by staff were not reviewed in the will further support our growth strategy.
The Company Chairman period ended 31 December 2011.
GOVERNANCE 48 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 49 THE BOARD which may be material to the Company are considered and year and the number of meetings attended by each Director approved by the Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors while they were a Director or committee member.
During generally has at least 7 regularly scheduled meetings in the year ended 31 December 2011, 7 Board meetings, 4 COMPOSITION AND BALANCE each year.
Additional meetings may be held depending Nomination and Remuneration Committee meetings, 2 The Board currently comprises the Chairman and acting upon opportunities or issues to be dealt with by the Compliance Corporate Governance Committee meeting, Company from time to time.
1 HSES Committee meeting and 10 Audit Committee CEO, five non-executive and one other executive director.
In addition, a Board Committee A full copy of the Companys Board Charter is available on consisting of any 2 directors was established for both the the Companys website or upon request.
Sheba transaction and the re-domiciliation of the Company.
2 Board Committee meetings were held with regards to the The following table sets out the number of Directors Sheba transaction and 3 with regards to the re-domiciliation meetings including meetings of the Board held during the of the Company.
One of the non-executive directors has been appointed Senior Independent HOW THE BOARD Director.
All the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent and biographies of all the directors appear on pages 32 and 33, OPERATES Board Nomination and Compliance Audit HSES together with descriptions of their expertise, experience and qualifications of Directors Remuneration Corporate Committee Committee and a note of their other significant commitments.
Membership of the Boards The Board of Directors supervises Committee Governance Committees is set out in this statement.
The Board is satisfied that this range of the management of the business and Committee expertise, experience and qualifications is appropriate for the current needs of affairs of the Company.
Director Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended of Directors assumes responsibility Mr J El-Raghy 7 7 for the stewardship of the Group, The names of the Directors of the Company in office at the date of this Report Mr H Michael 4 4 and the functions the Company has are: Mr T Schultz 7 5 established that are reserved to the Mr M Arnesen 7 7 2 2 9 9 1 1 Board include: Name Position Committees Mr M Bankes 7 7 2 2 8 8 1 1 Josef El-Raghy Chairman and acting CEO - Strategic Planning: The Board Prof G R Bowker 7 7 4 4 2 2 2 2 1 1 Trevor Schultz Executive Director - of Directors regularly reviews Mr Ed Haslam 7 7 2 2 2 2 8 5 Mark Arnesen Independent Non Executive Audit and Risk Committee Chairman and approves strategic plans Mr K Tomlinson Director Nomination and Remuneration Committees and initiatives of the Company at HSES Committee Mr Dr T Elder 3 2 2 2 Board of Directors meetings, and Mr H Bottomley 1 1 Mark Bankes Independent Non Executive Compliance Corporate otherwise as required.
Director Governance Chairman Committee Audit and Mr C Cowden 3 3 2 2 2 2 Risk Assessment: The Board of Risk Committee HSES Committee Directors has primary responsibility G. Edward Haslam Senior Independent Non Audit and Risk Committee Executive Director Nomination and Remuneration Committees to identify principal risks in the This above table includes attendance at board and committee meetings of Centamin Egypt Limited, where applicable.
Chairman Companys business and ensure Kevin Tomlinson Independent Non Executive Not as yet appointed to any Committees the implementation of appropriate Director systems to manage these risks.
See Professor G Robert Independent Non Executive HSES Committee Chairman Managing Risks below.
BOARD COMMITTEES Meetings of Independent Directors Bowker Director Nomination and Remuneration Committees Succession Planning: The Board Mr Ed Haslam was appointed Senior Independent Director Compliance Corporate Governance Committee of Directors is responsible for As indicted by the table above, the Board has established Centamin Egypt Limited on 22 March 2011 and has retained succession planning, including Audit and Risk, Compliance Corporate Governance, this position with the Company.
He has regular meetings the appointment, training and Nomination, Remuneration and the Health Safety with the other Non Executive Directors and, in connection Non Executive directors have the right to seek independent professional advice monitoring of senior management.
Environmental and Sustainability HSES committees.
with the evaluation of the Boards performance referred in the furtherance of their duties as directors, at the Groups expense.
Written Communications: The Board of Copies of the current Board and Committee Charters to below, will be undertaking a performance evaluation of approval must be obtained from the Chief Executive Officer prior to incurring an Directors oversees the Companys and Policies are available on the Groups website www.
the Chairman, taking into account the views of the other expense on behalf of the Group.
executive director and the Company Secretary.
shareholders and others interested When determining whether a Director is independent, the Board has established in the Company.
Audit and Risk Committee Allocation of responsibilities a Directors Test of Independence Policy, which is based predominantly on the Internal Control: The Board of As at the date of this report, the Audit Committee comprises The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are definition of independence as defined in Canadian Securities Administrators Directors and the audit committee Mr Mark Arnesen Chairman, Mr Mark Bankes and Mr Ed strictly separated as defined in the Groups Board Charter National Instrument 52-110 Audit Committees NI 52-110, and is available of the Board of Directors oversee Haslam, all of whom are considered by the Board to be and their individual employment contracts.
However, as on the Companys website or to shareholders upon request.
The criteria in the Groups internal control and independent within the terms of Groups Directors Test of discussed elsewhere in this report, following the sudden NI 52-110 are mandatory and are more stringent in certain respects than the management information systems.
Mr Bottomley, Mr Colin Cowden and passing away of Harry Michael, the groups former CEO, independence criteria suggested by the Code.
Based on this Policy, the majority Professor Robert Bowker were members of the committee Josef ElRaghy has assumed the role of CEO until a of the Board are considered by the Board to be independent Non Executive In addition to its general oversight until 2 February 2011, 1 April 2011 and 1 April 2011 successor can be found.
The Company is currently considering certain recommendations put forward in transactions out of the ordinary the UK in respect of gender diversity on the boards of listed companies.
course of the Companys business or GOVERNANCE 50 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 51 The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are laid out in its To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the The auditors of the Group, Deloitte LLP Deloitte, have Health Safety Environmental and Sustainability Committee charter, and amongst other things, include the responsibility external auditor, the Audit Committee reviewed: open access to the Board of Directors at all times.
Deloitte The Health Safety Environmental and Sustainability to ensure that an effective internal control framework exists have audited the group and its subsidiaries for a number of Committee comprises Professor Robert Bowker Chairman, within the entity, and to review quarterly, half yearly and the exter final auditors plan for the current year, noting the years and have adopted a policy of rotating audit partners Mr Mark Arnesen and Mr Mark Bankes all of whom are annual Financial Statements for submission to the Board role of the senior statutory audit partner, who signs the every five years.
The last rotation of the audit partner independent Directors of the Company.
The key functions of for approval.
The Committee receives regular reports audit report and who, in accordance with professional occurred as a consequence of the re-domicile on the 30 the Committee are to: from management and external auditor on accounting and rules, has not held office for more than five years, and December 2011. internal control matters.
This includes the safeguarding any changes in the key audit staff: Review and monitor the sustainability, environmental, of assets, the maintenance of proper accounting records, the arrangements for day-to-day management of the It is the Groups policy to put the Groups audit out to tender safety and health policies, systems and activities of the the need for an internal audit function and the reliability of audit relationship: at least every five years.
Group in order to ensure compliance with applicable financial information as well as non-financial considerations.
a r eport identifying the number of former external audit health, safety, and environment and community legal and The Audit Committee will also recommend the appointment, staff now employed by the group and their positions Following the above, the Audit Committee has regulatory requirements.
and will review the fees, of external auditors.
within the group: recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP is rea r eport from the external auditor describing their appointed.
Encourage, assist, support and counsel management in The Code states that the Board should satisfy itself that at arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts developing short and long-term policies and standards least one member of the Audit Committee has recent and of interest: and Internal Audit to ensure that the principles set out in the sustainability, relevant financial experience.
Furthermore, all members of the overall extent of non-audit services pr ovided by the In light of the size and relative complexity of the Group, no environmental, health and safety policies are being the Audit Committee are expected to be financially literate external auditor, in addition to its case-by-case approval internal audit function has to date been established, but it is adhered to and achieved.
as per the definition of financial literacy contained in section of the provision of non-audit services by the external the intention of the Group, following a recommendation of 1.5 of National Instrument 52-110.
For the purposes of that auditor.
the Audit Committee, to do so as the Stage 4 project draws Regularly review community, environmental, health and instrument, an individual is financially literate if he or she nearer to completion.
safety response compliance issues and incidents to has the ability to read and understand a set of Financial A policy has been approved by the Audit Committee determine on behalf of the Board, that the Group is taking Statements that present a breadth and level of complexity in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the A copy of the Audit Committee Charter is available on the all necessary action in respect of those matters and that of accounting issues that are generally comparable to the auditors.
Essentially the policy states that the auditor may Companys website or to shareholders upon request.
the Company has been duly diligent in carrying out its breadth and complexity of the issues that can reasonably not provide certain defined services that are considered responsibilities and activities in that regard.
be expected to be raised by the Groups Financial to be inconsistent with the role of the auditor.
Both these conditions were satisfied during the services, an authorisation procedure is in place.
Any As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee Ensure that principal areas of community, environmental, relevant period.
significant work must be authorised by the Chairman of the has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its health and safety risk and impacts are identified and that Audit Committee.
terms of reference and has ensured the independence and sufficient resources are allocated to address these.
During the year the Committee particularly focused on the objectivity of the external auditor.
The Chairman of the Audit following areas: During 2011 the auditor provided both tax advisory Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting Ensure that the Company monitors trends and reviews and other services in relation to the re-domicile, the to answer any questions about the work of the committee.
current and emerging issues in the field of sustainability, consideration and approval of the audit plan: corresponding scheme of arrangement and related matters.
environment, health and safety and evaluates their impact consideration and approval of the scope of external audit In the prior financial period, other non-audit services Compliance Corporate Governance Committee on the Group.
and related processes included the provision of advice and undertaking due The Compliance Corporate Governance Committee is consideration and review of the full-year and interim diligence investigations in relation to the main board listing chaired by Mr Mark Bankes since 24 February 2012 and Review and make recommendations to the Board with results on the London Stock Exchange.
its other members are Mr Ed Haslam and Professor Robert respect to environmental aspects of acquisitions and considering announcements to the London Stock Bowker.
dispositions with material environmental implications.
Exchange by the Group on its performance: and The auditor obtained pre-approval from the Audit consideration and review of the accounting implications Committee before performing these services and have used The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its fiduciary Provide oversight and guidance with respect to managing of the re-domicile.
separate teams for the tax advisory services and other responsibilities by making recommendations to the relationships with local governments and community related services, than the team performing the audit.
There Board with respect to the formulation or re-formulation relations.
External auditor were no contingent fee arrangements in placed during 2011 of and implementation, maintenance and monitoring The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, and 2010. of the Companys Corporate Compliance Program and Nomination Committee implementation and monitoring of the groups policy on Code of Conduct as may be modified, supplemented or The Nomination Committee comprises Mr Ed Haslam external audit.
The policy assigns oversight responsibility for The Committee has considered the likelihood of a replaced from time to time, designed to ensure compliance Chairman, Mr Mark Arnesen and Professor Robert Bowker monitoring the independence, objectivity and compliance withdrawal of the auditor from the market and noted with corporate governance policies and legal rules and all of whom are independent Directors of the Company.
with ethical and regulatory requirements to the Audit that there are no contractual obligations to restrict the regulations.
Fundamental to the Companys corporate Committee, and day to day responsibility to the Group choice of external auditors.
governance policy and practice is that all Directors The Nomination Committees primary functions are to: Finance Director.
It states that the external auditor is jointly and employees reflect the Companys key values of responsible to the board and the Audit Committee and that To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the Audit accountability, fairness, integrity and openness.
The Make recommendations for the structure, size and the Audit Committee is the primary contact.
The policy also Committee reviewed: Committee oversees the Companys activities in the area composition of the Board and Board committees: sets out the categories of non-audit services which the of corporate compliance that may impact the Companys Review the necessary and desirable competencies, skills, external auditor will and will not be allowed to provide to the the arrangements for ensuring the exter final auditors business operations or public image, in light of applicable knowledge and experience of Directors: group, including those that are pre-approved by the Audit independence and objectivity: government and industry standards, legal and business Review the Board succession plans: and Committee and those which require specific approval before the exter final auditors fulfillment of the agreed audit plan trends and public policy issues.
Make recommendations for the appointment, re-election they are contracted for, subject to fide minimis levels.
and any variations from the plan: and and removal of Directors to from the Board.
the r obustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in their handling of the key accounting and audit Judgements.
GOVERNANCE 52 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 53 The Nomination Committee establishes guidelines for the The Board is responsible for reviewing and approving the doing so in due course, and will do so at least every three an additional US$15,400 p. a.
These amounts include any future nomination and selection of potential new Directors.
Groups risk management strategy, policy and key risk years, as required by the Code.
statutory superannuation payments where applicable.
The full Board subject to members voting rights in general parameters, including determining the groups appetite for meeting is ultimately responsible for selection of new country risk and major investment decisions.
Management Under the Companys current Articles of Association: Although no formal written policy has been established, the Directors and will have regard to a candidates experience reports to the Board on the Groups key risks and the extent senior executives are responsible for: and competence in areas such as mining, exploration, to which it believes these risks are being managed.
This the minimum number of Directors is two and there is no geology, finance, administration and other areas of is performed periodically.
The Board is also responsible maximum: developing corporate strategy, performance objectives, relevance that can assist the Group in meeting its corporate for satisfying itself that management has developed and a Director may not retain office for more than one year business plans, budgets etc for review and approval by objectives and plans.
implemented a sound system of risk management and without submitting for re-election: and the Board: internal control.
The Board has delegated oversight of any Director appointed by the Board must have their managing the day to day business of the Company: Remuneration Committee the Risk Management Policy, including review of the election confirmed by shareholders at the next AGM.
managing the risk and compliance frameworks including The Remuneration Committee comprises Mr Ed Haslam effectiveness of the Groups internal control framework and reporting to the Board and, where necessary, the market: Chairman, Mr Mark Arnesen and Professor Robert Bowker.
risk management process, to the Audit Committee, which Where a Non Executive Director has served six years or appointing staff, evaluating their performance and training is reviewed at least annually.
Management is responsible longer on the Board, his or her re-election will be subject to requirements as well as development of Company The Remuneration Committees primary functions are to for designing, implementing, reviewing and providing particularly rigorous review and will take into account the policies: and make recommendations to the Board on: assurance as to the effectiveness of the Policy.
This need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
ensuring all available information in connection with items responsibility includes developing business and functional to be discussed at a meeting of the Board is provided to The Companys remuneration, recruitment, retention, risk identification, specific risk treatment, controls, The Company has established a Remuneration Policy each Director prior to the meeting.
termination, superannuation and incentive policies and monitoring and reporting capability.
A standardized which sets out the structure of the remuneration of key procedures for Directors and senior executives: approach to risk assessment is used to ensure that risks senior executives, Executive Directors, Non Executive The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for ensuring The 2011 Employee Option Loan Funded Share Plan, are consistently assessed and reported to an appropriate Directors, termination, disclosure of remuneration etc.
senior executives properly discharge the responsibilities the 2011 Executive Loan Funded Share Plan and the level.
The Board regularly discusses risks associated The Board has also established a Selection, Appointment delegated and for keeping the Board informed on these 2011 Share Option Scheme or any other employee or with the Groups business and operations along with the and Re-Appointment of Directors Policy which details the matters.
The Group has developed a series procedures for the selection, appointment, re-appointment of operational risks which the Group believes to be inherent and evaluation of the Companys Directors.
The Committee The performance of senior executives is evaluated by Orientation and Continuing Education to the Group.
These operational risks are summarized in considers both policies before making recommendations to the Remuneration Committee, often taking into account The Companys formal orientation or education programme the Management, Discussion and Analysis section of this the Board on nomination and remuneration matters.
Both recommendations from the Chief Executive Officer and or for new Directors begins with new Board members annual report.
Mitigation and optimization strategies are Policies, along with the Charters of the Nomination and Chairman.
The Board can exercise its discretion in relation receiving an orientation package which includes reports on considered equally important in risk management.
Remuneration Committees are available on the Companys to approving incentives, bonuses and options and can operations and results, and public disclosure filings by the website or to shareholders upon request.
recommend changes to the Committees recommendations.
Board meetings are combined with presentations The Risk Management Policy is available on the Companys All executives receive base salary and superannuation if by the Companys management and employees to give the website or upon request.
All compensation arrangements for Directors and senior applicable and in some cases, performance incentives and Directors additional insight into the Groups business.
In executives are determined by the Remuneration Committee fringe benefits.
These packages are reviewed on an annual addition, management of the Group makes itself available Monitoring of the Boards performance and approved by the Board, after taking into account the basis.
All remuneration paid to executives is valued at the for discussion with all members of the Board of Directors.
In order to ensure that the Board continues to discharge its current competitive arrangements prevailing in the market.
cost to the Company and is measured in accordance with New Board members are also encouraged to broaden their responsibilities in an appropriate manner, the performance the applicable accounting standards.
skills and knowledge by undertaking continuing education.
of all Directors is constantly reviewed by the Chairman.
The The amount of remuneration for all Directors including the Company deployed a formal process for evaluation of the full remuneration packages, comprising all monetary and The performance of our senior executives was evaluated Managing risks Board, the Board members, and Board committees during non-monetary components of the Executive Directors and in the current year by the Remuneration Committee.
The The Board meets regularly to evaluate, control, review and the relevant period.
A formal Board evaluation questionnaire executives, are detailed in the Remuneration Report.
Non Committee reviewed recommendations received from implement the Groups operations and objectives.
was delivered to each member of the Board for completion.
Executive Directors receive annual fees within an aggregate the Chairman, considered the performance of the senior The questionnaire covered questions on the structure Directors fee pool limited to an amount which is approved executive, his her current contract, and whether a bonus Regular controls established by the Board include: of the Board, the selection of management, strategy by shareholders.
The Board Nomination and Remuneration and or the grant of employee options were warranted.
determination, etc, as well questions on each Directors Committee reviews and recommends, for Board approval, In the previous financial year, the Board believed it to be timely and detailed monthly financial and operational personal contribution to the board and the Companys remuneration levels and policies for Directors within this appropriate to base performance on how well the executive reporting: Committees.
However, given that the majority of the overall Directors fee pool.
The fees which are paid are performs his her role, and not necessarily base it on the implementation of operating plans, cash flows and Directors were appointed in Q1 2011 and, further, that the also periodically reviewed.
The current annual fee for Non Company meeting financial objectives.
The Company has budgets by management and Board monitoring of Board believes that a meaningful evaluation of performance Executive Directors is a base fee of US$77,000 p. a.
Due now established a structured short term incentive scheme, progress against projections: and cannot be properly undertaken until such time as the Board to the additional time required, the Chairperson of the details of which can be found in the Remuneration Report procedures to allow Directors, and management in had had a reasonable amount of time to work together, as Boards various Committees receives an additional fee contained within this Annual Report.
the furtherance of their duties, to seek independent at the date of this Report, the Board had as yet to review currently US$15,400 p. a for Chairing that Committee, and professional advice via the utilisation of various external and discuss the results of this exercise.
The Company the members of each committee also receive an additional Historically, the Directors, executives and employees have technical consultants.
did not utilize any external search consultancy or open fee currently US$7,700 p. a for being a Committee in the past been invited to participate in the shareholder advertising during this process, however, it will consider member.
The Senior Non Executive Director also receives approved Centamin Egypts 2006 Employee Option Plan, GOVERNANCE 54 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 55 and separate shareholder approval was sought before any Compliance with laws and r egulations affecting the The Chairman and acting CEO and other Directors, Statement by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Director could be issued options under the plan.
However, Groups operations: communicate with major shareholders on a regular basis in Financial Officer Centamin Egypt ceased issuing options under the 2006 Listing rules, the UK Corporate Gover finance Code, and the way of face to face contact, telephone conversations, Employee Option Plan in August 2009 and received NP 58-201: and analyst and broker briefings, to help better understand The Board receives written assurance from the Chief approval from shareholders in February 2011 to establish Employment practices: the views of the shareholders.
Any material feedback is then Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to confirm the Executive Director Loan Funded Share Plan 2011 and Responsibilities to the community: discussed at Board level.
that to the best of their knowledge and belief, the groups the Employee Loan Funded Share Plan 2011.
These two Responsibilities to the individual: financial position presents a true and fair view and that plans were rolled over into equivalent plans in Centamin The environment: The Board recognises the importance of keeping the the Financial Statements are founded on a sound system PLC as part of the re-domicile referred to elsewhere in this Conflict of interests: market fully informed of the Groups activities and of of risk management, internal compliance and control.
In addition, a new employee option plan was created Confidentiality: communicating openly and clearly with all stakeholders.
Further, it is confirmed that the groups risk management the 2011 Employee Option Plan.
Ensuring that shar eholders and the financial community The Company established a formal Continuous Disclosure and internal compliance is operating efficiently and are at all times fully informed in accordance with the spirit Policy to ensure that this occurs.
The Policy is designed to effectively.
The Board notes that due to its nature, internal No shares or options have been issued under these new and letter of the Model Code and the Canadian Securities ensure compliance with the listing rules in all jurisdictions control assurance from the Chief Executive Officer and plans other than in connection with the re domiciliation of Administrators National Instrument 51-102: in which the Company is listed.
A copy of this Policy is Chief Financial Officer can only be reasonable rather than the Company.
However, it is intended to issue shares and Corporate opportunities or opportunities arising fr om available on the Companys website or by request.
absolute, and therefore is not and cannot be designed to options as soon as practicable after this report is published.
these for personal gain or to compete with the Group: detect all weaknesses in control procedures.
Protection of and proper use of the Groups assets: and In accordance with the Policy, Company information Non Executive Directors are encouraged to hold shares in Active promotion of ethical behaviour.
considered to be material is announced immediately to the Company to align their interests more closely to those of the LSE and TSX.
All key communications are placed the Companys shareholders.
However, share ownership is The Company has a formal Code of Conduct, which all immediately on the Company website, and when necessary, not enforced by the Company.
Directors, employees and contractors are required to provided directly to shareholders.
As a premium listed observe, and a range of corporate policies which detail the company on the Main Market of the London Stock The Board expects that the remuneration structure that is framework for acceptable corporate behaviour.
These set Exchange, the Company also complies with the various implemented will result in the Company being able to attract out the procedures that personnel are required to follow in obligations imposed on it pursuant to the Disclosure Rules and retain the best executives to manage the Group.
It will a range of areas, including compliance with the law, dealing and the Transparency Rules DTRs.
also provide the Executives with the necessary incentives with conflicts of interest, use of knowledge and information, to grow long-term shareholder value.
Please refer to the gifts and entertainment, responsibility to shareholders and Remuneration Report which forms part of the Directors the financial community etc.
The Companys policies are Report for information on remuneration paid to Directors reviewed periodically.
and executives during the financial year.
A copy of the Code of Conduct is available on the There are no schemes for retirement benefits other than Companys website or to shareholders upon request.
statutory superannuation for Non Executive Directors.
Communication to shareholders Securities Trading Policy The Board of Directors aims to ensure that shareholders The Company has adopted a formal Securities Trading are provided with important information in a timely manner Policy restricting Directors, senior executives and through written and electronic communications.
It is for employees from acting on material information until it this reason that the Company established a Shareholder has been released to the market in accordance with the Communications Policy.
Directors and senior management of premium listed companies on the LSE The Board of Directors aims to ensure that the shareholders, are restricted in a number of ways, by statute, common on behalf of whom they act, are informed of all information law and by the Model Code to deal in the Companys necessary to assess the performance of the Company.
This rule imposes restrictions beyond those Information is communicated to the shareholders through: imposed by law in that the Directors and certain employees and persons connected with them do not abuse and do the Annual Report: not place themselves under suspicion of abusing pricethe Annual Information Form: sensitive information that they have or are thought to have, the availability of the Company s Quarterly Report, Halfespecially in periods leading up to announcement of results Yearly Report and other announcements distributed to close periods.
The Companys Securities Trading Policy shareholders so requesting: is available on the Companys website or to shareholders adherence to continuous disclosure requirements: upon request.
webcasts of the Companys quarterly results: the Annual General Meeting and other meetings called Commitment to stakeholders and ethical standards to obtain shareholder approval for Board action as The Board supports the highest standards of corporate appropriate: and governance and requires its members and the management the pr ovision of the Companys website containing all of and staff of the Company to act with integrity and objectivity the above mentioned reports and its constant update and in relation to: maintenance.
GOVERNANCE 56 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 57 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT Centamin is committed to working with the highest level of respect for our employees and the communities and environments in which we operate, while pursuing value for our shareholders.
Centamin is committed to working with the highest level minimising health and safety risks to the reasonable of respect for our employees and the communities and practical level.
We have established a safety conscious environments in which we operate, while pursuing value for culture, as we believe this is the only way of operating our shareholders.
Sustainable development considerations a successful business.
Our key objective is for every form an integral part of our business plan and decision employee to go home healthy and safe after every shift and making processes.
As 2010 was the Sukari Gold Mines first year of commercial Although we instil in our employees that safety is the production, many of our sustainability initiatives are in their responsibility of each individual, we have a dedicated infancy.
In 2011 we published our second Corporate Social Health, Safety and Environment HSE department, Responsibility CSR report and our reporting process which oversees the health and safety performance of continues to evolve, as we strive to attain best practice the Group.
Guided by our corporate health and safety levels of transparency and accountability.
policy, the HSE department is responsible for providing a comprehensive health, safety and risk management system.
Our Approach We also require all contractors to maintain a healthy work Sukari is the only operating gold mine in Egypt and we take environment and we ask that they comply with our health our position as a pioneer of modern mining seriously.
We and safety standards as a minimum.
are mindful we are setting a benchmark for how mining activities should be conducted and as a result, we monitor At Centamin, we believe strongly in the importance of our performance closely against the four key areas that education and training.
We have invested in various health impact our non-financial performance: and safety training initiatives to give our employees the skills and knowledge to perform their jobs in a safe and The safety and wellbeing of our employees: reliable way.
To reflect our commitment to the safety and The training and development of our employees: wellbeing of our people, in 2011 we began the process Environmental responsibility: of establishing a Safety Community, with a representative Our relationship with our stakeholders, including the from each department.
The Community meets for regular communities in which we operate and our partners in safety-related discussions, it undertakes monthly safety the development and operation of Sukari - the Egyptian inspections and it acts as Sukaris emergency response Mineral Resource Authority EMRA and the Arab team.
2011 Frequency Rate 2010 Frequency Rate Fatality FA 0 0 Centamin understands that maintaining our social licence to operate is central to our culture of responsible mining.
Lost Time Injury LTIF 1.25 0.47 Medical Treatment Injury MTIF 1.07 2.87 Health and Safety based on 200,000 working hours over 12 months see page 12 for an Centamin strives for an injury-free workplace.
We are explanation of the reason for this increase in the Operational Review and committed to performing every job in a safe manner, Exploration GOVERNANCE 58 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 59 supervision of our team of expatriates.
Through this training of our operations.
We actively pursue water conservation We are proud that Centamin has never experienced any over 1,000 employees on site and 93% were Egyptian.
programme and the gradual allocation of responsibility, opportunities and through an internal recycling technique, safety-related employee fatalities and we strive to improve Approximately 50% of our employees are from Upper Badawai has gained the technical competency required we optimise the use of water.
our safety performance as Sukari continues to expand.
Egypt, the area where Sukari is situated, which typically has to manage the drilling and blasting programme at Sukari.
less economic activity than the richer areas around the Nile He has also introduced several ideas that have increased Energy Our Employees delta.
Centamin is committed to providing new employment both the efficiency and cost effectiveness of the process.
We obtain our energy from diesel fuel oil with low sulphur Our people are our most valuable resource.
Centamins opportunities and assisting the economic advancement of Badawi says the next step in his career development is to content.
Direct energy produced and consumed at Sukari activities provide direct and indirect employment, training Upper Egypt.
strengthen his knowledge of geology.
includes fuel to run mobile equipment, to produce power and work experience to many Egyptians, as well as creating and heat onsite and for explosives used to mine ore.
In an immediate revenue stream for the local economy and The table below sets out the number of people employed by The Environment 2011, Sukari consumed 58.2 million litres of diesel, which the Government.
At the end of 2011, Centamin had just the group by country, during the years stated.
Centamin is committed to minimising the environmental is similar to the amount we consumed in 2010, despite the impact of our operations to the reasonable practical level.
The largest consumption represents We have adopted an environmental management system power generation c. 70%.
Year ended 6 months ended 6 months ended Year ended Year ended Year ended to ensure the environment is taking into consideration at 31 December 2011 30 June 2011 31 December 2010 30 June 2010 30 June 2009 30 June 2008 each phase of our exploration, development, mining and Emissions, effluents and wastes processing activities.
Our efforts in this area are guided We monitor emissions, effluents and waste generated Egypt 1,106 1,008 985 816 362 210 by our Environment Policy, which outlines our dedication by Sukari.
Programmes are in place to manage dust, Australia 3 3 3 3 2 2 to minimising pollution and educating our employees in hazardous and non-hazardous non-process waste, waste UK 2 2 - - - - sustainable business practices.
We recycle and reuse our waste to the Total 1,111 1,013 988 819 364 212 maximum practical level.
Material that cannot be recycled is A core element of our environmental management system disposed of in a manner that is environmentally sound.
We is to continually assess our performance against our maintain an inventory of all types of waste, their quantities objectives.
We evaluate progress through several tools and the method of management and disposal as part of our As at 31 December 2011, less than 1% of employees were including visual inspection, auditing, data collection, waste management programme.
employed in management activities: approximately 20% For our married employees, we have implemented a inventories, measurements and systematic observations.
were employed in finance administration activities: 78% in relocation programme that allows them to live in Marsa We use the results to implement corrective measures and as Biodiversity operations and 1% in construction.
The Group also uses Alam, a coastal town 25km from the mine, with their inspiration for ways we can improve our performance in the The 160km2 Sukari tenement area has very low coverage of contractors, primarily involving construction activities with spouses.
We provide transportation to and from Sukari and future.
flora, with mostly barren soil.
Due to the scarcity of water in some involved in drilling and blasting activities.
During the we plan to expand this programme further in coming years.
the area, desert animals such as the Dorcas Gazelle and the peak of construction activities for the Sukari Gold Mine in In 2011, we did not have any significant environmental red fox are not found, but they do inhabit the nearby Wadi 2009-2010 there were more than 700 contractors on site.
We are proud to have brought mining back to a country incidents, and all incidents recorded were categorised as El-Gemal protectorate.
Centamin is committed to protecting The number of employees and contractors involved in that was once an important gold-producing country and we level 1 or 2 low severity.
All incidents occurred onsite and the wildlife unique to the eastern desert through minimising construction is expected to rise and fall in future in line with are paving the way for new investment in Egypts mining did not impact areas outside our boundaries.
the negative impact of our operations.
Biodiversity the further development of expansion projects at Sukari.
conservation principles are applied to all of our activities Materials and they were integrated into the project design from the Training and Development CASE STUDY 1 We use ore and process materials such as consumables outset.
During 2011, there were no incidents involving The training and development of our team at Sukari and in and reagents to extract gold and to produce gold dor.
our offices around the world is an ongoing programme.
It Badawi Mashhour consumables used are diesel fuel, explosives, lubricants involves a variety of theoretical, practical and on-the-job Drill and Blast Supervisor and oils, sodium cyanide, lime and grinding media.
Our courses and takes place both at Sukari and abroad.
We CASE STUDY 2 environmental management systems include processes strongly encourage our employees to realise their ambitions Badawi is one of Centamins Drilling and Blast Supervisors to manage all consumables and as a minimum, we and we support employees who aspire to progress up Embedding Conservation in Construction at Sukari.
He joined Centamin in 2002 and although he import, transport, store, use and dispose of residues of the career ladder and learn new skills.
Through an interwas a graduate of an industrial school, Badawi says his such material according to local regulations.
All chemical departmental mobility programme, we offer our people the Centamin built a 25km pipeline from the Red Sea to provide experience of mining was limited.
His first job at Sukari solutions used in the process plant are recycled and reused chance to rotate into other teams to gain new knowledge a sustainable water supply to the mine, but given the Red was as part of the labour force, although he quickly after regeneration.
In 2011, several of our employees took part Seas rich biodiversity, environmental management was showed interest in the drilling activities so he was given the in this programme and they have shown great potential in a taken into account from the first stages of selecting a water opportunity to train as a drilling assistant.
Sukari is situated in the eastern desert of Egypt, a hot, dry As part of his training, Badawi gained the skills to operate region with very low annual rainfall 10mm annum.
There Social and Community Activities A bathometric survey of the area was conducted to identify a drilling rig and also became certified as an operator of are no fresh water sources in the area and no productive In addition to creating a positive work environment, we locations with no or minimal cover of coral reef.
He learnt how to operate different types groundwater reservoirs.
Water is very important to a mining believe in the importance of helping our employees to was clear: we wanted to minimise any environmental impact of mining machinery and also how to fix any problems that operation and is mainly used for ore processing, dust enjoy their time before and after work.
The majority of our of the pipeline intake during construction and during its arose.
Badawi became a core member of the exploration suppression and rock blasting.
We obtain our water through people live in the Sukari camp, and thus we have invested operational lifetime to the greatest extent possible.
The team at Sukari as a result of his newly-learned skills.
a pipeline to the Red Sea, which is approximately 25km in a variety of leisure facilities such as playing fields, a location that was chosen is devoid of reef coverage and from Sukari hill.
Beach wells where seawater infiltrates into gymnasium, a library, internet access, satellite television during the construction process, every effort was taken to When the blasting team was formed, Badawi was taken on groundwater are also used as a secondary source of water.
Special barbecue dinners are also suppress dust and other negative impacts on the areas board as part of his career development plan.
He undertook In 2011, Sukari used nearly 4 million cubic metres of water, held at the beach or around Sukari and sports tournaments biodiversity.
comprehensive theoretical and practical training under the almost double our consumption in 2010 due to the growth are regularly organised.
GOVERNANCE 60 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 61 DIRECTORS Centamin used innovative construction techniques to 4.
Assisting the local community with its economic RESPONSIBILITY ensure disruption was minimized, and once the pipeline was development in place, we undertook delicate rehabilitation activity so that the sea floor retained its original depth and shape and the From the commencement of our activities in 1995, we STATEMENT shoreline was returned to its previous state.
The process have strived to contribute to the development of Marsa was managed by Centamins construction team, in alliance Alam.
The ESIA identified which aspects of development with experienced contractors and local authorities.
we should focus on, and it was decided that infrastructure We are proud that the project set a positive example for and education were the priorities.
As a result, in 2011 we responsible construction in an environmentally sensitive undertook the following projects: area.
Completing the electricity connections for the Bedouin Community and Society family of approximately 200 people living 30km from Centamins concession agreement gives us 30 years of Sukari operation at the Sukari Gold Mine with a potential extension Furnishing a number of Mosques in Marsa Alam for another 30 years.
With such a long tenure, which is Fur nishing a number of schools and building a school supported by a long life-of-mine, we take a long term view library for a primary school in matters relating to the local community.
Establishing a public garden in Marsa Alam Pr oviding financial support to the Community Support The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Centamin recognises that it has a responsibility to support Association Report and the financial statements in accordance with and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
and enhance the community in which it operates.
We treat Building two r est houses for students from the suburbs of applicable law and regulations.
good community relations as a key component of continued Marsa Alam.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and operational success as well as a corporate requirement.
The Pr oviding financial assistance for medical programmes in Company law requires the directors to prepare financial integrity of the corporate and financial information four key ways in which we do this are: the area.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law the included on the companys website.
Legislation in the Pr ovided practical training for 85 Science and directors are required to prepare the group financial United Kingdom and Jersey governing the preparation 1.
Identifying and mitigating any potential negative impacts Engineering-focused university students during the statements in accordance with International Financial and dissemination of financial statements may differ from of our activities summer vacation.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European legislation in other jurisdictions.
Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Under company Sukari is situated in barren desert, so the closest town law the directors must not approve the accounts unless Responsibility statement CASE STUDY 3 Marsa Alam is 25km from site.
We do not have any they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of resettlement, relocation or compensation requirements as the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Good Neighbours a result of the development of Sukari, however we take of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial the financial statements, prepared in accordance with into account the potential impact of our operations on local statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true Sukaris kitchens are equipped to feed 1,500 people three people at every stage of our activities.
that directors: and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position times a day, and as such our food waste represents a large and profit or loss of the group and the undertakings portion of the daily solid waste we generate.
Engaging in dialogue with our stakeholders and listening properly select and apply accounting policies: included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and been committed to implementing innovative schemes to to their suggestions and concerns present information, including accounting policies, in a the management report, which is incorporated into maximise the reuse and recycling of waste since we first manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and the directors report, includes a fair review of the began operating at Sukari.
As a result of this, our food As part of the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment understandable information: development and performance of the business and the waste is stored in a refrigerated room and then transported ESIA study we undertook as part of our permitting provide additional disclosures when compliance with position of the group and the undertakings included off-site to a nearby Bedouin family to be used as animal process for Sukari, we held a series of public consultations the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a fodder.
As Sukari continues along its growth enable users to understand the impact of particular description of the principal risks and uncertainties that path, Centamin has maintained its dialogue with the transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys they face.
Halima is the head of the Bedouin family and her husband local community and has joined two Marsa Alam-based financial position and financial performance: and was a guard at Sukari when mining activity was taking development associations.
In 2011, no material concerns make an assessment of the companys ability to continue By order of the Board place in the early 1940s.
Although her family has a house in were raised concerning our operations.
Marsa Alam, she lives in a shack with one of her daughters and has been there almost all of her life.
Optimising the opportunity for people from the area The directors are responsible for keeping adequate sheep and goats, which she eventually sells to provide Upper Egypt to gain employment at Sukari accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain income for her family.
She says that in the past couple of the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable years her herd has doubled in size due to the food provided 50% of Sukaris employees are from Upper Egypt and accuracy at any time the financial position of the company by Centamin, which in turn provides more income for the Centamin also recognises the importance of using local and enable them to ensure that the financial statements Chairman Chief Financial Officer family.
Where possible, we tender contracts to local comply with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They are Josef EI-Raghy Pierre Louw companies to aid local economic activity and progress.
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group 30 March 2012 30 March 2012 We are proud to work with Halima and her family in this way.
We use more than 1,000 suppliers and 20 contractors, providing jobs and income to a much larger group of people than our 1,000 direct employees.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 62 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 63 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF to the members of centamin plc COMPREHENSIVE INCOME for the year ended 31 December 2011 We have audited the group financial statements the year then ended: financial statements of Centamin plc for the year ended have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as 31 December 2011 which comprise the Consolidated adopted by European Union: Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated have been properly prepared in accordance with the Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Statement of Cash Flows, the Consolidated Statement 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 30.
The Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the IASB 12 months Restated 6 months financial reporting framework that has been applied in their As explained in the accounting policies to the financial US$000 US$000 preparation is applicable law and International Financial statements, the group, in addition to complying with its Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by European Union.
legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the Revenue 5 340,479 86,882 European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the Cost of sales 6 140,250 50,410 This report is made solely to the companys members, as International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies opinion the group financial statements comply with IFRSs Gross profit 200,229 36,472 Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken as issued by the IASB.
Finance income 6 1,288 321 so that we might state to the companys members those Other operating costs 19,572 4,751 matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Matters on which we are required to report by exception report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Profit before tax 6 181,945 32,042 permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Tax 7 - - to anyone other than the company and the companys Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to Profit for the year attributable to the Company 181,945 32,042 members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for report to you if, in our opinion: the opinions we have formed.
proper accounting records have not been kept by the Other comprehensive income parent company, or proper returns adequate for our audit Losses on available for sale financial assets net of tax 3,957 - Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor have not been received from branches not visited by us: Other comprehensive income for the year 3,957 As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors or Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the financial statements are not in agreement with the Total comprehensive income attributable to the Company 177,988 32,042 the preparation of the financial statements and for accounting records and returns: or Earnings per share: being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our we have not received all the information and Basic cents per share 24 16.68 3.10 responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the explanations we require for our audit.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Diluted cents per share 24 16.66 3.09 International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Other matters and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration give reasonable assurance that the financial statements Report to be audited has been properly prepared in are free from material misstatement, whether caused by accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether 2006 as if that Act had applied to the company.
the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and We have reviewed the directors statement, contained adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant within the Directors Report, in relation to going concern as accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall if the company had been incorporated in the UK and have presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we nothing to report to you in that respect.
read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Deborah Thomas for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Opinion on financial statements Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor In our opinion the financial statements: London, UK give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs 30 March 2012 as at 31 December 2011 and of the groups profit for the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 64 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 65 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION CHANGES IN EQUITY As at 31 December 2011 for the year ended 31 December 2011 Stated Other Share options Accumulated Total 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 US$000 Restated US$000 Capital reserves reserve profits US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 NON-CURRENT ASSETS Balance as at 31 December 2010 600,500 2,295 1,050 15,251 619,096 Property, plant and equipment 12 532,727 444,137 Profit for the year - - - 181,945 181,945 Exploration and evaluation 13 31,113 3,752 Other comprehensive loss for the year - - - 3,957 3,957 Available-for-sale financial assets 14.1 1,831 - Total comprehensive income for the year - - - 177,988 177,988 Interests in associates 14.2 3,296 - Transfer to accumulated profits - 2,295 88 2,383 - Total non-current assets 568,967 447,889 Share options exercised 1,568 - - - 1,568 CURRENT ASSETS Issue of shares under LFSP 2,038 - - - 2,038 Inventories 10 69,750 38,017 Recognition of share based payments - - 1,496 - 1,496 Trade and other receivables 9 29,998 128 Transfer from share options reserve 452 - 452 - - Prepayments 11 1,576 460 Other placements 4,152 - - - 4,152 Cash and cash equivalents 25 164,231 154,338 Share issue costs 114 - - - 114 Total current assets 265,555 192,943 Balance as at 31 December 2011 608,596 - 2,006 195,621 806,223 Total assets 834,522 640,832 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Stated Other Share options Accumulated Total Provisions 16 2,630 2,624 Capital reserves reserve profits US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Total non-current liabilities 2,630 2,624 CURRENT LIABILITIES Balance as at 30 June 2010 465,096 2,295 1,942 16,791 452,542 Trade and other payables 15 24,509 18,002 Profit for the period - - - 32,042 32,042 Tax liabilities 7 444 444 Total comprehensive income for the period 465,096 2,295 1,942 15,251 484,584 Provisions 16 717 666 Recognition of share based payments - - 14 - 14 Total current liabilities 25,670 19,112 Transfer from share options reserve 906 - 906 - - Total liabilities 28,299 21,736 Issues of shares under ESOP 2,382 - - - 2,382 Net assets 806,223 619,096 Other placements 136,549 - - - 136,549 Share issue costs 4,433 - - - 4,433 EQUITY Balance as at 31 December 2010 600,500 2,295 1,050 15,251 619,096 Stated capital 17 608,596 600,500 Share option reserve 18 2,006 1,050 Other reserves 18 - 2,295 Accumulated profits 195,621 15,251 Total equity 806,223 619,096 The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 30 March 2012 and signed on its behalf by: Josef El-Raghy Pierre Louw Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 66 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 67 [This page has been left blank intentionally] CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS for the year ended 31 December 2011 31 December 2011 31 December 12 months Restated 2010 Note US$000 6 months US$000 Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated in operating activities 25 b 181,332 34,274 Finance income 1,288 321 Net cash generated by operating activities 180,044 33,953 Cash flows from investing activities Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 12 142,903 40,700 Acquisition of exploration and evaluation 23,209 6,829 Acquisition of financial assets 14 17,403 - Acquisition of interests in associates 14 3,296 - Proceeds from sale of available-for-sale financial assets 11,191 - Net cash used in investing activities 175,620 47,529 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from the issue of equity and conversion of options 17 3,606 138,931 Share issue costs 17 114 4,433 Finance income 1,288 321 Net cash provided by financing activities 4,780 134,819 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 9,204 121,243 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 25 154,338 31,326 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 689 1,769 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 25 164,231 154,338 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 68 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 69 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Standards not affecting the reported results nor the financial position for the year ended 31 December 2011 The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements but, with the exception of the amendment to IFRS 1, may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
Amendment to IFRS 1 Limited The amendment provides a limited exemption for first-time adopters from 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Exemption from Comparative providing comparative fair-value hierarchy disclosures under IFRS 7.
IFRS 7 Disclosures for First-time Centamin plc the Company is a listed public company, incorporated in Jersey and through subsidiaries operating in Adopters Egypt, Ethiopia, United Kingdom and Australia.
It is the parent company of the Group, comprising the Company and its subsidiaries.
During the year the Group was re-domiciled from Australia to Jersey by means of the Company becoming the IAS 24 2009 Related Party The revised Standard has a new, clearer definition of a related party, with holding company of the Group.
Disclosures inconsistencies under the previous definition having been removed.
Registered Office Principal Place of Business Amendment to IAS 32 Under the amendment, rights issues of instruments issued to acquire a Centamin plc 361 El-Horreya Road Classification of Rights Issues fixed number of an entitys own non-derivative equity instruments for a fixed Ogier House, The Esplanade Sedi Gaber amount in any currency and which otherwise meet the definition of equity St Helen, Jersey JE4 9WG Alexandria, Egypt are classified as equity.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the directors report on pages 36 to 39 and Amendments to IFRIC 14 The amendments now enable recognition of an asset in the form of prepaid the operating review on page 12 to 17.
Prepayments of a Minimum minimum funding contributions.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Improvements to IFRSs 2010 Aside from those items already identified above, the amendments made to standards under the 2010 improvements to IFRSs have had no impact on In the current year, the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted and have affected the the Group.
amounts reported in these financial statements.
Standards affecting the financial statements At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity The Interpretation provides guidance on the accounting Instruments for debt for equity swaps from the perspective of the IFRS 1 amended Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters borrower.
IFRS 7 amended Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets No impact to the Group was noted.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements The following amendments were made as part of Improvements to IFRSs 2010.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IAS 1 amended Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income Amendment to IFRS 3 Business Combinations IFRS 3 has been amended such that only those nonIAS 12 amended Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets controlling interests which are current ownership interests IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits and which entitle their holders to a proportionate share IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements of net assets upon liquidation can be measured at fair IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures value or the proportionate share of net identifiable assets.
IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine Other non-controlling interests are measured at fair value, unless another measurement basis is required by IFRSs.
The directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial The amendment had no impact on the Groups financial statements of the Group in future periods, except as follows: statements.
IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of Financial Instruments: Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures The amendment clarifies the required level of disclosure IFRS 11 will affect joint venture accounting: around credit risk and collateral held and provides relief IFRS 12 will impact the disclosure of interests Group has in other entities: from disclosure of renegotiated financial assets.
IFRS 13 will impact the measurement of fair value for certain assets and liabilities as well as the associated disclosures: The impact of this amendment has been to reduce the level of disclosure provided on collateral that the Group holds as security on financial assets that are past due or impaired.
