AstraZeneca has a proud tradition of developing great medicines that make a meaningful difference to patient health.
Looking ahead, we remain committed to developing innovative and valued medicines that improve the health of people around the world, benefit society and provide an acceptable return for our shareholders.
In my review I want to outline some of the steps we took and decisions we made in 2011 to secure our future business success.
If we are to be one of the winners in the sector we need to make the necessary changes both to what we do and how we do it.
David R Brennan Chief Executive Officer Operational highlights -2% 10% Revenue in the US was down 2% Emerging Markets revenue increased by 10% 79 7% 79 projects in clinical development, Ranked in the top 7% in the sector including 9 in Phase III or under in the Dow Jones Sustainability regulatory review: 21 withdrawn World and European Indexes, with during the year our highest assessment score to date of 85% 8 Chief Executive Officers Review AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Overview Chief Executive Officers Review A trusted partner with the UK Medical Research Council providing academic We cannot secure our success if we do not have good relationships researchers with access to over 20 AstraZeneca compounds.
with those with whom we do business.
Trust is critical to achieving Our plans for R&D will see us build further on this collaborative this: we need to connect with our stakeholders, including patients, way of working.
physicians, regulators, governments and payers, if we are to understand their needs and challenges.
We also need to earn and Global orientation maintain the trust of our customers, partners and other stakeholders.
Our future success requires us to develop global strategies to This requires us to do things in the right way and to behave in commercialise our products effectively.
These need to be tailored accordance with our core values.
to local needs in both mature and emerging markets.
That is why I set such store by our Global External Interactions Policy, As part of that drive, we announced our decision to invest $200 million launched in April 2011, which provides a single, common, principlein a manufacturing facility in China and our agreement to acquire a based approach to all our interactions worldwide with public officials, Chinese company that will give us access to a portfolio of medicines healthcare professionals and community organisations.
The introduction used to treat infections.
In Russia, we invested $150 million in a of the policy drove changes in the way we market and sell our products manufacturing plant and announced plans to establish a new and I believe we now lead the industry in this area of business.
Our commitment to acting responsibly and the sustainable We are also committed to playing our part in the global challenge development of our Group was further reinforced in 2011 by the of providing sustainable access to healthcare for all those who need publication of our new Responsible Business Plan, which is closely it.
Our strategy recognises the complexities surrounding the issue aligned to our business strategy and its priorities.
which range from the affordability of medicines to the availability of healthcare systems and the resources to make them effective.
The growing importance of compliance and ethics to our reputation and business operations was demonstrated during the year by the Stronger customer orientation appointment of Katarina Ageborg, our new Chief Compliance Officer, As the Chairman noted, there is no let up in sight on the downward to the SET.
pressure we face on the price of medicines.
More than ever, we need to demonstrate their value to those who buy them.
Our collaborations World class Research and Development with HealthCore and IMS will help us undertake real world studies to At the core of our strategy to be a focused, integrated, innovationunderstand how to treat disease most effectively and economically.
driven, global, prescription-based biopharmaceutical business is We also need to undertake more studies such as the Brilinta PLATO the need to have an R&D function with world class productivity.
In his study demonstrating that, even at a higher price, it is a more cost Chairmans Statement on page 6, Louis Schweitzer outlined how we effective treatment than the generic alternative.
are redoubling our efforts to deliver this through the use of innovative and collaborative ways of working.
Our focus is on ensuring more Equally, we need to recognise the changing shape of healthcare effective and efficient delivery of our research objectives across our systems.
Those who work in them are working more intensively and therapeutic portfolio.
with less time to research medicines.
We are therefore piloting new ways of working to meet their needs.
These include the use of digital Our results in 2011 were mixed.
We were pleased by the FDAs channels which offer information that is available when it is needed, approval in July of Brilinta, our treatment for acute coronary and without having to leave the office.
Brilinta, or Brilique, its trade name in Europe, is now approved in 64 countries, launched in 37 and under review in a further Operational efficiency 39.
Also on a positive note, Caprelsa vandetanib, for the treatment of Our continued drive for operational efficiency is typified by the thyroid cancer, has been launched in the US and received a positive design and construction of our new plant in China, which is using CHMP opinion in the EU.
Axanum, for the prevention of cardiovascular Lean production principles from the outset.
We are also streamlining TM events, Komboglyze, for diabetes, and Fluenz, our influenza vaccine, processes and moving to a more flexible cost base in order to were also approved in the EU.
In Japan, both Nexium and Faslodex remain competitive.
were launched following approvals earlier in the year.
As we reshape our business to meet the needs of our customers During 2011, two of the Phase III trials for TC-5214, our neuroscience efficiently, we are seeing reductions in the workforce across much of collaboration with Targacept, did not meet their primary endpoint.
our organisation, particularly in our mature Established Markets and in In December, we also announced that our investigational compound our R&D organisation.
This reshaping includes plans for further R&D olaparib AZD2281 for the treatment of ovarian cancer will not site consolidation.
These are difficult decisions as they go to the heart progress into Phase III.
As a result of these two events we recorded of AstraZeneca, our people.
Where possible, we seek to redeploy staff an impairment charge of $435 million.
or assist with outplacement and, together with my colleagues, I remain committed to managing these changes in the right way, in accordance We were also disappointed during the year by the withdrawal of with local employment laws, our standards and core values.
Axanum was also withdrawn in the US.
In January 2012, we received a Complete Response Letter from A confident future the FDA for our submission for dapagliflozin.
We, together with BMS, Our industry is undergoing a period of fundamental change.
If we are remain committed to this treatment for diabetes and will work closely to be one of the winners in the sector we need to make the necessary with the FDA to provide additional clinical data.
changes both to what we do and how we do it.
I am confident that within AstraZeneca we have people with the skills to do that and pay Increased collaboration tribute to their continued efforts in 2011 to ensure we deliver on our commitments to patients, society and our shareholders.
I look forward Our focus on developing in-house capabilities is matched by our desire to develop a more outward-looking organisation committed to to working with them to build on those efforts in 2012. accessing the best science, regardless of its origin.
Indeed, six of our nine projects in Phase III Registration and 12 out of 24 in Phase II were sourced externally.
During 2011, we completed a number of transactions to strengthen our long-term development.
These included the in-licensing of David R Brennan tremelimumab from Pfizer, and our groundbreaking collaboration Chief Executive Officer AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Chief Executive Officers Review 9
