Group chief executives letter Bob Dudley Dear fellow shareholder, Group Chief Executive Following the tragic Deepwater Horizon accident of 2010, BP entered 2011 facing a range of uncertainties.
These included concerns about our ability to operate safely in deep water, meet our financial commitments in the Gulf of Mexico, and recover the trust and value we had lost.
We were also subject to intense speculation around the future and direction of the company.
By the end of the year we had successfully resolved some significant uncertainties facing the company.
We set new standards for safety, led by our safety and operational risk organization, and we reshaped our upstream business.
We strengthened the groups financial position by progressing our divestment programme.
We worked to earn back trust through co-operation with the official investigations and actively sharing the lessons learned.
We set a clear strategic direction through a 10-point plan focused on building value for shareholders.
We also received permission to resume operations in the Gulf of Mexico a significant milestone.
During the year more clarity also emerged over the 2010 accident as official investigation reports were published.
Their central conclusions supported that of our own investigation namely that what happened in the Gulf of Mexico was a complex accident involving multiple causes and multiple parties.
I am pleased that we were able to reach settlements with Mitsui, Weatherford, Anadarko and Cameron during 2011.
On 3 March 2012 we announced a settlement with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee, subject to final written agreement and court approvals, to resolve the substantial majority of legitimate economic loss and medical claims made by individual and business plaintiffs in the Multi-District Litigation proceedings pending in New Orleans MDL 2179.
The legal process continues with other parties.
We recognize there is a great deal more to do, but I can report that BP finished its year of consolidation in robust shape.
Through the year, BPs employees worked with great determination to enhance what we do and how we do it.
I want to make it absolutely clear that we are not seeking a return to business as usual.
The events of 2010 demand more than that.
As we move ahead, our job is to make BP a stronger, safer company by further embedding safety at the heart of the company, continuing to earn back trust, and creating long-term value for shareholders once again.
In this letter, I outline in more detail the actions taken in 2011 to achieve these objectives.
6 BP Summary Review 2011 Safety During the year, we reorganized our upstream segment to improve clarity and accountability.
We introduced new systems and technologies to further enhance oversight of operations.
We continued to increase the capacity of our independent safety and operational risk organization, and recruited experts from other highhazard industries to add new expertise and perspectives.
We also renewed the companys performance and reward systems, values and code of conduct, which require whoever works for BP to put safety first.
At the front line, we shut down platforms and operations to make necessary upgrades.
We set new, voluntary standards for blowout preventers, which shut off the flow of oil in an emergency.
We also designed a new type of capping stack, which now stands ready for deployment anywhere in the world in the event of a leak in deep water.
Trust Looking back over events in the Gulf of Mexico, I am proud of how BP responded.
Just in financial terms, during 2010 and 2011 combined we made a pre-tax cash outlay of more than $26 billion to cover oil spill response costs, meet claims and litigation expenses, support research, promote tourism and help restore the environment.
The test of corporate responsibility is whether a company follows up its words with actions.
And we will continue to do so.
During the year we were invited to 25 countries to share what we have learned in the Gulf.
In turn, we have gone out to gain insights from organizations in other high-hazard sectors, including NASA, the UK Atomic Energy Authority and various naval bodies.
We will keep listening to others and applying what we learn.
Above During the year BP gained its first US exploration drilling Value permit since the 2010 As I write this letter, the market value of the company remains significantly Deepwater Horizon oil lower than it was before the incident.
Our 10-point plan shows our belief that the spill for the Kaskida field, Gulf of Mexico.
company can realize improved returns for shareholders.
The plan sets out what you can expect from us, and what you will be able to measure, over the next three years.
F irst and foremost, you will see a continuing, relentless focus on safety and risk management.
Y ou will see the company play to its strengths exploration: managing deepwater activity: giant fields: gas supply chains: our world-class downstream business: and our capabilities in developing technology and building relationships.
Y ou will see a company that is simpler and more focused as a result of a major divestment programme.
Y ou will see a company that is organized effectively and applies its standards consistently.
Y ou will see more visibility from us on our individual businesses.
Y ou will be able to measure the effects of active portfolio management, as we invest more in our areas of strength and generate cash through further divestments.
Y ou will be able to measure the contribution of new upstream projects with higher margins, as they come onstream over the next three years.
Y ou will be able to measure operating cash flow, which we expect to be around a 50% higher by 2014. a See footnote c on page 14.
BP Summary Review 2011 7 Group chief executives letter W e plan to use around half of the increased cash flow for investment and half for other uses including increased distributions to shareholders.
A nd finally, you will be able to measure balance sheet strength.
In detail For more on the strategic priorities set The plan makes a greater priority of creating value for the shareholder, rather than out in the 10-point plan, see Our strategy simply increasing production volume.
We will sell assets earlier in their lifecycle Pages 13-15 following discovery if we spot opportunities to reinvest in higher growth areas.
We are also being selective in where we invest along the supply chain.
For example, we are selling certain mature fields that hold more value for others, and we are selling a number of refining and marketing assets that do not match our aspirations.
I want to say a little more about the areas of strength at the heart of our strategy.
We had a record year for new access in 2011, gaining 55 exploration licences in nine countries.
This opened up around 2 315,000km for exploration.
We intend to more than double exploration investment over the next three years.
In deep water, we are confident in our ability to design, engineer and operate large installations safely.
2012 will be a busy year for us in the deepwater regions of Angola, Brazil and the Gulf of Mexico.
Left New investment In giant fields, work with our partners has increased output at Iraqs announced in 2011 may Rumaila field by more than 10%.
BP was the first supermajor to exceed its extend production at the Clair field of the UK North production target in Iraq.
During the year we also announced we will be investing Sea to 2050. approximately $14 billion with our partners in the UK North Sea.
Right February 2011 Natural gas is set to be the fastest-growing fossil fuel globally to 2030. saw BP announce a Here, we are forging new partnerships, such as the strategic alliance created in partnership with Reliance 2011 with Reliance Industries in India.
We continue to have a significant focus Industries spanning the gas value chain in India, on developing unconventional resources around the world.
Taking technology from exploration to and skills developed in North America, we are working with the governments of marketing.
Oman and Algeria to develop their large tight gas reservoirs, and we also continue to work in Indonesia to develop their onshore coalbed methane fields.
We also have exceptional expertise in building supply chains.
For example, we move gas from 6,000 metres below the Shah Deniz field in Azerbaijan to markets in Western Europe, 3,000 kilometres away.
8 BP Summary Review 2011 In Refining and Marketing, our world-class fuels, lubricants and petrochemicals businesses are shifting the balance of their activity towards higher growth markets, including China and India.
We are moving forward with our plans to sell around half of our refining capacity in the US, and we have made good progress on the modernization of the Whiting refinery.
Looking ahead, we expect our downstream operations to be a material contributor to the cash flow we anticipate over the next few years.
These strengths are supported by our long-standing track record in developing and applying leading technology, and the deep and enduring relationships we form.
We were disappointed that our exploration plans with Rosneft did not progress, but we remain committed to our TNK-BP investment in Russia, which continues to be successful.
A well-balanced business As the BP Energy Outlook 2030 shows, the world is now in a long wavelength transition to a lower-carbon energy mix.
For BP, that means helping to meet current demand through the supply of oil and gas including unconventional resources while developing a number of the lower-carbon options needed at scale tomorrow.
During 2011, we invested a further $1.6 billion in our Alternative Energy business, which takes total investment since 2005 to $6.6 billion.
We have a a growing biofuels business in Brazil and we added 401MW of wind generation capacity during the year, with interests in more than 1,000 wind turbines now turning across the US.
In contrast, solar has evolved into a low-margin commodity market, and in 2011 we began winding down our remaining solar operations as we prepare to exit the business.
Looking ahead BP is meeting its commitments and moving forward with increasing momentum.
2012 will be a year of milestone delivery, with financial momentum building in 2013 and 2014.
In 2012, you can expect high-margin production coming back on stream, major project start-ups and new exploration wells, further progress on our divestment programme, continued improvement in downstream financial performance and completion of payments into the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust fund.
The company has a strong leadership team and non-executive directors who provide rigorous oversight challenging and supporting executives as circumstances dictate.
I want to thank BPs employees for their resilience.
They were again tested hard this year.
The character of BPs people was evident wherever we operate, not least in Egypt and Libya, where our teams evacuated colleagues and their families safely during the upheavals in the region.
I thank investors for their continued patience through a tough time.
One by one, we are addressing the uncertainties facing our company.
The days ahead may bring further challenges, but we are in a much stronger position than this time last year.
There is a great deal more to do, but we are building a stronger, safer BP that can play an important role in the world for many years to come.
Bob Dudley Group Chief Executive 6 March 2012 a On a gross joint-venture basis which includes 100% of the capacity of equity-accounted entities where BP has partial ownership.
Including BPs share of joint ventures on a net basis, the capacity added was 274MW.
