$122m $122m $115m $103m $87m $83m $59m $60m $57m $53m $49m $44m 1H10 1H09 2H09 1H10 2H10 1H11 2H11 1H09 2H09 2H10 1H11 2H11 SOFTWARE LICENSE REVENUE TOTAL REVENUE Financial Performance The fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 was successful for Kofax, with the Company reporting record revenues, adjusted earnings before interest, taxes and amortization EBITA, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations EPS, cash generated by operations and year end cash balances.
For a definition of Adjusted EBITA and adjusted diluted EPS please refer to the Chief Financial Officers Review that follows.
Total revenues grew 12% to $243.9 million 2010: $217.6 million, or 10% in organic constant currency.
Very strong growth during the first half of the fiscal year, particularly in maintenance service revenues, 2.
Continuing progress with our hybrid go-to-market strategy, which allows us to address and penetrate a broad spectrum of the capture market and 3.
Improving sales execution and productivity.
We experienced strong revenue growth during the first half of the past year but less during the second half.
As stated in our July trading update, we believe this slowdown was caused by longer sales cycles and decision making that emerged as a result of increasing uncertainty and volatility in the global economic environment.
We expect these challenges to continue until more confidence and stability return to markets.
This growth, coupled with the benefit of cost saving measures previously implemented and the on-going prudent management CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS of expenses, yielded an Adjusted EBITA of $40.2 million 2010: $26.0 million, or a 16% margin 2010: 12%, and an adjusted REVIEW diluted EPS of $0.31 2010: $0.18.
Reynolds C. Bish As a result of good operating cash flow generation from operations of $35.6 million 2010: $23.3 million and the disposal of our legacy hardware distribution and maintenance business, we ended the year with total cash balances of $98.3 million 2010: $55.5 $24m $17m $16m $9m $6m $8m million.
This was after paying $8.7 million to settle the one year hold back relating to our acquisition of 170 Systems in 1H09 2H09 1H10 2H10 1H11 2H11 ADJUSTED EBITA September 2009, $4.6 million on closing for our acquisition of Atalasoft in May 2011 and $3.2 million for capital expenditures.
These cash balances will allow us to further grow revenues and earnings both organically and via our acquisition strategy.
19.6% Finally, after the end of the fiscal year we put a $40.0 million 14.9% 13.3% unused line of credit in place with Bank of America Merrill Lynch 9.8% to further enhance the strength of our financial position.
8.7% 6.6% Were pleased with these achievements and believe they substantially validate our strategy and ability to execute as well as the fundamental strength in our business.
We nonetheless 1H09 2H09 1H10 2H10 1H11 2H11 recognize that our performance can always be better and we will ADJUSTED EBITA MARGIN therefore continue to plan for and strive to achieve improvements in all that we do in the current and future fiscal years.
Chief Executive Officers Review 3 are attributable to success in implementing our hybrid go-toOperating Highlights & Strategic Progress market model and improving sales execution.
In July 2011, Harvey Spencer Associates, a leading industry analyst firm, published its annual report on the capture software During the year we were also pleased to receive widespread and services market, which noted that: recognition for our market position and products.
The overall market grew 10% in calendar year 2010 to As outlined above, Kofax again being recognized as a leader $2.2 billion 2009: $2.0 billion, and is projected to grow at in the capture market by Harvey Spencer Associates a compound annual growth rate of 13.5% to $4.1 billion in The Company being named to KMWorld magazines 2015, 100 Companies that Matter in Knowledge Management 2.
We increased our overall market share to 15% during 2010 in 2011, marking Kofaxs eighth consecutive appearance on 2009: 11%, this prestigious list 3.
We significantly extended our leadership position in the Kofax being named Channel Partner of the Year and the Batch Image Capture segment which is defined as the Kofax Desktop software Content Management Software scanning, indexing and exporting of document images and Product of the Year for the Small Office Home Office data for archive purposes to a 35% share 2009: 25%, SOHO category in Document Manager magazines 2010 DM Awards 4.
We extended our leadership position in the Batch Content Capture segment which is defined as the scanning, Kofax Capture and Kofax VirtualReScan VRS software classifying, extracting critical business data and exporting being given Best Channel Product of 2010 awards from of document images and data to downstream business Business Solutions magazine processes to a 17% share 2009: 13% and Subsequent to the fiscal year end the Company being 5.
For the first time we achieved a top five position in the selected by Microsoft to be part of its exclusive Managed important and rapidly growing Ad Hoc Content Capture Independent Software Vendor ISV Program segment with a 10% share, up from virtually nothing in 2009.
Our investments in research and development have once again These three segments comprise the enterprise portion or allowed us to better address the needs of our customers and 67% of the total market, where we extended our leadership help grow our revenues.
In this last fiscal year we successfully position to a 21% share 2010: 16%.
launched six new software product releases: Our achieving a 10% share of the ad hoc content capture Kofax Front Office Server 3.5, which added support for segment was made possible by the investments weve made in Canon, Konica Minolta and Xerox MFPs and an improved the research and development of our Kofax Front Office Server thin client desktop scan application for office automation product.
This software allows organizations to move the needs scanning of documents from centralized, back offices to highly Kofax Communication Server 9.0, to add important new distributed, front office environments.
Customer facing functionality and tighter integration with Kofax Capture, employees are able to use familiar equipment such as all-in-one Kofax Transformation Modules and Microsoft Exchange scan, print and fax multi-function peripherals MFPs and 2010 environments desktop scanners to capture documents where they originate.
Kofax Express 2.5, a new version of this packaged This eliminates the need to batch and ship documents to scan-to-archive software that adds automated indexing another location, thus reducing costs, and accelerates capabilities and certification for use with Microsoft document processing, which increases an organizations SharePoint 2010 responsiveness and allows it to gain competitive advantage.
Kofax VRS Elite, a new version of our patented image Consistent with the gains in market share we also grew our enhancement and perfection software that provides total revenues faster than the overall capture market and, based enhanced functionality to improve overall performance, on public filings, faster than our two most direct competitors device health monitoring capabilities and the ability to EMC Captiva and Readsoft during calendar year 2010 and better support the deployment of multiple scanners the first six months of 2011.
Kofax Monitor 6.0, which adds Kofax VRS Elite and Kofax We believe its again clear that were pursuing a large and Communication Server to Kofax Capture and Kofax growing market opportunity and continuing to gain market share Transformation Modules as applications supported by this as a result of our strategy, strong competitive advantages and real-time performance monitoring software improving execution.
MarkView Financial Suite 7.0, which provides accounts During this last fiscal year we successfully added over 2,155 payable and other business functions with one click new customers 2010: 1,924, not including those arising from approval of invoices in an easily configurable interface to our acquisition of Atalasoft, and closed more six and seven accelerate this process, and new capture enabled figure sales.
We closed 23 sales greater than $0.5m 2010: 17 workflows to automatically flag inconsistencies in value and 12 greater than $1.0m 2010: 9.
These once again included added tax VAT and freight costs, thereby eliminating two of the largest sales in the history of Kofax one for $4.5 manual steps that would otherwise be required million to a global business process outsourcing firm providing information management services and another for $3.0 million to a U. S. federal government agency.
All these achievements 4 Chief Executive Officers Review Two of the more notable events during this last fiscal year were Corporate Mission & Strategy the disposal of our legacy hardware distribution and Weve made significant progress in our business and believe maintenance business and our acquisition of Atalasoft.
this substantially validates our strategy and ability to execute as well as the fundamental strength in our business.
As a result, In January 2011, we announced and at the end of May we our mission remains the same to be the leading provider of closed on the sale of our hardware distribution and maintenance capture driven business process automation solutions.
business to a private equity firm and members of the business management team.
Under the terms of the sale agreement, the Our software allows businesses, government agencies and buyers agreed to pay gross consideration of $24.4 million with other organizations to design, deploy and operate $15.9 million paid at closing, $5.7 million to be paid one year comprehensive solutions that automate the conversion of paper from closing, with $2.0 million thereof subject to certain and electronic forms, documents and other communications indemnification terms and conditions, and the remaining $2.8 received from customers, suppliers, partners and employees million, including interest thereon at the rate of five percent per into digital information usable in enterprise software annum, to be paid 18 months from closing, with the payment of applications and repositories.
By automating what would all as yet unpaid amounts adequately secured.
otherwise be manual, labor intensive processes that are In May 2011, we acquired Atalasoft, a leading developer and expensive, time consuming tasks also prone to errors and poorly marketer of imaging software development toolkits SDKs, to utilizing valuable human resources, our software offers a more add internet browser based applications and portals to our accurate, timely and cost effective solution.
This in turn allows an capture onramp.
Atalasofts flagship product DotImage is the organization to improve its responsiveness, gain competitive number one SDK for document scanning, viewing, annotating advantage and enhance its regulatory compliance efforts.
As a and processing in Microsoft.
NET environments for traditional result of these benefits, many of our end user customers realize client server, portal and internet browser based applications.
Its a return on investment ROI in only 12 to 18 months.
customers include over 2,500 end users who license the SDK for We intend to accomplish our mission by: internal software development purposes, and system integrators and independent software vendors ISVs who use the SDK to 1.
Delivering organic revenue growth that meets or exceeds develop proprietary applications that they then resell to end capture market growth rates, users.
In both instances Atalasofts SDK significantly reduces a 2.
Controlling costs to meet or exceed our Adjusted EBITA customers development effort and costs.
This adds unique objectives and capabilities to Kofaxs product portfolio, strengthens our 3.
Augmenting our organic revenue growth and Adjusted EBITA competitive position and increases our addressable market.
with strategic acquisitions of complementary software The wide spread adoption of online applications provides companies and products that allow us to better serve the another way for information to enter an organization and needs of our customers and gain competitive advantage.
Atalasofts technology allows us to capture enable those Specific revenue growth strategies include leveraging our hybrid applications.
Using a mortgage application process as an go-to-market model to: example, most lenders allow prospective borrowers to apply for mortgages via traditional, paper based processes or online via 1.
Drive direct applications software sales by improving our portal and internet browser based applications.
Applicants using execution and productivity, the latter approach still have to provide paper copies of 2.
Drive indirect applications software channel sales by better documents evidencing their proof of identity, income and other enabling and adding to our partner ecosystem and supporting information to the lender for processing.
Capture enabling these web applications will allow applicants to easily 3.
Drive OEM POS sales by adding new products and partners.
scan those paper documents and submit all information We will also make on-going investments in research and electronically.
This will in turn eliminate the need to submit development in order to continually improve and add to our paper copies, accelerate the mortgage application process, existing product offerings, and over time prudently reallocate better serve customer needs and allow lenders to gain those expenditures to better focus on the important and rapidly competitive advantage.
growing ad hoc content capture segment.
This, combined with Kofax acquired all of Atalasofts stock for cash consideration of our acquisition strategy, will eventually expand our vision well $4.7 million paid at closing, $0.8 million to be paid one year from beyond the traditional capture market to encompass additional closing, subject to certain indemnification terms and conditions, growth opportunities.
and additional payments of up to $4.3 million which may be paid We made a great deal of progress in many of these areas during during the two and one half years from closing subject to the this last fiscal year and created a solid foundation for more achievement of specific annual revenue growth rates and EBITA aggressively pursuing our mission and strategies during the margins, the delivery of defined new product capabilities and current and future fiscal years.
the attainment of certain other management objectives.
Dividend Matters This transaction was consistent with our stated acquisition After careful consideration of the Companys future opportunities, strategy and better positions Kofax to further grow its share of the Board intends to maintain its policy of not paying a regular the important and rapidly growing ad hoc content capture dividend in order to invest in growing the Companys business.
segment of the capture market.
Our integration of Atalasoft was substantially completed by June 30, 2011 and its results to date As a result, no dividends were declared or paid during the fiscal have been consistent with or better than our original expectations.
Chief Executive Officers Review 5 Management & Board Changes Thank You There have been no changes in the Companys Executive Our performance is the direct result of the dedication and hard Management Team since we announced Kofaxs financial results work of our valued employees, indirect channel partners and for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. suppliers, and the continued support of our customers and shareholders.
I would like to use this opportunity to sincerely The Board continued to transform its composition with the thank all of these stakeholders for their on-going contributions appointment of Wade W. Loo as a Non Executive Director and to our success.
member of the Boards Audit Committee effective as of February 4, 2011.
Wade retired from KPMG during 2010 after working there for 30 years.
He was most recently the senior partner in charge of its audit practice in Northern California and leader of KPMGs Audit Committee Institute Roundtables and Audit Committee Chair Peer Exchanges in Silicon Valley.
He has a wealth of experience in working with emerging software and technology companies that are publicly held or in the process of Reynolds C. Bish affecting initial public offerings in the United States and major Chief Executive Officer public companies in international markets.
September 5, 2011 No other Board changes occurred during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011.
Initial Public Offering in the United States Subsequent to the fiscal year end, on September 1, 2011 Kofaxs Board of Directors confirmed management performing the preliminary work needed for the Company to eventually effect an initial public offering in the United States.
The Board noted that it has not set a specific timeframe for the offering, which will be subject to Kofaxs performance, financial market conditions and other relevant considerations, but its unlikely to occur during the current fiscal year.
The Board also noted that its intention would be to then maintain a dual listing on both a U. S. and the London Stock Exchange.
Our progress during this past year led to this decision.
While market conditions are not currently conducive to effecting such a transaction, we want to be in the position of having the flexibility to do so at the appropriate time.
As we become a more U. S. centric business, well need to access the leading financial market for global software companies in order to better pursue our organic revenue growth and acquisition strategies.
Outlook We experienced strong revenue growth during the first half of the past year but less during the second half.
We recognize that our performance can always be improved but Management and the Board are nonetheless pleased with the Companys overall progress.
Our pipeline of opportunities has continued to grow, we believe were well positioned to continue gaining market share and we remain confident in our business but we are cautious in our outlook.
While its difficult to provide precise guidance at the present time, during the current fiscal year we conservatively expect between eight and ten percent total revenue growth in U. S. dollars on a constant currency basis.
