6 Business overview Review by the Chief Executive The Group delivered another year of good growth.
Revenue from continuing operations grew by 25% to a record 745.3 million.
Our Counter-IED division generated Group results Operational highlights 207.4 million of order intake, up 16% on The Group delivered another year of good the previous year, of which 46.1 million Excellent performance from NIITEK, growth.
This was achieved despite the relates to the successful capture of the which grew by 24% and delivered a disruption within the US defence market contract to manufacture the MK7 MOD 2 further 77 ground penetrating radars caused by the extended Continuing Anti-Personnel Obstacle Breaching System for the Husky Mounted Detection Resolution position that delayed approval APOBS for the US Army and Marine Systems HMDS to the US Army of the US government budget until Corps.
Our Munitions division also had the middle of April 2011.
Revenue from Our Munitions business had a an excellent year, with an increase of continuing operations grew by 25% to tremendous year, with revenue up 42% in order intake to a new record of a record 745.3 million.
Approximately 104% to a new record of 237.0 million # 349.4 million, 244.3 million of which one third of this growth was organic, and growing demand for our products was awarded by Middle Eastern customers.
with strong contributions from both our from a variety of Middle East customers Our Countermeasures division, however, Counter-IED and Munitions operations.
saw a contraction of 29% in its order Acquisition of Chemring Detection There were excellent performances from Systems adds the US leader in chemical intake to 154.9 million, mainly driven NIITEK, which delivered a further 77 ground by budgetary control actions in the US, and biological threat detection and penetrating radars for the Husky Mounted particularly at Kilgore where our backlog brings advanced capability in the Detection Systems HMDS to the US Army levels are high.
Order intake in our stand-off detection of improvised for counter-IED operations, and from our Pyrotechnics division was also lower than explosive devices European ammunition prime contractors, expected, down 41% to 107.4 million, with Mecar and Simmel, which both substantially Our total expenditure on research UK and US customers deferring annual expanded their Middle East exports.
The and development grew by 74% to purchases as part of their austerity and Group revenue continued to be second-half 59.6 million, which represents 8% of fide cit reduction programmes.
weighted, with 415.5 million of revenue the total Group revenue 56% generated in the second six months The closing order book for the Group, Key information of the year, a little lower than the average therefore, reached 878.3 million, an phasing achieved over the last five years.
increase of 9% on the previous year, Year end order book although substantially lower than it was It was disappointing however that, as a at the time of our third quarter interim result of unexpected last-minute delays 878.3m management statement on 30 August 2011. in customer approvals of product lot Timing of orders from our Middle East acceptance, 37 million of revenue 9% customers and the impact on US orders associated with nished product Revenue from another year of Continuing Resolution manufactured in September and October budget management by the US government slipped out of the last week of October into were the principal contributors.
The 9% the first few months of the current financial 745.3m increase does, however, still provide a solid year.
The largest element of the delay 36% foundation for the growth expected in 2012. was associated with the final negotiation 25% on the 64 system HMDS contract awarded The composition of the order book changed Number of employees to NIITEK in January 2011.
All of the HMDS substantially during 2011, with a signi cant systems and spares had been manufactured shift to non-NATO customers.
Orders and were ready for delivery but negotiations 4,679 from NATO customers now make up only on the final contract pricing under open 58% of the order book, with the Middle book requirements took many months 9% East reaching 27%.
Order intake from UK longer than expected and were nally customers has been disappointing, and our Before non-underlying items see Note 6 # completed in November 2011, just after Organic growth at constant US dollar excludes UK order book dropped 30% to only 13% of growth from contracts and customers acquired the end of the financial year.
The revenue the Group total at the year end.
with Roke, Mecar and Chemring Detection Systems achieved in 2011 was, therefore, about 5% Our Counter-IED division had another lower than the Boards expectations.
excellent year, achieving a 46% increase in The order intake for the Group during the revenue to a record level of 167.6 million, year was 819.1 million, 1% lower than re ecting strong growth in various the previous year, re ecting a balance detection and disable sub-segments of between strong growth in two of our the markets.
NIITEK had an outstanding divisions and contraction in the other two.
year, increasing its revenue by 24% to Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 7 126.9 million, driven by high level of part of their fide cit control programmes.
one of our employees returns safely home demand for spares and support for the However, we did successfully capture at the end of every working day, and we 200 HMDS systems in service with the the competitive, multi-year contracts for continue to invest heavily in safety-related US and Canadian Armies on peacekeeping the improved submarine distress signals plant and equipment improvements to operations.
Chemring Ordnance also had a for both the UK and US Navy customers.
reduce the exposure of our employees to successful breakthrough into the defeat These will put us in a strong position to danger.
During the year, we spent more than part of the US counter-IED market by address the global market, where the demand 7 million speci cally targeted at further winning the multi-year competition for for diesel submarines continues to grow.
the manufacture of the APOBS for the The underlying operating margin achieved With the exception of the businesses US Army and Marine Corps.
This system is by the Group was 19%, lower than the 23% acquired in late 2010 and 2011, all Chemring designed to safely clear a footpath through achieved last year, and took the underlying sites are certi ed to the environmental anti-personnel mines and multi-strand wire operating pro t to 141.8 million, which management system ISO14001 and the obstacles.
Production under the contract, was 3% higher than the previous year.
health and safety management system which is worth up to $150 million over the Half of this change in margin is attributable OHSAS18001.
The outstanding sites are next four years, will start in the second half to recent acquisitions, which are generating scheduled for certi cation during 2012. of 2012. lower margins than the continuing In addition to this external validation and Our Munitions division also had a businesses.
The other half came from surveillance, we continue to use recognised tremendous year, with revenue up 104% margin deterioration in two of our divisions.
consultancies to support our audit to a new record of 237.0 million and The operating margin in the Counter-IED programme to test the compliance and growing demand for our products from division reduced to 19%, with Chemring quality of our systems.
a variety of Middle East customers.
Our Detection Systems contributing four I am pleased to report that we had no major two prime contract activities grew very months of post-acquisition revenue at 15% incidents in the year.
strongly, with sales of our ammunition for margin.
The largest reduction, however, Our lost time incident rate calculated Light Armoured Vehicles LAVs up 198% was generated at NIITEK, where the very using the US OSHA rules reported in to 158.2 million and our naval ammunition late cost auditing of the HMDS contracts the last Annual Report was 1.06 per 100 revenues up 122% to 20.4 million.
Our disallowed any gains from risk mitigation employees.
When the historical data for the prime contract business now represents and ef ciency performance.
Operating September 2010 acquisitions was included 75% of this division, compared to 53% in margins in our Countermeasures division the rate increased to 1.67, and we worked the previous year.
reduced to 23%, with Roke contributing a hard during the year to drive the rate full year of post-acquisition revenue at 10% Our Countermeasures division delivered downwards and closed at 1.32.
Eight of our margin and our expendable decoys business a steady performance, achieving a 3% sixteen businesses six last year reported providing a 27% margin.
This was a lower increase in revenue to 200.8 million, no lost days in the year, which is an margin than last year 2010: 30% because including the full year contribution from excellent achievement.
of lower decoy production volumes at Roke, which was acquired in 2010.
The Alloy Surfaces, in the US, and at Chemring The Board recognises that the highest expendable countermeasures revenues, Countermeasures, in the UK.
Operating levels of safety are required to protect however, dropped by 17%, with a 29% margins in the Pyrotechnics and Munitions our employees, our customers and the reduction in demand from our principal divisions were similar to last year at 23% general public.
We believe that all injuries customers for decoys used to protect and 17% respectively.
and incidents are preventable and we helicopter and transport aircraft, in will continue to strengthen our long-term anticipation of the planned withdrawal from Health and safety strategies to ensure that the Group Afghanistan in 2014.
Two upgraded naval It is with great regret and sadness that I improves its safety performance and countermeasure rounds completed their have to report that one of our employees, reduces risk.
development and quali cation programmes who was injured during the September 2010 during the year and production deliveries incident at our subsidiary Kilgore Flares in are expected to contribute to growth from Tennessee, was taken back into hospital 2012 onwards.
We have supported her and her family through very Our Pyrotechnics division generated revenue of 139.9 million, 18% lower than dif cult times and continue to extend our last year, with a large number of annual support and deepest sympathies to her family and friends.
orders placed at reduced volumes, or deferred completely, as European and As Chief Executive, I am fully aware of our US governments reduced expenditure as responsibility to ensure that every single Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 8 Business overview Review by the Chief Executive continued I would like to extend my personal thanks to all members of staff for their personal achievements and hard work during the year.
electronic systems design, development and strategic emphasis we continue to place Acquisitions integration.
In 2011, electronics contributed on product innovation.
Our long-term The Group made only one acquisition during 40% of the Group revenue, and this is partnership with Cran eld University the year.
In July 2011, the Group completed expected to grow to 50% over the next five continues to expand, and we now have the acquisition of the Detection Systems years.
These electronic capabilities are in sixteen programmes running across areas of operations and certain related assets of five niche areas: interest relevant to all four of our divisions.
General Dynamics Armament and Technical Products, a subsidiary of General Dynamics Initiation delays, sequencing and Roke now represents our largest Corporation, for a cash consideration of safety arming concentration of research and development $90 million 56 million.
expenditure, with around 50% of the total Detection radar and infra-red funding directed at electronic rather than The business, now renamed Chemring stand-off technologies energetic products and technology.
Detection Systems, Inc. CDS, is based in Electronic warfare interception of Charlotte, North Carolina.
It is a US leader Capital investment communications and electronic attack in chemical and biological threat detection Capital investment in the year grew by 19% and has advanced capability in the stand-off Electronic countermeasures active to 48.6 million, which represents nearly detection of improvised explosive devices.
jamming systems 7% of Group revenue.
19.7 million of the CDS is the incumbent supplier for two major Network protection legal intercept investment relates to the continuing build US military vehicle-mounted detection and anomaly detection of the new countermeasures manufacturing programmes: the Joint Biological Point facilities at Salisbury in the UK and at Lara Roke has become a strategic European Detection System JBPDS and the Joint in Australia.
The UK facility has not yet centre-of-excellence for product and Service Lightweight Stand-off Chemical been completed and has been delayed by technology development of electronic Agent Detector JSLSCAD.
In addition, technical issues with the safety critical systems.
It is heavily engaged in the system its products include a stand-off IED and software.
These have recently been engineering and software development of explosives detector and the Juno hand-held resolved, and initial production is scheduled our CENTURION countermeasure launcher: chemical detector.
Better progress has it is designing low-cost, active-jamming The acquisition substantially enhances been made on the facility in Australia, and technology for our air and naval expendable our Counter-IED business activities with the first locally manufactured ares were markets: and it has completed the design of leading-edge US technology for biological, produced in 2011.
Low rate initial production our new SPLINTER hand-held mine detector.
chemical and stand-off explosive detection.
is scheduled for March 2012, but it will take In 2011, Roke was given the Queens It provides a complementary capability at least another six months to work up to Award for Innovation for its RESOLVE to our existing subsidiaries, NIITEK and full volume manufacture.
modular, man-portable, electronic Chemring EOD, and will help us expand our A second principal area of investment warfare system for the exploitation and growing global market position.
was associated with the development suppression of hostile communication During the summer, we were in discussions of our Chemring Energetics facility in equipment.
RESOLVE is now in service with with a third party regarding a signi cant Scotland, where we spent 4.7 million the UK Ministry of Defence and a number acquisition that would have made a major on the completion of four facilities: of customers in the global export market.
impact to our market position.
However, the primary explosives facility for the Roke has produced and demonstrated a the restructuring required to deliver the manufacture of detonators and initiators: vehicle-mounted RESOLVE capability, and full bene t was considerable, and we the plastic explosives pressing facility for there is strong interest from Europe and the felt that the vendors valuation of the the manufacture of demolition stores: Middle East in vehicle-mounted surveillance business was too high.
Although we are no the Meccanite expansion facility for the systems for dedicated electronic longer pursuing this opportunity, the core manufacture of propellants: and the high surveillance applications.
strategy of the Group remains focused on explosive pressing facility for warhead organic growth that is augmented by small manufacture.
All of these facilities provide Research and development bolt-on acquisitions.
Our strategy for future growth continues to new manufacturing capabilities to the site and the capacity to meet the substantial rely on technology leadership and the rapid Electronics growth in revenue that is expected in development of new products that meet In line with the Groups strategy, electronics, the future.
the changing needs of our customers and including electronic countermeasures displace those of our competitors.
Our total and IED detection systems, is of growing Staff and employees expenditure on research and development importance across our four market At the end of 2011, the Group employed a grew by 74% to 59.6 million, which segments.
With the acquisition of Chemring total of 4,679 people, 396 9% higher than represents 8% of the total Group revenue.
Detection Systems and Roke, we have the previous year end, although 109 of them Internally-funded research and development signi cantly enhanced our capabilities in were associated with our latest acquisition, grew by 56% to 21.2 million, re ecting the Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 9 Chemring Detection Systems.
In addition, constitution of the FY2011 budget, and baseline, which equates to a base budget of the year end gure included a signi cant Continuing Resolution funding of the $517 billion.
If implemented, the US budget number of short-term contractors engaged US government continued all the way will reduce by 6% in FY2013 and then within our UK operations during the last through the first half of our financial year.
return to slow growth of a few per cent each quarter of the financial year.
Excluding This mechanism maintains the funding for year thereafter.
these contractors reduces the year-on-year the government employees but prohibits However, the 2011 Budget Control Act, growth to around 4%.
1,798 employees new programme starts or increases in passed in the US in August 2011, contains 38% are located within the UK and 2,047 funding compared to the previous year.
a sequestration clause that will employees 44% are located in the US.
The Pentagon was hesitant to release funds automatically reduce US defence spending for procurement until the full year budget I would like to extend my personal thanks by a further $54.7 billion per year and was known, as they were concerned about to all members of staff for their personal threatens to reduce the FY2013 base budget the number of programmes that would have achievements and hard work during the to $465 billion.
This will be very dif cult to to be adjusted.
The majority of our annual year.
The Board understands how important achieve without cancellation of important contracts were delayed into the second our employees are to the success of this major programmes and may lead to serious half of the year, reducing the opportunity fast-changing business.
cutbacks in all aspects of procurement.
for early deliveries from these contracts.
Although Congress has started to make Revenues from our US businesses were, Future prospects plans to repeal the sequestration clause, therefore, heavily second-half weighted Market conditions the President has threatened to veto and greatly increased the risk of slippage During 2011, the defence market faced any attempts by Congress to block into 2012. greater uncertainty than in previous the automatic spending cuts.
There is, years, with the Eurozone crisis and The US government started its 2012 therefore, considerable continuing European government fide cit reduction financial year with further Continuing uncertainty about the US market.
programmes continuing to have a Resolutions, and there was a real threat Non-NATO markets, on the other hand, negative impact on defence budgets.
that a twelve month Continuing Resolution remain buoyant with more attractive Most of our European customers continue might be adopted.
This would have had a economic growth rates and lower scal to delay their annual procurements by signi cant effect on the timing of annual fide cits.
The International Monetary six months, and are looking for reduced contract placement, resulting in a stronger 1 Fund forecasts that real Gross Domestic volumes of consumables to save money.
than usual second-half bias to our revenues, Product in India Asia will grow by 7.5%, The UK Ministry of Defence, in particular, and a risk that sales would slip past October Latin America by 3.9% and in the Middle has substantially reduced its procurement 2012.
However, in late December, the US East by 3.6%.
Defence spending in these of ares and decoys for the protection of FY2012 base defence budget was approved regions continues to strengthen and helicopters and transport aircraft.
at $520 billion, and the Overseas Contingent they represent a very attractive market Operations OCO budget, which funds The UK defence market continues to be for the Group.
Customers are looking to peacekeeping operations in Afghanistan, challenging, with a contracting budget, upgrade their products to near-NATO was set at $115 billion.
The funding contains signi cant changes to procurement standards, to develop local manufacturing, a substantial year-on-year reduction in structures, and substantial reductions and to eventually develop an indigenous expendable countermeasures that will in personnel.
The impact of last years design capability.
The Group is nding affect the Group, but this appears to be Strategic Defence & Security Review has considerable opportunities in all four of offset by opportunities in counter-IED gradually become clear but the structural our market segments, but the specialist and chemical biological threat detection, reforms proposed by Lord Levene are only capabilities that we have in direct re and by strong growth in important just starting to get underway.
Of particular ammunition, in particular, are proving to niche product areas, such as demolition importance to the defence industry is the be a signi cant attraction.
stores, pyrotechnics and medium restructuring of the acquisition organisation, Counter-IED calibre ammunition.
which may cause a signi cant disruption to Our HMDS ground penetrating radar the future procurement process whilst it is Details of the US FY2013 budget continues to operate successfully during being implemented.
A number of options for should be announced in February 2012. counter-IED operations in Afghanistan and reform have been submitted to Ministers but US Department of Defense guidance has has saved the lives of many US and coalition a decision is unlikely to be announced until focused on a base budget of $523 billion soldiers.
During 2011, NIITEK delivered the middle of 2012. and OCO funding of $83 billion, which is 77 HMDS systems to the US Army taking a 5% reduction on this year.
However, However, it is the US market that has been the number of systems supplied to over President Obama recently announced that far more challenging during the past year.
Negotiations with the US Army for a he was looking for $263 billion of cuts No agreement was reached between the multi-year sustainment contract, covering over the next five years against the FY2011 President and Congress on the size and systems, spares and support and potentially 1 World Economic Outlook, September 2011 published by the International Monetary Fund Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 10 Business overview Review by the Chief Executive continued The Board anticipates that organic growth will continue at a similar rate to that achieved in 2011. worth in excess of $500 million, has been generated, both within and outside NATO, and the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter JSF, will underway for many months, and the by our SABREX exible linear cutting dominate the market over the next ten to contract is expected to be received by the charge.
The global market for products fifteen year period.
A technical problem end of the second quarter.
This will support used to defeat the threat remains with the dispenser, manufactured by a the operation of the HMDS eet until steady at 300 million, and represents third party, has delayed volume production withdrawal from Afghanistan in 2015. an important area for future growth.
The of the Typhoon units, and we are still in award of the multi-year APOBS contract to low rate initial production with the JSF Good progress has also been made in Chemring Ordnance by the US Army was are set.
With the approval of the US developing the export market for HMDS.
a strong endorsement of the investment government, Chemring Australia has been Agreement has been reached with MBDA in technology and facilities.
Technology identi ed as a second source supplier for Italy to provide the Italian Army with a transfer of our next generation demolition JSF countermeasures and, after the US modi ed ground penetrating radar system stores to the US should help capture a Department of Defense quali es production to go on the Calife pushed trailer and the sizable share of the global market.
in Australia, will compete with Kilgore for a IVECO VTMM multi-role tactical vehicle.
share of the long-term production.
Full development will be completed in 2012 The order book for our Counter-IED division and production is expected in 2012 and was 127.1 million at the end of the year, Another major area of growth over the 2013.
The Australian Defence Force has 28% higher than the previous year.
next few years is naval countermeasures.
also selected HMDS for its counter-IED The growth has been driven by the APOBS These are designed to protect ships operations, and is looking to procure contract.
The HMDS multi-year sustainment against incoming missiles, particularly in systems through the US Foreign Military contract has taken many months to circumstances when rapidre gun systems Sales channels.
negotiate, and the delay is re ected in the cannot be used, such as in shallow water reducing order book.
The delayed timing next to other friendly vessels.
During 2011, The US Armys acquisition of a of the new contract will impact revenues the Group completed development of a next-generation IED detection system, at NIITEK in 2012.
However, revenue from range of new payloads to meet the changing involving more advanced multi-sensor Chemring Detection Systems will offset this threat and is now starting to manufacture technology and data fusion, will probably reduction, and overall, the Board expects these next generation products.
The Group take place in 2013, and they have con rmed good growth from this segment in 2012. has also purchased, from Lockheed Martin, that they expect to purchase in excess of the manufacturing assets and intellectual 500 systems over a five year period.
Countermeasures property for certain legacy US naval In Afghanistan, the total NATO deployment In 2012, the US Army will take the Milestone C rounds.
Our new designs and the detailed is still 130,000 troops.
However, coalition decision to start full rate production knowledge of current US in-service rounds forces have announced their intention to of the nuclear, biological and chemical will position us strongly for a new US Navy withdraw their troops by 2015, starting with reconnaissance vehicle Stryker Suite.
An procurement programme which will run a reduction of nearly 40,000 by the end of additional 100 vehicles will be built in 2012 from 2013 onwards.
In anticipation of this withdrawal and, and a further 50 in 2013.
This will boost under pressure from budget constraints, The Group has also made good progress demand for both the biological JBPDS most of our customers have cut back in the development of its new trainable and chemical detection systems JSLSCAD signi cantly on the purchase of ares launcher system, Centurion.
A series of supplied by our new subsidiary, Chemring and decoys needed for the protection land-based ring demonstrations were Detection Systems, and will generate good of helicopters and transport aircraft.
A successfully undertaken last year, and growth over the next few years.
combination of reductions in the volumes a fully operational prototype is now in The Group has also continued work on a ordered and delays in order placement is manufacture.
Discussions with the Royal customer-funded development programme quickly reducing the current stock piles.
Navy on sea trials are underway, and the for stand-off explosives detection.
Three Further reductions are anticipated in 2012, Italian Navy has recently expressed strong systems were manufactured and delivered which will take production on some decoys interest in undertaking an extended sea for early user testing during 2011.
Additional down to a minimum sustainable level.
trial of the system on one of their San work is expected in 2012 to continue early Antonio Landing Platform Dock vessels.
The major growth in expendable user testing, to complete a production Considerable interest has been shown by countermeasures over the next five years readiness phase of the current generation a number of US, Middle East, Far East and will, however, be associated with the system, and to work on a next generation South American customers.
supply of ares and countermeasures to system for vehicle-mounted applications protect fast jets.
These are principally The order book for our Countermeasures with on-the-move capability.
used in operations against sophisticated division decreased by 12% to 234.0 million The quali cation of our range of insensitive opponents, where war stocks need to be in during 2011.
Although this is normally a demolition stores is making good progress, place for high volume usage during intense reliable lead indicator of trends over the and considerable export interest has been battle conditions.
Two aircraft, Typhoon next twelve months, it does not take into Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 11 account the high level of backlog at Kilgore The Middle East and South America are also provided the foundation for negotiations in or the delays in order placement caused by growing markets for our 90mm, 105mm and a number of countries but interest is also the US governments Continuing Resolution 115mm ammunition.
In particular, the CMI high in our countermeasures, counter-IED funding.
Strong growth in deliveries of 90mm Mk8 gun is often tted to the LAVs and electronics technologies.
decoys for combat aircraft programmes prevalent in these regions, and offers the During 2011, we announced that we had are, therefore, expected to compensate for Group a substantial opportunity to develop reached agreement with the Hinduja Group the reduction in demand for those used on new customer relationships and markets.
to form a joint venture in India.
Initially, helicopters and transport aircraft, and a Discussions are also underway with the the focus has been on a marketing joint stable level of revenue can be expected for Brazilian government for the supply of venture, which will be pursuing a number of this segment.
90mm ammunition for the 400 new IVECO major opportunities during 2012.
However, LAVs which they are planning to acquire Pyrotechnics we expect to obtain Indian government over the next ten years.
There continues to be strong interest approval for a defence manufacturing joint in illuminating payloads for use in The Group is under contract with General venture in due course, which will address peacekeeping operations.
We have Dynamics Land Systems, Canada for the the full range of the Groups products and developed a family of white light and supply of vehicle-based 120mm mortar technologies.
Similar discussions with black light payloads for the full range of systems for sale under a US Foreign Military potential joint venture partners are taking mortar calibres, large calibre ammunition Sales programme.
System deliveries place in Saudi Arabia and Brazil, and the and for low signature, hand-held rockets will commence in 2012 and will involve Group expects to announce more detailed that can be used by individual soldiers.
production testing by the US Army during information later in the year.
These are all expected to enter into volume 2012 and 2013, using Mecar supplied Outlook manufacture during 2012 and 2013. ammunition.
New inspection requirements Over the next two years, the NATO market from the US government have delayed We have also completed the initial will face considerable uncertainties and the expected delivery programme and the development of a payload for the revenues will be constrained by government majority of deliveries are now scheduled replacement of white phosphorous in fide cit reduction actions.
Annual ammunition contracts are smoke screening payloads.
A 120mm markets, on the other hand, still offer good then expected.
spotting round has completed development growth prospects but the timescales for and will be quali ed by the US Army in 2012 The order book for the Munitions division successful implementation often take some for sale to Middle East customers under the grew by 39% to 371.7 million in 2011, with time.
Over the short term, therefore, the Foreign Military Sales programme.
strong growth in both the land and naval Board anticipates that organic growth will prime contract markets.
Growth in 2012 continue at a similar rate to that achieved The overall order book for the Pyrotechnics revenues is expected to be good, albeit at division reduced by 16% to 145.5 million, in 2011. a lower rate than would be implied by the with large reductions in the smoke, In the medium term, there are good increase in the opening order book.
illumination and training parts of the market.
opportunities in all four of our business However, the Pyrotechnics order book has Non-NATO growth segments.
The Group focuses on short a much shorter coverage, and the opening The Group sells to a wide variety of military term developments of products that order book does not adequately characterise customers in 80 countries around the match important and constantly changing the scale of in-for-out orders that make up world.
Over the last four years, revenues customer needs.
This agility and its wide the full year performance.
Lower demand from non-NATO customers have grown breadth of technology allows the Group to for training and aircraft safety products by 360% and now represent 29% of target a number of well-funded, specialist is expected in 2012 but further growth in the Group revenue.
Economic growth niches and growth in market share at the revenues for smoke, illumination and space and lower scal fide cits offer attractive expense of weaker competitors.
products means that revenues approaching markets for companies willing to quickly 2010 levels can be expected.
develop new products for their speci c Munitions needs, to establish local entities, transfer the technology for local manufacture, and The naval ammunition market continues to grow, principally driven by the number of develop over the long term the capability to incrementally upgrade products for 76mm guns tted to new naval ships.
There is considerable interest in our products from the future.
D J Price Middle East and South American customers.
Chief Executive We believe that we are well-positioned to A livering demonstration is planned in 24 January 2012 develop our non-NATO business to 40% Italy to demonstrate its capability against of Group revenue over the next five to ten pirate boats or fast attack craft to a number years.
Our niche ammunition products have of Middle East customers.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
