8231 2 Report 2011 71 to 106 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:48 Page 72 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW British Land had a strong year with excellent progress made across all areas of the business asset management, development and investment in line with our objective of delivering superior total shareholder returns.
17.7% TOTAL ACCOUNTING RETURN The strength of the Groups performance in the year reflects our focus on high-quality 180 bps and sustainable rental income streams: TOTAL PROPERTY RETURN investing in assets which protect and grow AHEAD OF THE IPD BENCHMARK capital value: creating incremental value through development, repositioning 256m assets and exploiting market anomalies: UNDERLYING PRE-TAX PROFIT controlling our costs: and exploiting our 9.9% AHEAD OF 2010 scale and financial strength.
See Chris Grigg talk about British Lands results for the year to 31 March 2011 at www.
com 72 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information Pages 71105 Pages 107131 Pages 133180 Pages 181184 8231 2 Report 2011 71 to 106 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:48 Page 73 Our total accounting returns were 17.7% for the year, remaining strong at 98.5% in the UK and 90.5% in Europe.
Although retail rental values across the market continued to fall during the year IPD down 0.6%, comprised of the dividend 5.2% and growth in Net Asset our rental values started growing again in the second quarter and were 0.7% Value per share 12.5%.
We continued to outperform the ahead for the full year.
This trend was mirrored in our letting activity with new market, delivering total property returns 180 bps ahead lettings agreed at 1.8% ahead of ERV for the year as a whole and 6.8% ahead in the second half.
In offices, successful letting of remaining vacant space at recently completed Underlying pre-tax profits at 256 million were 9.9% ahead of last year excluding developments combined with lease extensions at our Broadgate and Regents the effect of a 16 million provision release in 2009 10, with leasing activities Place estates, left our portfolio virtually full at 97.8%, a 5.2 percentage point and acquisitions more than offsetting the net income given up by disposals in increase on the previous year.
Office rental values rose by 7.7%, which compares 2009 10.
The value of our portfolio rose by 6.9% to 9.6 billion driving NAV per with growth of 2.1% for the IPD office benchmark, and reflects strong occupier share up 12.5% to 567 pence.
demand coupled with limited availability of modern prime space in Central London where our portfolio is focused.
Office leasing activity generated The strength of the Groups performance in the year reflects our focus on highadditional rental income of 8.4 million on an annualised basis and included quality and sustainable rental income streams: investing in assets which protect 270,000 sq ft of new lettings at 11.6% ahead of ERV.
and grow capital value: creating incremental value through development, repositioning assets and exploiting market anomalies: controlling our costs: The pace of our acquisition activity increased during the year and we bought and exploiting our scale and financial strength.
properties with a total value of 511 million British Land share 474 million.
The majority of these were in retail and ranged from a modern, prime 560,000 CREATING SUSTAINABLE AND GROWING RENTAL INCOME sq ft in-town shopping centre in Plymouth Drake Circus to an edge-of-town Our portfolio is focused on sectors and assets prime UK retail and Central development site in Luton.
We also added to our committed developments London offices generating high-quality sustainable rental income flows which by acquiring two West End sites just north of Oxford Street.
Acquisitions we believe will continue to benefit from strong occupational demand.
Despite contributed modestly to the years income but are expected to add 20 million weak economic growth and a further squeeze on consumer spending as the in annual rent in a full year, net of asset disposals.
Governments austerity measures started to bite, the quality and resilience of our portfolio meant that occupancy across our portfolio remained high and PROTECTING AND GROWING THE VALUE OF OUR PROPERTIES rental income continued to grow.
Like-for-like gross rental income was ahead By owning high-quality assets with robust underlying occupational and investor by 1.4% and was boosted further by contributions from the letting of recently demand, we also aim to ensure that we protect and grow the capital value of developed space, and acquisitions.
our portfolio over the medium to long term.
Investor appetite for prime assets was strong during the year, particularly in the London office market where the Rental values across our portfolio increased by 2.7%, significantly outperforming flow of international investment into the sector remained strong with London the IPD benchmark which increased by 0.1%.
This strong relative performance maintaining its position as a global financial centre.
reflected on-going occupier demand for high-quality space in the right locations.
Leasing activity across the portfolio generated additional gross rental income Our portfolio capital returns as measured by IPD were 7.3%, broadly evenly of 14.2 million on an annualised basis with rents agreed at 2.0% ahead of balanced across each of the quarters.
This compares with capital returns estimated rental values ERV.
of 4.9% for the IPD benchmark, with the 240 bps outperformance driven by our focus on sectors with strong relative rental performance and our asset In retail, the polarisation of performance between the best retail assets and management and development activities.
Our ERV growth was significantly others was strongly in evidence as retailers continued to focus their space on above the IPD average, and yield compression was 29 bps which was less a smaller number of larger stores in the better performing locations.
Our retail than the market average at 44 bps.
portfolio continues to be well positioned to benefit from this trend.
We saw good levels of demand for space on our schemes around the country with occupancy The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 73 8231 2 Report 2011 71 to 106 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:48 Page 74 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued CREATING INCREMENTAL VALUE THROUGH DEVELOPING, In the West End, our biggest development is at our Regents Place estate, where REPOSITIONING ASSETS AND EXPLOITING MARKET ANOMALIES we are building a 500,000 sq ft office-led development NEQ which will complete Over time, our aim is to create incremental value and enhance our returns the estate.
We are also redeveloping two buildings just north of Oxford Street through investing in assets where we believe we can generate above average one on the corner of Portman Square and the other opposite our Head Office in returns.
Our most significant investment in this respect is in our London Marble Arch.
This is an area which is undergoing significant regeneration with office development programme where we believe the combination of restricted rents expected to show strong increases over the coming years.
development finance and a growing shortage of quality space will underpin above average returns.
During the year, we started what currently is Central By the end of the year, we had building works underway at four of our six office Londons largest office development programme, committing to 1.6 billion sites with the first completion on track for late 2012.
We have been encouraged of developments British Land share 1.1 billion which will deliver 2.2 million by the level of interest from prospective occupiers both in the City and West End, sq ft of space into the market between 2012 and 2014.
Our programme, underlining the strength of demand for high-quality buildings and increasingly which is broadly balanced between the City and the West End and is primarily buildings which also score highly on sustainability.
focused on six high-quality office buildings, also includes some residential and associated retail and restaurant space.
As expected, we saw an increase in the volume of properties coming onto the market, with banks becoming more active in selling down distressed portfolios.
We are developing all of our three City office buildings alongside joint venture Competition for prime assets has been intense and we have tended to find partners, enabling us to spread our risk and increase our development more attractive opportunities in good secondary properties and assets requiring exposure to the West End market.
At our Broadgate estate, which we own a broad range of financing, risk management and asset management skills.
in a 50:50 partnership with the Blackstone Group, we were very pleased to be able to announce that we had reached an agreement with UBS to build them CONTROLLING OUR COSTS TO MAXIMISE OUR PROFIT GENERATION a new 700,000 sq ft office on the site of two existing buildings at Broadgate.
Controlling our costs so that we maximise the profit generation from our rental As our largest, as well as one of our most long-standing occupiers on the estate, activities and retain our cost competitiveness is a key focus for the business.
their decision to commit to Broadgate for another 18 years is a significant boost for the estate and the City of London.
After the year-end, we obtained resolution During the year, our net operating costs as a percentage of our gross rental to grant planning permission and subject to the outcome of a consultation income fell from 14.6% to 13.5%.
As a percentage of our gross assets, operating process, we expect to start on-site later in the year.
Also at Broadgate, we costs were 0.8%.
The reduction in our cost ratio was driven by lower void costs obtained planning permission for the major refurbishment of 199 Bishopsgate, as we let up the majority of our remaining vacant space in offices.
a 142,000 sq ft building on the north end of the estate scheduled for completion in 2012.
EXPLOITING OUR SCALE AND FINANCIAL STRENGTH Scale is becoming increasingly important in the sector, both in terms of the In December, we announced that we had created a joint venture with Oxford ability to secure long-term competitive funding and commit to large projects.
Properties a subsidiary of the major Canadian pension fund OMERS to develop The strength and quality of our properties and their rental income continue The Leadenhall Building in the City.
At 610,000 sq ft, the Leadenhall Building to underpin our ability to finance our business expansion on competitive terms.
combines both spectacular and sympathetic architectural design with highOur loan to value ratio remained comfortable at 24% on a Group basis and quality modern working environments.
We have seen good levels of interest 45% including our share of debt in joint ventures and funds.
from prospective occupiers and were delighted recently to be able to announce that we had agreed non-binding Heads of Terms with Aon Limited, a subsidiary Over the last 18 months, we have refinanced 1.1 billion of drawn and undrawn of the US insurance giant, Aon Corporation, to pre-let 191,000 sq ft of office facilities.
Two of our Tesco joint ventures were refinanced during the year space on the lower ten floors with an option to let a further 85,000 sq ft. with a total of 245 million of debt refinanced on rates which were overall lower than the maturing facilities.
Both of the joint ventures were also extended by a further ten years.
We recently completed the refinancing of 560 million of the Groups maturing facilities, increasing the amount of total facilities with maturities of over three years to 1.5 billion.
74 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information Pages 71105 Pages 107131 Pages 133180 Pages 181184 8231 2 Report 2011 71 to 106 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:48 Page 75 SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability is becoming an increasingly important part of our business.
Making sure we achieve high levels of efficiency and sustainability in all our buildings and developments is inherent in our brand and of increasing importance to both current and potential occupiers.
In 2011, we were given the Sustainability Achievement Award by Property Week for our work in reducing energy usage at our York House Head Office.
This is the second award for this pioneering piece of work following our success at the 2011 Chartered Institute of Building Services Engineers Awards in February.
In addition to recognition of individual projects, we also collected the Royal Town Planning Institutes Sustainable Communities Award for our on-going work and regeneration at Regents Place over the last 20 years.
OUTLOOK British Land has focused its business on those sectors of the UK property market where the underlying demand dynamics are expected to remain positive.
The business had a strong 2010 11 and is performing well.
In retail, our portfolio is well positioned to benefit as retailers concentrate on locations which are accessible and affordable and can be adapted to their future needs.
Our London office portfolio continues to benefit from the combination of strong investor demand for prime offices and a shortage of high-quality space: we expect our major London development programme to generate significant returns.
Therefore, while the economic recovery in the UK remains weak, we are optimistic about the prospects for the business and look to the future with confidence.
Chris Grigg Chief Executive The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 75
