Directors report | Overview | Chief executives report Chief executives report Strategic overview Hammersons business model Own prime properties in the best locations Ensure buildings are modern, well maintained and relevant for customers Maintain significant scale in key markets Retail property specialism to foster innovation Ensure venues are positively differentiated from competition Drive income growth through optimum tenant mix and high occupancy Our revised strategy will enhance the focus on income growth and We conducted a full review of our strategy.
efficiency, and therefore we anticipate being able to grow dividends We concluded that Hammerson should be a at a higher rate than in recent years.
We have leading positions in both the UK and French retail property markets, where we will increase our presence in successful locations We believe that this strategy will enable us to: through development or acquisition.
We will concentrate on regionally dominant shopping centres, convenient retail parks and premium generate superior returns designer outlet villages.
Our intention is to remain an active recycler deepen customer relationships of capital in order to secure opportunities to create higher returns capitalise on multi-channel opportunities for shareholders.
position Hammerson to exploit acquisitions Within our London office portfolio, we will continue to implement and developments our business plans to increase the value of our office assets and developments.
Our intention is to sell our standing office investments attract further JV investment over the medium-term to maximise value.
We have a small number of London office development projects and strategic mixed-use sites that For further details see pages 16 to 19 offer superior returns, where we will continue to allocate capital to increase the overall value of the projects.
Where appropriate, we will Strategy introduce funding or JV capital to fide-risk projects and reduce our In the latter part of 2011 we conducted a full review of our strategy overall commitment.
to assess the optimum allocation of capital and how we could best exploit our skills to generate attractive long-term returns for Maximising income from our portfolio shareholders.
We concluded that Hammerson should be a specialist 2 In 2011 we signed 355 leases in respect of over 100,000m, two retail REIT focused on successful properties in winning locations.
per cent above the estimated rental values.
Overall occupancy at the Retail assets already represent 89% of our portfolio, and have generated year end was 97.9%, compared to 97.3% at December 2010, and consistent growth in net rental income, providing a sustainable basis for despite a background of weakening consumer confidence in the year, capital appreciation.
Our standing office investments will be sold over retailer sales at our centres outperformed national benchmarks.
Total the medium-term to maximise value, with capital redeployed to retail like-for-like net rental income for the year increased 2.5% on 2010, assets, increasing our retail focus and scale.
Our aim is to be the best with the UK retail portfolio generating 4.6% growth.
owner-manager and developer of retail property within Europe.
We introduced a number of innovative new retail formats in 2011.
We believe that this strategy will enable us to: In France, we brought Burberrys flagship Parisian store to 54-60 rue du Faubourg Saint-Honor, and the first PSG Paris Saint Germain generate superior returns through increased scale as we reduce costs, mall boutique to OParinor, Paris.
In the UK we brought the first European leverage our operating platform and grow income streams Locker Room store to Brent Cross, London, and Boxpark to The deepen retailer relationships and lead the industry in capitalising on Goodsyard, London, which uses shipping containers as retail units to multi-channel opportunities bring new brands to the Shoreditch area.
place Hammerson in a stronger position to exploit retail acquisition and development opportunities Catering and leisure form an increasingly important part of our offer to attract further JV capital requiring specialist retail asset management consumers.
We launched a new restaurant quarter, Spiceal Street, at skills, allowing us to recycle capital into higher-return assets Bullring, introducing three new restaurant brands set around St Martins Square and the iconic Selfridges building.
At Les Terrasses du Port, our major retail and leisure development in Marseille, we have signed the 2 Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 Overview Business & financial review Governance Financial statements Property portfolio Other information Directors report | Overview | Chief executives report Strategic focus Case studies For more information go to: Enhance key customer relationships Forever 21 Page 8 International trends Primark Page 9 CRM investments Coordinated leasing Address multi-channel growth Social media Page 10 Click & Collect trends House of Fraser.
com Page 11 Transfer of online formats to physical Create the best experience Spiceal Street Page 12 Customer appeal Exceptional places Page 13 Maintain loyalty Left: Spiceal Street, Bullring, Birmingham Right: Italie2, Paris luxury Parisian caterer Hediard, and at WestQuay we opened the We have identified and are progressing several extensions and first Toby Carvery Express, a new grab and go concept for Mitchells redevelopments within our portfolio where we know the local and Butlers.
We are looking to increase further footfall and dwell times catchment and tenant requirements well.
These projects show strong by introducing cinemas to a number of our properties in both the returns and have an aggregate cost of around 320 million.
The majority UK and France.
of these projects will complete over the next two years.
2 Planning consents were secured for over 250,000m in 2011 for both We continue to work with our customers to anticipate and respond to retail and office schemes, and we signed development agreements with changing trends in multi-channel retailing.
We opened the UKs first UK local authorities for retail schemes in Sheffield and Didcot.
com at Union Square, Aberdeen, and the first pop-up recently submitted a planning application for a major extension to the Boden store at The Oracle, Reading.
Looking forward, we are launching Centrale shopping centre in Croydon, which we acquired in the year, mobile websites and apps for shopping centres, and investigating ways and have received encouraging support from prospective retailers for of providing free wi-fi coverage throughout our entire portfolio, to Le Jeu fide Paume, our proposed scheme in Beauvais, north of Paris.
ensure continuing accessibility and attractiveness for consumers.
Enhancing our high quality portfolio We are committed to enhancing returns by disposing of mature assets and reinvesting in acquisition, development or asset management opportunities where we can use our property skills and customer David Atkins relationships to add value.
In 2011 we invested 374 million acquiring Chief Executive assets in both the UK and France, securing income producing properties with asset management potential.
Over the same period we raised 272 million from disposals.
We completed the redevelopment of 54-60 rue du Faubourg Saint-Honor, which was valued at 52 million above cost, and are making good progress on site at Les Terrasses du Port, Marseille, where 64% of the income is now secured and we are on schedule to open in the spring of 2014.
