CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Strategy update HIGHLIGHTS The Groups strategy continues to beunderpinned by three investment Group order intake priorities.
These are a continuation increased 16% at ofinvestment in technologies in constanttranslation selectedfaster growing markets, exchange rates including prioritising investment Excellence in Delivery wherethis brings more balance between programme realised the Groups defence security and 25mof year-on-year commercial markets.
Secondly, achieving efficiency savings excellence in operations: and thirdly Underlying EPS focusing the Groups portfolio of increasedby 13% at businesses on markets where Cobham constant translation has scale and differentiation.
exchange rates ANDY STEVENS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Technology investment Cobham has a unique set of differentiated technologies with Overview of the year QantasLink contract and a 45m leadingpositions in all its core markets.
The core businesses, which excludes contract to a Cobham joint venture to Ithas invested to maintain and build Analytic Solutions which has now been provide helicopter air reconnaissance onthese positions, with a view to divested and other smaller businesses yet capability to the Dutch Caribbean generating revenue over a sustained to be divested, achieved modest organic Coastguard.
Examples of this investment revenue growth of 0.3% in theyear driven include next generation wireless video by a good performance fromMission Further progress has been made in 2012, links which have numerous airborne Systems and the Aviation Services with a further significant award on andground security applications, early business.
Revenue from both commercial theKC-46 tanker programme for the threatdetection on oil and gas wells and rest of the world defence security supply of body fuel tanks, with an initial andbroadcast applications, including markets, representing 56% of core engineering order received and other forthe 2012 Olympics.
In addition, business revenue, grew strongly.
Cobham has developed an improved anticipated, revenue growthwas oxygen generation system for use in constrained by continued uncertainty Overall, US defence security revenuein field hospitals and next generation inthe US defence securitymarket.
the core businesses was down 7%, in a ORDER BOOK Active Electronically Scanned Array year when US Department of Defense radar subsystems, which provide Group order intake in the year increased investment outlays declined 10%.
2.5bn significantly improved performance 16% at constant translation exchange Encouragingly, non US defence security 2010: 2.5bn andreliability.
rates with the book-to-bill ratio at 1.10 revenue increased 5% driven byair times.
At the year end, the Group order refuelling and electronic subsystems Cobhams PV investment is focused book was 2.5bn 2010: 2.5bn, which exports following significant onspecific areas of customer demand, isan increase of 7% on the prior year investments in PV and the development and this approach generates an excellent ona constant translation exchange of customer relationships.
Commercial return onthe investment made.
For ratebasis and excluding the impact revenue increased 10%, benefiting from example, theGroup has over several ofacquisitions and divestments.
increased flying activityfor Australian years invested US$14m in PV on resource industry customers, increased itsRadio andAudio Integration The Group received some very Boeing and Airbusproduction and Management System, which has already important multi-year orders during revenue from thesale of SATCOM wonsole source positions on some 2011in all of its key markets.
These antennas to a range of aerospace and keycommercial aircraft programmes.
include the initial orders for engineering marine customers.
Thesepositions are currently estimated and manufacturing development on to generate Cobham some US$250m theUS KC-46A aerial refuelling tanker The Group underlying trading margin ofrevenue over the products life, totalling US$73m and orders for the increased by 1.4% points to 19.7% and whichdoes notinclude potential future Brazilian KC-390 aerial refuelling tanker underlying EPS increased by 13% at awards onother commercial and or totalling US$72m.
Other significant constant translation exchange rates, militaryaircraft.
orders included a US$40m order from driven by the Excellence in Delivery Inmarsatto be the maritime terminal programme and other cost savings.
Operational excellence launch partner on its Global Xpress The150m share buy-back programme, The Group is delighted with the progress broadband service, a significant completed in November, increased being made on Excellence in Delivery, AUD$500m extension of the Australian EPSby 3%.
Cobhams transformation programme, Business overview Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 7 INNOVATION Cobham has been supplying tactical video links to US and other militaries for decades, for both aerial and ground unmanned vehicles for applications that include Counter-Improvised Explosive Device C-IED.
The technology is also used in applications ranging from TV broadcast of NFL games, to police helicopter surveillance for Super Bowl XLI held in Miami, Florida and the golf Ryder Cup held in Wales.
which was announced in August 2010 costof 46m.
Cumulative gross costs Inaddition, the Excellence in Delivery and is planned to continue to the end incurredon the programme to the end ACQUISITION programme gives Cobham an of2013.
There are three components of the yearwere62m.
INVESTMENT enhancedcapability to more efficiently tothis programme: the implementation integrate acquisitions and generate ofaStandard Operating Framework Building on the considerable financial US$280m costsynergies from them.
Cobham acrossaset of principal locations, the and operational success of the remains determined only to undertake integration of smaller manufacturing programme, the Group intends to strategically attractive transactions facilities into these principal locations expand the scope of Excellence in where these satisfy its financial criteria and the implementation of an ERP IT Delivery, including additional scope and disciplined investment approach.
Theprogramme is bringing forsupply chain improvements, with anumber ofsignificant operational phasing such that significant additional Consistent with its strategy, Cobham has benefits including improved benefits will be seen in 2013.
As a result, invested up to US$280m on acquisitions productivity, shortened manufacturing the Group now estimates that the run before working capital adjustments in lead times, improved levels of quality rate of efficiency savings at the end of 2011, with the performance of these and .
2013 will increase from 65m to 75m, acquisitions in the year accretive to atan unchanged total cost of 131m.
During 2011, improvements to the production operations in 10 principal In 2012, work will continue to Cobham has continued to make sites were progressively implemented consolidate and reinforce the goodprogress in its strategy to focus with the remaining sites to be production process improvements in onmarkets where it has scale and undertaken in 2012.
The planned theprincipal locations along with further differentiation.
To this end and as physical integrations are also starting work on engineering and supply chain previously announced, Cobham todeliver efficiencies with nine site processes.
Design of the ERP system completed the planned divestment integrations completed.
Work willbe completed and four more site ofthe non-core Analytic Solutions wasstarted on the design of thenew integrations will be undertaken to build business in November 2011 for ERP system.
In production operations, further scale and deliver additional US$350m.
Good progress is also the benefits from the workdone are benefits.
Bythe end of 2012, a further beingmade on the divestment of being reflected in improved operational 8m of annualised, year-on-year theremaining non-core businesses, performance metrics such as on time efficiency savings are expected to be with Cobham MAL Limited having delivery, firstpass quality and achieved, with the programme benefits beendivested in December2011.
productivity and production lead and costs remaining in line with the timeimprovements.
The programme also achieved excellent Portfolio optimisation financial results in 2011 realising Cobham continues to have a robust 25mofannualised year-on-year balance sheet, good cash generation efficiency savings, ahead of the 21m and a pipeline of attractive technology savings planned.
These savings were acquisitions, with focus maintained on achieved at a cost in the year of 39m, existing markets, enabling it to build Andy Stevens, Chief Executive Officer well below the previously expected further scale and capabilities.
6 March 2012 Business overview 8 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
