Chief Executives statement Francis Salway, Chief Executive With the commercial property market continuing to recover, we are benefiting from having been the first to restart major development activity.
Our decisive action has already delivered tangible returns for shareholders.
Overview Pre-tax profit for the year, which includes the valuation surplus, was up This was a year of continued recovery in our market and strong progress 14.8% at 1,227.3m 2010: 1,069.3m.
Revenue profit our measure by Land Securities.
We led the industry in restarting development of recurring income profit was up 9.1% at 274.7m 2010: 251.8m.
activity and maintained a disciplined approach to acquisitions and With this increase in underlying earnings, we are recommending an disposals.
Our asset management initiatives gained signi cant pace increase in the fourth quarters dividend from 7.0p to 7.2p per share, as the year progressed.
and we anticipate this increased level of dividend being maintained At the end of an energetic 12 months, I can report that the in the first three quarters of the 2011 12 financial year.
Our portfolio Group has built strong momentum behind its plans for growth.
also outperformed the IPD Quarterly Universe by a wide margin, While our two core markets are developing at different speeds, we are delivering an ungeared total property return of 16.8% compared to well placed to address the opportunities we see ahead in both areas.
In London, we are developing schemes to meet an anticipated undersupply of new of ce oor space.
In Retail, our focus covers both a small London development number of development projects that are grounded on pre-lettings, and It is fair to say our industry is still changing gear, from the development the recycling of capital through purchases and sales to ensure that our standstill we saw in the depths of the downturn to the signi cant portfolio is well matched to emerging patterns of demand from retailers.
construction work now required to meet future demand for new To set the context for our performance, the sharp bounce back accommodation.
While the change in outlook has been swift, we were in property values we saw in the 2009 10 financial year evolved into a quick to respond, with our assessment of future dynamics in London and more moderate pace of growth for the market as a whole in 2010 11. attractive construction costs giving us the confidence to be first to start In line with my outlook in last years results, we may continue to see on major development in January 2010.
This early mover advantage has ripples in prices, but we remain confident that our markets are in already generated material benets, enabling us to realise anticipated recovery mode and we see particularly strong growth prospects in profits from our mixed-use scheme at Park House in Oxford Street, London over the next few years.
We benefit from the fact that W1 through an early sale.
This recycling of capital has enabled us to geographically we have 43% of assets in central London of ces and bring forward other development projects more quickly.
61% in Greater London as a whole.
During the year we further demonstrated our sector leading Allied to the improving market conditions, we created skills in mixed-use development with the successful opening of One significant additional value from our asset management and New Change, EC4.
The centre offers the most ambitious mix of retail development activities.
As a result, our portfolio increased in value and ofces of any recent project undertaken in London and has by 9.7% and, within this overall gure, developments delivered attracted significant occupier interest.
These valuation increases, together Levels of take-up across the London ofce market as a whole with balance sheet gearing, generated growth in adjusted diluted have been slightly ahead of our expectations.
This has reinforced our view NAV per share of 19.5%.
that there will be an acute shortage of new buildings in London from the middle of 2012.
In response to this opportunity, we have brought forward Investment portfolio performance relative to IPD Chart 15 a number of projects including refurbishments at 123 Victoria Street, SW1 and 110 Cannon Street, EC4, for delivery in 2012.
Ungeared total return 12 months ended 31 March 2011 16.0 Retail development 1 London office 18.1 As with London ofces, major retail development activity came to a standstill through the downturn.
For this reason, 2012 is expected to 32.3 Central London retail be the first year in 40 years that sees no major new shopping centre 20.0 development being completed in the UK.
The first major development 16.9 2 2 Retail warehouses due for completion after 2012 is our 75,900m Trinity Leeds scheme, 11.3 which we chose to restart in summer 2010.
It represents the single 14.7 Shopping centres largest retail development commitment in the UK by a REIT since 12.9 the financial downturn.
16.8 1 We secured pre-lettings of over 40% before restarting Total portfolio 11.3 construction on Trinity Leeds, so that we were effectively investing in Leeds shoulder to shoulder with a number of key retailers.
Con dence Land Securities IPD Quarterly Universe in Leeds as a trading location, together with our excellent relationships 1.
Land Securities total return higher by 0.9% for London ofces and 0.5% for total portfolio if adjusted for capital extracted from Queen Annes Gate, SW1 through bond issue.
with retailers, means we have now let or agreed terms for 58% of the 2.
Includes food stores for Land Securities.
32 Land Securities Annual Report 2011 Report of the Directors Chief Executives statement Timing of development completions Chart 16 During the year we also committed to start a small retail development in Buchanan Street, Glasgow.
We acquired the site in December 2009 Calendar year Total development cost m from an administrator and, again, succeeded in securing signi cant 150 300 450 600 750 900 pre-lettings before starting construction.
We have now let 69% of the 2011 retail space by income.
2012 Our major retail developments have also been supplemented by Cannon Street 123 Victoria Street a range of smaller projects at existing shopping centres and retail parks, 2013 Buchanan Street Trinity Leeds 62 Buckingham Gate 30 Old Bailey 60 Ludgate Hill which have both improved the retail mix for shoppers and boosted the 2014 value of the assets.
20 Fenchurch Street Garratt Lane, Wandsworth Acquisitions and disposals Development programme Development pipeline Early in 2010 we identied that good development opportunities in the best locations were likely to generate higher returns than acquisitions, in this is evidence of the strong culture within the Company.
Our annual so our priority has been to bring forward large development projects.
employee survey underlines that morale is high, with 2010 seeing the Nevertheless, we did nd certain attractive investment opportunities highest employee satisfaction scores since we started the survey in 2005. during the year, notably the shopping centres at the O2 Centre, NW3: Westgate Centre, Oxford 50% : and Overgate, Dundee.
We invested Outlook 294.3m in these three assets.
We are in no rush to buy and will be We are heartened that many large corporate occupiers who strengthened selective about the assets we acquire over the next 12 months.
their balance sheets materially during the financial downturn are now In addition to the sale of Park House in London, major disposals looking to where they can invest and where they can grow their businesses during the year included Christs Lane, a prime high street asset recently over the next two to four years.
Ultimately, this focus on investment and developed by us in Cambridge, and the Stratford shopping centre in growth will convert into requirements for accommodation.
In these cases, we saw limited opportunity for further growth It is now also evident that the availability of newly developed and so crystallised the added value our development and asset oorspace, in both the London ofce and retail markets, is likely to be at management expertise had already delivered.
extremely low levels by mid 2012.
We are therefore confident that our development projects initiated in 2010 and to be delivered from mid 2012 Actions to drive earnings growth will meet with considerable success.
In the aftermath of the economic downturn, rents payable under leases Consistent with our view last year, we expect the strongest rental remain, in broad terms, above the level of todays market rental values.
value growth to occur for London ofces and we continue to believe that This means that we cannot look to the rent review process to be a major the best way to capture this is by undertaking speculative development driver of earnings in the immediate future.
Instead, it is our own projects in the best locations in London.
This will play to our strengths, activities and actions that will drive growth in earnings.
To achieve and we will continue to enhance returns from our development activity in this, we have been focusing on four key activities.
London with residential development where appropriate.
Our portfolio First, we are aiming to deliver new development projects at will remain weighted towards the capital for some time, as we focus on a rental income yield materially ahead of our cost of finance.
Here, addressing the low point in the supply of new ofces expected from 2012. we are able to use our balance sheet strength to finance higher yielding In retail, the pressures on disposable income for consumers are development projects at a time when project speci c development well documented.
However, while vacancy rates in high streets and finance is generally not available.
smaller towns across the country have remained at high levels, vacancy Second, we are making sites productive that were left dormant rates in good quality shopping malls that are dominant in their region during the downturn, as demonstrated by the very successful sale of have come down and are moving closer to normal levels.
differentiation between shopping locations is likely to continue, and so we Third, we are continuing to reduce vacancy levels across the will continue to rene the composition of our Retail Portfolio through new portfolio.
Voids on our like-for-like London ofces were at 3.7% at the development, where we can achieve significant pre-lettings, and through year end, down from 4.9% in March 2010.
Like-for-like retail voids selective purchases and sales.
were at 4.9% at the year end, down from 6.1% in March 2010.
In terms of the property investment market, we have seen some Fourth, we made acquisitions that have a higher income yield disposals of assets by banks and we expect this to gather momentum.
In the last year we bought 407m of assets at To date, disposals have been met with strong levels of investor interest and a yield of 5.2% and we sold 687m of property at a yield of 3.0%.
values have continued to move up at a modest but positive rate.
We are encouraged by the volumes of capital available for investment in UK Sustainability and community property at the present time.
We continue to work closely with customers and communities in the We go into a new financial year confident in our plans and well area of sustainability.
Our development activity at One New Change, positioned to address growth opportunities.
Our strong balance sheet, access EC4 demonstrates the level of commitment in this area, with our to capital, excellent occupier relationships and property skills equip us to engineering teams setting new standards for the way our industry create value in this market.
By restarting development first we have signalled designs buildings.
Underneath the property we have installed Europes our ambition to stand apart in the industry.
Now we are focused on turning largest ground sourced heating and cooling system.
60km of pipework this early mover advantage into strong and tangible returns for shareholders.
warms and cools the building in a highly environmentally friendly way.
We believe this system will reduce carbon emissions by at least 10% and could save 300,000 on energy bills a year.
We hold a strong belief that our assets should be a part of, not apart from, the local community, and this year we continued to encourage Francis Salway our people to contribute to local community activities.
Their engagement Chief Executive Land Securities Annual Report 2011 33
