08 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT In 2011, we delivered a strong performance, outperforming the markets in which we operate Our performance is the result of Jerry Buhlmann the delivery of our Chief Executive Officer, Aegis Group plc focused strategy 2011 was a year of significant progress for Aegis, from both a strategic and an operational performance perspective.
We are now well placed to build on the significant momentum the business is already demonstrating.
Strategically, the year saw a major structural development in the composition of the Group as we became a focused media and digital communications group, following the sale of the market research business, Synovate, in October 2011.
Operationally, we delivered a strong performance, outperforming the markets in which we operate, in spite of the fact that several of them were impacted by challenging macro-economic Momentum built up in 2011 conditions.
Aegis Media produced sector-leading organic growth, has continued, and we are margin progression and a record-equaling year in net new therefore optimistic about business wins of $2.7 billion.
This was delivered by a clear and Aegiss prospects for 2012 well implemented strategy, creating positive momentum across our five global network brands within Aegis Media.
An improved performance from Aztec, the retail data scan business, supporting Aegis Media, led to a strong set of financial results for 2011.
09 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Our 2011 performance is the result of the delivery of our focused Successfully delivering on our strategic objectives strategy.
This strategy has delivered unrivalled exposure to In 2011, we successfully delivered on the key metrics by which media and digital, which now contributes 35% of Aegis Medias we measure our performance against these strategic objectives.
revenue 2010: 32%, with consistently increasing revenue Aegis Media: contribution from faster growing regions and North America, which together now generate 50% of Aegis Medias revenue Broadened our exposure to faster-growing regions to 2010: 43%.
a sector-leading 34%, from 26% in 2010 The momentum achieved last year continues into 2012 with our Increased the proportion of our revenues from digital to appointment as the global media strategic partner for General a sector-leading 35%, from 32% in 2010 Motors Co. the most significant new business win in Aegiss Grew the proportion of our revenues from international history.
Following the GM appointment, which carries an clients to 33%, from 32% in 2010 anticipated annual global media spend of $3 billion, and our achievements in 2011, we expect 2012 to be another successful Outperformed our peer group in terms of organic revenue year for Aegis.
We expect to deliver continued sector-leading growth, with Aegis Media delivering organic revenue growth organic revenue growth which we expect to convert into further of 9.8% in 2011, compared to the peer group average of 5.8% margin progression and earnings enhancement for our Continued to improve margins, with Aegis Medias operating shareholders over time.
margin increasing to 19.5%, a 90 basis point improvement Aegis Media uniquely positioned for convergent media from 2010. environment Our 2011 performance demonstrates the demonstrated by strong financial results in 2011 success of Aegiss focus as a scaled media and digital communications specialist, in the context of a rapidly evolving The delivery of a strong set of financial results in 2011 was the and increasingly complex advertising environment.
This focus, direct consequence of our progress against these and other supported by global coverage, enables us to help our clients to key metrics.
re-invent the way their brands are built.
Revenue for the Group in 2011 was 1,135.0m, up 20.6% at To reflect the requirements of our clients, our five global network reported rates and up 19.6% at constant currency.
brands of Carat, Vizeum, Posterscope, Isobar and iProspect Organic revenue growth for the year was 9.9% for the Group, operate through one P&L and one operating model per country mainly as a result of strong top line growth from our businesses with a full range of integrated, and specialist, services.
in faster-growing regions and North America.
Aegis Media Our approach is unique in the sector and is supported by delivered organic revenue growth of 9.8% for the year, and market-leading insight tools and a fully embedded Aztec produced 11.3% organic revenue growth.
communications planning process, all of which aim to fulfil the Group underlying operating profit was 197.4m, an increase following strategic objectives: of 30.6% from the prior year at reported rates, and 29.4% at Increase our exposure to faster-growing regions constant currency.
The Group achieved an increase in underlying operating margin of 130 basis points at reported rates and at Grow our digital profile and capability constant currency to 17.4% during 2011.
Broaden our service offering across all of our clients Grow our international client and new business profile Strengthen our leading position in the top 20 markets, in particular China and the US.
Quarter Half Year Full Year Group Q111 Q211 Q311 Q411 H111 H211 FY11 Organic revenue change % 10.1 6.1 11.2 12.0 7.8 11.7 9.9 All references to Group in this report relate to the Retained Group, which comprises Aegis Media, Aztec and the corporate centre BUSINESS REVIEW 10 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT continued This margin improvement was assisted by our continued focus In 2011, we spent around 75m in initial consideration on 18 on top line growth and cost control.
Whilst the business does small to medium-sized bolt-on acquisitions and investments demonstrate some elements of scalability, cost initiatives are in a range of different territories.
These included MediaVest essential to mitigate on-going staff cost pressure, principally Manchester Ltd in the UK, Master Ad LLC and Ad Oclock LLC driven by industry salary inflation and high employee turnover in Russia, Clickthinking Online Pty Ltd in South Africa, ICUC in some of the faster-growing regions.
In addition, we are Social Media Moderation and Riber Sports Marketing Group Inc continuing to increase our headcount in North America, in North America, Filefix Co Ltd in Japan, pjure in Austria, following our strong new business performance in this region Creative Media Services UAB in Lithuania and investments in over the last 18 months.
Group overheads increased by 18.2% at Qualit Search Marketing in Norway as well as TigerSpike Pty constant currency during the year, with increases in underlying Limited in Australia and Doosra in India.
headcount, excluding the addition of employees brought into the Our focus on acquisitions continues in 2012.
Earlier this month, business via acquisition, of 12.1%.
we completed the acquisition of Roundarch, a leading digital Underlying fully diluted earnings per share, on a pro forma basis agency in the US, for an initial consideration of $125m.
This to take account of last years share consolidation, increased by acquisition strengthens our digital capability in North America 24.4% at reported rates and 23.0% at constant currency, to 10.7p and, as a result, will move Aegis Medias digital revenue from 8.6p in the prior year.
This increase in earnings per share exposure towards 40%.
was supported by a reduction in our underlying effective tax rate Aegiss acquisition strategy continues to be supported by a in 2011. strong pipeline of potential targets, across a diverse range of A strong balance sheet position geographies and product offerings which, combined with our proven track record of integration, will help to support us in Our balance sheet position remains strong and we ended the delivering on our strategic objectives in the future.
year comfortably within our financial covenants, with undrawn available credit facilities totalling 450.0m.
Following an excellent start to 2012, we expect further performance progression So far in 2012, our clients have Our cash position in the fourth quarter of 2011 improved continued to spend on marketing and advertising their products following the sale of Synovate for an enterprise value of 525m.
and brands, as they seek to gain market share and strengthen After a return of capital to shareholders of around 200m via their market positions.
We expect this trend to continue, helping a special dividend in November 2011, and following continued to support the momentum of our business, which built up during acquisition spend during the second half, net debt was 128.4m 2011 with a record-equalling net new business performance at the end of the year.
This was an improved position from last year.
393.3m at the end of the first half of 2011 and from 331.3m at the end of 2010, mainly as a result of the receipt of the Synovate This momentum has gained further traction in 2012 with our sale proceeds.
appointment as the global strategic media partner for General Motors Co. announced in January.
This contract, the largest enables a continued focus on targeted acquisitions ever single media agency consolidation by a major global The consequence of the strengthening of our balance sheet advertiser, is a landmark achievement for Aegis, demonstrating over the last two years has been a renewed focus on making our ability to deliver integrated and specialist media and digital acquisitions to support our growth strategy.
This focus will communications services on a global scale.
continue and we expect to make further acquisitions which provide As a result, and following a strong start to the year by the Group, scale, in-fill and innovation, with a specific emphasis on faster we are optimistic about Aegiss prospects for 2012.
Despite growing regions, North America, and on digital businesses.
All continuing limited short term visibility and on-going macroacquisition targets will continue to be evaluated against a range of economic concerns, we expect to deliver continued strategic and investment criteria, with a view to providing top line sector-leading organic revenue growth in 2012. growth, margin improvement and clear synergies.
Based on our expectations for organic revenue growth this year, and supported by the Groups continued momentum, we expect underlying operating profit to improve further in 2012.
11 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Our people Finally, I would like to thank all our clients and our people.
Our clients have been very supportive, giving us the confidence to deliver a market-leading product to assist them in making the most of the opportunities available in the rapidly-changing global advertising market.
Our people have shown dedication and loyalty, ultimately the key to ensuring that 2011 was such a successful year for Aegis.
Their continued support is vital to the future success of the Group and is greatly appreciated by the Board and the management team.
We enter 2012 with a strong set of supportive international clients, the best talent in the market and an energised organisation focused on delivering great work for our clients and a strong performance for our shareholders.
Jerry Buhlmann Chief Executive Officer, Aegis Group plc BUSINESS REVIEW
