PERFORMANCE REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW W WE E D DEL ELIVE IVERED RE STRONG OPERA OPERAT TIING NG RESU R LTS FOR 2011 AN AND HA D HAVE A five A C CLEAR STRATEGY T TO O T TR RA AN NSFORM SFOR PERFORMANCE F FO OR R TH THE F E FU UTU TURE D DA AV VI ID D S SLEA LEATH TH C CH HIIE EF EX F EXE EC CUTIVE UTIVE CREATING A INCOME-FO Annual Report and Accounts 2011 4 www.
com Performance Review We believe a focus on industrial real estate INTRODUCTION creates a good basis for building a REIT which SEGRO is Europes leading owner-manager can offer its investors an attractive dividend and developer of industrial property, with yield and resilient capital growth.
a high-quality portfolio and leading market positions in some of the most attractive markets, Industrial property is an attractive asset class including London and the South East of England which, in the UK, has outperformed retail and and major conurbations in Germany, France and ofces over the last 25 years.
In the UK we have 3.5 billion of assets, reasons for this are rstly that industrial provides the vast majority of which are in prime locations a high income yield relative to other property in and around London, including estates at Park sectors: and secondly that industrial land in Royal and Heathrow, and in the Thames Valley major conurbations has the potential to be which includes the Slough Trading Estate, converted to higher value uses.
Europes largest industrial park in single ownership.
In Continental Europe, we have a good platform, with 1.6 billion of assets in Despite the very well timed sale of our US several strong industrial and logistics markets assets in 2007 and the acquisition of Brixton including Frankfurt and the Rhine-Rhr region in 2009, our portfolio has underperformed of Germany, the Ile fide France region around over the last decade by having too many Paris, and four areas in Poland.
Our strengths non-income producing assets, including in developing and managing industrial property long-term development sites, suburban ofces, estates are underpinned by a diversied income older more secondary and higher vacancy stream from our high-quality customer base estates as well as investments in sub-scale across many different industries.
LEADING CUSED REIT Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5 www.
com PERFORMANCE REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED In terms of the implementation of the new strategy, our four main priorities are to: t Reshape the portfolio by selling the non-core assets which do not pass our strategic lter and by changing the balance of the business to have a lower risk, more resilient portfolio and less opportunity assets t Grow the business in our target markets through development and acquisition of both light industrial parks in the largest and most vibrant urban conurbations and big box logistics assets in and around major ports, airports and distribution corridors mainly in France, Germany, Poland and the UK.
A NEW STRATEGY We also intend to exploit opportunities to Following my appointment as Chief Executive develop higher value uses such as data in April, we have developed a new strategy centres, ofces, research facilities and retail for SEGRO to build on our considerable t Reduce debt over the medium-term towards strengths and to address the areas of historical our target for a 40 per cent loan to value underperformance in order to deliver better ratio and introduce third-party investors returns for our shareholders.
where appropriate Our ambition is to create the best industrial t Drive further operational improvements property business in Europe and a leading across the business.
This means an even income-focused REIT.
Our vision envisages greater emphasis on customer service, a low-risk, efficiently run portfolio, producing more development and upgrading of good income returns, with minimal cost leakage our assets and further investment in and resilient capital growth.
We intend to own systems and processes to enable us to a very high quality portfolio of mainly prime simplify the business and reduce costs.
and good secondary assets, which are well specified and located, of modern design, with GOOD PROGRESS ON good sustainability credentials and which due STRATEGIC PRIORITIES to their quality and location benefit from a low Although implementation of the strategy is at structural void rate and relatively less intensive an early stage, we are making good progress asset management.
We will only operate in a on a number of our key initiatives.
During 2011 small number of markets where we can achieve we sold non-core assets for 110.9 million.
competitive advantage and critical mass.
We Since the year-end we have completed the will hold only modest amounts of land and acquisition of 14 prime logistics warehouses in other non-income producing opportunity the UK Logistics Fund for 314.7 million in a assets and will operate with moderate levels joint venture with Mooreld Real Estate Fund, of gearing.
We will also partner with third-party and the disposal of a portfolio of five non-core capital providers, where appropriate, in order industrial estates to Ignis Asset Management to enhance our risk-adjusted returns and to for 80.2 million.
Within the business, we have help us achieve scale positions in our markets.
introduced a new organisational model based around the two key disciplines of Disciplined Our strategy to achieve this vision has Capital Allocation and Operational Excellence.
two key pillars: I am confident that we are well-positioned to make further progress on our strategic t Disciplined Capital Allocation, which consists objectives during 2012. of picking the right geographic markets and asset types, creating the right portfolio shape, actively managing the portfolio Buy Smart, Add Value and Sell Well and deploying the right capital structure including partnering with third-party investors.
t Operational Excellence, which consists of optimising performance from the portfolio through customer focus, expert asset management, development and operational efficiency.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 6 www.
com Performance Review A CLEAR AND DELIVERABLE STRATEGY Our vision for SEGRO is to be the best owner-manager of industrial property in Europe and a leading income-focused REIT.
By building on our existing strengths and focusing our strategy on the two key strands of Disciplined Capital Allocation and Operational Excellence, our goal is to deliver stronger performance for shareholders in the form of a sustainable, high-quality and progressive dividend stream and more resilient NAV performance.
GOAL HIGH-QUALITY, PROGRESSIVE, SUSTAINABLE DIVIDENDS AND NAV GROWTH THE PILLARS OF OUR STRATEGY DISCIPLINED OPERATIONAL CAPITAL EXCELLENCE ALLOCATION See page 28 See page 16 A STRONG PLATFORM FOR SUCCESS INDUSTRIAL STRONG DIVERSIFIED EXPERIENCED & LOGISTICS MARKET CUSTOMER OPERATIONAL FOCUS POSITIONS BASE TEAM t Attractive sector with t Leading positions in t Long-term t Expertise in leasing, potential to deliver key UK markets relationships with a customer and asset high-quality returns West London and range of blue-chip management Thames Valley customers t High-yielding assets t Strong capability in with opportunities to t Good platform in t Diversied income managing multi-let develop higher-value several attractive stream industrial and uses such as ofces Continental European logistics assets and data centres markets, including t Good track record Frankfurt and the of development Rhine-Rhr region of Germany, Ile fide France region around Paris, and Poland Annual Report and Accounts 2011 7 www.
com PERFORMANCE REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED WITH THE RIGHT PRODUCTS We believe that high-quality industrial and distribution property provides a good basis for generating sustainable and growing dividends and resilient capital growth.
As an asset class, it produces a higher yield than other property sectors and can benefit from an uplift in value upon change of use.
MULTI-LET INDUSTRIAL LOGISTICS HIGHER VALUE USES Multi-occupier light industrial estates of Larger distribution warehouses of, typically, Within our multi-let industrial markets we varying size located in and around attractive, 10,000 sq m and above located in and seek to develop higher value uses to deliver growing and supply-constrained conurbations.
around major ports and airports and along enhanced rents and returns.
These uses, Our focus is on modern, well-specified and transportation networks to serve varied which currently represent 21 per cent of well-located estates.
Our estates support a distribution needs.
The largest well-established portfolio by value, include: data centres, variety of activities, including light manufacturing, markets in the UK and Continental Europe, suburban ofces, trade counters, car showrooms, urban distribution and storage.
including Poland and Czech Republic see map showrooms, research facilities, self-storage.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 8 www.
com Performance Review IN THE RIGHT MARKETS We evaluate the geographical markets in which SEGRO should operate for the size, economic growth potential, attractiveness of the local real estate market, supply demand dynamics and the competitive landscape.
We then select only those geographies where we already have critical mass and a strong market position, or where we believe we can achieve this relatively quickly.
Therefore, for multi-let industrial we are focusing our investments on: Greater London: the Thames Valley: and South East of England: Paris and the Ile fide France: Dsseldorf and Frankfurt.
Our primary markets for logistics are: UK Midlands and South : France Paris, Ile fide France and Lyon : Germany Dsseldorf, Frankfurt and Hamburg : Benelux Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Belgian triangle : Poland Warsaw, Poznan, Lodz and Silesia : and Czech Republic Prague.
HAMBURG AMSTERDAM MIDLANDS POZNAN GREATER WARSAW LODZ LONDON ROTTERDAM THAMES VALLEY & DSSELDORF SILESIA PRAGUE SOUTH EAST BELGIAN FRANKFURT TRIANGLE PARIS ILE fide FRANCE LYON Multi-let industrial and logistics Logistics Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 9 www www.
com PERFORMANCE REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED WITH THE RIGHT BUSINESS MODEL TO DELIVER ATTRACTIVE RETURNS Disciplined, active and rigorous portfolio management will be a vital and increasingly prominent element of our ongoing strategy, which means buying the right assets at the right time and adding value through development or asset management initiatives.
Most importantly, it is also about crystallising value and taking our capital out of assets before leases reach maturity to realise cash and begin the cycle again.
BUY SMART CAREFUL AND WELL TIMED ASSET SELECTION SELL WELL ADD VALUE CO-ORDINATE DEVELOPMENT INDIVIDUAL ASSET AND OR STRATEGIES WITH ASSET MANAGEMENT MARKET CYCLE THE RIGHT MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE TO DELIVER OUR STRATEGY CEO David Sleath Finance Director Chief Operating officer Chief Investment officer Group HR Director Justin Read Andy Gulliford Phil Redding Liz Reilly Operational Finance and IT Teams Investment Team Business Units Board Member Annual Report and Accounts 2011 10 www.
com Performance Review FOUR KEY STRATEGIC PRIORITIES TO TRANSFORM FUTURE PERFORMANCE 1.
RESHAPE THE EXISTING PORTFOLIO t Divest assets which do not t our strategic priorities t Reduce land holdings and other non-income producing assets as a proportion of the total portfolio 2.
GROW ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT IN TARGET AREAS THROUGH DEVELOPMENT AND ACQUISITION t Light industrial in the largest and most vibrant conurbations t Logistics in and around major ports, airports and distribution corridors t Exploit opportunities to create higher value uses on industrial land 3.
REDUCE FINANCIAL LEVERAGE OVER TIME AND INTRODUCE THIRD-PARTY CAPITAL 4.
CONTINUE TO FOCUS ON OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE AND DRIVE FURTHER IMPROVEMENT Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11 www.
com PERFORMANCE REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS GOING FORWARD OVERVIEW Total Property Return TPR EPRA EPS We have reviewed and rened our key performance indicators KPIs to ensure that 0.8% 18.
4pence the measures that we will report against this year and in the future are fully aligned with 11 0.8 11 18.4 our goal to deliver attractive shareholder 10 10 6.8 17.1 returns in the form of high-quality, sustainable dividend and NAV growth.
09 1.0 09 18.3 This year, and moving forward, we will be What it is: A measure of the ungeared combined What it is: EPRA earnings represent the underlying reporting against eight KPIs, reduced from income and capital return from the portfolio.
recurring performance of the property rental business, 18 in the previous year, which we perceive to TPR shows the return we have achieved on our capital which is our core operational activity.
EPRA EPS over the period and is therefore an important measure reects EPRA earnings on a per share basis, be fundamental measures of our performance.
of our ability to maximise returns from our asset base.
attributable to our shareholders for the period.
Included in our KPIs are Total Property Return TPR and Total Shareholder Return TSR, How we calculate it: Realised and unrealised property How we calculate it: EPRA earnings, stated after both of which are key metrics used in setting gains and losses plus net rental income expressed tax and non-controlling interests and calculated in our Executive Directors and senior managers as a percentage of capital employed.
accordance with EPRA Best Practices Recommendations, long-term incentive plan targets.
TPR, along with divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
earnings, is also a key element in the annual bonus targets which apply to all employees.
Loan to value ratio LTV Total Shareholder Return TSR RISK MANAGEMENT 50% 20.2 % The activities of the Group and the delivery of its strategy will always include an element 11 11 50 20.2 of risk, which could impact the performance 10 10 of our KPIs.
We have a robust risk 46 12.6 management process in place which seeks 09 09 47 6.6 to mitigate these risks.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are What it is: The proportion of our property assets that What it is: A measure of our ability to generate set out on pages 50 to 53 and our are funded by borrowings.
Over the medium term income and capital returns for our shareholders management of risk is in the Governance a key objective, as part of our strategy, is to drive over the year.
This KPI reects our commitment to section on pages 60 and 61. down the LTV ratio to approximately 40%.
delivering enhanced returns for our shareholders through the execution of our strategy over the How we calculate it: Reported net borrowings medium term.
expressed as a percentage of our wholly-owned property assets investment, owner-occupier and How we calculate it: The change in SEGROs share trading properties.
price measured on a 3-month average basis during the period and assuming dividends are reinvested.
Additional EPRA measures 2011 2010 2009 1 Earnings m 136.6 126.0 103.4 2 NNNAV pence per share 322 360 363 As in previous years, the TPR shown above is an internal calculation based on income earned and realised and 3 Net Initial Yield % 6.4 6.0 unrealised property gains or losses as recognised in the 3 financial statements, compared to the average portfolio value Topped up Net initial Yield 7.1 6.9 for the year.
In future years portfolio performance and TPR 1.
Stated after tax and non-controlling interests.
will be measured independently by IPD in order to provide a consistent comparison with an appropriate IPD benchmark 2.
Excludes tax effect of adjustment in respect of fair value of debt as discussed further in note 13. using the methodology to be applied under the rules of the 3.
Implemented by EPRA in 2010 and therefore no 2009 comparatives available.
Please see 2011 proposed new LTIP scheme, as further described on pages 67 and 68.
Property Analysis Booklet for further details of our yields, available at www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 www.
com Performance Review EPRA NAV per share EPRA vacancy 340 pence 9.1% 11 11 340 9.1 10 10 376 12.0 09 09 368 13.5 What it is: EPRA NAV per share highlights the fair What it is: A measure of our ability to lease the value of net assets on an ongoing, long-term basis.
A reduction in the vacancy We aim for sustainable long-term asset value growth, rate increases our rental income and reduces vacant whilst carefully managing our liabilities to maintain property costs.
However, given the nature of our balance sheet strength.
industry, some level of vacancy will always exist within the portfolio in order to support our asset How we calculate it: Total assets minus total liabilities, management activities and allow our customers adjusted for assets and liabilities that are not expected the opportunity to move premises.
to crystallise in normal circumstances per the EPRA Best Practices Recommendations, divided by the How we measure it: Estimated Rental Value ERV number of shares in issue at the period end.
of our vacant space expressed as a percentage of the ERV of our entire portfolio.
The vacancy rate includes short-term lettings and is calculated in accordance with EPRA Best Practice Recommendations.
Total cost ratio Customer satisfaction 24.3% 78% 11 11 78 24.3 10 10 73 28.1 09 09 68 29.9 What it is: The ratio of our costs to rental income What it is: The percentage of our customers who generated.
This is an indicator of how cost-effectively rate their experience as occupiers of our buildings we manage both our property assets and our as good or excellent.
Our customers are at the administrative costs in order to improve profitability.
heart of our business and we strive to ensure that Over time we are targeting a reduction in our total we are providing the best level of service possible cost ratio to the low 20 per cent range.
How we calculate it: The total cost ratio is calculated How we measure it: A Group-wide survey for by expressing the sum of property expenses net which we surveyed over 200 customers across of service charge recoveries and third-party asset eight countries during 2011. management fees and administration expenses excluding exceptional items as a percentage of gross rental income and includes the Groups share of costs and revenue from joint ventures.
EPRA NAV and EPRA EPS are alternate metrics to their IFRS equivalents that are calculated in accordance with the Best Practice Recommendations of the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA.
SEGRO uses these alternative metrics as they highlight the underlying recurring performance of the property rental business, which is our core operating activity.
The EPRA metrics also provide a consistent basis to enable a comparison between European property companies.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 13 www.
com PERFORMANCE REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Conditions continued to be more challenging in regional UK markets, where a significant supply of second-hand space added to the pressure on occupancy, rents and incentive packages.
In Continental Europe, representing 31 per cent of the total portfolio, concerns about the economy appear to have had some impact on general business sentiment, but the key markets in our portfolio in Germany and France continued to see good levels of demand and our businesses in the non-Eurozone markets of Poland and Czech Republic also performed well.
Within this macro environment, SEGROs priority remained operational delivery, focused on customer and asset management, leasing, pre-let development and tight cost control.
Reecting improved vacancy rates and tight control of operating expenses, we reduced our total cost ratio for the year to 24.3 per cent, from 28.1 per cent in 2010.
Progress in all these key areas during the year helped to deliver EPRA profit before taxation of 138.5 million, an increase of 8.8 per cent on 2010, and a 7.6 per cent increase in EPRA EPS to 18.4 per cent per share.
EPRA NAV per share decreased by 9.6 per cent to 340 pence, reecting a 4.2 per cent decline in the value of the completed property portfolio, comprising a 13.0 per cent reduction in the value of assets which are non-core to our long-term portfolio strategy and a 0.4 per cent decline in the STRONG 2011 valuation of the core portfolio.
Reecting the OPERATING RESULTS reduction in the value of our properties, the total We achieved a strong operating performance property return for the year was 0.8 per cent, for 2011, despite the unsettled macro-economic comprised of an income return of 5.7 per cent environment, securing 38.4 million of new and capital loss of 4.9 per cent.
This compares rental income contracted during the year, to a TPR of 6.8 per cent for 2010.
In terms of increasing our retention rate to 74 per cent total shareholder return TSR, a lower share and further reducing our vacancy to 9.1 per cent.
price at the end of the year, partly offset by This is testament to both the strength of our dividends paid in the year resulted in a property teams and the high quality of our disappointing TSR of 20.2 per cent.
We saw resilient demand for space across a range of businesses, including third-party logistics providers, national food and fashion retailers and data centre operators and from a variety of businesses which viewed the current market as providing a good opportunity to take on space.
The high quality and locational strength of most of the assets in our portfolio, combined with the limited supply in the wider market for good quality, modern assets, helped SEGRO to deliver a strong net leasing performance for the year.
Within the UK, which accounts for 69 per cent of the total portfolio, London and the Thames Valley in aggregate accounting for around 88 per cent of our UK portfolio, were the most resilient areas for occupier demand.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 14 www.
com Performance Review An element of our strategy envisages increasing SIGNIFICANTLY STRENGTHENED over time the proportion of our assets under OUR ALREADY SECURE management that are located in the stronger FINANCIAL POSITION markets in Continental Europe.
We strongly Our funding position was further strengthened believe that our selected target and product during the year with new or extended bank markets in this region provide attractive facilities totalling 440.0 million 367.0 million, expansion and growth opportunities for SEGRO reecting our strong relationships with our over the medium-term.
In setting our strategy lending banks, and as a result the Group has and budgets we have not assumed a significant no significant debt maturities before 2014. worsening in the current economic and political Our APP joint venture with Aviva separately landscape of the countries in which we operate.
agreed a five-year renancing package of We will however continue to monitor events in 400.0 million and, since the end of the year, Europe to ensure that our assumptions remain our joint venture with Mooreld has secured valid, particularly as regards their impact on the a facility of 186.6 million over five years strength of our diverse customer base and secured on the assets of UKLF.
funding partners and on the appropriate timing for our asset recycling programme.
Net borrowings at the year end were 2,303.4 million 31 December 2010: DAVID SLEATH 2,203.2 million and the Groups gearing CHIEF EXECUTIVE ratio was 89 per cent 2010: 80 per cent.
Our loan to value ratio is now 50 per cent, up from 46 per cent at 31 December 2010.
In the medium-term, our intention remains to reduce our loan to value ratio to 40 per cent.
TRANSFORMING SEGROS PERFORMANCE Further details of the financial position, including sensitivities to interest rate and currency uctuations, are provided in the Financial Review.
We have a clear strategy for the coming years and have put in place a new organisational OUTLOOK structure which is aimed at implementing the In 2011 we delivered strong income-generation strategy and, thereby, transforming SEGROs and earnings growth, driven by an excellent future performance.
The following sections operational performance which included further outline how we performed during 2011, reducing our vacancy rate, signicantly increasing arranged in accordance with the new structure.
customer retention and building a strong pipeline of future income from pre-let developments.
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE As part of the revised strategy for the Group ANDY GULLIFORD outlined on 8 November 2011, we have made Oversees maximisation of total property returns a promising start to reshaping our portfolio from the portfolio in the UK and Continental Europe.
with the completion since the year-end of the Responsibility across all leasing, customer and asset acquisition of prime logistics assets with a joint management activities and development venture partner and the disposal of a portfolio of non-core holdings in the UK.
DISCIPLINED CAPITAL ALLOCATION We expect the macro environment to remain PHIL REDDING unsettled for some time to come, both in the Determines Group-wide investment strategy and its UK and Continental Europe.
Oversees capital allocation across the 20 mainly pre-let development projects due to business, including managing acquisitions and disposals come on stream and have started the new year with good momentum in our letting activity.
COMMITTED TO SUSTAINABILITY We have a strong balance sheet and a clear DAVID SLEATH focus to build on our strengths of investing in Leading the Groups focus on resource efficiency, the strongest locations in resilient sectors, both in communities and stakeholder engagement and the UK and key industrial markets of Continental exibility, accessibility and safety of our assets Europe, and to recycle those assets which do not t our strategic criteria.
Given the strengths STRONG FINANCIAL FOUNDATIONS of our operational teams and core assets, we are well-positioned to continue to capitalise on JUSTIN READ demand for newly-developed and well-located Responsible for all aspects of financial management industrial space from a diverse range of across the business customers and industries.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 15 www.
