Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011 Chief Executives review In todays world, people not only want to look and feel good, but increasingly Croda has delivered want to use renewable raw materials another year of record that combine great performance with excellent sustainability credentials.
The sales, profits and trend towards sustainable products in margins, despite a our industrial markets is also growing challenging economic rapidly.
Our customers want improved performance from products which are environment in 2011. also safe to use and can meet the ever We made significant increasing regulatory demands imposed on specific industries and in different progress in both our countries around the world.
business segments With our continued focus on innovation, throughout the year and coupled with approximately 70% of our raw materials coming from 2012 has started well.
natural sources, Croda is well placed This continued strong to take advantage of these drivers.
We are continuing to drive top line performance underlines growth through successful new product the resilience of our development, moving even closer to our customers and increasing our focus unique and highly on faster growing emerging economies, innovative business particularly in Asia and Latin America.
model which is focused Within our industrial businesses, we are replicating this approach to significantly on fast-growing niche increase sales of speciality products, markets and high adopting the same emphasis on niche markets, differentiated technologies margin businesses and innovative marketing that we have where we can utilise applied so successfully in Consumer Care.
We will accelerate the capture of new technologies across the Group, with a strong focus on sustainability.
Our Strategy We focus on niche markets driven by We will only invest in businesses, strong, positive megatrends in beauty current and future, that can be truly and ageing, health and wellbeing, global, in which we can create and the increasing importance of profitable innovation, that operate in sustainability and environmental end markets which have long term protection.
These factors, coupled growth prospects well above global with the strong structural drivers GDP, and in which we can realistically of population growth, increasing sustain high operating margins.
disposable incomes and, ultimately, New Reporting Segments and growing consumer spending, give me great confidence that the core markets Medium Term Targets in which we operate will continue to From 2012, we will change the way grow.
we report our sales and profits to better reflect the new internal management and business structure in place from Steve Foots, Group Chief Executive 1 January 2012.
Industrial Specialities will be renamed The business moved forward in all our four Performance Technologies.
Process Additives, previously part of Industrial operating regions Specialities, will in future be reported separately and renamed Industrial Chemicals.
4 Directors report | Business review Directors report | Governance Financial statements Other information In recent years Crodas operations in China and Taiwan have been scaled up with sales offices in six major cities employing 50 people and serving over 1,200 customers.
The area also has laboratories in Guangzhou with facilities to perform efficacy testing and Beijing Shanghai Taipei formulation development.
Guangzhou Shenzhen Hong Kong This will result in three segments for There are also some speciality products Our best performance was in Health reporting purposes: in the portfolio.
Care, driven primarily by very strong growth of our excipient business selling Consumer Care unchanged, This segment accounts for 27% of into the pharmaceutical, dermatology comprising Personal Care, Health Care Group volumes, 10% of turnover and and animal health markets.
Much of the the year our production facility in volume in this business is driven by our This segment accounts for 31% of Leek, Staffordshire, was successfully activity levels elsewhere, but we have Group volumes, 54% of turnover and inspected by the US Food and Drug little pricing power and margins are 72% of operating profit.
This is a really lower than the other two sectors and driven by global population dynamics.
exciting development, which we have can be erratic.
Volumes are high but The majority of product launches are worked for 10 years to achieve, that their value is relatively low.
patented and competition is fairly gives us the ability to supply Omega-3 fragmented.
Volumes are relatively The segment will seek to maximise into the pharmaceutical arena.
low but margins are high, driven by profitability.
We continue to seek new opportunities innovation, quality and the highly to expand the market for Omega-3 in These segments have different technical nature of the products.
dietary supplements and will shortly dynamics in terms of drivers, growth The segment is targeting sales growth launch a new Incromega 3mulsion, and margins and we believe that of 5-10% per annum and ROS above responding to market demand for managing and reporting them 25%.
a tastier Omega 3 in the form of a separately will permit us to maximise concentrated, flavoured emulsion that is our focus and drive profitability Performance Technologies, comprising particularly well suited for consumption improvements in all parts Lubricants, Coatings & Polymers, Geo by children.
Technologies, Polymer Additives and Home Care.
Crop Care also performed extremely Business Performance and well, particularly in Europe, the USA This segment generates 42% of Group Prospects and Latin America, and especially in volumes, 36% of turnover and 25% Consumer Care excipient and adjuvant products.
Sales are driven by have successfully developed new The sector continued to break all product performance and the strength polymeric surfactants for electrolyte records, with sales growing by 11.2% of our green credentials.
Many, but tolerant systems that offer significant to 574.3m 2010: 516.4m and not all, new product launches are performance advantages in Crop Care operating profit increasing by 27.0% patented.
Margins are good, though not formulations.
Our ROS as high as in Consumer Care.
rose by 3.8 percentage points to 30.2% The segment is targeting sales growth 2010: 26.4%, the first time in Crodas of 4-8% per annum and ROS of 20%.
history that ROS has exceeded 30%.
It was particularly pleasing to see strong Industrial Chemicals produces basic sales and profit increases in all three fatty acids, glycerine and other bybusiness areas throughout the year.
products together with our textile business and other industrial products.
5 Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011 Chief Executives review Personal Care, which is the largest Lubricants, Home Care and Coatings business area within Consumer Care, & Polymers all contributed to the We are continuing achieved impressive turnover and strong profit growth in this sector.
profit growth, driven by sales to our Geo Technologies also made good to drive top line major multinational customers in all underlying progress, though the growth through parts of the world.
Throughout the windfall sales and profits resulting from year, consumers showed no inclination the Gulf of Mexico clean-up in 2010 successful to trade down even in those areas were obviously not repeated in 2011. under most economic pressure.
Our In Polymer Additives, weak sales in new product product pipeline in this area has never Europe outweighed strong growth in been stronger and we launched a other parts of the world.
development, number of successful new products Our strategic aim in this sector is to moving even closer during the year.
Highlights included replicate the success we have achieved the Crodasone Cystine hair therapy in Consumer Care by launching many to our customers smoothing system and Resistem for new products into profitable niche skincare, making revolutionary new use and increasing our market applications, and good progress of plant stem cell technology to deliver was made in this during the year.
In focus on faster anti-ageing protection and improved Lubricants, we introduced the Perfad skin transparency.
3000 series of organic friction modifiers, growing emerging which offer outstanding friction Industrial Specialities reduction and improved fuel economy economies, Sales increased by 1.8% to 494.1m in oil based systems.
In Home Care, we 2010: 485.5m and operating profit particularly in Asia launched Modisurf Clarity, a staygrew by 11.1% to 69.0m 2010: clean additive for hard surface cleaners, 62.1m, representing a ROS of 14.0% and Latin America acting as an effective lime scale 2010: 12.8%.
Breaking this down into repellent that is also environmentally the new reporting sectors we will use friendly and mild to the skin.
from 2012: In Coatings & Polymers, our new Performance Technologies sales Maxemul polymerics capitalise on the increased by 2.6% to 389.2m 2010: trend to water-based coatings driven by 379.4m and operating profit rose by ever tighter environmental regulations 17.4% to 60.1m 2010: 51.2m, a restricting the use of Volatile Organic ROS of 15.4% 2010: 13.5%.
Maxemul permits the total elimination of VOC solvents without any compromise on product performance.
In Polymer Additives, we have focused our efforts on developing products for wood-plastic composites to improve output, decrease water uptake and provide internal lubrication.
In Geo Technologies, we have launched a range of green demulsifiers to help with the challenge of improving environmental performance in the oil industry.
Our launches have included several new products that are designed to help oilfield service companies meet the very specific needs of each oil production well with improved environmental ratings.
Right across the sector, our successful innovation has meant the replacement of higher volume, low margin products by new lines that add real value for The Cystine Hair Smoothing system is a unique set of demonstration formulations our customers and offer higher levels put together by Crodas application scientists to show how Croda ingredients can be of profitability.
This was the key driver combined to create products for effective semi-permanent hair smoothing.
The hair of the significant improvement in the smoothing category has seen an explosion of global market interest in the last few sectors return on sales during the year.
years yet safe and effective technical solutions have been hard to find.
Cystine Hair Smoothing is the ideal solution for this significant market need.
6 Directors report | Business review Directors report | Governance Financial statements Other information minimising the environmental impact of our operations through a series of initiatives to reduce our consumption of energy and water, and to cut the quantities of waste we send to landfill.
We also remain strongly committed to being a first class employer and a good neighbour to the communities in which we operate.
Full details of our policies and actions can be found in the Sustainability review on pages 12 to 21 and in our separately published Sustainability formerly Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
Perfad 3000 and Perfad 3050 are unique organic friction modifiers, both in terms Our People of their chemistry and their performance.
Based on polymer chemistry, they deliver outstandingly low friction properties, which is the key to increasing fuel efficiency, Croda employs more than 3,200 people reducing CO emissions and engine wear, as well as extending the durability of engine in 33 countries around the world.
A small improvement in individual vehicle fuel efficiency has a dramatic are highly qualified chemists: all share impact on total fuel consumption and exhaust emissions.
an overriding commitment to putting our customers first, through their focus on identifying and meeting customers current and future needs.
Industrial Chemicals sales were down Our continuing business success 1.1% at 104.9m 2010: 106.1m depends on our ability to attract and We will accelerate and operating profit was 18.3% lower retain individuals who are passionate at 8.9m 2010: 10.9m, a ROS of about personal and business the capture of new 8.5% 2010: 10.3%.
This reflected high development and who want to make raw material prices and competitive technologies across a significant contribution to the future commodity and textile markets, though of Croda.
We recognise that our we did see an improving trend in the the Group, with employees want to make a difference final quarter.
and through open and honest dialogue a strong focus on we are able to design reward strategies Geography and development opportunities that sustainability The business moved forward in all meet the individual needs of our global our four operating regions, with the workforce.
We have a terrific talent pool strongest progress being achieved in in Croda and we look forward to seeing Latin America, where sales grew by our people grow in the organisation.
11%, and in Europe, with sales growth I am grateful to all my colleagues for of 9%.
Sales in North America grew by their contributions as individuals and as a more modest 4% as we exited from teams to another year of outstanding a major distributor, which reduced sales progress for the Group.
in the second and third quarters.
In Asia, our deliberate fide-marketing from Summary the tail of our Industrial Specialities We have a clear strategy, a strong business held sales back to an overall business model, robust finances, increase of 3%.
talented people, great products and a Sustainability strong development pipeline.
Taken together these provide us with the Crodas green credentials are one of soundest of platforms for continuing to our greatest strengths, with our focus deliver customer satisfaction, meeting on the production of natural ingredients our ambitious performance targets and some 70% of our raw materials and delivering shareholder value.
already derived from renewable I look forward with confidence to resources.
As a leader in sustainable leading Crodas continued growth and technologies, we are proud that so development in the years ahead.
many of our products enhance the quality of life through their beneficial impact on human health and wellbeing, and on the wider environment.
Steve Foots We continue to place a strong emphasis Group Chief Executive on responsible sourcing and on 7
