Directors report  CSR has had a year of transition as we have continued our move from being a single-component, single-technology company focussed on Bluetooth, towards being a provider of silicon and software solutions for the location-aware, media-rich, cloud-connected world.
We live in an increasingly wire-free world, where connections to information, entertainment and services are taken for granted.
It is CSRs aim to be at the heart of this world, creating semiconductor chips and software to be found in the products we use every day.
Zoran The Zoran acquisition was an important step towards this objective.
It has added adjacent technology platforms such as cameras and digital imaging to our portfolio of automotive infotainment, voice & music, gaming and Human Interface Device HID products, while bringing important video and imaging IP to CSRs connectivity and location technology.
In addition, the Zoran transaction brought scale, which enables us to reduce our costs of goods sold and deliver a richer technology portfolio to our customers.
We have also already seen the first commercial benefits of this transaction with cross-selling design wins in the camera market, where we have combined our location platform with the COACH camera on a chip platform at a major OEM.
We expect cross-selling opportunities to increase over the coming quarters, as we further integrate and combine our technologies.
We are now in the position of deriving the majority of our revenues from our platform-related businesses.
At the same time as we increased our set of technological capabilities, the cost base of combined companies was too high.
We have taken decisive action to address this issue.
From the annualised combined cost base of $540 million for CSR and Zoran at the time of the completion of the transaction in August 2011, we have reduced the cost run-rate to $496 million at the end of 2011.
In the first half of 2012, we expect to further reduce this run rate to $420-430 million, and $130 million of annualised savings including $15 million cost of sales savings are fully on track to be completed by the end of the second quarter 2012.
This cost reduction has been achieved by a combination of delivering aggressive merger synergy benefits, company right-sizing, previously announced Zoran cost cutting, portfolio rationalisation, reductions in the cost of goods sold and the discontinuation of investment in the low-margin areas of set-top boxes, digital television systems-on-a-chip and silicon tuners which we announced in December.
As a result of these and other initiatives, the Company will have around 2,400 personnel by the end of the second quarter of 2012, reduced from around 3,200 at 31 August 2011. Business group performance In the first six months of the year, we saw a reduction in revenues of 9% compared with 2010, as we were impacted by weakness in some areas of the handset and PND markets.
At the same time, we saw growth in our Home business group, driven mainly by our continued strong market share performance within a buoyant voice & music market.
In the second half of the year, we experienced a revenue decline of 8% compared to 2010, as parts of the handset business we serve continued to be weak and as we experienced market share loss and a faster than expected decline in the market and market share for PNDs in Asia.
Voice & music continued to be strong, as were our automotive and gaming segments, in the latter of which we won an important additional customer.
Total revenue for the year was $845.2 million, up by 6% on 2010 and a decline of 8% when compared to CSR on a standalone pre-Zoran acquisition basis.
Underlying gross margins increased to 49.8% from 47.7%, as we increased our revenue share from higher-margin platform products.
The operating loss for the year was $48.4 million, against a loss of $6.2 million in the previous year.
The years loss reflects exceptional charges for restructuring and the Zoran transaction.
Underlying operating profit declined to $49.2 million in 2011 from $78.9 million in 2010 reflecting the loss contributed by Zoran as well as the lower revenue and gross profit in the legacy CSR business.
Market outlook Our products are used in a wide variety of consumer devices and as a result, we are heavily exposed to consumer sentiment.
Although 2011 was a year where we saw consumer caution, which may continue into 2012, our expectations for the medium term are more positive.
Across our diversified portfolio, industry analysts expect our underlying total addressable market to grow by a 4% compound annual growth rate CAGR, from 2011 to 2015.
Of particular interest is voice & music, which is forecast to grow at 13% per annum in the same period, and automotive infotainment, expected to grow at 11% per annum.
We are also seeing an increased use of location technology to sort information, for example, by geotagging photographs, while Bluetooth SMART formerly Bluetooth low energy is now being adopted to connect many new types of low-energy devices such as computer mice and keyboards, and health and fitness products.
This is CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 03 Full version AR 290898. pdf 7 14 03 2012 17:20:30 Directors report Chief Executives review continued helping to drive new consumer applications, and we believe that our IP and product roadmap positions us strongly in this rapidly developing market.
In cameras, we expect to see increased use of connectivity and location devices, coupled with a move to merchant platforms from a third-party such as CSR which supplies many camera makers from captive platforms which are devised in-house by the camera manufacturer silicon.
Product development and execution In order to be at the forefront our chosen markets, we spent around $228.6 million on research and development during 2011, an increase of $39.4 million on 2010, bringing 21 new platforms and products to the market during the year.
Our product roadmap reflects our strategy of increasing the proportion of our revenue from platforms where we control a large part of the solution and where we have a leading position.
We continue to focus heavily on execution in order to bring products to market in an efficient manner, and expect to release a significant number of products to the market in the course of 2012, with 22 products in active development.
Importantly, we now have the majority of our IP on the 40nm process node and we continue to work on enhancing chip packaging for our new generation of products.
We are on track with our 40nm CSR9800 Wi-Fi Bluetooth chip.
We are also progressing on plan with our new location and automotive products.
Our key target market segments for our platforms in 2012 are voice & music, automotive infotainment, cameras, document imaging and handsets.
The stereo audio market is growing rapidly and is one where we enjoy high margins with a very high market share.
In automotive, we continue to see the growth of vehicle sales, combined with increased attach rates for infotainment in autos and therefore expect to see continued momentum for our products.
The Company enjoys the number one position in cameras and with the launch of our COACH camera-on-a-chip 14 platform, we expect to build on that position.
In document imaging, we enjoy an equally strong position.
We have recently introduced our Direct Office product, which creates high-fidelity print output for Microsoft Word, PowerPoint and Excel documents, without the need for a PC or server running Microsofts Office suite.
While classic Bluetooth in handsets remains an important area for the Company, it is in revenue decline and subject to competitive pressures which impact margin.
We intend to arrest the decline in this important area by the introduction of our CSR9800 Wi-Fi Bluetooth connectivity chip.
Looking ahead We have transformed CSR into a broadly diversified platform provider, addressing attractive growth markets with over 40% of our revenue derived from areas where we have a market-leading position.
We have a large IP portfolio of approximately 1400 patents granted and approximately 1100 pending patent applications, and strong underlying technical capabilities, which positions us well for the long-term.
In 2012, we will continue our disciplined approach to capital allocation and investment in higher margin platforms.
We are investing in five specific medium to longer-term areas of opportunity in voice & music, location including deep indoors, automotive, the proliferation of Bluetooth low energy, now named Bluetooth SMART, and next-generation image capture: as it expands into areas such as security and automotive.
While we have seen weakness in some areas of consumer electronics, we expect to see the underlying markets for our products grow through the economic cycle.
Given the depth of our product and platform portfolio and expertise of our people, I am confident that we have the capabilities to exploit this expected growth.
Joep van Beurden, Chief Executive Officer 17 February 2012 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 04 Full version AR 290898. pdf 8 14 03 2012 17:20:30 Directors report Businessand financialreview Introduction We are a leading provider of multifunction semiconductor platforms for the auto, camera, low energy connectivity, document imaging and wireless voice & music markets as well as semiconductors for the handset and many other consumer electronics markets.
Our core expertise is in the areas of audio, connectivity, location and imaging technologies.
and our technology portfolio includes: Bluetooth and Bluetooth SMART: Global Positioning System GPS and Global Navigation Satellite Systems GNSS location products: Frequency Modulated FM Radio: Wi-Fi, or Wireless Fidelity typically associated with wireless communication standard IEEE802.11 : audio and associated codec: nearfield communication NFC, a short range wireless technology which enables the transfer of data and secure transactions between devices : and imaging and video processing technologies.
This suite of technologies enables us to integrate our silicon, software and our proprietary algorithms into an extensive portfolio of platforms for a broad range of devices and applications for consumers and enterprises.
Our technologies have been adopted by market leaders into a wide range of mobile consumer devices such as handsets, tablets, automotive infotainments systems, personal navigation devices PNDs, wireless headsets, wireless audio systems, personal computers PCs, GPS recreational devices, tracking and logistics management systems, digital cameras, printers, digital televisions and gaming devices.
We are a fabless semiconductor company.
We design and develop semiconductors and software and use independent fabrication facilities to manufacture our products: we subcontract wafer fabrication, assembly and test to TSMC in Taiwan, IBM in the United States, Samsung in South Korea, ST Microelectronics in Italy and France, Tower Semiconductor in Israel, ASE in Taiwan and Shanghai, STATS ChipPAC Limited in Korea and Malaysia and also Global Uni Chip, a design foundry in Taiwan, to provide turnkey solutions for our SoC products.
Our Business Model Our strategy In recent years, we have pursued a strategy that has brought about significant diversification of our capabilities and the markets we serve.
We have moved beyond the design and supply of single technology semiconductor products and related software solutions predominantly using the Bluetooth standard for the mobile handset that characterised our focus following our IPO in 2004 to a global business providing innovative and multifunction platforms that provide the core functionality of many consumer products.
We have combined organic growth, particularly in our voice & music and gaming businesses, with acquisitions, including most recently those of SiRF in 2009 and Zoran in August 2011.
We have seen a similar diversification of the end application of our technologies for the auto, camera, low energy connectivity, document imaging and voice & music markets, as well as semiconductors for the handset market and many other consumer electronics devices.
Our strategy focuses on targeting our chosen end markets with our integrated and differentiated technology platforms, with a goal to achieve sustainable growth with higher margins and returns.
We are developing enhanced and connected platforms in end markets where we have a position of scale, including voice & music, automotive, cameras and document imaging.
We also develop a range of products for other markets including handsets, gaming and computer peripherals.
We take a disciplined approach to capital allocation, investing in higher margin platforms and markets where we see the best prospects for profitable revenue growth.
Our transaction with Zoran demonstrates how we support our strategy through targeted acquisitions.
Zoran is a leading developer of proprietary digital signal processing algorithms used for imaging, video and audio processing and provides fully integrated solutions for markets such as digital cameras in which they are a world leader supplying many of the worlds leading camera OEMs.
Continued technical innovation Our strategy of developing leading platform solutions is an important part of our future growth as we continue to look to provide technology and solutions that will meet the needs of a wide range of consumer electronic devices which require enhanced connectivity, location, audio and image quality.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 05 Full version AR 290898. pdf 9 14 03 2012 17:20:30 Directors report Business and financial review continued Our position in platforms such as automotive infotainment, digital still cameras, document imaging and wireless voice & music supports leading positions within a number of our target markets and we are leveraging these strengths in new markets in conjunction with focused and differentiated product and software development.
One example of how we are at the forefront of developing technologies for new markets is our work in Bluetooth SMART formerly known as Bluetooth low energy, a very low-power version of Bluetooth.
This low-power standard enables batteries to have long lifetimes for HIDs such as keyboards and mice which are connected wirelessly to phones, tablets and PCs.
We have developed the CSR1000 and CSR1001 Bluetooth SMART platforms for the HID market, and the CSR8510 and CSR8810 Bluetooth SMART READY platforms for the phones, tablets and PCs that connect to the Bluetooth SMART HID platforms.
To allow customers to rapidly develop applications on our Bluetooth SMART platforms, we also have developed a comprehensive Energy Software Development Kit SDK.
During the next 12 months, we expect the majority of new smartphones, tablets and laptops to conform with Bluetooth SMART READY, as does the Apple iPhone 4S today.
We believe this has the potential to create a large ecosystem of Bluetooth SMART personal area networks, each of which could support numerous complementary devices and sensors, including HIDs and new applications on the smartphone such as heartbeat monitors, pedometers and remote control toys drones.
In addition, the smartphone can become a gateway conveying information from Bluetooth SMART sensors directly to the cloud.
We believe our portfolio of products positions us well to capture the potential growth in the Bluetooth SMART market.
During 2011, we successfully transferred the majority of our IP to the 40nm node and were able to introduce 40nm platforms to the market in areas such as location and automotive infotainment.
These efforts also demonstrate the strength of collaborative working relationships with key supply chain partners, who have been integrally involved.
In November 2011, we introduced our next-generation SiRFstarV Architecture and SiRFusion platform to deliver deepindoors location information.
This platform is capable of fusing information gathered in real-time from the GPS, Galileo, Glonass and Compass constellations, multiple terrestrial radio systems such as Wi-Fi and cellular, and multiple MEMS sensors, including accelerometers, gyroscopes and compasses.
Unlike systems that require manual surveys to build and maintain an indoor Wi-Fi and cellular location database, CSRs cloud-based server is able to receive anonymous and voluntary location information from users devices, even indoors, to improve the database.
We believe that we are well placed to address the needs of many new use cases that this technology has the potential to support.
We expect to see products utilising our new generation of location technology in the market by mid 2012.
Attractive Markets The technology arena in which CSR competes globally provides the potential for innovative ideas to excite and engage with consumers as well as set new standards in performance and end user experience.
We believe there are a number of areas where there are opportunities for strong medium to longer-term growth that complement our capabilities.
These include: Automotive: where increasing use of location, connectivity, imaging and video, as well as legislation are accelerating the use of infotainment in low and mid-end cars: Voice & Music within our Home business group : where sound on mobile devices and thinner TVs is sent wirelessly to loudspeakers, soundbars or speaker docks: Bluetooth SMART within our Home business group formerly known as Bluetooth low energy : this creates personal area networks around a device such as a smartphone, tablet, ultrabook, car or TV, which allows communicating with sensors for health and fitness, environmental and entertainment devices, as well as Human Interface Devices HID : Deep indoors location within our Mobile business group : where increased use of location has a broad range of potential applications such as search, mobile promotions and social networking, personal and asset tracking, and potential additional legislation will place greater requirements on location technology, and Imaging: where use of the camera and video is expanding into many new applications such as security and automotive markets.
We believe in all of these areas there is the potential for compelling market growth in excess of current third party expectations.
In the Auto business group, as result of our extended product portfolio, we believe we continue to be well positioned to take advantage of increasing attach rates in the auto infotainment space.
Our new 40nm auto infotainment platform SiRFprimaII, now has twenty customers in the design-in phase and we anticipate shipping this platform during the first half of 2012.
We expect to see products using our auto Wi-Fi to start production from a number of Tier One customers in the first half of 2012.
We anticipate that growth in automotive infotainment will offset the decline we are seeing in PND markets.
During 2011, our revenues were negatively impacted by declines in the PND market as well as market share loss in that market.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 06 Full version AR 290898. pdf 10 14 03 2012 17:20:30 Our Home business group saw good growth in our wireless audio segment, which was reflected in our share of Bluetooth SIG qualifications for audio products increasing during 2011 to 78%, from 75% in 2010.
Recent positive trends in this area are such that we expect to see continued growth in the wireless audio market, as music is increasingly stored on mobile devices which have poor loudspeakers due to their form factor.
During the year, a significant number of customers launched products that use our audio solutions, including wireless speakers from BLAUPUNKT, iHome, NAD and Sony, gaming headphones from Turtle Beach, and stereo headsets from Creative, Jaybird, Motorola, Nokia and Sony.
Our CSR8600 next-generation audio platform continues to gain market traction, with a number of design wins for stereo headsets, active speakers and speaker docks.
Our market-leading aptX audio codec technology continued to see good adoption with more than 30 licensees during the fourth quarter alone, including Cambridge Audio, Disruptive, NAD, Samsung and Sharp.
We believe that continued adoption of aptX technology helps us to maintain our market position for our chips in the wireless audio market.
We also see the increasing use of GPS based location in health and fitness applications, with design wins for the Motorola MOTOACTV wearable device and the Timex Run Trainer.
In the PC and tablet area, we had design wins for our Bluetooth, Wi-Fi or location products with companies including Sony and Vizio.
We continue to deliver Bluetooth gaming controllers to two of the leading console providers that use this technology.
We saw good progress with our Quatro range of document imaging products with new products launched by a number of customers including NEC, Ricoh and Xerox.
In our Mobile business group, our SiRFstarIV has been adopted for the Google Nexus and has gained a number of design wins in the Chinese handset market and our SiRFstarV has won designs at some of the leading handset customers.
Our CSR8000 Bluetooth family of chips continues to gain market traction year-on-year mostly in the feature phone segment.
We also saw continued good revenues from our SiFRstarIV location product in the Samsung GALAXY family of smartphones and tablets.
We are actively engaged with several baseband modem suppliers, who have adopted our location, Bluetooth and Wi-Fi products on their platforms.
We have validated our next-generation platform for digital still cameras and this product is on track for adoption in entry to mid-range cameras in the second half of 2012.
Our COACH 14 product saw a number of new hybrid higher-end camera design wins.
We see opportunities for our camera technology in the automotive market and in security applications.
During 2011, BC6 ROM, our Bluetooth device aimed at the mobile phone market was our largest revenue generating product for the third year in a row, with BC5 Multimedia, our high quality audio chip the next most significant.
BC4 ROM, our largest shipping product in 2006, 2007 and 2008 still contributed a material amount of revenue.
In 2012, we expect BC5 Multimedia to be our largest revenue device, whilst BC8 our newer generation Bluetooth device and COACH 12 are expected to make material contributions.
New products such as SiRFprimaII and our next generation Bluetooth audio devices are all expected to contribute significantly to 2012 revenue.
Looking further into the future, we expect SiRFstarV and AtlasVI to make a meaningful contribution to revenue from 2013 onwards.
On 12 December 2011, we announced our intention to cease investment in the areas of digital television system-on-a-chip and silicon tuners in order to focus our business where we have leadership positions and the ability to deliver differentiated platforms and products.
We are continuing to support and deliver products to customers in these areas and continue to invest in other home entertainment products and peripherals relating to the DTV market.
Market overview Our results of operations during 2009-2011 were materially affected by the following trends, several of which are likely to continue and which we expect are likely to affect performance in 2012.
These include: change in the size of the markets for short-range wireless voice and data communications and location, and locationbased services: general economic conditions which affect the level of demand for consumer related products that use connectivity, location, audio and imaging technologies: the impact of intense competition from third parties, including in respect of product features, pricing strategies and release of new products: the recognised trend in the semiconductor industry for declining average selling prices: the tendency for demand for consumer products to be affected by seasonality: cyclical trends in the semiconductor industry generally: the growth in new products such as smartphones and tablet PCs: restructuring in the semiconductor industry arising from the economic downturn which can affect the availability of sufficient capacity to meet our demands for integrated circuits: fluctuations in currency exchange rates which can affect our costs in light of the global nature of our business: and litigation associated with alleged infringement of proprietary rights which is commonplace in the industry.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 07 Full version AR 290898. pdf 11 14 03 2012 17:20:30 Directors report Business and financial review continued Our current product portfolio includes connectivity technologies such as Bluetooth and Wi-Fi: location technologies such as GPS and audio technologies including FM and codecs: SoCs for cameras and auto infotainment systems: and digital imaging technology: all focused on Mobile, Auto and Home markets.
As we look to 2012 and beyond, demand for the products incorporating the technologies we offer is expected by industry analysts to grow at an annual compound growth rate of more than 4% between 2011 and 2015.
Automotive and PND industry analysts forecast that growth trends for connectivity technologies in the Automotive and PND markets are expected to be strong at a more than 9% compound annual growth rate.
The growth is expected to be fuelled by increased attach rates as well as emerging applications.
In handsets, the total market showed some growth compared to 2010, following the small decline in 2009: we estimate that the smartphone sector grew by over 50% with much lower growth in feature phones and a decline in the ultra low cost sector.
The momentum behind smartphones has continued, with Apple, Nokia, RIM, Samsung, HTC and other established brands concentrating on this sector.
Attach rates continued to grow for Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and GPS in phones of all kinds, while the growth in smartphones is driving the adoption of combination chips an area in which we currently do not have products.
We expect to address this with the launch of the CSR9800 40nm CSR9800 Wi-Fi Bluetooth chip, where progress is on track.
Much of the technology which we develop and supply to our customers is installed into devices which are sold into consumer markets.
Demand for consumer products and therefore for our own products is subject to seasonal variation.
This in turn affects our results which typically are stronger in the second and third quarters of a financial year as our customers increase orders in anticipation of demand for their own products.
Revenue derived from the supply of integrated circuits featuring our Bluetooth technologies remained the most significant part of our revenue in 2011.
We rely on our suppliers to provide the volumes of integrated circuits sufficient to meet the demands for our products from our customers.
The economic downturn through 2009 resulted in measures being taken by a number of foundries that manufacture, assemble and test integrated circuits to restructure their businesses, resulting in a contraction of overall capacity for the supply of integrated circuits.
If we were unable to secure sufficient capacity from our foundries, our ability to meet customer demand could be affected.
We work to maintain a strong relationship with our suppliers and the Company has benefited from the commitment of a number of key suppliers who have supported our business.
We continue to work closely with our suppliers in order to ensure our business requirements are able to be satisfied.
Summary financial performance IFRS Underlying 2011 2010 2011 2010 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011 $ $ $ $ Revenue 845.2m 800.6m 845.2m 800.6m Gross margin 45.5% 47.0% 49.8% 47.7% Operating profit 48.4m 6.3m 49.2m 79.0m Profit for the period 33.9m 16.6m 36.8m 77.4m Diluted earnings per share 0.19 0.09 0.20 0.43 Net cash from operating activities 12.6m 77.9m 12.6m 77.9m Treasury deposits, cash and cash equivalents 277.8m 440.1m 277.8m 440.1m Underlying results are non-GAAP measures based on International Financial Reporting Standards, adjusted for amortisation of intangibles, share option charges, acquisition fees, integration & restructuring costs, litigation and patent settlement costs, litigation settlement income, loss on close period share buy-back, the unwinding of discount on litigation settlements and fair value adjustments to inventory, fiderecognition of contingent consideration and recognition of tax losses brought forward.
Please refer to the non-GAAP measures section on page 12 for a discussion on the differences between IFRS and underlying results and a full reconciliation of IFRS to underlying measures.
Overview Our revenue is generated principally from the sale of products to original equipment manufacturers OEMs and original design manufacturers ODMs predominantly serving the retail consumer market.
Our revenue in 2011 was $845.2 million, an increase of 5.6% compared to $800.6 million in 2010 2009: $601.4 million.
The first six months of 2011 delivered a decrease in the reported revenues to $357.8 million, compared with revenues of $393.8 million for the same period in 2010.
In 2010, we saw an increase in revenue relative to 2009, as customers were increasing orders and restocking inventory channels in response to a consumer-led increase in demand, while in 2011 we saw weakness primarily in areas of the handset market.
At the same time, we experienced increased demand for many of our products, including those from customers in the automotive sector, as well as for our voice & music related products.
The second half of 2011 experienced an increase in revenue to $487.4 million, compared with $406.9 million for the same period in 2010.
This increase included an additional $111.4 million as a result of the inclusion of four months of Zoran revenue post acquisition.
Excluding Zoran, revenue was $376.0 million compared with $406.9 million for the same period in 2010.
This reflected a significant slowdown in the sale of PNDs to emerging markets and the wider impact of a downturn in the global economy.
The decrease in 2011 was mainly as a result of the fair value adjustment related to Zoran inventory.
Our underlying gross margin for 2011 was 49.8%, compared to 47.7% in 2010 2009: 45.6%, the increase was due to a revenue mix from the Mobile business group towards our Home business group which has higher gross margins.
We invested $241.8 million in R&D in 2011 compared with $199.9 million in 2010 and $169.7 million in 2009.
The increase was mainly due to the inclusion of four months of Zoran R&D expenditure.
In conjunction with our disciplined approach to capital allocation and cost control, we expect to reduce R&D expenditure during 2012.
Our operating loss for 2011 was $48.4 million, compared to an operating loss of $6.3 million in 2010 2009: operating loss of $15.9 million.
The operating loss in 2011 was a result of restructuring charges of $33.7 million, fees of $13.0 million relating to the acquisition of Zoran, and also lower revenues from the areas of handsets and PNDs, the latter showing a sharp decline in the second half of the year.
Underlying operating profit for 2011 was $49.2 million compared to $78.9 million for 2010, the underlying operating profit for 2009 was $32.9 million.
The decreased underlying operating profit in 2011 compared to 2010 was as a result of the reduced revenues in handsets and automotive as well as the loss for the Zoran businesses for the period post acquisition.
Our net profit for 2011 was $33.9 million, compared to a profit of $16.6 million in 2010 2009: loss of $11.3 million.
The net profit increase was the result of the increase in the operating loss which was more than offset by the increase in the tax credit to $85.3 million from a credit of $22.3 million in 2010 2009: tax credit of $2.9 million.
The tax credit mainly resulted from the recognition of tax losses and other temporary differences acquired with Zoran and SiRF.
On 31 August 2011, we completed the acquisition of Zoran, a semiconductor supplier of video and imaging technology for cameras, televisions and printing, via a merger, for a total consideration of $440.5 million.
Under the terms of the acquisition, Zoran shareholders received $6.26 in cash and 0.589 of a CSR plc ordinary share in exchange for each Zoran share, the ordinary shares being in the form of ADSs, each ADS representing 4 ordinary shares.
The Group issued 29,774,144 shares in CSR plc at a CSR plc share price of 2.215 and exchange rate of 1.6304 US dollars to GBP and a total cash payment of $316.4 million.
Following the acquisition, $111.4 million of the Groups revenue during the remainder of 2011 was derived from the business acquired with Zoran.
The performance of the Zoran business over this period was consistent with our expectations at the time of completion.
Our revenues excluding Zorans contribution in 2011 were approximately $764 million compared with approximately $800 million in 2010 or an 8% decline year on year.
Our financial results for 2011 include Zoran from the date of completion, but Zorans financial performance is not reflected in our financial results for the period of 2011 prior to the acquisition or for any prior financial years.
Cash, cash equivalents and treasury deposits decreased to $277.8 million at 30 December 2011 from $440.1 million at 31 December 2010.
This decrease was mainly as a result of the use of $93.3 million in cash, net of cash acquired, as part of the consideration associated with the acquisition of Zoran, $47.5 million of share buy-backs and $16.3 million of dividend payments, partially offset by net cash generated from operating activities in 2011 of $12.6 million 2010: $77.9 million: 2009: $50.2 million.
On 13 September 2010, the Board announced its intention to buy-back its ordinary shares in an amount up to $50 million, under a general authority granted by shareholders at the annual general meeting held in May 2010.
In connection with the acquisition of Zoran, on 21 February 2011, the Board announced its intention to buy-back its ordinary shares in an amount up to $240 million, under the general authority granted by shareholders replacing the $50 million amount.
CSR had not purchased its own ordinary shares after 9 May 2011.
The Board is proposing the Companys final dividend of $0.071 per share in respect of the 2011 financial year.
It is the Boards intention to follow a progressive dividend policy that reflects the underlying growth prospects of the Company as well as the long term outlook for growth in earnings per share and group cash flow.
The Board intends to pay dividends on a semi-annual basis.
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 May 2012, the final dividend will be paid on 1 June 2012 to shareholders of record on 11 May 2012.
The final dividend will be paid in sterling.
As noted above, our financial results for the financial year to 30 December 2011 include those of Zoran from the date of the acquisition, while Zorans financial performance is not reflected in our financial results for 2010, or for any of the financial years prior to 2010.
Recent developments On 1 January 2012, CSR completed a reorganisation of its US subsidiaries, whereby its ownership of Zoran was transferred to CSR Technology Holdings Inc. and Zorans trade and assets were transferred to CSR Technology Inc. another of CSRs indirectly owned subsidiaries.
Our Segments Segmental business and financial review Following the acquisition of Zoran on 31 August 2011 and the subsequent announcement, on 12 December 2011, to discontinue investment in the digital television and silicon tuner businesses, we reorganised our internal reporting structures.
Our business is now organised into four business groups which represent our reporting segments: Automotive, comprising automotive and portable navigation device PND and telematics business lines: Home, containing gaming and home entertainment, PCs and tablets, document imaging, health and fitness, and voice & music: Mobile, which has our handset and camera businesses: and Legacy Products containing the business lines in which we have ceased further investment: DTV SoCs, Set Top Box SoCs and Digital Tuners.
The Automotive business CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 09 Full version AR 290898. pdf 13 14 03 2012 17:20:30 Directors report Business and financial review continued group is largely unchanged from our previous Auto and PND business unit and now includes a small element of audio tuner and DVD revenue that is derived from the auto market.
The Home business group represents our previous Audio and Consumer business unit and now includes Zorans PC and Document Imaging.
The Mobile business group comprises our previous Handset business unit as well as both the CSR and Zoran camera businesses.
The following table presents our segmental revenue and segment operating result for 2011, 2010 and 2009.
Zoran revenue is included in this data only for the portion of 2011 following the acquisition on 31 August 2011, SiRF revenue is included in this data only for the portion of 2009 following the acquisition on 26 June 2009.
Segment results are regularly reported to the CEO: and each of which has an individual manager responsible for its performance on the executive management team.
These four business groups have been assessed as our reportable segments in line with IFRS8 Operating Segments and comparative results for 2009 and 2010 have been restated for comparability.
Automotive In 2011, our Automotive business group revenues declined year-on-year by 8% to $205.0 million, compared with $223.1 million in 2010.
While the reported capacity constraints were lifted by the end of the first half of 2011 and we saw growth in automotive revenues as a result of higher attach rates for our technologies in the automotive market, where we hold the leading position in Bluetooth and GPS, these were offset by a sharp decline in PND sales in emerging markets, which resulted from a combination of market share losses and market decline as navigation and location capabilities move towards in-dash navigation and location capabilities carried by smartphones.
We expect these trends to continue, resulting in further growth in the automotive market and ongoing weakness in the PND market as a result of the move towards in-dash and location capabilities delivered by smartphones.
Looking ahead, growth trends for connectivity and location technologies in the Automotive markets are expected to be strong, driven by increased attach rates as well as emerging applications.
The automotive business includes products for the after-market in-dash market in China and whilst it is more competitive than the western OEM market, we expect it to see growth this year.
In addition, as our audio and video technology gains broad adoption in a variety of consumer devices, we believe there is also an opportunity to expand that technology to the car.
2010 first half revenues in this segment grew from $14.1 million in the first half of 2009 to $104.5 million in the first half of 2010, mainly as a result of the inclusion of SiRF GPS revenues.
2010 Bluetooth revenues showed strong growth in both PNDs and automotive applications.
Second half revenues in this segment increased by around 5% compared to the second half of 2009, although sales were constrained during the second half of 2010 due to the limited manufacturing capacity of one supplier for some devices.
Automotive underlying operating profit was $10.6 million in 2011 compared to an underlying operating profit of $44.8 million in 2010 2009: underlying operating profit of $17.7 million.
The decreased underlying operating profit in 2011 compared to 2010 was as a result of Automotive business group revenue decreasing and significant investment in the next generation of Automotive location products.
The growth in 2010 as compared to 2009 was due to the full year impact of the acquisition of SiRF in 2009.
Home During 2011, overall revenue in our Home business group increased by 13.9% to $269.0 million, compared with $236.2 million in 2010.
Excluding the Zoran imaging business, which contributed $20.1m of revenues, revenues increased by 5%.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 10 Full version AR 290898. pdf 14 14 03 2012 17:20:30 2011 revenues include a contribution of $20.8 million from the Zoran imaging business, which was included in this segment from 31 August 2011 onwards.
Excluding the imaging business, our Home business group grew by around 5% in 2011 compared to 2010, as a result of growth in the stereo headset market, especially in emerging markets as well as a significant customer win in the Bluetooth gaming controller market.
The markets for stereo audio products are expected to continue to grow in 2012.
In 2010, Home revenues grew in all their markets.
The majority of the growth came from the headset market, where shipment volumes increased and revenues increased significantly as the market oversupply problems experienced in the first half of 2009 did not recur.
There was also significant strength in the gaming market where revenues grew as a result of the launch of new products and increased market share for our main end customer in this market.
During the fourth quarter, we continued to see strong revenues from gaming as a result of the previously announced Tier One gaming controller win.
Whilst we are gaining market share in this area, we are also seeing some softness in this market.
GPS revenues in this segment almost doubled over 2009 as GPS technology was included in more cameras and fitness applications.
Bluetooth revenues increased from the PC market as we won a number of new customers.
Home underlying operating profit in 2011 was $61.8 million compared to an underlying operating profit of $57.9 million in 2010 2009: underlying operating profit of $7.9 million.
The increased Home underlying operating profit in 2011 was as a result of increased revenues in 2011 when compared to 2010.
The increased Home underlying operating profit in 2010 as compared to 2009 was as a result of the growth in the headset business.
Mobile Revenues in our Mobile business group decreased by 5% in 2011 to $322.9 million, compared with $341.3 million in 2010.
Excluding camera revenues of $38.0 million, which are essentially derived from the Zoran acquisition, revenues declined by around 17%.
Revenue in our handset business declined primarily as a result of falling Bluetooth revenue, as standalone Bluetooth was replaced by Bluetooth Wi-Fi combination chips, and as we reduced exposure to the Chinese market due to intense price competition.
Our handset performance continues to be constrained by our low share of the connectivity market for smartphones, while continued strong sales in the feature phone market and sales of location products to smartphones partially offset this weakness.
We expect to continue to see challenging conditions for our handset business in 2012.
2011 revenues include a contribution of $38.0 million from the Zoran camera business, which was included in this segment from 31 August 2011 onwards.
The revenue in our handset division declined by $60.2 million in 2011 as compared to 2010, primarily as a result of declining Bluetooth revenue, due to a loss of market share, as Bluetooth and WiFi combos replaced stand alone Bluetooth and a reduction in business in China as intense competition reduced prices.
In GPS there was a 75% increase in shipment volumes year on year as a result of customer adoption of our innovative SiRFStarIV location device, which offered significant size, performance and cost benefits over SiRFStarIII.
However due to the lower cost and therefore selling price of this device there was a small overall fall in handset GPS revenues.
In our Mobile business group, in the future, we expect to derive most of our handset revenues from our standalone GPS and Combo chips, as demand for Bluetooth standalone chips continues to decline.
In 2010, non-GPS revenues fell due to reductions in weighted average selling prices within the usual range of 10-20%, whilst volume shipments increased.
Growth was constrained by our low share of the smartphone market and the delayed production increase at one of our lead customers for our CSR8000 product.
The net decline in the legacy Bluetooth business in 2010 was more than offset by the increased revenue from GPS shipments which increased as a result of including a full year of the GPS business.
Second half GPS revenues in this segment increased by 9% compared to the second half of 2009, although shipment volumes increased by more than this as a major customer switched volume production at the end of 2010 to the new lower cost SiRFStarIV device described above.
Mobile underlying operating loss in 2011 was $12.7 million compared to an underlying operating loss of $23.8 million in 2010 2009: underlying operating profit of $7.4 million.
The reduced Mobile underlying operating loss in 2011 was as a result of reduced investment in handset product development.
The underlying operating loss in 2010 as compared to a profit in 2009 was as a result of reductions in revenue.
Legacy Revenue from the Legacy Products group, which includes the parts of the acquired Zoran business where we have now ceased investment, represented 6% of our total revenue in 2011.
On 12 December 2011 we announced that we would discontinue investment in the DTV SoCs and silicon tuner business lines.
Zoran had previously discontinued investment in the related areas of DVD players and Set Top Box SoCs.
This decision was made to enable focus on areas where we have a leadership position and the ability to deliver differentiated platforms and solutions.
We expect this business to continue to generate revenue in the short term.
The Legacy Products group made an underlying operating loss in 2011 of $10.6 million.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 11 Full version AR 290898. pdf 15 14 03 2012 17:20:30 Directors report Business and financial review continued Our Financial Performance The following table summarises our income statement: 2011 2010 2009 $ million $ million $ million Revenue 845.2 800.6 601.4 Other cost of sales 424.0 418.4 327.1 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 8.2 5.7 Fair value adjustment to inventory 28.2 6.0 Gross profit 384.8 376.5 268.3 Other research and development expenses 228.6 189.2 155.5 Share-based payment charges 7.7 5.7 6.8 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 5.5 5.0 7.4 Total research and development expenses 241.8 199.9 169.7 Other sales, general and administrative expenses 143.4 114.1 85.9 Share-based payment charges 6.5 4.0 3.8 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 4.9 3.5 2.0 Integration and restructuring expenses 33.7 1.1 12.2 Acquisition-related fees 13.0 0.4 10.6 Litigation settlement 59.8 Patent settlement 6.0 Litigation settlement income 14.5 fide-recognition of contingent consideration 1.6 Total sales, general and administrative expenses 191.4 182.9 114.5 Operating loss 48.4 6.3 15.9 Investment revenue 1.6 0.8 1.9 Finance costs and other gains and losses 4.7 0.2 0.2 Loss before tax 51.5 5.7 14.2 Tax 85.4 22.3 2.9 Profit loss for the period 33.9 16.6 11.3 Non-GAAP measures Some discussions and analyses in this Annual Report include measures which are not defined by generally accepted accounting principles GAAP such as IFRS.
We believe this information, along with comparable IFRS measures, is useful to investors.
Our management uses these financial measures, along with the most directly comparable IFRS financial measures, in evaluating our operating performance and value creation.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information presented in compliance with IFRS.
Non-GAAP financial measures as reported by us may not be comparable with similarly titled amounts reported by other companies.
In the following sections and elsewhere in this Annual Report we discuss the following non-GAAP measures: Underlying research and development expenses which is equivalent to the heading Other research and development expenses in the table above: Underlying sales, general and administration expenses which is equivalent to the heading Other sales, general and administration expenses in the table above: Underlying gross profit which represents Revenue less Other cost of sales in the table above, and excludes Amortisation of acquired intangible assets and Fair value adjustment to inventory recorded before Gross Profit in the table above: Underlying cost of sales which represents Other cost of sales: Underlying operating profit which represents Underlying gross profit after deduction of underlying research and development and underlying sales, general and administrative expenses: Underlying net profit which represents underlying operating profit, plus investment income, less finance costs, excluding the unwinding of the discount on the litigation liability and tax, excluding the tax effects of the adjustments made to underlying operating profit and the recognition of deferred tax assets for acquired tax losses: Underlying tax which represents Tax excluding the tax effects of the adjustments made to underlying operating profit and the recognition of deferred tax assets for acquired tax losses: CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 12 Full version AR 290898. pdf 16 14 03 2012 17:20:30 Underlying diluted earnings per share which represents underlying net profit divided by the weighted average number of diluted shares: and Free cash flow which represents cash generated by operations, less amounts spent on tangible and intangible fixed assets.
Underlying cost of sales, underlying gross profit, underlying gross margin, underlying research and development expenses, underlying sales, general and administrative expenses, underlying operating profit, underlying tax, underlying net profit, free cash flow and underlying diluted earnings per share are non-GAAP measures.
We comment on these in detail here because they are the way in which we measure our business internally, they form the basis for managements performance targets and resource allocation decisions and we use them to determine and manage the long term growth of the business.
We present and discuss these measures in order to: provide consistency with the way management view the business and discuss performance with investors: ensure that the measures are fully understood in the light of how CSR manages the business: comply with UK Company Law which requires the presentation of the Groups Key Performance Indicators: properly define the metrics used and confirm their calculation: share the metrics with all investors at the same time: disclose the main drivers of management remuneration: improve transparency for investors: assist investors in their assessment of the long-term value of CSR: and therefore assist investors in understanding management behaviour.
Beginning on page 14 we provide a reconciliation of each measure to the nearest IFRS measure: underlying operating profit to IFRS operating profit, underlying gross profit to IFRS gross profit, underlying gross margin to IFRS gross margin, underlying net profit to IFRS net loss profit, underlying operating expenses to IFRS operating expenses, underlying tax to IFRS tax underlying diluted earnings per share to diluted earnings per share and free cash flow to cash generated by operations.
In each of the underlying measures we add back the amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets, including goodwill.
Our revenue is driven by the performance of our technology and our customer relationships, some of which is internally generated and some of which has been acquired.
The acquired technologies and customer relationships are assigned a finite life and result in an amortisation charge being recorded in arriving at operating profit.
There are no similar charges associated with our internally generated technology and other intangible assets.
In addition, from time to time, the Group may be required to recognise impairments of intangibles and goodwill.
No similar charges can occur from our organically grown businesses.
We believe that excluding amortisation of acquired intangible assets and goodwill impairment from our measures of operating performance allows the operating performance of the businesses that were organically grown and those that have resulted from acquisitions to be analysed on a more comparable basis.
We also add back the fair value adjustments to inventory recognised on our acquisitions of Zoran and SiRF.
Our gross profit is driven by our selling prices and the cost of manufacture.
The acquired inventory is stated at fair value in accordance with IFRS3, which leads to lower gross margins than would be expected were the inventory to have been manufactured and valued in the normal way.
We believe the underlying gross margin therefore gives useful information about the operating performance and allows easier comparison around performance compared to prior periods.
From time to time events occur which due to their size or nature are considered separately when discussing the trading performance of the Group.
The gains and losses on these discrete items can have a material impact on the absolute amount of, and trend in, the operating profit and results for the year.
Therefore any gains and losses on such items are analysed outside the underlying results to enable the trends in the underlying performance of the business to be understood.
Where items are excluded from the underlying results we provide additional information on these items to enable a full understanding of the events and their financial impact.
Examples of such items are the fair value adjustments to inventory in 2011 and 2009 in connection with the Zoran and SiRF acquisitions, the litigation and patent settlements in 2011 and 2010, acquisition related fees incurred in 2011 and 2009 in connection with the Zoran and SiRF acquisitions and integration and restructuring fees in 2011 and 2009 following the Zoran and SiRF acquisitions.
In each of the underlying measures we add back share option charges.
We believe share option charges reflects a non-cash cost which may obscure the trends in the underlying business and these charges are based on a number of assumptions linked to our share price, the volatility of our share price, the expected performance of our share price compared to a number of other comparator companies and assumptions around employee behaviour.
Therefore management of the segments are not held accountable for the impact of this item on their results of operations.
Further, management believes that due to these subjective assumptions involved in determining the fair value of equity awards and the varying methodologies used to determine equity based compensation across various companies, excluding these amounts from underlying operating profit and underlying net loss profit enhances comparisons of the underlying operating performance of the business with other similar companies.
Therefore any charges from these share-based payments are analysed outside the underlying results to enable the trends in the underlying performance of the business to be understood.
In underlying diluted earnings per share and underlying tax, in order to ensure that the impact of the items discussed above can be understood, we exclude the tax effects of the adjustments made to underlying operating profit and the recognition of deferred tax assets for acquired tax losses.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 13 Full version AR 290898. pdf 17 14 03 2012 17:20:30 Directors report Business and financial review continued Caution CSR cautions that, whilst we have defined underlying cost of sales, underlying gross profit, underlying gross margin, underlying research and development expenses, underlying sales, general and administrative expenses, underlying operating profit, underlying tax, underlying net profit, free cash flow and underlying diluted earnings per share, they are not defined terms under IFRS or other GAAP and therefore these definitions should be carefully reviewed and understood by investors.
Investors should be aware that their application may vary in practice from other similarly titled measures presented by other companies and therefore these measures may not be fully comparable between companies.
In particular: underlying measures are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measures in the financial statements: the usefulness of free cash flow as an indicator of investment value is limited, as such measures are based on historical information: the adjusted items are in some cases recurring or could be expected to recur in the future, and we do not represent that these are in any way extraordinary or outside the normal course of business: and some of the items that have been adjusted or excluded from non-GAAP performance measures presented in this Annual Report, such as integration or restructuring charges, are based on managements judgment, in terms of both classification and estimation.
Underlying measures The table below gives a reconciliation of underlying gross profit to the heading Gross profit for the period, underlying research and development expenses to the heading total research and development expenses, underlying sales, marketing and administrative expenses to the heading total sales, marketing and administrative expenses, underlying operating profit to the heading Operating loss profit for the period, underlying net profit to the heading profit loss for the period, underlying tax to the heading tax and underlying diluted earnings per share to the heading diluted earnings per share as presented on the consolidated income statement in the financial statements for the three years presented in the income statement.
The table below gives a reconciliation of diluted shares to the diluted shares used in calculating earnings per share as presented on the consolidated income statement in the financial statements for the three years presented in the income statement.
The numbers differ for 2009 and 2008 as in the loss per share calculation presented for those periods, share options are not dilutive, however they are dilutive for underlying dilutive earnings per share as underlying earnings represented a profit in both these years.
There is no difference in the number of dilutive shares for 2011, 2010, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004.
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 1 January 2010 Number of shares Number of shares Number of shares Weighted average number of shares used in diluted earnings per share calculations 181,393,972 181,033,874 153,927,671 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares share options 3,520,499 Weighted average number of shares used in underlying diluted earnings per share calculations 181,393,972 181,033,874 157,448,170 Free cash flow Free cash flow is calculated as cash generated by operations as per the consolidated cash flow statement in the financial statements less expenditure on tangible and intangible assets not including those acquired through acquisition in the 52 week period as shown on the cash flow statement.
The table below gives a reconciliation of free cash flow to the heading cash generated by operations as presented on the consolidated cash flow statement here for the three years presented in the cash flow statement.
The calculations for 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007 which are utilised in the Key Performance Indicator section for calculation of free cash flow are performed on a consistent basis.
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 1 January 2010 $000 $000 $000 Cash generated by operations 16,153 70,579 50,280 Less: Purchase of property, plant and equipment 14,573 7,750 7,528 Purchase of intangible assets 4,245 6,771 5,799 Free cash flow 2,665 56,058 36,953 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 15 Full version AR 290898. pdf 19 14 03 2012 17:20:30 Directors report Business and financial review continued The following table presents revenue, cost of sales, underlying cost of sales, gross profit, underlying gross profit, total research and development expenses, underlying research and development expenses, total sales, general and administrative expenses, underlying sales, general and administrative expenses, operating loss and underlying operating profit, all in absolute terms and as a percentage of revenue, for 2011 and 2010: 2011 2010 Increase Amount %of Amount %of decrease % $ million Revenue $ million Revenue $ million change Revenue 845.2 100.0 800.6 100.0 44.6 5.6 Cost of sales 460.4 54.5 424.0 53.0 36.4 8.6 Underlying cost of sales 424.0 50.2 418.4 52.3 5.6 1.3 Gross profit 384.8 45.5 376.6 47.0 8.2 2.2 Underlying gross profit 421.2 49.8 382.2 47.7 39.0 10.2 Research and development expenses 241.8 28.6 199.9 25.0 41.9 21.0 Underlying Research and development expenses 228.6 27.0 189.2 23.6 39.4 20.8 Sales, general and administrative expenses 191.4 22.6 182.9 22.8 8.5 4.6 Underlying sales, general and administrative expenses 143.4 17.0 114.1 14.3 29.3 25.7 Operating loss 48.4 5.7 6.3 0.8 42.1 668.3 Underlying operating profit 49.2 5.8 78.9 9.9 29.7 37.6 The following table presents revenue, cost of sales, underlying cost of sales, gross profit, underlying gross profit, total research and development expenses, underlying research and development expenses, total sales, general and administrative expenses, underlying sales, general and administrative expenses, operating loss and underlying operating profit, all in absolute terms and as a percentage of revenue, for 2010 and 2009: 2010 2009 Increase Amount %of Amount %of decrease % $ million Revenue $ million Revenue $ million change Revenue 800.6 100.0 601.4 100.0 199.2 33.1 Cost of sales 424.0 53.0 333.1 55.4 90.9 27.3 Underlying cost of sales 418.4 52.3 327.1 54.3 91.3 27.9 Gross profit 376.6 47.0 268.3 44.6 108.3 40.4 Underlying gross profit 382.2 47.7 274.3 45.6 107.9 39.3 Research and development expenses 199.9 25.0 169.7 28.2 30.2 17.8 Underlying Research and development expenses 189.2 23.6 155.5 25.9 33.7 21.7 Sales, general and administrative expenses 182.9 22.8 114.5 19.0 68.4 59.7 Underlying sales, general and administrative expenses 114.1 14.3 85.9 14.3 28.2 32.8 Operating loss 6.3 0.8 15.9 2.6 9.6 60.4 Underlying operating profit 78.9 9.9 32.9 5.5 46.0 139.8 Revenue Our revenue in 2011 increased to $845.2 million representing a 5.6% increase on 2010 revenue $800.6 million.
In August 2011, we acquired Zoran, which contributed $111.4 million to the reported revenue.
Had Zoran been acquired on the first day of 2011, it would have contributed a total of $340.4 million of revenue in the year.
Excluding the contribution from Zoran, revenues fell by 8.3%, which was due to a combination of declines in PND within the Automotive business group and handset within the Mobile business group revenues, which were partially offset by growth in the Home business group.
These are described further in the segment analysis section on pages 9 to 11.
Volume weighted average selling prices excluding Zoran declined by around 10% year-on-year, in line with normal expectations.
The declines were most significant in the Mobile business group: in handset GPS products, there was a 75% increase in shipment volumes year on year as a result of customer adoption of our innovative SiRFStarIV location device, which offered significant size, performance and cost benefits over SiRFStarIII, however due to the lower cost and therefore selling price of this device, there was a small overall fall in handset GPS revenues.
The trend for declining ASPs is well established in the industry, as products mature, and this is expected to continue.
To mitigate this decline, we are planning a combination of new product introductions which can command a higher ASP for new features and we expect an increased demand for certain of our products due to market growth and customer wins.
Our revenue in 2010 increased to $800.6 million representing a 33.1% increase on 2009 revenue $601.4 million.
During 2009, we acquired SiRF which, had it been acquired on the first day of 2009, would have contributed a total of $212.5 million of GPS revenue in the year.
In 2010, we recorded a full year of GPS revenues totaling $273.9 million.
The remaining growth was driven by our legacy Bluetooth business.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 16 Full version AR 290898. pdf 20 14 03 2012 17:20:30 The increase in revenue was achieved despite the volume-weighted average selling price across all products declining by 1% from 2009 to 2010.
Volume weighted average selling prices declined for both Bluetooth and GPS products: however, these declines were substantially offset by the higher proportion of revenues from GPS products which have a higher average selling price although they are subject to the trend for decline described above.
During 2010, we saw particularly strong growth in our automotive and PND and audio and consumer businesses, which are described further below.
This positive impact was offset to an extent by weakness in our handset business, where our lack of penetration in smartphones and the related trend favouring combination devices which meant that the handset business was able to achieve only modest growth.
Geographical analysis We operate in four principal geographic areas the UK, the rest of Europe, the Americas particularly the USA and Asia.
The table below provides, for the periods indicated, our revenue from external customers by geographical location, on the basis of customers manufacturing location: 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 1 January 2010 $ million $ million $ million UK 0.2 6.6 0.3 Rest of Europe 60.5 110.2 69.2 USA including the Americas 89.5 92.3 62.5 Asia 695.0 591.5 469.4 Total 845.2 800.6 601.4 Major customers The proportion of revenue derived from our top ten customers has fallen to 46% from 50% in 2010 2009: 54%.
Recent acquisitions as well as growth in the Automotive and Home segments, where there are a higher proportion of smaller customers, have brought increased diversity to our customer base and continued to reduce our dependency on a small number of key customers.
Sales to our largest customer accounted for approximately 10% of revenue approximately $87.3 million in 2011, compared with 14% of revenue approximately $115.2 million in 2010 and 11% of revenue $67.8 million in 2009.
In 2011 and 2010, only our largest customer exceeded 10% of revenue in the period.
In 2009, sales to our second largest customer also contributed nearly 11% of revenue or approximately $63.9 million.
In 2011, revenue from our top five customers represented 38% of total revenue, as compared to 42% in 2010 and 43% in 2009.
Gross profit Gross profit consists of revenue less cost of sales which mainly consists of the production cost of our semiconductor chips, inventory provision charges, warranty costs, distribution costs, amortisation of intangible assets and the fair value adjustment to inventory.
In 2011, our gross margin, which is the ratio of gross profit to revenue decreased to 45.5%, from 47.0% in 2010.
In absolute terms, gross profit increased from $376.6 million in 2010 to $384.7 million in 2011, an increase of 2.2%.
Gross profit is stated after charging $28.2 million of fair value adjustments to inventory which represented the release of the uplift on acquisition to the Zoran inventory from cost to fair value.
In addition it is after charging $8.2 million of amortisation of intangible assets 2010: $5.7 million which were recognised on the acquisitions of Zoran in 2011 and SiRF in 2009 and related to developed products which are being sold.
Excluding these charges, the underlying gross margin for 2011 was 49.8%.
In 2010, our gross margin increased to 47.0% from 44.6% in 2009, predominantly due to the increased proportion of GPS revenues as a result of the inclusion of a full year of GPS revenues, and the mix away from the Mobile business group to the other segments which generally have a higher gross margin.
In absolute terms, gross profit increased to $376.6 million from $268.3 million in 2009, an increase of 40.4%.
The underlying gross margin increased to 49.8% in 2011 from 47.7% in 2010 reflecting overall mix away from the Mobile business group towards the Home business group which has higher gross margins and growth in gross margins in the Home business group due to a higher proportion of higher margin stereo headset revenues.
The addition of the Zoran businesses contributed an increase of 0.4% in the year to our overall gross margin.
Research and development R&D is further broken down into underlying research and development, share-based payment charges and amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Underlying R&D consists primarily of staff costs, engineering costs and depreciation.
The following table sets forth the primary components of R&D expenses during 2011 and 2010: 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 Amount %of Amount %of Increase % $ million Revenue $ million Revenue $million change Research and development Underlying research and development 228.6 27.0 189.2 23.6 39.4 20.8 Share-based payment charges 7.7 0.9 5.7 0.8 2.0 35.1 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 5.5 0.7 5.0 0.6 0.5 10.0 Total 241.8 28.6 199.9 25.0 41.9 21.0 In 2011, R&D costs were $241.8 million, a 21.0% increase from the $199.9 million in 2010.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 17 Full version AR 290898. pdf 21 14 03 2012 17:20:30 Directors report Business and financial review continued Underlying R&D expenditures in 2011 were $228.6 million, an increase of 20.8% compared to $189.2 million in 2010.
This increase was mainly due to the inclusion of Zoran R&D costs of $33.0 million following the acquisition on 31 August 2011.
Excluding Zoran, R&D costs increased by 3%.
The acquisition of Zoran led to average R&D headcount increasing to 1,422 in 2011 from 1,052 in 2010.
Combined R&D headcount as at the completion of our acquisition of Zoran was 1,997, which had fallen to 1,979 by the end of the year due to the implementation of cost reduction initiatives announced at the time of the acquisition of Zoran.
Share-based payment charges increased by $2.0 million from 2010 to 2011, mainly due to the acquisition of Zoran.
The increase in amortisation of acquired intangible assets was due to the assets recognised on the acquisition of Zoran.
In 2012 we will include a full year of Zoran costs: however this will be partially offset by the cost savings resulting from the previously announced discontinuance of investment in digital television systems on a chip and silicon tuners.
The following table sets forth the primary components of R&D expenses during 2010 and 2009: 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Increase Amount %of Amount %of decrease % $ million Revenue $ million Revenue $million change Research and development Underlying research and development 189.2 23.6 155.5 25.9 33.7 21.7 Share-based payment charges 5.7 0.8 6.8 1.1 1.1 16.2 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 5.0 0.6 7.4 1.2 2.4 32.4 Total 199.9 25.0 169.7 28.2 30.2 17.8 In 2010, R&D costs were $199.9 million, a 17.8% increase from $169.7 million in 2009.
Underlying R&D expenditures in 2010 were $189.2 million, an increase of 21.7% compared to $155.5 million in 2009.
The increase was due to the inclusion of a full year of costs following the acquisition of SiRF in 2009, which was offset by the impact of synergies arising in the second half of 2009 as a result of the combination of the CSR and SiRF R&D departments and the investment in increased headcount in 2010 as we sought to enhance our development capability in specific areas, particularly in Wi-Fi.
The combination of the acquisition of SiRF and these targeted personnel additions led to average R&D headcount increasing to 1,041 in 2010 from 811 in 2009.
Combined R&D headcount as at the completion of our acquisition of SiRF was 1,014.
We also spent approximately $9 million in 2010 on intellectual property for inclusion in some of our next generation of System on Chip products where customers demanded increased processor power.
Share-based payment charges decreased by around $1 million from 2009 to 2010, mainly due to changes in our assessments of the likely achievement against performance targets.
The decline in amortisation of acquired intangible assets was a combination of the inclusion of a full year of amortisation for the assets recognised on the acquisition of SiRF in 2009, which was more than offset by the allocation of amortisation to cost of sales.
Sales, general & administrative Sales, General & Administrative SG&A consists of total sales, general and administrative expenses: which is further broken down into underlying sales, general and administrative expenses, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, share-based payment charges, acquisition related fees, patent settlement, integration and restructuring expenses and litigation dispute settlement costs, net of litigation settlement income and derecognition of contingent consideration.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 18 Full version AR 290898. pdf 22 14 03 2012 17:20:30 The following table presents the components of SG&A during 2011 and 2010: 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 Increase Amount %of Amount %of decrease % $ million Revenue $ million Revenue $million change Sales, general and administrative Underlying sales, general and administrative expenses 143.4 17.0 114.1 14.3 29.3 25.7 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 4.9 0.6 3.5 0.4 1.4 40.0 Share-based payment charges 6.5 0.8 4.0 0.5 2.5 62.5 Integration and restructurings 33.7 4.0 1.1 0.1 32.6 2,963.6 Litigation settlement 59.8 7.5 59.8 100.0 Acquisition-related fees 13.0 1.5 0.4 12.6 3,150.0 Patent settlement 6.0 0.7 6.0 Litigation settlement income 14.5 1.7 14.5 fide-recognition of contingent consideration 1.6 0.2 1.6 Total 191.4 22.6 182.9 22.8 8.5 4.6 Sales, general and administrative costs in 2011 were $191.4 million, representing a 4.6% increase from $182.9 million in 2010.
This increase reflects the inclusion of $30.8 million of Zoran underlying expenses other Zoran expenses are mainly included within the integration and restructuring costs of $33.7 million as they related to the restructuring for the period post the acquisition which completed on 31 August 2011, integration costs of $33.7 million, acquisition related fees of $13.0 million and patent settlement costs of $6.0 million.
These more than offset the fide-recognition of the APTx contingent consideration of $1.6 million as milestones were not met, the year on year reduction resulting from the 2010 litigation settlement charge of $59.8 million in 2010, which was the result of the comprehensive settlement of all outstanding litigation with Broadcom, as explained further below and following our legal settlement with Broadcom Corporation, announced on 11 January 2011, we negotiated a legal recovery of $14.5m from a third party in favour of CSR.
No further recoveries in favour of CSR toward the Broadcom settlement are anticipated.
Integration and restructuring charges in 2010 of $1.1 million related to the closure of our Stockholm office in the fourth quarter of 2010, and mainly represented employee severance costs.
Underlying sales, general and administrative expenses were $143.4 million: representing a 25.7% increase compared to 2010 underlying sales, general and administrative expenses of $114.1 million.
This increase was as a result of the Zoran expenses mentioned above of $30.8 million, which more than offset the lower litigation costs following the settlement of the Broadcom litigation at the end of 2010.
Headcount increased to an average of 611 in 2011 from the 2010 average headcount of 422, with the majority of the growth coming from the acquisition of Zoran.
Combined SG&A headcount immediately following the Zoran acquisition was 1,276, although this had fallen to 966 by the end of 2011 as a result of the implementation of cost saving programmes.
The following table presents the components of SG&A during the 2010 and 2009 fiscal years: 2010 2009 2010 vs. 2009 Increase Amount %of Amount %of decrease % $ million Revenue $ million Revenue $million change Sales, general and administrative Underlying sales, general and administrative expenses 114.1 14.3 85.9 14.3 28.2 32.8 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 3.5 0.4 2.0 0.3 1.5 75.0 Share-based payment charges 4.0 0.5 3.8 0.6 0.2 5.3 Integration and restructuring 1.1 0.1 12.2 2.0 11.1 91.0 Litigation settlement 59.8 7.5 59.8 Acquisition-related fees 0.4 10.6 1.8 10.2 96.2 Total 182.9 22.8 114.5 19.0 68.4 59.7 Sales, general and administrative costs in 2010 were $182.9 million, representing a 59.7% increase from $114.5 million in 2009.
The most significant reason for the increase was the litigation dispute settlement charge of $59.8 million, at the end of 2010.
The settlement charge was the result of the comprehensive settlement on 10 January 2011 of all outstanding litigation with Broadcom.
The settlement includes all litigation ongoing between SiRF and Broadcom at the time of the acquisition of SiRF by CSR in June 2009.
The terms included a covenant by each party, expiring in January 2016, not to sue the other or any third parties, including the others customers, for infringement based on the use of the others products.
In connection with this comprehensive settlement, CSR agreed to make an initial payment of $5 million and payments of $12.5 million per year for five years.
This was recorded in the 2010 results at the net present value of $59.8 million.
Prior to the commencement of mediation in December 2010 the amount of any liability was not readily estimateable and no cash outflow was considered probable.
Underlying sales, general and administrative expenses were $114.1 million: representing a 32.8% increase compared to 2009 underlying sales, general and administrative expenses of $85.9 million.
This increase was as a result of higher CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 19 Full version AR 290898. pdf 23 14 03 2012 17:20:30 Directors report Business and financial review continued litigation costs, principally in connection with the work prior to settlement of the litigation with Broadcom and the inclusion of a full year of SiRF costs, although these were partially mitigated by the synergies achieved in the second half of 2009 2010 average headcount: 422, 2009 average headcount 356.
Combined SG&A headcount immediately following the SiRF acquisition was 430.
In 2009, we incurred integration and restructuring costs of $12.2 million which related to the reorganisation following the acquisition of SiRF.
There was a charge of $3.5 million 2009: $2.0 million for the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, which related to the amortisation of customer relationships and trade names recognised on the acquisition of SiRF.
This increase in SG&A expenditures was offset by decreases in acquisition-related fees of $10.2 million as we incurred $10.6 million on the acquisition of SiRF in 2009, whereas we only incurred $0.4 million on the acquisition of APT Licensing Limited in 2010.
Whilst 2012 will include a full year of Zoran operating costs, we expect this to be offset by the impact of the synergy, rightsizing and closure of the DTV system on a chip and silicon tuner business cost saving programmes we have announced during 2011.
The cost reductions expected as a result of these and other efficiency measures including the synergy and rightsizing savings total $130 million including $15 million of cost of sales savings arising from the Zoran transaction.
We therefore currently expect underlying operating costs, excluding all restructuring charges, to be in the range of $420 million to $430 million on an annualized basis during the second half of 2012, with full year 2012 underlying operating costs of $430 million to $440 million, with the savings spread across R&D and SG&A.
Operating result The operating loss for 2011 was $48.4 million compared to a loss of $6.3 million in 2010.
The increased loss was primarily the result of the costs relating to the acquisition of Zoran: as well as the inclusion of the loss for the Zoran businesses for the period post acquisition.
The operating margin in 2011 including the operating expense items noted above was a loss of 0.8% compared to a loss of 2.6% in 2010.
Underlying operating profit for 2011 was $49.2 million compared to $78.9 million for 2010.
The underlying operating margin for 2011 was 5.8% compared to 9.9% in 2010.
The operating loss for 2010 was $6.3 million compared to a loss of $2.6 million in 2009.
Underlying operating profit for 2010 was $78.9 million compared to an underlying operating profit of $32.9 million in 2009.
Investment revenue Our investment income primarily represents interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents and treasury deposits.
During 2011, we had a monthly average of $361.8 million in cash, cash equivalents and treasury deposits, which represents a decrease of 16% from the monthly average of $429.1 million in 2010.
A major reason for the decrease was the net cash outflow of $93.3 million on the acquisition of Zoran, as well as the share buyback undertaken in 2011 of $47.5 million.
Investment income increased to $1.6 million in 2011 from $0.8 million in 2010.
Investment income decreased to $0.8 million in 2010 from $1.9 million in 2009: although the base rates in the UK and US remained unchanged, there were a significant number of longer term deposits placed in 2008 before the rates began to decline, which matured in the early part of 2009 and increased the investment income in that year above the level indicated by base rates.
Finance costs, exchange gains and losses and other gains and losses Finance costs consist of interest expense and similar charges and unwinding of discount on contingent consideration.
Exchange losses relate to foreign exchange losses.
Other gains and losses consist of changes in the fair value of investments designated as fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition.
Our finance costs amounted to $4.7 million in 2011, an increase of $4.4 million compared to $0.2 million in 2010.
The major reasons for the increase were the unwinding of the discount on the Broadcom litigation accrual of $2.5 million and foreign exchange losses on non-USD cash balances of $0.7 million.
Our finance costs, exchange losses and other gains and losses amounted to $0.2 million in 2010, a small increase compared to $0.2 million in 2009.
Taxation The tax credit for 2011 was $ 85.4 million, compared to a credit of $22.3 million in 2010.
This results in an effective tax rate of -166% for the year.
The credit mainly resulted from the recognition of deferred tax assets related to losses and other temporary differences.
This included $16 million in respect of the previously unrecognised losses acquired with Cambridge Positioning Systems Limited in 2007, which were agreed with HMRC, the UK tax authority, in 2011 and $62 million in respect of US losses and temporary timing differences originally arisen in the SiRF and Zoran businesses which have been CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 20 Full version AR 290898. pdf 24 14 03 2012 17:20:30 recognised following a review of the groups future profitability after the discontinuance of investment in low-margin areas of digital television system-on-a-chip and silicon tuners.
There was also a $6.9 million R&D tax credit in the UK which will result in additional UK tax losses which will be carried forward against future years profits.
Our effective tax rate was also negatively impacted by losses in Israel in the period following the acquisition of Zoran for which we have not recognised the future tax benefit of the losses due to the history of tax losses in Israel.
The underlying effective tax rate for 2011 was 24.5%, which differed from the average UK statutory rate of 26.5% due mainly to the additional deduction for the R&D tax credit $6.9 million 14% : the impact of higher tax rates on our US profits and the impact of the unrecognized deferred tax asset on Israeli losses in the period as described above.
The underlying effective tax rate excludes the impact of the loss recognition and the tax impacts of items not included within our underlying profit before tax measure.
The tax credit for 2010 was $22.3 million representing an effective tax rate of 391%, compared to a credit of $2.9 million in 2009.
The significant credit resulted from the recognition of tax losses acquired with SiRF in 2009.
In his budget of 22 June 2010, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced Budget tax changes, which, if enacted in the proposed manner, will have a significant effect on the groups future tax position.
One change proposed was a decrease in the rate of corporation tax to 24%, in 1% increments each year.
On 21 July 2010, the first planned reduction, to 27%, was substantially enacted in the Finance Act 2010.
Further rate reductions to 26% and 25% were substantially enacted on 29 March 2011 and 5 July 2011 respectively with a further planned reduction in the rate of corporation tax to 23% from April 2014.
The effect of this decrease in the tax rate to 23% on the Groups deferred tax assets has been assessed and the impact is $2,675,547 2010: $844,000.
The budget also proposed a decrease in the capital allowance rates available on plant and machinery and integral fixtures from 20% to 18% and 10% to 8% respectively from 1 April 2012.
The changes, now enacted by the Finance Act 2010 will impact the amount of the future cash tax payments to be made by the Group.
In 2011, $nil 2010: $7.4 million of current tax benefit has been agreed with the tax authorities for the share option gains of a former employee and recognised in equity.
Profit loss for the period We recorded a profit of $33.9 million in 2011, compared to a profit of $16.6 million in 2010.
This increase in our profit was mainly due to the recognition of tax assets, which more than offset the increase in our loss before tax.
Underlying profit decreased to $36.8 million in 2011 from $77.4 million in 2010.
We recorded a profit of $16.6 million in 2010, compared to a loss of $11.3 million in 2009.
This increase in our profit was mainly due to the recognition of deferred tax assets as we recorded a larger loss before tax in 2010 as compared to 2009.
Underlying profit increased to $77.4 million in 2010 from $36.7 million in 2009.
Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share were $0.19 for 2011, compared to a basic and diluted loss per share of $0.09 for 2010.
Underlying diluted earnings per share for 2011 was $0.20 per share, a decrease of 53%, compared to $0.43 per share for 2010.
The major factor leading to an increase in the basic and diluted earnings per share in 2011 compared to 2010 was the tax credit described above.
Financial position 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 $ million $ million Non-current assets Goodwill 332.7 224.7 Other intangible assets 127.7 36.1 Property, plant and equipment 34.5 28.4 Investments 3.6 1.0 Deferred tax asset 118.4 28.1 617.1 318.3 Current assets Inventories 120.3 85.3 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 1.9 Trade and other receivables 135.6 112.6 Treasury deposits and investments 65.9 267.8 Cash and cash equivalents 211.9 172.3 533.9 639.9 Total assets 1,151.0 958.2 Current liabilities 221.3 134.7 Non-current liabilities 51.8 48.9 Total liabilities 273.1 183.6 Net assets 877.9 774.6 Goodwill The goodwill arose on the acquisitions of Zoran provisional in 2011, aptX in 2010, SiRF in 2009, CPS and NordNav in 2007 and Clarity and UbiNetics during 2005.
The balance of $ 332.7 million as of 30 December 2011 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 21 Full version AR 290898. pdf 25 14 03 2012 17:20:31 Directors report Business and financial review continued represents the goodwill from these acquisitions, excluding UbiNetics where the goodwill was impaired in 2008.
The annual impairment review conducted in respect of 2011 did not lead to any impairment of the goodwill balance.
For further discussion of the goodwill impairment review and in particular the sensitivities around assumptions for the handset cash generating unit, refer to note 16 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The provisional goodwill of $108.1 million recognised on the acquisition of Zoran during 2011 was allocated to the Home business group Printers and the Mobile business group Cameras in line with the relative fair value of those cash generating units.
Fixed assets other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Fixed assets at 30 December 2011 were $162.2 million compared to $64.5 million as at 31 December 2010.
Intangible assets of $127.7 million 2010: $36.1 million included the net book value of purchased developed technology of $51.7 million 2010: $6.8 million : our software licences and purchased intellectual property of $23.7 million 2010: $9.2 million and customer relationships of $37.4 million 2010: $7.4 million.
The net book value of purchased developed technology and customer relationships increased during the year due to the value of intangibles separately identified on the acquisition of Zoran, while the increase in software licences and purchased intellectual property during the year was mainly due to the acquisition of intellectual property rights which protect our core business and enable us to develop additional technologies.
Tangible fixed assets of $34.5 million 2010: $28.4 million increased due to $12.5 million net book value of assets acquired with Zoran.
Other than this increase, depreciation of $20.1 million exceeded additions of $14.9 million.
The majority of the balance of our tangible fixed assets is made up of test equipment and IT equipment.
During 2011, we continued to mainly invest in test equipment and IT infrastructure to support the growth of the business.
Deferred tax asset The increase in the deferred tax asset to $118.4 million at 30 December 2011 from $28.1 million at 31 December 2010 is mainly the result of the recognition of deferred tax assets related to losses and temporary timing differences the details of which are set out under the Taxation section above.
Inventories Inventories at 30 December 2011 stood at $120.3 million, a 41% increase from $85.3 million at 31 December 2010 and represents 94 inventory days 2010: 82 days of the previous three months cost of sales.
The increase is due to the inclusion of $22.2 million of Zoran inventory and PND customers notifying us of reductions in orders within the lead-time for production from our suppliers which led to higher than planned inventory balances.
This problem has been amplified by lengthening lead times due to the move to more advanced technology nodes and also capacity constraints in the early part of the year at certain suppliers, which forced earlier ordering timings.
We aim to keep sufficient inventory to meet the often short customer order lead times in this industry.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables increased to $98.5 million as at 30 December 2011, from $85.6 million at 31 December 2010.
Days sales outstanding remained at 40 days.
The increase in the trade receivables was due to higher revenue levels at the end of the year following the acquisition of Zoran.
Other receivables increased to $25.3 million as at 30 December 2011, from $20.2 million at 31 December 2010.
Liabilities Our total liabilities increased to $273.1 million at 30 December 2011 from $183.6 million at 31 December 2010.
Accruals and provisions increased, due in large part to restructuring accruals of $12.4 million and a provision of $11 million related to the indemnification of two former directors of Microtune, a company purchased by Zoran in November 2010 who are in ongoing litigation with the SEC.
Contingent consideration of $1.6 million on the acquisition of aptX was reversed in the year as milestones were not met.
Liquidity and capital resources Our primary source of liquidity is our cash flow from operations.
At present, we do not rely on third party financing for any operational cash requirements and therefore liquidity risk is not considered a significant risk.
We manage liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity of financial assets and liabilities.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 22 Full version AR 290898. pdf 26 14 03 2012 17:20:31 Cash flows 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011 31 December 2010 1 January 2010 $ million $ million $ million Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 11.3 44.1 29.7 Working capital 4.9 26.5 20.6 Taxation 3.1 7.6 0.8 Grant income 0.1 Interest paid 0.5 0.7 1.3 R&D tax credit received 0.3 2.0 Net cash from operating activities 12.6 77.9 50.2 1 Treasury management 232.8 25.4 115.8 Purchase of investments 2.6 1.0 Acquisitions of subsidiaries 123.9 1.9 66.5 Capital expenditure purchase of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 18.8 14.5 13.3 Other financing activities 4.0 4.3 1.1 Purchases of own shares 47.5 37.5 Payment of dividends 16.3 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 40.3 1.9 11.3 1 Treasury management is the aggregation of purchase of treasury deposits and sale of treasury deposits.
Cash, cash equivalents and treasury deposits decreased to $277.8 million including treasury deposits of $65.9 million at 30 December 2011, from $440.1 million including treasury deposits of $267.8 million at 31 December 2010, a decrease of $162.3 million.
The difference compared to the inflow of $40.3 million shown in the table above is principally due to net amounts withdrawn from treasury deposit of $202.2 million: these funds were withdrawn from treasury deposits to fund the acquisition of Zoran.
Treasury deposits represent deposits with an initial term of greater than 90 days, which are shown separately from cash and cash equivalents on our consolidated balance sheet.
The decrease of $162.3 million in our cash, cash equivalents and treasury deposits was primarily due to the $93.3 million net cash outflow on the acquisition of Zoran, $47.5 million cash outflow on the purchase of treasury shares during the year as described below and $16.3 million of dividend payments.
We announced our intention to buy-back shares in an amount up to $240 million on 18 February 2011 in connection with the initial announcement of the merger with Zoran.
We continued purchasing ordinary shares during the first half of 2011 until the revised arrangements for the merger with Zoran were announced.
From the start of the year to 9 May 2011, we had purchased 7,796,400 of our ordinary shares for an aggregate of $47.5 million.
We have not purchased shares after 9 May 2011.
Net cash from operating activities of $12.6 million in the year was lower than the previous years 2010: $77.9 million: 2009: $50.2 million due to a combination of payments related to the Broadcom settlement signed at the end of 2010: the costs of the acquisition of Zoran and the related integration and restructuring costs.
During 2010, there was a net increase in cash and cash equivalents of $1.9 million, compared to a decrease of $11.3 million in 2009.
Operating cash flow before movements in working capital contributed $44.1 million as compared to $29.7 million in 2009.
The difference was mainly due to the reduction in the operating loss.
On 13 September 2010, the Board announced its intention to buy-back ordinary shares in an amount up to $50 million.
During 2010, we had purchased 7.1 million of our ordinary shares, which had resulted in a cash outflow of $37.5 million.
The net cash inflow on acquisitions of subsidiaries of $66.5 million in 2009 represented the $111.5 million of cash, cash equivalents and treasury deposits acquired through the SiRF acquisition, excluding the $45.0 million of treasury deposits with initial maturities over 90 days and the acquisition fees paid of $10.6 million, which were included in the operating cash flows before movements in working capital.
Capital expenditure The table below summarises additions to fixed assets in our last three fiscal years.
The amounts differ from the cash outflow on capital expenditure due to movements in payables and accruals.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 23 Full version AR 290898. pdf 27 14 03 2012 17:20:31 Directors report Business and financial review continued The increase in capital expenditures on tangible assets reflects continued investment in test equipment and IT infrastructure to support the growth of the business as well as several facilities expansion programmes.
The increase in intangible assets was mainly due to the acquisition of intellectual property rights which protect our core business and enable us to develop additional technologies.
We expect similar levels of capital expenditure in 2012 due to facilities expansion programmes as a result of the merger of Zoran and CSR offices, investment in IT infrastructure to support our enlarged business, test equipment for combination products and further spend related to the move to advanced technology nodes.
Taxation and financing There was a net cash outflow of $3.1 million related to taxation, which resulted from taxes payable outside the US and UK, where entities within the group are in a tax paying position.
Our net tax in 2010 was a cash inflow of $7.6 million, which resulted from carrying back the tax loss in the UK to offset against the 2008 tax paid and obtaining a refund.
In 2009 there was a net cash tax inflow of $1.2 million, mainly as a result of the receipt of an R&D tax credit in France.
We have significant tax losses in the UK, US and Israel: therefore the majority of our tax payable over the next few years will relate to taxable profits in other jurisdictions.
There was a cash inflow from other financing of $4.0 million 2010: $4.3 million, mainly as a result of employee share option exercises.
In 2009, there was an outflow of $1.1 million, principally due to repayments under finance leases.
Hedge accounting Substantially all our sales and costs of sale are denominated in US dollars, the functional currency of all the entities within the Group.
Approximately 25% of our underlying operating expenses are denominated in pounds sterling.
In order to reduce the volatility of our earnings due to exchange rate fluctuations, we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to fix an exchange rate for our future pounds sterling-denominated expenditures.
We commit to forward contracts between 11 and 15 months in advance, pursuant to our treasury policy.
These contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges and will not affect profit or loss until the period in which the related transaction is recorded or we conclude that it is no longer probable that the hedged transaction will occur.
These contracts also form hedges against exchange gains or losses on the related pounds sterling liabilities.
Movements in the US dollar to pound sterling rate impact any pound sterling operating costs not covered by the forward contracts and, in the longer term, movements in the rate of exchange will impact all of our sterling costs, as it will affect the rate fixed by the forward contracts being put in place for future expenditures.
We are also exposed to foreign exchange risks from costs recorded in other currencies, which are currently not covered by forward contracts.
A material appreciation of the value of the US dollar against pound sterling could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations, mainly due to revaluation losses on sterling-denominated assets, as the forward contracts mentioned above provide a hedge to movements in most sterling-denominated liabilities.
A material depreciation of the value of the US dollar against pound sterling could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations, due to the recording of pound sterling operating expense at a higher US dollar exchange rate.
As of 30 December 2011, forward contracts were in place that gave an average GBP:USD exchange rate of 1.57 for the coming 11 to 15 months.
Historically, the average forward contract rate was as follows: 2011: 1.54: 2010: 1.56: and 2009: 1.93.
We expect that with the contracts in place as of 30 December 2011, our sterling denominated expenditures will cost around the same in U. S. dollar terms in 2012.
The fair value asset of the contracts in place as of 30 December 2011 was a liability of $1.4 million which was deferred in hedging reserves.
More detail is included in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
Capital management and treasury policy Our policy is to maintain a strong capital base and substantial cash balances so as to maintain customer, creditor, investor and market confidence as well as to sustain future development of the business.
Our main forms of liquid investments in 2011 were bank and money market deposits.
We intend to reinvest cash balances in the business either through higher levels of investment in working capital and fixed assets or through merger and acquisition activity, to support our long-term ambitions.
We anticipate continuing to return appropriate levels of cash to our shareholders through a combination of our stated dividend policy see section on Dividend policy below and through share buybacks, when the directors conclude it is appropriate to do so.
Our issued share capital as of 30 December 2011 was 215,667,851 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each, an increase of 30,714,539 shares from the 184,953,312 ordinary shares issued as at 31 December 2010, the change was mainly due to the 29,774,144 shares issued on the acquisition of Zoran and employee option exercises.
We had a total of $277.8 million of treasury deposits, cash and cash equivalents at 30 December 2011, a decrease of 37% from the $440.1 million we held at 31 December 2010, primarily as a result of the net outflow of $93.3 million on the acquisition of Zoran and the $47.5 million share buyback.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 24 Full version AR 290898. pdf 28 14 03 2012 17:20:31 Neither CSR nor any of its subsidiaries is subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
There are no material restrictions on any of our cash, cash equivalents or treasury deposits which restrict their use or are expected to cause any liquidity issues.
We hold our cash and liquid investments in accordance with the counterparty and settlement risk limits of the treasury policy approved by our Board of Directors.
We maintain a policy in the placement of cash deposits and investments with counterparties such that at any one time cash is placed with at least three approved financial institutions.
No counterparty with a credit rating of less than Aa3 will be approved: Zoran held some of its cash balances with counterparties with lower ratings and we are reviewing these arrangements.
We review the internal control environment regularly, through a rolling plan of internal audits, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
Dividend policy Given our confidence in our future growth and the Boards commitment to delivering returns to shareholders via a progressive dividend policy, the Board is recommending a final dividend of $0.071 which together with an interim dividend of $0.032 per ordinary share amounts to $0.103 per ordinary share: an increase of 62.5% in respect of the 2011 financial year.
Subject to shareholder approval at the annual general meeting to be held on 23 May 2012, the dividend will be paid on 1 June 2012 to shareholders of record on 11 May 2012.
The final dividend will be paid in pounds sterling.
In respect of the 52 week period ending 30 December 2011, the Company paid an interim dividend of $0.032 0.02 per ordinary share on 9 September 2011 to shareholders of record on 19 August 2011.
CSR Employee Benefit Trust EBT From time to time, the CSR Employee Benefit Trust purchases CSR ordinary shares in the stock market.
The timing of these purchases is subject to compliance with the listing rules of the UK Listing Authority, agreement between CSR and the Trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust and prevailing market prices.
The shares are intended to be used for satisfying obligations to deliver shares on the exercise by employees of share options under CSRs share option programmes, thereby reducing the dilution of existing shareholders.
Ordinary shares were issued from the EBT in each year to satisfy employee option exercises.
Off-balance sheet arrangements As of 30 December 2011, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements other than the operating leases described in the table below.
Contractual obligations and commitments As of 30 December 2011 our principal contractual obligations and commitments consisted of amounts payable under finance leases, operating leases, trade and other payables and outstanding purchase obligations.
The following table summarises our contractual obligations and commitments as of 30 December 2011: More than Total Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years 5 years $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Finance leases 0.2 0.1 0.1 Operating leases 109.7 33.4 56.1 13.5 6.7 1 Trade and other payables 236.8 181.8 31.2 21.8 2.0 2 Purchase obligations 98.0 98.0 1 Trade and other payables includes the litigation settlement of $53.1 million, payable over 4 years.
2 Purchase obligations represent non-cancellable purchase orders.
The Group has a defined benefit severance plan in its Israeli subsidiary, refer to note 35 for further details.
Significant changes There have been no significant changes in the financial or trading position of the Company since 30 December 2011.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 25 Full version AR 290898. pdf 29 14 03 2012 17:20:31 Directors report Business and financial review continued Key Performance Indicators We use a range of financial and non-financial performance measures, reported on a periodic basis, which we refer to as key performance indicators KPIs, to measure performance over time.
No changes have been made to the source of data or calculation methods used in the period.
The source of all data is consistent with published financial and non financial information.
To measure growth of the business: Revenue represents sales of integrated circuits to customers, sales of services to customers and royalty income from products sold under a royalty earning licence net of any estimated provisions for credit notes and returns.
In August 2011, we acquired Zoran which contributed $111.4 million to the reported revenue during 2011.
Excluding the contribution from Zoran, revenues fell by 8.3%, which was a combination of declines in PND within the Automotive business group and handset within the Mobile business group revenues, which were partially offset by growth in the Home business group.
These are described further in the segment analysis section above.
Volume weighted average selling prices excluding Zoran declined by around 10% year on year, in line with normal expectations.
The trend for declining ASPs is well established in the industry, as products mature and is expected to continue.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 26 Full version AR 290898. pdf 30 14 03 2012 17:20:31 To measure performance of the business: Underlying gross margin is used as a measure of the profitability of our sales.
Underlying gross margin is the ratio of underlying gross profit to revenue.
Underlying gross profit differs from gross profit in that it excludes the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and fair value adjustments to inventory recorded on acquisitions.
We aim to maintain our underlying gross margin in the 48-52% range, an increase from our previous target of the 45-50% range.
Maintaining underlying gross margin involves a combination of production cost management, minimisation of production overheads and maintaining selling prices by introducing new feature-rich devices which can command a premium selling price.
49.8% 47.7% 47.5% 46.9% 46.8% 46.7% 44.6% 44.6% 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The underlying gross margin increased from 47.7% in 2010 to 49.8% in 2011 due to growth in gross margins in the Home business group due to a higher proportion of high margin stereo headset business as well as an overall mix away from the Mobile business group towards the Home business group which has higher gross margins.
The addition of the Zoran businesses contributed an increase of 0.4% in the year.
A further discussion of gross margin is given in the Financial Performance section above, under the heading Gross Profit.
Underlying operating expenses by function: which represents underlying research and development and underlying sales, marketing and administrative expenses is used as a measure of the costs of the underlying business.
We have taken action in the current year through the Zoran integration synergies and the closure of the DTV SoC and silicon tuner business, to reduce costs to a level more in line with this target, whilst recognising it may take a number of years to achieve such reductions.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 27 Full version AR 290898. pdf 31 14 03 2012 17:20:31 % of revenue Directors report Business and financial review continued The cost reductions expected as a result of this and other efficiency measures are in addition to previously announced synergy and rightsizing savings of $55 million arising from the Zoran transaction, and the expected $15 million reduction in cost of goods, which are on track to be achieved by the end of the first quarter 2012.
We therefore currently expect underlying operating costs, excluding all restructuring charges, to be in the range of $420 million to $430 million on an annualised basis during the second half of 2012, with full year 2012 underlying operating costs of $430 million to $440 million.
During 2011, the percentage of operating expenses increased from 2010 reflecting the inclusion of Zoran where, prior to the cost saving programmes, the operating expenses as a percentage of revenue were above our targeted levels.
We aim to reach the targeted levels over the next few years.
Whilst we aim for these operating targets, and consider them to be achievable, we balance that objective with our view of the appropriate level of operating expense to support the current and future success of the business.
A further discussion of these operating expenses is given in the Financial Performance section above under the headings Research & Development and Sales, General & Administrative.
Underlying diluted earnings per share is used as a measure of the interest each current share and each potentially dilutive share has in the performance of the business.
Underlying diluted earnings per share is calculated as underlying earnings excluding the recognition of tax losses divided by the number of current share and potentially dilutive shares outstanding.
Underlying earnings is profit loss for the period, add back share-based payment charges, amortisation of acquisition related intangibles, goodwill impairment, acquisition costs, fair value adjustment to inventory, litigation dispute settlement costs, integration and restructuring charges, loss on close period share buyback and unwind of discount on litigation settlement provisions less the litigation settlement income and any tax impacts of these items, taking account of the deductibility or taxability of these items.
The decrease resulted from the decreased revenue in the legacy CSR business, which was not offset by lower operating expenses, further, operating expenses increased as a result of the acquisition of Zoran, and exceeded the gross profit contribution from Zoran, all of which is described in more detail above under the Financial Performance section.
Growth of underlying diluted earnings per share is a key performance condition for a number of share option schemes.
Vesting depends upon relative growth of earnings per share, adjusted for the UK retail price index RPI against targets set at the time of grant.
None of these conditions was met for the current or preceding year, due to the declines in underlying diluted earnings per share over the 3 year performance periods.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 28 Full version AR 290898. pdf 32 14 03 2012 17:20:31 To measure working capital management: Inventory turns is used as a measure of the management of inventory levels in the business and represents the number of times inventory turns over in an annual period based on the last three months cost of sales of that annual period.
2011 turns were lower, primarily due to PND customers notifying us of reductions in orders within the lead-time for production from our suppliers which led to higher than planned inventory balances.
This problem has again been amplified by lengthening lead times due to both the move to more advanced technology nodes and also capacity constraints in the early part of the year at certain suppliers, which forced earlier ordering timings.
Days sales outstanding DSO is a measure of the number of days that it takes us to collect cash after a sale has been made.
We calculate days sales outstanding by taking the balance of trade receivables outstanding at the end of the annual period, dividing by the revenue for the previous two monthly periods and then multiplying by the number of days in those monthly periods.
Days sales outstanding remained at 40 days, within the normal range of 40-45 days.
The increase in days sales outstanding in 2008 was due to the non-payment of invoices on the due date by one distributor.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 29 Full version AR 290898. pdf 33 14 03 2012 17:20:31 Directors report Business and financial review continued Free cash flow is used to represent the cash that we are able to generate from our operations after taking into account cash flows on capital expenditure.
We calculate free cash flow as cash generated by operations as per the notes to the cash flow statement in note 30 less expenditure on tangible and intangible assets not including those acquired through acquisition in the 52 week period as shown on the cash flow statement.
Further analysis of the Companys liquidity and also of capital resources is set out on pages 22 to 25.
Average cost per employee for each 52 week period is used as a key performance indicator of the cost of our key resource people.
It is calculated as salary costs, pension costs and social security costs, divided by the monthly average number of employees for the period, with pounds sterling costs converted to US dollars at the forward contract rate in place for that period.
We have continued to invest in headcount growth in Asia and much of the acquired Zoran business was located within Asia, with the aim of capitalising on the lower staff costs in the region and the rich pool of talent.
The growth in the US was driven by the acquisition of Zoran.
We expect to continue to develop our business in all areas, with particular focus on India and China, which not only have a plentiful supply of talented engineers, but are also located near many of our customers in key growth markets.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 30 Full version AR 290898. pdf 34 14 03 2012 17:20:31 The annual decrease in 2011 for staff costs was 4.8% and mainly reflects a change in the mix of employee location with a significant increase in the percentage of employees in Asia see headcount KPI below.
Headcount as at the end of the 52 week period is used as a non-financial key performance indicator of the resources available in the business and is monitored closely in relation to productivity and research and development output.
Headcount has increased from 1,554 at the end of 2010 to 2,945 at 30 December 2011: an increase of 90% 1,391 people.
The increase was due to the acquisition of Zoran.
Risk Governance The Group has well established risk management and internal control processes for the identification, assessment and management of strategic, operational, financial, compliance and political risks, which management believe have the potential to adversely affect the achievement of the Groups corporate and strategic objectives.
During each year, executive management report on this process to the Board with interim reports provided to the Audit Committee and Board to ensure consideration of the potential impact of such risks on achieving the Groups objectives and in maintaining and growing shareholder value.
The Board is also responsible for setting the risk appetite of the Company, recognising that the Group, in the pursuit of its objectives, will accept certain risks whilst also, where possible, mitigate against these risks with the intention to minimise their potential impact.
During the latter part of 2011, as part of its annual review, the Group engaged outside consultants, KPMG LLP to support the identification and prioritisation of risks to the Group.
This recognised the added complexities brought about by the acquisition of Zoran and the importance of ensuring that the Group maintains a robust process for identifying and managing its risks.
On pages 56 to 58 in the Corporate Governance Report we report on the process for identifying and managing risk.
Responsibilities framework for identification and management of risk The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups risk management process explained above.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of this process through reports it receives from management and where necessary external consultants associated with the identification and progress in implementing mitigation measures.
Day to day management of risk is delegated to management, initially through the executive management who are responsible for the implementation and management of risk mitigation activities.
The Group operates in a dynamic environment and therefore over time the risks which have the potential to most significantly affect the Group may change.
Accordingly, during the course of any period, those risks which receive the most attention will reflect these dynamics.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 31 Full version AR 290898. pdf 35 14 03 2012 17:20:31 Directors report Business and financial review continued Board consideration of principal risks The following paragraphs describe the areas of risk on which management, the Board and the Audit Committee have focused during 2011 and which are expected to be areas of focus in 2012.
These are therefore regarded as the principal risks faced by the Group.
The Group faces a range of other risks which are described in the section headed Risk Factors on pages 39 to 45.
Risk: failing to anticipate changes in the requirements of our customers In the highly competitive and fast moving environment of technical innovation in which the Group operates, we face the possibility that our own technologies and solutions are superseded by other products that are adopted by our customers, which would harm our competitive position and our business performance.
Understanding the trends in the markets in which the Company operates and the requirements of our customers and end users is important if we are to remain competitive.
The Group works closely with its customers to understand their future product plans and to identify the innovative features of existing and new technologies that will be attractive to them.
During the year, the Board received regular reports on engagement with customers for this purpose.
Risk: failing to provide technological innovation which delivers new products The Board and management recognise that creating and maintaining a leading position in our chosen markets relies on continuing to provide technological innovation and deliver new products to customers on a timely basis.
The Board keeps under review the process for the research, development and launch of new products and technologies from development of an initial concept through to engagement for evaluation by customers, to launch and the securing of design wins.
As one such example, the Company is continuing its investment in the development of 40nm GPS technology.
Products developed in the 40nm node provide the potential for competitive advantage in the delivery of lower cost, smaller size and enhanced performance platforms to our customers, although the development of such products is highly complex.
Risk: failing to execute targets for delivery of new products Executing on the stated targets for the delivery of new products to customers is important if the Group is to secure revenues and maintain the strong working relationships with our customers which enable us to create and sustain leading market positions.
During the year the Board received and discussed reports provided by executive management on improving processes linked to execution of product development through to market launch.
The Board also engaged external consultants to review current practices and report on potential areas for improvement.
The Board and executive management will continue to monitor progress in this area through 2012.
Risk: changes in demand for and reduction in the average selling price of our products due to deterioration in global economic conditions Our products predominantly are, and will continue to be, supplied for incorporation into devices intended for the consumer market.
The demand for the Groups products is affected by global economic conditions.
The Board receives regular reports on the performance of each reportable segment which are considered against the overall strategy and objectives of the Group.
Where relevant, the Board will be apprised on matters which place the fulfillment of those plans at risk.
In response to the worsening economic environment in the latter part of 2011, the Board instituted a thorough review of the Groups business and cost base.
This resulted in the announcement in December 2011 of the decision to discontinue investment in the areas of digital television systems-on-a-chip DTV SoC and silicon tuners, acquired as part of the Zoran business, in order to increase the Groups focus on areas of business where it has leadership positions and the ability to deliver differentiated platforms and products.
The Board is mindful of the forecast of a continuing challenging economic environment during 2012 and has instituted with management measures to support timely reporting and analysis of risks to the delivery of the Groups strategy for each business unit.
The global recession has also resulted in our competitors becoming more aggressive in their pricing practices, whilst more recently new suppliers in developing markets, such as China, have sought to obtain market share by offering alternative products to customers at lower prices.
This has and will continue to impact the average selling price for our products, which can affect the profitability of our business.
We have in the past reduced, and expect in the future to reduce, the average selling prices of our products in response to competitive pricing pressures, or new product introductions by us or by our competitors, among other factors.
We may fail to offset reduced prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing costs or successfully introducing new products at higher prices.
The Board regularly enquires of management on the impact of prevailing economic conditions on the success of individual products, including their prevailing selling prices and the challenge from competitors in their own pricing policies and discusses how the Company maintains awareness of such events, is able to predict them and to respond in supporting the Companys strategy for given products in particular markets.
Risk: failing to achieve the expected benefits from the integration of Zoran Corporation into the Group The Board and management recognised that the execution of an effective integration plan would be a key challenge to making a success of the acquisition of Zoran Corporation.
Executive and non-executive directors of the Board and management have considerable experience of integrating acquired businesses, which include the acquisition of SiRF in 2009.
Drawing on that experience, in addition to the support of external consultants, management developed a detailed integration plan covering not only the steps needed to implement proposals for delivering on synergy targets but also a detailed schedule of objectives and actions to support the achievement of an integrated business of multiple locations worldwide across a wide range of functional disciplines.
The Board received detailed reports in advance of completing the acquisition on the integration planning and since completion, the Board has received regular reports on the progress in the integration of CSR and Zoran and also the progress in delivering the synergies against the stated targets.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 32 Full version AR 290898. pdf 36 14 03 2012 17:20:31 Risk: failing to retain and develop key employees For us to be successful it is important that we retain our key employees and continue to provide our employees with the resources and training necessary to support the delivery of the Groups strategy.
CSR and Zoran have experienced significant change, including those associated with events leading up to and following the acquisition of Zoran by CSR as well as subsequent actions taken in connection with restructuring the enlarged business.
Executive management and the Board have had due regard to such events on motivating and retaining employees in support of delivering on the Groups objectives.
As a result, considerable focus has been given to effective and timely decision making, of good communications with employees globally as well as smooth transition of the changes.
This will remain an area of attention during 2012.
Risk: natural disasters may arise from time to time that may have an adverse effect on the Groups business During the course of 2011, the Board considered a number of discrete events as they arose, which were recognised as having the potential to adversely impact the business.
For example, following the earthquake and tsunami in Japan in March 2011, the Group established a cross functional response team instituted to engage with customers, work with local representatives and senior employees and suppliers.
The Board received reports on the work of this team in order to monitor the effect on the Groups business.
This process demonstrated the effective and prompt response and analysis of events which may arise from time to time.
Risk: failing to protect proprietary information The Board and management recognise the importance of implementing a considered strategy in respect of intellectual property matters, including protecting the Groups proprietary technology in order that the Group may compete successfully and in the support of its business with customers.
The Board, or within its delegated responsibilities, the Audit Committee has received periodic reports from management on initiatives and workstreams connected with the development of the Groups portfolio of patents and trademarks which includes a cross-functional team of senior managers under a rolling programme supporting the Groups strategy of extending protection of the Groups intellectual property.
Risk: the need to defend claims associated with alleged breaches of intellectual property rights It is recognised that intellectual property litigation is commonplace in our industry and poses risks and uncertainties that may materially and adversely affect or disrupt our business, customer relationships, expenses or results of operations.
The Group has in the past and expects in the future to be involved in litigation in the course of our business and industry.
The outcome of such litigation is inherently uncertain.
The Audit Committee receives regular reports on actual or potential litigation involving the Group and monitors the developments and potential impact of such litigation on the Groups business and financial condition.
Risk: continuity of supply and capacity constraints We do not own or operate a fabrication facility and, therefore, rely on third parties, in particular TSMC and ASE, to manufacture, assemble and test our products on time.
Because of this reliance on third parties, we face the risk of delays caused by events at our suppliers in satisfying the orders placed by our customers as well as the risk that events affecting our suppliers mean that they are unable or unwilling to provide products to meet our customers orders.
The occurrence of such events would mean we are unable to meet the requirements placed on us by our customers which would affect our financial results, as well as our reputation which could also impact future business and financial performance.
During the first half of 2011, the Company was impacted by constraints on supply for products supplied to customers within its automotive business unit.
The Board received up-dates within its scheduled meetings on the progress in addressing this matter through to its resolution during the second quarter when such constraints eased with the ramp up of supply from a second source.
Management maintain careful review of matters which have the potential to impact continuity of supply with third parties and report on such matters to the Board within regular reporting.
In addition, during 2011, a significant proportion of Board time during 2011 was devoted to assessing and reviewing the case for the acquisition of Zoran Corporation up to the initial announcement of the transaction on 21 February 2011 and subsequent announcement of revised terms for the acquisition on 17 June 2011.
This included understanding the impact of a number of events on Zorans business which occurred after the February announcement, including the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, in March 2011, which affected short term business and also projections for 2011, as well as the loss of a key customer in the Camera business in April 2011, which impacted 2011 earnings and projections for the longer term.
Social Responsibility We recognise the importance of social, environmental and ethical SEE matters and, during 2011, continued our work on complying with the ABI disclosure guidelines on social responsibility.
We believe that our work is part of a continuous improvement to develop standards and working practices that represent tangible improvements in the way in which we undertake our business and also meets our responsibilities to the wider community and all our stakeholders through corporate led work as well as the initiatives of individual employees in their roles as ambassadors for CSR.
At a corporate level, this includes the impact through our operations on the environment, on the safety and well being of our employees, and end users of our products as well as those who contribute to the process of the development and manufacture of our products through our suppliers, distributors and customers.
SEE matters are considered an integral part of the philosophy of the Company.
The Board and its committees receive reports as part of their routine business on aspects of SEE issues in addition to other reports from those directors responsible for such matters as may be appropriate from time to time.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 33 Full version AR 290898. pdf 37 14 03 2012 17:20:31 Directors report Business and financial review continued 2011 saw a wider and deeper involvement in our activities in social responsibility SR across the company globally.
This has always been an area of developing importance for us, and the further emphasis given to this area during 2011 has supported our objective of sustaining and building on a cohesive, formal social responsibility policy.
An effective SR commitment is important to CSR.
It underpins our credibility with customers, suppliers and shareholders alike, each of whom value strong commitment and attention to this area.
But above all else, it will help us to return something of value to others, play our role in the communities where we operate, and prove ourselves to be good neighbours as well as a good employer.
Our global SR policy is built on four pillars: Community, Workplace, Marketplace and Environment.
These pillars follow the guidelines of Business in The Community BiTC, a London-based not-for-profit organisation which is helping us establish and grow our SR credentials.
BiTC believes that all companies should: act responsibly by understanding the local environment: treat employees fairly, equitably and with respect: observe basic human rights: protect the environment for future generations: manage the business impacts on society and the environment.
Community The Community pillar focuses on four key opportunities: reviewing local purchasing and supplier opportunities: working in partnership with community organisations and charities: listening and engaging with communities and the public: working collaboratively with other businesses to benefit the community.
During 2011, we made several ad-hoc donations to help fund the first responses to natural emergencies close to CSR locations.
This included a contribution to The Red Cross, to support efforts to help the lives of people affected by the tsunami in Japan which occurred in March.
We also made a donation to the East Anglian Air Ambulance EAAA in the UK in response to a proposal from an employee who received life saving treatment from the EAAA following a serious cycling accident.
Appointing charities Many CSR locations have appointed a local charity of the year that is linked to engineering and the sciences.
Employees are invited each year to nominate charities, with the successful charity being selected following a locationwide voting process.
For example in the UK during 2011, employees have chosen MapAction.
MapAction is a UK based charity which delivers vital information in mapped form, from data gathered at disaster scenes around the world.
In this way, they are able to direct essential life saving resources to the right areas on the ground quickly.
MapAction is a natural partner for CSR because the technologies we deliver complement critical components in MapActions disaster response.
Each MapAction volunteer is equipped with a GPS unit using CSRs technology to help them to navigate a disaster scene and collect data about priority needs.
This information is then transferred into mapped form, so aid agencies can quickly and accurately see where they should focus their efforts.
The most recent example of their work was in the Philippines where MapAction has provided on the ground mapping support.
GPS equipment has been instrumental in mapping the situation on the ground and covering such areas as Red Cross support and fresh water supplies.
CSR has recently made a donation to this charity and has been assured that this donation is being brought to immediate use in areas such as the Philippines on the ground.
In India, our Bangalore office has selected a number of projects which have received strong employee support.
One such charity supported in 2011 was Youth for Seva.
This charity assists young people in serving their community and one of the CSR projects last year was supporting Youth for Seva overseeing health checks for all of the security and housekeeping staff in the CSR office.
Another project initiated by staff in the Bangalore office was support provided to the Samvruddi Education Society.
This institution assists poor women and orphaned children.
The Bangalore teams initial goal was to provide reconditioned computer equipment to support an education programme being run by the Society.
Following enthusiastic support from employees, this was extended beyond the provision of such equipment to providing UPS units that help to maintain power supply to the school during frequent power outages as well as financial support to help towards funding classroom equipment and staffing costs for the school.
Volunteering In association with their chosen charity, various locations continue to provide regular volunteering through direct involvement of our employees.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 34 Full version AR 290898. pdf 38 14 03 2012 17:20:31 In Shanghai, there are now 110 CSR volunteers continuing to give their time and skills to support Hands on Shanghai, which connects volunteers with local community-based organisations.
Specifically, we sponsor the Wenhe Primary School, which provides education to the children of migrant workers from other parts of China.
During 2011 the work here has broadened to take in museum visits and science days in 2011.
Further information is available from the SR area of our website under About Us, which is not incorporated into this annual report.
Working with students We are keen to give back to the community in a variety of ways, including using our own expertise to help others learn about engineering or science.
In the US, CSR made a donation to the Institute of Navigation ION Mini-Urban Challenge, an annual high school competition sponsored by ION and the Air Force Research Laboratory AFRL.
We also work closely with the Youth Science Institute and PACE a non-profit organisation run by volunteer engineers and students in Ann Arbor, MI.
This charity aims to help poor children in India through a programme of educational activities to broaden their opportunities.
Match funding We have committed to matching the funds raised by our employees where possible, and will consider all applications including those outside the engineering science remit.
The match-funding initiative has been particularly well-received in the UK and we expect other locations to follow suit in the coming years.
During 2011, we made several matching donations, including a regular favourite BBC Children in Need, and we also supported a Macmillan Cancer initiative in which all of our UK offices took part and raised a significant amount.
Further information on all these initiatives as well as a range of projects globally is available from the SR area of the site under About Us.
Workplace As of 30 December 2011, we had 2,945 employees.
The following tables provide a breakdown of employees by functional area and region.
Employees by function: 2011 2010 R&D 1,979 1,126 SG&A 966 428 Total 2,945 1,554 Employees by region: 2011 2010 Europe 868 801 Asia 1,220 463 USA 857 290 Total 2,945 1,554 We aim to maintain and enhance CSRs reputation as the best place for the best people to do their best work, and will achieve this through four initiatives: investing in individual excellence through training: recognising the value of diversity in meeting customer expectations: operating a culture where inclusion is the norm and diversity and equality are promoted: and promoting the health, safety and well-being of employees and sub-contractors.
Training We continue to invest in training and career progression to ensure our people have the right skills and knowledge to deliver on our strategy, and to support them in delivering their personal development and career ambitions.
Not only does this help stretch our people and enable them to enjoy rewarding careers, it also delivers an improved quality of service to our customers and gives them the flexibility to deliver innovative solutions into the marketplace.
As we grow, we require a more diverse range of skills to support the business and our strategic objectives.
During 2011 we have continued to invest in Learning and Development around the globe, offering both interpersonal skills and technical skills development.
Activity in the commercial areas has involved developing Learning programmes in Sales, Marketing, and Project Management, and over 2012 these programmes will be further built upon to provide online global development in each area.
We continue to be a member of the TLC in the UK providing a range of development opportunities and are continuing to explore similar options for development across the globe.
eCareer which allows the capture and cascade of our organisational goals, enabling everyone to understand their contribution to delivering business performance, continues to be a key part of our integrated employee and management resources.
We now have over 300 pieces of material in the eLearn element of eCareer, and are further developing both the content and the system to make on-line learning accessible globally, including the launch of a programme of Operations materials that were piloted in 2011 and have been launched in early 2012.
Over the course of 2011 we have established a project Project 180 looking at skills, job descriptions and career paths.
The outputs from this so far have been to standardize and simplify all the legacy CSR job descriptions, enabling greater clarity of career paths, and associated development steps available.
In 2012 this work will continue with legacy Zoran roles, and in identifying and standardizing skills and knowledge required for each role.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 35 Full version AR 290898. pdf 39 14 03 2012 17:20:31 Directors report Business and financial review continued Diversity CSR is a multi-cultural global organisation and we are committed to providing equal opportunities for training, career development and promotion to all employees, regardless of any physical disability, gender, religion, race or nationality.
Provision for pensions are available to all employees, either through participation in the state pension schemes in the country in which the employee is resident or provision of a defined contribution pension scheme.
Such schemes are maintained in accordance with legislative requirements, custom, practice and Group policy as appropriate.
Inclusion We promote an open and honest working environment where employee views are sought, listened to and acted upon.
Following the Employee Engagement Survey carried out towards the end of 2009, we identified three key areas for improvement.
These are: Employee development Performance management review Career pathing Learning and development framework Technical training e-learning platform Operational efficiencies decision making Creation of one development organisation Integrated systems and processes Cross-functional working and efficiency Decision commitment Change & communication Business branding and values Product awareness Create a cascade of communications We have made good progress in all areas, most especially in relation to change and communication.
In particular, our monthly global e-newsletter, Rhythm, continues to provide a key means of communication with employees.
The company intranet was upgraded during the year and employees can now access more information and support online.
We launched a Lunch & Learn programme in 2010, which enables employees to learn about CSR technologies during their lunch breaks, and also carried out two global company update broadcasts to employees, one from San Jose and one from Shanghai.
These broadcasts are transmitted in real time to all locations, across all timezones, and are available on demand within a few hours to any offices that were closed at the time of the broadcast.
Company results are cascaded via a webcast, including an informal Q&A session with the senior management team.
We look forward to reporting further progress on Inclusion initiatives following our next Employee Engagement Survey, which will be carried out in the Autumn of 2012.
Marketplace We are pleased to be working with a number of partners within our supply chain to adopt best practice and to conduct their businesses in a responsible manner.
Our SR activities relating to our Marketplace are centred on five key priorities: developing new services to address social or environmental problems: meeting the needs of vulnerable customers: understanding our supply chain, the risks and the stakeholders affected: working to enjoy business success while serving public interest: and making sure suppliers meet minimum standards of behaviour in areas such as human rights or working conditions.
Health, safety and environmental management We are proud to continue to work alongside TSMC, which is reputed to be the greenest semiconductor fabricator company in the world.
By reducing emissions, recycling water and consuming less water, TSMC is already recognised as the best performer in environmental protection.
The company has also turned its attention to other social responsibility issues, including the establishment of an extensive Education and Culture Foundation which targets resources towards education, sponsoring of art and culture, community building and employee volunteering.
The Company expects the highest of ethical standards of all its employees and its policies and procedures support its stated aim of acting with integrity in all aspects of its operations.
The Board director responsible for health and safety matters is Will Gardiner, Chief Financial Officer.
Mr Gardiner met on a number of occasions with those who manage the Companys health and safety issues including the Chair of the Health, Safety, and Environmental HSE Committee.
An annual report is presented to the Board covering health and safety matters, which includes statistics on accidents and incidents, progress against targets from the previous period and objectives for the next year.
In the UK, we have a Health, Safety and Environmental Committee which meets regularly and is chaired by the Group Facilities Manager, who is also the senior health and safety manager for the Group.
Our Health, Safety, and Environmental policies are available to all employees on our intranet site as are the minutes of the HSE Committee and current HSE initiatives.
Current HSE initiatives are explained below.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 36 Full version AR 290898. pdf 40 14 03 2012 17:20:31 During 2011 we completed a further phase towards harmonising HSE best practices across the CSR group.
Country Leaders and their deputies were identified for all locations to assist with the implementation of our global health and safety system.
Their role is to act as champions at their office location to support various training programmes and initiatives to raise awareness about health and safety activities.
A detailed action plan was deployed, including training for relevant employees which addressed issues such as procedures for serious and imminent danger, first aid provision, workplace inspections and hazard identification.
By July 2011 all CSR offices had been through this process.
The Audit Committee received a report on progress against the targets for such matters as part of its routine business at its meetings in July 2011 and February 2012.
Following completion of the acquisition of Zoran in August 2011, further Country Leaders have been identified for the new locations.
By the end of September 2011, 75% of all legacy Zoran offices had completed an initial HSE baseline survey.
The results of this survey are being used to update the existing health and safety roll out project plan for implementation in 2012 which includes dedicated action plans for all Zoran offices.
Activities will address such areas as Display Screen Equipment risk assessment and staff training, the Control of Substances Hazardous to Health COSHH and Manual Handling activities.
The executive director with responsibility for the Groups Environmental Management System EMS throughout 2011 was Mr. Chris Ladas, Operations Director.
The EMS, which has the support of the Board, has been developed reflecting our existing low eco-footprint, with all employees working in office based environments, whilst recognising that high standards should be established and maintained across all aspects of our operations.
The ongoing management of EMS is overseen by a team incorporating managers responsible for Facilities, Business Management Systems and Quality Assurance.
The team establishes a programme of action for each year and monitors progress against targets.
Progress in carrying out the action plans is monitored by the Companys internal Quality Assurance department, which reports regularly to the internal auditor and to the Audit Committee.
In 2011, the Company underwent an external assessment for both ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 which was completed by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance Limited, an internationally recognised independent assessor.
No major nonconformities were raised during this visit.
Two minor nonconformities were found during the review and the applicable processes have been amended.
In the surveillance visit undertaken by LRQA auditors in January 2012, they confirmed that the identified minor non-conformities had been satisfactorily closed and there were no identified non-conformities.
The assessment also confirmed that the Companys Management System continues to satisfy the requirements of ISO 14001:2004 and BS OHSAS 18001:2007, and continued certification to these standards was awarded.
Certification requires that we have an EMS which defines the environmental policy of the Group and sets objectives intended to drive continuous improvements in environmental awareness and practices.
Our environmental policy includes commitments to: employee consultation and training: assessment of our activities and product related environmental impacts to identify targets for continuous improvement: and legal compliance and due consideration of other stakeholder environmental requirements.
We believe that we are taking considerable steps to contribute to sound environmental practices, covering not only the manufacture and supply of our products but also positive measures to establish and build on good working practices within our various office locations.
We have registered and fulfilled requirements pursuant to the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC and reported the energy consumption of our UK premises.
We continue to take steps to monitor and minimise our CO emissions through 2 on-going energy efficiencies.
Organisations that participate in CRC are required to purchase allowances for each tonne of CO e, based on energy 2 consumed.
The first CO e allowance sales for 2011-12 emissions will take place in 2012.
This is intended to provide a 2 direct incentive for businesses to reduce energy use emissions, since the lower the emissions, the lower the levy paid to the Government.
During 2011 we completed the upgrade of the main chillers at our Cambridge Head Office.
These chillers were commissioned in March and were fully operational by the end of April.
We have compared data from May to December in 2010 with that for the same period in 2011 and it has been shown that energy consumption has reduced by 32.5% or approximately 276,000 KWh: original indications had only suggested a 20% reduction in consumption.
This has resulted in an 11% overall reduction in energy consumption for the building.
Further monitoring will occur throughout 2012 to enable annualised savings to be evaluated.
In 2012 we will be carrying out modifications to the building management system at our Cambridge Head Office, as well as the main air conditioning systems and air handling units to achieve further energy efficiencies.
It is estimated that these actions will save another 100,000 KWh pa. We will also be investigating what energy efficiencies there are to be made in the lighting systems at our Cambridge premises We remain committed to continuous improvement in the recycling of spent materials.
The total amount of all waste types recycled during 2011 was 103,493 kgs which is equivalent to 61% of all the waste that we produce, and was 6% ahead of our target for the year.
Over the same period, landfill waste reduced from 41% to 38.5% and cardboard waste reduced from 47% to 38.5%.
Biowaste compostable collections increased from 3.5% to 11%, reflecting less compostable waste going to landfill.
Staff are actively encouraged to support such initiatives.
Waste bins are segregated into categories of recyclable materials and no offices have waste bins.
In addition, part of the selection criteria for waste removal contractors considers their environmental credentials.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 37 Full version AR 290898. pdf 41 14 03 2012 17:20:31 Directors report Business and financial review continued CSR has long been committed to optimising the use of greener materials in our end products.
We continue to work with customers and suppliers as well as our own in-house teams in developing and supplying products which meet the highest standards as regards minimising the use of hazardous substances.
CSRs products are manufactured and packaged in a variety of forms.
Most of these products are already manufactured according to CSRs own green standards.
The green standards have been developed by CSR as part of continual engagement with leading global companies who are customers of CSR and also with the support of our suppliers.
CSRs green standards therefore reflect not only internationally recognised guidelines but also the feedback of our customers, whose requirements frequently exceed the minimum conditions set by governments and regulators.
We have dedicated staff who assist in the development of all new products and the review of existing product lines targeting the use of greener materials.
Part of their role is to monitor established and pending legislation and standards published by national and supranational governments and agencies and to ensure that we are proactive in going beyond the minimum requirements in our compliance with the types and quantities of materials used.
In this respect we work closely with both customers and suppliers in developing products to reduce the use of hazardous materials, and through testing and certification, ensuring ongoing compliance.
Our standard integrated circuits are fully compliant with all existing European legislation, including RoHS and REACH, as well as in other territories where equivalent legislation has been introduced.
During 2010, CSR added a requirement to ensure their key suppliers do not use conflict minerals as defined within section 1502 of the US Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
This covers the use of Tantalum, Tin, Gold and Tungsten and is mostly associated with minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of Congo.
This requirement has also included a requirement for these suppliers to perform due diligence to ensure they understand the sources of the minerals associated with these materials.
In addition to procedures that establish and monitor compliance, we have processes in place to make sure that customers are supported with up to date materials information and laboratory analysis to validate the environmental compliance of our products.
We recognise the importance of ensuring that our key suppliers have appropriate policies and practices on SEE matters.
Key manufacturing partners are selected and assessed based on certification to appropriate globally recognised standards such as ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and SA 8000.
Audits of their operations are undertaken regularly to ensure that appropriate standards and certification exists.
During 2011, a review of product environmental compliance was conducted by our Supplier Audit Team at TSMC in Taiwan.
This confirmed that current certifications to the recognised standards mentioned above were being maintained.
The review also considered the suppliers wider HSE policies and management systems in connection with our requirements.
The results of these assessments were reported to our management, which concluded that the suppliers complied with our requirements.
Based on the extent of our ongoing engagement described above, the Board is satisfied that there are no significant risks relating to health, safety and environmental matters affecting its strategic objectives or the long or short term value of the Group.
Will Gardiner, Chief Financial Officer 17 February 2012 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 38 Full version AR 290898. pdf 42 14 03 2012 17:20:31
