14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 Chief Executives review Vision and values Our vision and values are at the heart of our business and we have made real progress in making them come alive this year.
For us, consumers come first and by understanding our consumers we have continued to drive the sales of our key brands.
We have also increased the turnover from our milk&more proposition.
In the fourth quarter milk&more weekly sales passed the 1 million milestone and have continued to grow since the year end.
Consumer innovation developed in the last three years is becoming an increasing part of our annual turnover.
We have set ourselves the challenging objective for this to reach 10% although we are still slightly below that figure at the moment.
We are particularly pleased by the performance of our healthy lighter cheese and spreads brands, 1% fat milk and  milk in bags.
We have a strong Dairy Crests results for the year demonstrate the benefit of pipeline of innovative products that will being a broadly based business.
A strong performance from our benefit future years.
branded Spreads and Cheese businesses has more than offset We act responsibly and asked Business in the Community to benchmark tougher trading in Dairies.
our progress using their Corporate We have again increased added value sales.
Our five key Responsibility index.
We were pleased brands have all performed well.
We have grown sales of milk to to be awarded a silver rating.
We also major retailers, started to supply liquid milk to Tesco and made carried out an employee survey which demonstrated some improvements and considerable progress with our milk&more internet doorstep highlighted areas we can improve further.
We expect increased investment in advertising Our relationship with the dairy farmers our key brands and milk&more to bring benefits in the future.
who supply their milk to us is very important.
Although UK milk production We have also been successful in making cost savings across grew during the year for the first time the business to reduce the effect that commodity inflation is having since 2004, increases in on-farm costs on our customers and consumers and have lowered net debt during the second half of the year has put again this year.
pressure on our dairy farmers.
We have Brand Market Brand Market growth growth UK cheese 6% 2% UK butter, spreads, margarine 9% 8% UK butter, spreads, margarine 9% 8% French non-butter spreads 10% 0% Flavoured milk 3% 8% Total 7% Dairy Crest sales 12 months to 31 March 2011 v 12 months to 31 March 2010 ACN, IRI data to 19 March 2011 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 15 responded by increasing our milk prices Taken together we have commenced million per annum, although, in the case and continue to support our suppliers in initiatives in the year that will deliver over of dedicated milk pools, this has been many different ways.
20 million of annualised cost savings.
We immediately offset by higher selling prices.
achieved the same target in the previous Other commodity input costs such as Financial summary year and have well advanced plans to vegetable oil, fuel and packaging are Adjusted Group profit before tax was up do so again in the year ending 31 March forecast to be around 25 million higher in 5% at 87.6 million 2010: 83.5 million.
Our cost base excluding milk and 2011 12 than in 2010 11.
Adjusted basic earnings per share commodity ingredients is around 800 We will also continue to focus on cash increased by 6% to 47.1 pence 2010: million and we believe that cost initiatives generation, however we expect that net 44.5 pence.
Reported profit before tax of 2.5% of this each year is a reasonable borrowings will increase in the year ending of 77.8 million was unchanged from last target for the next few years.
31 March 2012, reflecting higher cheese year despite the benefit of 4 million of Our focus on efficiency has allowed stocks and increased capital investment.
exceptional income in the prior year.
us to invest more in marketing and Trading in the new financial year has Group net debt at 31 March 2011 was innovation and limit the increase in input started in line with our expectations.
costs that we have had to pass on to Against a background of higher input customers and consumers.
costs and increasingly cash-constrained Trading performance Increased staff training has also consumers we will continue to focus on Dairy Crests sales mix continues to improve contributed to improved service and quality.
doing the right things for long term benefit, as we grow sales of our key brands and In addition we have benefited from including making efficiency improvements reduce our middle ground milk sales.
the work we have done in recent years to and investing in our brands and facilities.
Our five key brands have all grown reduce risk.
We now have a far simpler We are soundly positioned to deal with the ahead of the market with the exception business which allows greater focus.
of FRijj where, as previously reported, manufacturing capacity was constrained Looking forward for part of the year.
In Spreads and Cheese our strong In a difficult marketplace we have innovation pipeline will help build on our again delivered increased pre-exceptional current momentum and further grow sales profits.
This is due to our focus on quality, of our key brands.
Mark Allen Chief Executive service and cost.
Over recent years Our Dairies business is facing an 18 May 2011 we have invested heavily in our cheese increasingly tough operating environment.
business and are one year into a three A very competitive market has put year capital investment programme for our pressure on this side of the business.
This is on track to deliver Input costs have risen during the fourth the anticipated efficiency improvements, quarter of 2010 11 and dealing with reducing production costs and wastage.
them is a key priority for the year ahead.
We are also reducing costs in our We will do this by continuing to make depot network and have worked with our efficiency savings and agreeing selling non-milk suppliers to take costs out of all price increases with customers.
In total areas of the supply chain.
milk costs have increased by over 40 WE CREATE We constantly look for new and better ways of doing things 5% 6% 8% increase in Adjusted increase in Adjusted reduction in net debt Group profit before tax basic earnings per share to 311.6 million to 87.6 million to 47.1 pence Overview
