AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OUR STRATEGIC AMBITION Martin Morgan TO BECOME A GLOBAL Chief Executive GROWTH COMPANY WE HAVE THREE STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 1.
Supporting our newspapers and investing in digital consumer media 3.
Diversifying internationally into INTRODUCTION high growth markets This Business Review outlines the main operational and financial factors underpinning the development, performance and position of the Group as well as those likely to affect performance over the coming year, illustrating this with key performance indicators.
My Chief Executives Review sets out the nature, objectives and strategy of the Group.
A business review of the performance of each of our operating divisions follows on pages 24 to 37.
A Financial and Treasury Review is given on pages 38 to 43 and the principal risks and uncertainties the Group faces are set out on pages 50 to 53 of the Directors Report.
founding family, has proved activities comprise within A&N DMGTs Philosophy itself throughout our long Media Mail Newspapers, our DMGT is a multi-media Our structure, history to be a successful digital-only businesses, our free and information company as a publicly listed business model in the media newspaper division, principally providing essential news, and information industry.
It is Metro, and Northcliffe Media.
entertainment and information company controlled this ownership structure that We also own 50% of dmg Radio services in both the business to by its founding affords us a longer-term Australia, a joint venture.
business B2B and consumer perspective and that is at sectors.
We operate in many family, provides Strategy the heart of our philosophy.
different markets, in many The overarching strategy for a successful business countries, each with its own We are committed to the Group is to remain the competitive and regulatory model for the media remaining diversified across owner of high quality, requirements.
both the B2B and consumer sustainable, market-leading and information media sectors in order to give media and information assets It has been DMGTs philosophy industry.
us a breadth of opportunities across both the B2B and for many years to take and to spread risk.
Our B2B consumer sectors and to advantage of its shareholding arm is made up of Risk improve DMGTs overall share structure and to invest with Management Solutions RMS, rating.
Our intention is for DMGT a long-term perspective to dmg::information, dmg::events to become a truly global generate value.
Our particular and Euromoney Institutional growth company with ownership structure, with Investor.
Our consumer media sustainable earnings and control maintained by the 12 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION dividend growth, with an attention, is ensuring that we comfort in the fact that we We are developing increasing exposure to growth are making the necessary know all our companies are DMGT into a truly economies and international changes to embrace new run by chief executives with opportunities.
technologies to meet expert knowledge of the global growth company, changing customer needs and markets in which they operate.
Last year I stated that our with sustainable to improve efficiency and to We have continued to nurture strategy is underpinned by five lower costs.
operational autonomy with earnings, consistent guiding tasks, which are still all strong incentives based on relevant today, but this year I Progress in year dividend growth and performance, whilst retaining have added a sixth, and that We have made good progress central control over surplus increasing exposure is technology innovation.
in pursuit of our strategy over capital and its reinvestment.
We The first is to enhance focus to high growth have narrowed further the Maintaining this approach by concentrating our economies.
range of companies DMGT is of the upmost importance management and investment operates to concentrate to me and my colleagues.
The on a subset of businesses financial and talent resources benefits are numerous and where we see the closest where growth opportunities enabled us to respond rapidly alignment between are greatest.
We have to the economic downturn.
At opportunities and growth, and repaired our balance sheet by DMGT we realise that if you which fit with our investment achieving a high profit to cash want to survive in this sector, criteria.
conversion, through active you must be able to react Secondly, we have been portfolio management and by quickly and efficiently to the strengthening our balance extending our bank facilities rapidly changing media world.
sheet in order to maintain out to 2016.
We have focused Autonomous management financial flexibility so that we strongly on operational keeps decision-making are able to take advantage efficiency throughout the close to the customer.
Real of opportunities as they arise.
We have negotiated innovation comes from having a medium-term funding a customer focus.
Our The third key priority has been arrangement with the pension decentralised model provides to reduce pension liabilities.
fund trustees and have made a fertile environment for The fourth is applying inroads towards curtailing our innovative people and, in turn, consistent investment criteria.
We are a positive breeding ground for This requires being highly looking at ways of reducing innovative ideas.
disciplined both in regularly the schemes volatility.
We At Group level, the Investment assessing our current have applied our clearly and Finance Committee businesses and in the way we articulated set of criteria works alongside the DMGT assess all future investments, Our decentralised for making investments.
We Leadership Team, making resulting in a clear capital have elevated the priority model provides a fertile decisions on investment and allocation process.
There is given to talent and launched capital allocation, acting a preparedness to sell as well environment for a new leadership programme.
independently from the as to buy on a timely basis.
We have improved innovative people and divisions, and overseeing communication both internally The fifth is building on Group strategy development.
We are DMGTs distinct values and The Leadership Team developing a long-term plan management philosophy.
ground for innovative comprises all the divisional for international growth as part We remain committed to company leaders, together ideas.
of our ambition to create a a decentralised operating with the DMGT executive.
Its truly global company and we structure with a small remit is to focus on developing invested additional resources central team in order to DMGT Group-wide longer-term to execute against this plan.
nurture innovation and an strategy, on furthering Finally, we are pursuing a entrepreneurial mind set.
cross-Group co-operation number of DMGT Group-wide We have been raising the bar when and where this makes initiatives in the technology on talent by being committed sense, and to guide policy on area.
to attracting and retaining cross-divisional matters, for the best people in order to My summary of this years example Group leadership optimise our management progress should be seen as a courses, communications, philosophy and to meet testament to our unwavering international expansion our global growth ambitions.
commitment to the strategy and aspects of technical Our work on talent remains we set out last year.
It does not replace critical in order to have the the decision making and DMGT Operational Model entrepreneurially minded accountability structures DMGTs approach to people who can drive the in place through our managing the Groups revenue line and our strategic decentralised operating companies has not changed: ambitions.
we continue to adopt a The sixth task, to which we are decentralised structure.
We dedicating increased take a considerable amount of DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 13 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION On compensation, we do not where the most potential for market leading position in the We are embracing new apply a one size fits all policy.
long-term growth and value German market.
technologies to meet This is a big strength, reflecting creation existed.
I stated that We have also made a number the value of the decentralised we would remain active changing customer of disposals of businesses model.
A series of templates managers of our portfolio which had become non-core.
needs and improve has been created.
Local of businesses and apply our These were RMSI, the Indianincentive plans are in place investment criteria vigorously efficiency.
based geographic information and the Remuneration in determining where to services division of Risk Committee takes care to allocate capital.
At the same Management Solutions, ensure that compensation is time we would maintain our Sanborn, dmg::informations aligned with the particular long-term perspective and business serving the geospatial circumstances of each rate of internal investment to market in the USA, and business.
dmg::events US retail-focused The investment criteria that events managed by George Information sharing and I identified were to focus Little Management GLM.
We technology on having businesses which also disposed of We recognise that our future operate in attractive growth dmg::informations stake in is largely digital, whether it be markets.
Such businesses should CoStar Group, Inc, acquired in in the consumer or in B2B have products or services exchange for Property & markets, and we are uniquely that are highly innovative Portfolio Research in July 2009. placed to take key learnings and highly valued, ones which Combined with our strong and experience from one to customers repeat buy.
We operating cash flow inform the other.
Accordingly, have a strong bias towards generation, this has reduced we have encouraged the market leaders.
Businesses with our debt significantly.
We are sharing of more information these characteristics will not now in a good position to regarding technological only grow but be high margin, make further acquisitions, developments across the cash generative and produce but will continue our policy Group, particularly regarding a high return on capital.
We to prioritise a programme of new product development are also focused on capturing selective smaller scale deals and entering new markets.
and retaining entrepreneurial which we can develop and We launched DMGT Chatter, management and we give which can benefit from our which already serves as an preference to businesses longer-term perspective.
excellent pan-Group idea which can benefit from DMGTs We will continue to divest on sharing tool.
We have made long-term perspective.
a periodic basis where our more use of the services of Bill track record over recent years Raduchel, our technology We have fully adopted these is good.
expert, to advise us at Group investment criteria both in level during the year.
Last new investments and in the Review of the year year I reported that since management of currently DMGT has delivered a solid technology defines our owned businesses.
In keeping set of results.
Our international businesses, driving the with this approach, we have B2B companies have again presentation of content, we further refocused the portfolio increased their revenues had carried out a study of with a range of disposals and and adjusted profits, technology systems and what reorganisations.
reflecting the strength of our future requirements would their market positions.
Our As well as maintaining our be.
During the year we started UK consumer businesses have focus on organic growth taking actions based on this proved resilient in the face of Our energy forum and on nurturing our existing analysis.
A further example of weak consumer advertising, businesses, we have also information sharing is in the has gained excellent particularly in the third quarter, made a significant acquisition establishment this year of an and taken together with higher traction.
Its bringing in July, backing Euromoney energy forum, under the newsprint prices, resulted in in its acquisition of an 85% guidance of David Dutton, together executives profits being down sharply for interest in Ned Davis Research which has gained excellent the year.
There has been a to exchange ideas.
Group, the US-based provider traction by putting executives strong focus on operational of independent financial from dmg::information, efficiency throughout the research to institutional dmg::events and Euromoney Group and we have sought investors.
We are keen on together to exchange ideas.
further cost savings, bolt-on acquisitions to particularly through the Active portfolio strengthen the competitive decision to relocate our management position of our businesses: and Surrey Quays printing When I became Chief dmg information have made a operation to a green-field Executive in 2008, I recognised further attractive acquisition, site in Thurrock, Essex.
the need to focus on a that of On-Geo for Landmark narrower range of activities in which has now been Notwithstanding the fact that order to concentrate human combined with its Inframation operating profit fell by 5% and resources and financial capital business to give Landmark a operating margin from 15% to 14 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 14%, our debt has fallen programme on a new software driving of new launches by DMGT has always significantly.
We have beaten platform, which is expected to building off the big shows in been a first mover our debt: ebitda target range generate future, multi-year Energy and the Middle East.
of 2 to 2.5 times and have revenue growth, as explained With respect to the latter, in the media and eliminated bank debt.
The company there have been several new information industry.
We also made good progress launches including new shows have maintained our rate of in addressing opportunities in Saudi Arabia and organic investment in new products to model additional risk investment.
The Ad:Tech and services during the year.
categories, mostly in the business in digital marketing is area of life and health.
growing strongly as is Evanta in DMGT has always been a executive conferences.
dmg first mover in the media and dmg::information events will also look to make information industry.
Our results dmg::information had a good selected targeted small demonstrate once again the year, with reported revenue up acquisitions.
success of the decision to 3%.
Underlying revenues grew diversify and move away from Euromoney Institutional by 7%, which is a good a dependence on UK Investor performance given the newspapers.
But at the same Euromoneys operating profit economic backdrop.
time our national newspapers was up 9%, before its capital Operating profits were have strengthened further appreciation plan CAP unchanged, but with an their market-leading positions.
expenses, maintaining its underlying increase of 9% We are experiencing growth in impressive recent history of year-on-year.
our newer consumer digital profits growth, illustrated on dmg::informations strategy business and in our strong page 30. remains focused on investing in grouping of B2B sector These results confirm the value those companies within the companies.
of Euromoneys strategy to existing portfolio which build a more resilient and Business to Business operate in an attractive sector better focused business by Summary and have the combination of increasing the proportion I am pleased to report that our attractive business models, of revenues derived from B2B operations achieved good strong market positions, growth subscription products.
They potential and good subscriptions now accounting reported combined revenues management.
Its ambition to for nearly a half of total of 892 million, 8% higher than invest in must-have, highrevenues.
A predominantly last year, with an underlying growth, innovative business publishing driven business has increase of 10%.
Operating information companies been transformed to one with profit was up by 4%.
The remains unchanged, as does significant activities in underlying increase, including its remit to diversify DMGT by electronic information and adjusting for an additional sector, by business model and database services.
charge for Euromoneys by geography.
management incentive Euromoney has outperformed dmg::events scheme, was 14%.
The overall expectations, allowing dmg::events had a very good B2B margin was 25%.
management to shift its focus year with both underlying to positioning the business Risk Management Solutions revenues and underlying for growth, both from existing RMS had a solid year of profits increasing by 14%.
The products as markets recover, revenue and profit growth.
strong momentum that started and from investment in Revenues increased by 4% in the latter half of 2010 has technology and new products.
on a reported basis, with an continued through the past underlying increase of 11%.
year due to exhibitions and Euromoneys performance Operating profit rose by 6% in events being late-cycle and its shift into more spite of the inclusion of RMSIs media.
The reported revenues subscription and digital activity 4 million loss up until its and profits benefited from two and its global reach mean that disposal in August: underlying of our large biennial shows the Board regards it as core to profit grew by 21%.
The DMGTs own strategic global Subscriptions continued to sale of GLM was completed growth ambitions.
grow well, with a renewal rate in September.
Euromoneys separate listing of approximately 95%.
The remediation phase has on the London Stock Exchange RMS has multiple growth been completed by righthas enabled it to introduce drivers.
Whilst continuing to sizing the portfolio and incentive plans which have focus primarily on in its core reinvesting in the ongoing motivated management commercial catastrophe events.
The business is now to grow the company modelling business, it is aiming moving into its third phase of significantly over recent years.
to establish itself as a platform sustainable, profitable growth.
We remain a supportive solution provider, beginning a This will involve continued shareholder, fully backing its significant development portfolio management, the managements expansion DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 15 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION strategy.
We have maintained opportunities, by building off Digital-only businesses our equity interest at around the strength of the brand, for Our digital-only verticals in the 67% and are taking opportunities example, through MailOnline jobs, property, motors and to increase it, as they arise.
which has significant growth travel markets increased opportunities ahead of it.
Consumer media The recruitment and property At A&N Media, the testing Content has been at the heart sectors both grew strongly, economic conditions adversely of our success at Associated offset by challenging markets affected both Northcliffes and we continue to invest in in motors and travel.
In classified revenues and the editorial quality.
The graph on October 2011, A&N Media Mail titles display advertising page 35 shows that our actions agreed to merge the online revenues.
Combined revenues are delivering success with property business of its Digital were 1,098 million, an circulation relatively stable Property Group with Zoopla underlying decrease of 2% and market share rising.
This merger will create and a fall of 4% on a reported was due in part to the success a genuine opportunity to basis.
Together with discounted of the Mail Rewards Club challenge the dominant cover price-related marketing initiative.
market leader in the online activity for The Mail on Sunday, Our national free morning property sector.
We believe and a further increase in the newspaper, Metro, increased that the combination of our price of newsprint, this meant its distribution and advertising respective digital property that operating profits volumes.
It extended into new assets will benefit both decreased by 20%.
The pursuit advertising categories and consumers and clients.
Under of cost efficiencies in shared reported record profits.
It also the proposed merger, A&N back office functions and grew its digital offering.
Media will retain a 55% interest service centres continued in the newly merged entity.
The Mail Digital made further during the year.
A&N Medias completion of the merger is progress this year, recording a underlying margin fell from 11% subject to competition 63% improvement in revenue.
Headcount reduced by authority clearance.
Traffic to its primary website, 740 10%.
MailOnline, increased Northcliffe Media A drive for efficiency has significantly, largely through its Northcliffes titles continued delivered a leaner and more targeting of the US market.
We to be affected by weak robust base on which to grow.
opened an office in New York, advertising markets, with total Alongside this, investment Investment continues alongside that in Los Angeles, revenues down by 10%.
In continues in new and emerging aimed at increasing US March, we appointed Steve in new and emerging business models, particularly content, audience and Auckland, formerly Managing MailOnline which is key to business models, thereby driving US advertising Director of Metro to be future growth, and A&N Media sales.
This has contributed responsible for Northcliffes particularly Enterprises, which sells towards a 62% year-on-year print publishing, with Roland products and services directly MailOnline.
increase in US daily unique Bryan running the local digital to customers.
visitors in October 2011. operations including the Local Consumers are increasingly People business.
A programme On a global basis, MailOnline adopting new mobile devices to extract further efficiencies became the worlds second to access digitally delivered and reduce costs was initiated most visited English language news, entertainment and including a re-organisation newspaper website.
Advertising is and simplification of the differentiated in the UK from following this trend, moving management structure.
A the Mail newspapers by its away from printed press.
But review of the portfolio was particular treatment of news the growth in the number of carried out resulting in a and entertainment, which 55 aged newspaper readers rationalisation of the number appeals to a younger has softened the readership of free newspapers published demographic, the majority decline for the Daily Mail which and the creation of one of whom do not buy a Mail continues to outperform the recruitment call centre for newspaper.
MailOnline grew the whole business.
Where was launched in April, rapidly and increased its global profitable we are switching alongside our iPhone and reach, positioning us well to some daily titles to weekly iPod Touch versions.
We see capture share of digital publications and four such digital publishing as a growth advertising.
changes were made opportunity, and a means of successfully.
In Hull, Associated Newspapers extending the Mail brand.
Nottingham and Bristol The Mail titles, despite Whilst MailOnline is growing new publishers have been operating in a sector in audience we expect to retain appointed to enable these long-term decline, is and will our policy of free access.
Our centres better to adapt be a core business for many approach to distribution to their individual market years to come and will channels and pricing remains circumstances.
continue to offer real growth flexible.
16 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION New advertising packages We have again demonstrated be nimble, bold and decisive and sales campaigns have the benefits of our diversified in order to realise this vision.
Investor Day been introduced to improve international portfolio of Our objective is to ensure revenue growth.
profitable sustainable growth over the long term.
The much-mooted talk of Our priorities 18th potential consolidation within The environment in which we Share price performance the regional newspaper operate remains unsettled, Our share performance April industry has not yet come just as it was this time last year.
remains important to us as an about.
Whilst we can see In light of our performance, indicator as to whether our benefits from consolidation, we continue to apply the strategy is understood and 2012 the Board has decided not to same priorities.
We remain appreciated by institutional put further capital into the disciplined about our investors.
regional newspaper industry approach to costs and The price of our widely traded because of the more certain acquisitions, whilst continuing A Ordinary Non-Voting Shares potential of other opportunities to work on building a pipeline has again been volatile, for investment.
We remain of new innovative products, despite stock lending of the committed to the continuing and in growing a target list of shares reducing significantly transformation of Northcliffe attractive bolt-on acquisitions.
The because we believe there will Given the significant prevailing share price started the always be a demand for local economic uncertainties, we financial year at 5.26, rising to news and information.
Our will run the Group with the a high of 5.95 at the start of attempt to safeguard the utmost prudence.
The shares fell as low future of some of Northcliffes At our first Investor Day in as 3.43 in September, due titles in Kent by selling them to March 2009, I stated that our largely to external factors the Kent Messenger Group was aim for DMGT was to be a outside our control, before thwarted by the Office of Fair modern company of closing the year at 3.63.
Trading which referred the tomorrow, not a legacy As explained in last years sales to the Competition company of the past.
We Business Review, as a Commission for further have a much sounder platform consequence of a decision investigation causing the today than we did then by FTSE, in response to the acquirer to withdraw.
We on which to execute this Financial Services Authoritys believe it is now imperative objective, due to the Policy Notice in February 2010, that changes are made to management actions taken to adopt listing classifications allow the industry to right across the Group, and for determining the weighting consolidate in a way that can from the recovery in a number of share classes in their indices, safeguard its future.
Therefore our DMGTs weighting in the UK strategy remains unchanged.
A&N International Media Index Series will fall from 75% Whilst print advertising Whilst we believe print is far to 0% when our A shares are declined, circulation and from dead, our growth lies in redesignated by the FSA as digital revenues both grew, as digital media in both consumer having a standard listing on did the audience visiting our and in B2B, and we are 31st May, 2012.
Headcount increasingly focused on doing remain a premium listed has been reduced and what is needed to excel in the company, following this significant savings made.
change, by virtue of its Summary Ordinary shares.
Pure index We envisage DMGT becoming The Groups B2B companies funds tend to hold only around a more global and faster increased their overall profit by 5% of our A shares.
We plan to 4%, which was offset by the profits of A&N Media being down 20%.
As a consequence, Performance of DMGT A and FTSE All-Share index relative to values 74% of this years operating at 30th September, 1988 profit was generated from the Groups B2B operations and DMGT A 26% from consumer, compared FTSE All-Share Index 15 to 67% and 33% last year.
A significant part of our 10 operations and more than half of the Groups operating profits 5 again derived from outside the UK, which also has the effect of reducing the Groups 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 exposure to media regulation.
DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 17 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our commitment to raising the DMGT dividend history for the period 1988 2011 pence bar on talent is continuing and increasingly effective, applying human capital where 15 growth prospects are best.
Two DMGT-wide executive training 10 courses were held and talent reviews are taking root in every 5 business.
We made several further key 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 appointments in order to populate the Group with new superior talent, from both Capital structure within and outside the Group.
significant liability risk and The Company has not made a At Group level, Stephen volatility from our pension capital call on its shareholders Daintith joined us in January, schemes remains a high since 1933.
Capital growth is succeeding Peter Williams as priority.
funded by long-term debt and Finance Director at the end of by retained earnings.
Since the By the year end, we had March.
We hired Galen Poss in late 1980s, our strategy has eliminated bank debt and December 2010 to the newly been to seek to raise the have 328 million of unused created role of Chief dividend in real terms and bank facilities.
Having Operating Officer of since 2002, the Boards policy comfortably stayed within our dmg::events.
has been to target a real rate debt: ebitda limit of 2.4 times Communications of growth in the dividend in by achieving a ratio of 1.99 We continue our commitment the region of 5% to 7% on times, we will continue to to raise the profile of DMGT the basis of the Directors manage the ratio down and communicate the quality, confidence in the Groups through strong cash flow performance and prospects of long-term financial health.
generation, in order to create the Group, both internally and more capacity to satisfy Whilst maintaining its policy of externally.
We have increased attractive acquisition and seeking to increase the the regularity and consistency investment opportunities.
dividend in real terms over the of our communications.
Our economic cycle, the Board Investor Day in March was Whilst we can run the Group has declared a final dividend positively received.
We are without having to raise new up 6%, making an increase of planning a further Investor Day finance, we will want to do so 6% for the year.
As shown to be held in London on 18th in order to sustain the Groups above, the compound April, 2012. long-term growth ambitions.
dividend growth over the last Therefore regaining investment A variety of approaches to 23 years is 10% in nominal grade status remains an staff communications exist terms, which is an increase of important objective.
within the Group, as explained 7% in real terms.
Resources in our CR report.
In September, As we now have surplus cash, The Groups main resources we launched a business we will look to buy back any are its brands, reputation, the collaboration tool called available bonds, especially market-leading position of its Chatter, which encourages those due for repayment in major businesses and above staff to share ideas and March 2013, at the right price.
I realise that the enables communication On 30th September, we skills required of leaders in our on a Group-wide basis.
repurchased 25 million of our industry ten years ago are not Stakeholder relationships Bonds due 2018.
Superior and Corporate Responsibility backs are not currently business performance starts Across the Group we take attractive, given our strategy with superior people.
We corporate responsibility CR to grow the business, the cannot capitalise on the future seriously and it permeates our scarcity of available capital unless we invest in the talent outlook on the environment, and our desire to regain of today, in the leaders of the way we treat our investment grade status.
It is my overriding employees, our customers and will be considered, however, at priority to ensure that we suppliers, as well as on local the time any major acquisition continue to attract and community issues.
We envisage promote the very best talent repaying our 2013 Bonds from and reward talent suitably our cash resources.
Containing in line with shareholders and eventually eliminating interests.
18 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DMGT companies are Community involvement is report, the Information combining innovation and integral to the way we run our Commissioner expressed business knowledge to further company, as is its importance concerns about the corporate responsibility issues.
to the personal motivation of widespread use of inquiry Metros inaugural four-day our employees.
We donate agents by many organisations.
EcoVelocity event at Battersea money, time and in-kind It would seem that, for Power station in London is a donations such as advertising the most part, it related case in point.
The event space, and staff participate in to the tracing of individuals.
focused on low-carbon a huge range of activities, Following this report, the motoring and showcased the including fundraising, Associated Newspapers latest low emission vehicles organising events and acting Editor-in-Chief, banned from leading manufacturers.
as trustees to charitable the use of inquiry agents.
We recognise that our In the context of these businesses have an impact Over the last six months there measures, the Editor-in-Chief, on the environment, be has been a considerable Paul Dacre, was able to inform that through our printing amount of public discussion a Parliamentary Committee operations, offices, transport about the conduct and in July that he had never or other activities.
We are truly regulation of the press and the countenanced hacking or committed to ensuring that, launch of the Leveson Inquiry.
blagging and the Daily Mail where possible, our impact on At DMGT, our journalists have has never published a story the environment is minimised.
for a number of years received that he knew, either at the regular training and time or subsequently, was The greatest impact we communications on the PCC based on a hacked message make arises from our printing Code of Practice which or any other source of material operations.
Here, I am pleased forbids telephone hacking, that had been obtained to say that we have been the Data Protection Act and, unlawfully.
diligent in measuring and most recently, on the UK reducing waste in our usage In August, the Risk Committee Bribery Act.
Furthermore, it is a of materials, and through and Paul Dacre initiated an condition of employment and our analysis of our carbon internal review of editorial is written into employment footprint, monitoring and policy and process.
This contracts that our journalists improving our efficiency in the review was conducted by comply with the PCC Code use of energy.
the Head of Editorial Legal and the Data Protection Act Services.
It considered editorial We started to measure our and now includes compliance policies, ethics, training, footprint in 2006 and the graph with the Bribery Act, following communications and shown below illustrates that the its introduction on 1st July.
This was a routine Groups emissions have fallen breach of the Code or the law assessment which was seen as steadily since then.
is a serious disciplinary matter a sensible step to reconfirm that results in immediate At Harmsworth Quays, our and give comfort that dismissal.
Thus the tone from largest printing plant, and appropriate policies and the top and culture at Northcliffe House, the procedures exist over our Associated Newspapers has Companys headquarters and editorial practices.
The review always made it clear that the London base of Associated was discussed by the Risk compliance in these areas is Newspapers, Northcliffe Committee of the Board, as non-negotiable.
Media and dmg::events, we explained in the Risk maintained the key There have been comments Committee section of the international environmental in the media on the Mail titles Corporate Governance Report standard ISO 14001. use of inquiry agents.
In on pages 59 and 60. the 2006 What Price Privacy A further important part of our overall culture and control CO efficiency Emissions per revenue tCO m revenue environment is the DMGT 2 2 Code of Conduct, which we 11 require all our staff to follow.
This was updated, particularly 10 in light of the Bribery Act, and 09 re-communicated to all staff in July.
08 For more detailed information 07 on our CR activities, please see the CR Report on pages 0 1 0 20 30 40 50 60 44 to 47.
DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 19 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION In addition, regulatory DMGT and our Employees Outlook Our growth lies in changes introduced to The number of employees fell We have entered our new digital media in both protect pensioners make it by 2,590 from 14,592 at the financial year with our less attractive to use defined beginning of the year to 12,002 businesses performing well and in B2B and consumer.
benefit pension provision at the year end, a decrease of in line with our expectations.
We are increasingly as a form of remuneration.
Of this reduction, 2,253 We expect underlying growth was due to disposals, in revenue and profit to be focused on doing what Given the value of the principally within RMSs India delivered by all our B2B Companys defined benefit is needed to excel in operations.
Excluding companies, A&N Medias pension commitments acquisitions and disposals and progress will be primarily the digital world.
compared to the current with a continued focus on cost dependent on the advertising market valuation of the Group, reduction, the number of environment which remains this cost needs to be controlled employees fell by 472 in the volatile and difficult, and on to ensure the financial health year.
Within this number there cost reduction.
As referred of the Company and these was a fall within A&N Media of to earlier the degree of pension schemes.
So, having 740 10%, mainly due to further economic uncertainty, previously closed its defined job losses at Northcliffe Media especially in Europe, makes benefit schemes to new of 601 people 19%, while the forecasting especially difficult employees, the Board principal increases were from and may well negatively introduced a series of the acquisitions of Ned Davis impact our current measures during the year Research and On-Geo.
to help secure the financial health of these plans into The Company attaches RMS has started the year the future.
These were great importance to a clear strongly with a solid sales communicated to relevant understanding of personal pipeline and a range of staff in December 2010 financial issues by its significant development and introduced, following employees, a view which led programmes, including its new consultation, on 1st April.
to the development by DMGT software platform.
RMS All members of the schemes Pensions of an online expects to achieve revenue retain benefits accrued to workplace financial growth in the mid-to-high that date which are increased information website www.
single digits and maintain in line with the Retail Price timeformoney.
co. uk in the margins of around 30%.
It is early days for dmg::information expects to onwards, the link to final salary this innovative facility but there drive continued solid organic has been broken and they are interesting possibilities for growth, due to the strength of earn a cash credit on the basis this application in supporting market positions and through of their current years salary broader financial new product initiatives.
Growth which increases in line with communications to employees would be enhanced by any the Consumer Price index.
sustained improvements in the In the first quarter of 2012, we All new employees of A&N economic environment, plan to relaunch our share Media are now being offered particularly for our property incentive plan, DMGT a defined contribution pension and financial businesses.
SharePurchase, which is plan, which has brought this Overall, dmg::information available to all eligible UK staff division into line with our other expects to achieve high single to give them the opportunity newer and more digit revenue growth and to to own the Companys shares, internationally focused maintain operating margins so that they can benefit if we divisions where we have long at around 20%.
are successful in meeting our believed this type of pension At dmg::events, the positive financial objectives.
plan to be more appropriate.
momentum experienced DMGT has been operating through 2011 has continued defined benefit pension into the autumn, with bookings schemes, primarily in its for key events showing positive newspaper businesses, for a trends.
The reported results for long time and has a reputation 2011 12 will be affected by the for the quality of pension disposal of GLM and by only provision.
However, the cost of one of our three major biennial providing this benefit continues shows taking place.
On an to rise as people are expected underlying basis, and fuelled to live longer and, more by our launch plans, revenue recently, as turmoil in financial growth is expected to continue markets has reduced in the high single digits, with expected investment returns.
20 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION These adjusted results are stated For Euromoney, despite the have continued to track before exceptional items, continuing volatility and the year-on-year trends impairment of goodwill and uncertainty in financial experienced in 2010 11 with a intangible assets, and amortisation of markets, the broad outlook for decline of 7% on a like-for-like intangible assets arising on business combinations.
Other than revenue the first quarter of the new basis last year in the first eight and operating profit, these adjusted financial year is reasonably weeks of the new financial results are for total operations, positive.
Euromoney expects year 10% on a reported basis.
including those treated as the trading environment after The first quarter and outlook for discontinued.
that to be more challenging the year as a whole are not Underlying revenue or profit is and, as usual at this time, expected to improve on this revenue or profit on a like-for-like basis, adjusted for acquisitions, forward revenue visibility trend.
Cost reduction initiatives disposals, closures and non-annual beyond the first quarter is will continue and margins are events made in the current and prior limited other than for expected to be stable.
year and at constant exchange subscriptions.
For 2011 12, it Northcliffe is now focused on rates.
For RMS, underlying percentage movements exclude expects to achieve mid-single building new revenue RMSI, for dmg::information Sanborn digit revenue growth and to opportunities from its print and and for Euromoney Ned Davis maintain operating margin digital products.
For dmg::events, the before its CAP charges.
comparison is between events held It is not a coincidence that in the year and the same events held Within A&N Media, national much of this years Business the previous time.
For A&N Media, advertising revenue at Review echoes that of last the underlying percentage movements exclude London Lite, Associated in the first eight year.
It is entirely intentional the discontinued television activities weeks of the new year was and demonstrates our of Teletext, the digital dating and down 2% on last year, with unwavering commitment to data businesses, the Slovakian continued limited visibility the long-term strategic print production companies and the disposal and closure of titles on future trends.
Circulation objectives I laid out on within Northcliffe.
revenues will be boosted by becoming Chief Executive.
the full year impact of the For the Group as a whole, that Adjusted operating profit, the adjusted tax charge and adjusted Monday to Friday cover price strategy remains focused on earnings per share for the prior year rise for the Daily Mail in July our key pillars: investing in have been restated for the change 2011 and that for the Saturday innovation, achieving greater of presentation of amortisation of edition in October 2011. efficiency, nurturing talent internally generated and acquired computer software as a charge Overall, Associated expects and driving growth.
With these against adjusted operating profit.
to achieve low single digit factors in mind, all of our For the prior year, 17 million has revenue growth due in part to businesses will continue to been reclassified as a charge the Olympics and margins in invest in order to secure future against adjusted operating profit.
the region of 10%, with cost growth and ensure that their Percentages are calculated efficiency helping to protect financial and talent resources on actual numbers to one decimal place.
We expect are appropriately managed.
revenues from our digital My colleagues and I remain All references to profit or margin in this Business Review are to adjusted products, especially confident that DMGT is well profit or margin, except where MailOnline, to grow rapidly.
reference is made to statutory profit.
Northcliffe is going through a substantial change Martin Morgan programme and will benefit Chief Executive from the full-year flow through of cost saving initiatives actioned in the previous six months.
Advertising revenues DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 21
