Chief Executives review Setting a clear vision Our ambition is for Debenhams to be a leading international, multi-channel retailer.
Michael Sharp, Chief Executive This is my first report to shareholders as Chief Executive, although I am far from new to Debenhams.
This is a business I am truly passionate about and it is a privilege to lead such a talented and committed team.
I want to share with you my thoughts on 2011 and my plans for taking the business forward over the next few years, setting out what I believe is a clear strategy for growth.
2011 highlights Introducing Michael Sharp We were pleased with the performance of the business in 2011 despite the difficult trading environment.
We have now delivered seven The right experience to drive growth consecutive halves of growth in sales and profit before tax which is Michael Sharp became Chief Executive of Debenhams on a great achievement given the market environment we have faced 5September 2011, having served as Deputy Chief Executive during this period.
You can read about our financial performance in since November 2008.
Michael has worked for Debenhams detail on pages 28 to 30 but let me give you some of my highlights oritspredecessor the Burton Group since 1985. oftheyear.
Michael has spent his entire career in retail.
In 1985 he joined the Gross transaction value, like-for-like-sales including VAT and profit Burton Group where he held positions as Buying & Merchandising before tax all increased during the year.
Another year of strong cash Controller at Top Man and Burton menswear and Buying & generation saw net debt fall and the dividend reintroduced.
Overall Merchandising Director at Top Man, Topshop and Debenhams these are strong results and are a testament to our pragmatic and womenswear.
Michael became Managing Director of Principles flexible approach to trading which aims to maximise cash margin in1996 and Managing Director of Racing Green the following year.
Michael became Group Trading Director of Debenhams Limited in 1997 and in 2004 was appointed Chief Operating Officer of Growing market share is a key goal for Debenhams.
In 2011 we Debenhams Limited and subsequently Debenhams plc.
saw growth in key product categories including menswear and childrenswear source: Kantar Worldpanel Fashion, 52 weeks to 4 September 2011 vs 2010.
We also gained share in womens casualwear which is one of the product areas we have specifically targeted as an opportunity for market share growth.
8 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Finance review Sustainability Governance Accounts We continued to see an excellent performance in health & beauty in 2011.
We have a market leading position in the premium market and our share increased by 130 basis points to 28.5% over the past year source: NPD Health & Beauty market share, 52 weeks to August 2011.
Our beauty loyalty scheme Beauty Club, which now has one million members, has undoubtedly driven a large measure ofthisgrowth.
One of the biggest challenges this year has been the severe pressure on margins due to rising input costs, in particular higher commodity prices such as cotton.
I believe we have managed this well.
2011 Raising our standards instore has definitely been a year when our first class buying and supply Improving visual merchandising and product presentation are key chain infrastructure has been invaluable.
This, along with our many parts of delivering a compelling customer proposition.
We want to years experience of direct sourcing and long-standing supplier be more inspiring and ensure our standards are consistently high.
relationships, has enabled us to remain competitively priced and keepstock levels firmly under control.
In the spring we launched Edition, a new concept under the Designers at Debenhams banner which is investing in some of the most exciting British design talent.
Our first designers for spring summer 2011 were Jonathan Saunders, Preen and Jonathan Kelsey and they have now been joined by Roksanda Ilincic for autumn winter 2011.
Overall Designers at Debenhams continues to go from strength to strength with sales up by 5.3% in 2011, demonstrating its resilience even in the most difficult markets.
Three new stores were opened during the year in Bath, Wakefield and Fareham and they each performed in line with our expectations.
Our store modernisation programme, which recommenced last year, accelerated at pace this year with 11 modernisations completed, Innovative presentation including some of our largest, oldest stores such as Gloucester and Imaginative and stylish product displays are the hallmark of our Southampton.
Our customers are clearly as excited about their revamped stores, ensuring a memorable customer experience.
upgraded stores as we are: the refits are delivering improvements in This includes innovative use of contemporary mannequins that sales and margins as well as a healthy return on capital.
deliver an eye-catching look to our childrenswear department.
2011 has seen a step up in the development of our multi-channel business with a host of new developments.
Like-for-like online sales increased by 71.9% in 2011 and are up by 224% on a two year basis.
This was the first full year of ownership of our Danish business Magasin du Nord and we were very pleased with the performance ofthat business.
Like-for-like sales increased by 6.3% in local currency and gross margin was up by 200 basis points.
We remain on course tomeet the targets we set at the time of acquisition in November 2009.
One of the most important projects we have undertaken this year is a comprehensive review of our approach to sustainability.
You can read about this in detail on pages 38 to 40 but I want to add my commitment to this project.
The way our business interacts with the wider world and meets the needs of all our stakeholders is vital to oursuccess.
Setting a clear strategy for growth Our ambition is for Debenhams to be a leading international, multichannel retailer.
We are aware that every retailer says this.
What is different when we say it is our exclusive brand and product portfolio.
Half of what we sell cannot be bought anywhere else.
Debenhams today is a successful, profitable, cash generative business with strong financial discipline.
None of this is going to change.
We have been listening to our customers and looking at the way consumer behaviour is changing.
Customers tell us we are good at lots of things: exclusive brands especially Designers at Debenhams: broad product categories: services such as personal shopper and gift list: and promotions that offer great value.
But they also tell us that our stores could be less cluttered and more modern and contemporary.
Importantly, they want more choice: of brands, of products, of ways to shop.
As a result, after a period when department stores were perhaps seen as an anachronism on the high street, they are becoming increasingly relevant.
As the Wall Street Journal put it recently: Dowdy department stores start looking cool again.
This gives us a great platform from which to build.
We believe there are significant organic opportunities to drive profitable sales growth in Debenhams.
Our strategy for growth centres around four pillars: a focus on UK retail: delivering a compelling customer proposition: increasing choice and availability through multi-channel: and expanding the brand internationally.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 9 Chief Executives review continued Increasing availability and choice through multi-channel Forecasts suggest that by 2015 47% of all clothing and footwear sales will be multi-channel, that is to say they involve customers using more than one access point in a single sale, up from just 28% in 2010 source: Javelin Consulting.
Our multi-channel business has grown very strongly over the past three years with online sales increasing by over 300% during this period.
In 2011, online contributed 7.4% oftotal gross transaction value excluding Magasin.
Our ambition is toincrease online sales over the medium-term to 500 million.
At the centre of our multi-channel strategy is the desire to increase Debenhams at your service choice and availability.
Increasing the choice of products and ways Services such as personal shopper, gift list, bra fit and beauty toshop results in more customers and more cross-shopping between services including brow bars are an important way to ensure product categories.
Increasing availability to satisfy demand that is customers see Debenhams as a premium shopping destination.
not currently being met drives full price sales which leads to lower markdown and better working capital.
You can read more about the future developments of our multi-channel business on pages 20 to 23.
Focusing on UK retail Expanding the brand internationally Our UK store portfolio is the engine room of our business.
Our In 2011, 16.2% of Debenhams total revenue originated outside ambitions are threefold: to improve the performance of core stores: the UK.
Our approach of using franchises in distant and emerging to complete the modernisation of all core stores within the next two markets, owned assets closer to home and international online years: and to open new stores in target locations.
delivery is working well and will continue to form the basis of our international strategy.
There are 45 stores in the UK which have yet to be modernised and which we term core stores.
These stores all make a cash contribution We are upgrading our ambitions for new franchise store openings and to the business and deserve their place in the Debenhams estate.
now expect to double the existing store number of 65 over the next However, there are opportunities to improve the performance of five years, 14 of these planned new stores are under contract.
these stores and drive sales growth even before they are modernised.
We are confident in further growth of Magasin du Nord.
Although We will do this through focus rather than additional cost or there are limited opportunities for new store openings in Denmark, capitalspend.
the launch of an online proposition in 2012 should deliver Customers views of Debenhams are very much coloured by their incremental sales.
Magasin serves as a model for other potential local store.
The condition of our stores varies considerably and so we acquisitions and we will continue to assess any opportunities that understand that some customers living near older stores which have may arise.
not been modernised for some time will have a less favourable view.
The number of countries we deliver to outside the UK is increasing This needs to change.
All of the 45 core stores will be modernised from the initial seven to 67 in the spring of 2012.
The next stage is within the next two years, starting with 20 stores in the 2012 the launch of local language, local currency websites, starting with financial year.
The Oxford Street flagship in Central London will be Germany in 2012.
Our aim is for international to contribute 20% modernised in 2013.
Modernisations drive sales, improve margins oftotal multi-channel sales over the medium-term.
and generate good returns on capital.
You can read more about the store modernisation programme on page 14.
You can read more about our international ambitions on pages 24to 27.
Despite its long history, Debenhams still has a relatively immature store portfolio in the UK and Ireland of 163 stores.
We continue to Summary and outlook believe that these markets can together support up to 240 stores In summary, 2011 was a successful year for Debenhams in many without cannibalising sales from existing stores.
Looking forward, we believe there are significant opportunities for growth.
Although in the current market environment it is right Delivering a compelling customer proposition to remain cautious over the strength of consumer confidence and The second pillar of our strategy focuses very much on our customers the health of the overall economy, we are optimistic about our own and how we deliver our brand promise of making Designers prospects.
In this market there are inevitably winners and losers accessible, offering great value every day and inspiring and helping and Ifirmly believe that Debenhams is well placed to be one of the our customers.
I look forward to reporting our progress to you over the Our brand and product strategy is centred on our unique and coming years.
differentiated mix of own bought and concession ranges.
It remains our target to grow own bought sales participation to 85% over the Michael Sharp medium-term but our ultimate focus is on maximising cash margin.
Chief Executive Growing Designers at Debenhams is crucial to this goal and our medium-term target is 750 million of sales.
You can read more about how we plan to achieve this on page 18.
At the same time, ourcore brands remain very important and there will always be a role for concessions in Debenhams stores.
We are looking at the way we communicate our customer proposition, whether through making our instore visual merchandising and product presentation more inspiring or challenging how we spend our marketing budget.
And we must not forget service.
Although our model is essentially self-service and customers tell us they are quite happy with that weneed to make sure our store employees have the skills and tools to inspire and help our customers.
Using technology to facilitate great customer service will be very important.
You can read more about how we plan to deliver a compelling proposition on pages 16 to 19.
10 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011
