Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 05 | Chief Executives overview The Group has performed well despite a challenging comparable 53 week period.
Mike McCollum, Chief Executive Our performance National marketing, principally through affinity partners, The Group has performed well, with underlying operating of pre-arranged funeral plans profits increasing 6 per cent despite a continued reduction This has been the most successful year to date for prein the number of deaths per year and a challenging 53 week arranged funeral plans, both in terms of profitability and comparable period.
We remain focused on our commitment the number of plans sold.
This reflects continued focus on to help as many families as possible at one of the most developing new affinity relationships with reputable third difficult times in their lives, which in turn we believe will parties as well as strengthening relationships with existing allow us to create value for our shareholders.
Delivering on our strategy A strong platform for sustainable growth Continued commitment to client service excellence Yet again this year, the Group has been able to invest in Client service excellence remains central to our operations.
the maintenance of its existing assets, grow the business Given approximately three-quarters of our funeral through acquisition and open new locations, all without the business is generated through our reputation or through need for any additional external funding.
This is a testament recommendations, this focus has created, and will continue to the continued highly cash generative nature of the Group to, create value.
Continuing to control our costs Valuing our people We remain focused on cost control and continue to identify I am always heartened by the time many families take to ways to minimise our cost base without compromising on write directly to me to record their thanks for the wonderful the quality of our customer service.
job we did for their particular family.
Similar evidence of the care and dedication shown by our staff can be found in Acquiring and developing additional funeral locations each and every one of our locations.
They continue to do a This year has witnessed the acquisition of 10 established tremendous job and I am very grateful for all their support funeral locations.
We have also opened 25 new satellite in an increasingly competitive market.
locations, bringing the total number opened since the project started in 2010 to 43.
I was once again delighted that the Groups success was able to be shared with staff with discretionary bonus Developing, managing or acquiring additional crematoria payments totalling 1.6 million.
Opportunities continue to arise within the crematoria division.
Two newly built locations became operational in 2011 and Dedicated to the local communities we serve a further two are due to become operational in 2012.
Working at the heart of local communities is a crucial part of our success and of our future.
We continue to expand our network into areas of the country we do not currently serve.
This will allow us to help more families at one of the most difficult times in their lives.
Our key priorities Ensuring the highest levels of client service excellence: Continued investment: High levels of client service demonstrably affect clients We invest heavily in our existing business to ensure it is willingness to recommend our services.
Recommendations of the best possible standard, both in client facing areas and our reputation generates approximately 75 per cent and behind the scenes.
We also seek to invest in new of our funeral business.
businesses that will help Dignity grow and create value for shareholders.
Attracting, developing and retaining the best people: Our employees are central to the success of the business.
Delivering long term shareholder returns: We seek to attract and retain the best people through Our business is driven by relatively predictable factors appropriate remuneration and ongoing training.
over long periods of time.
This allows us to operate and fund our business in a way that generates value over the long term.
