Business Overview 01 -- 05 Directors Report Business Overview Theyre interested Chief Executives Review in working out John Browett whats right for me They deal with queries and Its an exciting complaints place to be brilliantly Customer They make plan things work Its easy and keep to shop them working I can get The prices what I want are good when I want it Our objective is to make the business based Product Learning Centre.
We have also worked with better for customers, suppliers in the UK to hold over 900 workshops, enabling our colleagues to immerse themselves in fully understanding the easier for colleagues features and benefits of a wide range of products, ensuring they can explain the exciting technology we sell to our customers.
and cheaper to operate We have also introduced a new colleague scheduling tool to all our shops in the UK to better ensure colleague availability meets our customer footfall patterns.
This has already improved the measure of our colleague availability to our customers footfall in our stores by 20%.
Our objective is to be famous for great service.
Our operations in the Nordics are already famed for excellent customer service and we can take many learnings from them and make further improvements as we roll out our vision to our other businesses.
Through the actions so far we have made great progress with customer satisfaction metrics improving significantly since we started the Renewal and Transformation plan.
In the year ahead there is much more we can do.
Our new KNOWHOW services The tough economic backdrop in many of our markets has made brand, launched in the UK at the beginning of 2011, embodies this a difficult year.
Nonetheless, we have been able to balance the behavioural attitudes that deliver a fantastic experience for improving our offer for customers whilst maintaining profitability.
Improved services and enhanced training plans The shopping trip we provide to customers is more competitive will give our colleagues further tools to ensure every customer and we see the impact on our business as we make our offer gets the right solution for their needs.
Customers come to our stores because they are looking for great new products: however, they need a complete Its an exciting place to be solution to get the best out of the latest technology.
It is our job We continue to develop our stores, making them exciting places to make sure they leave our stores with the right products and to experience technology and find the right solutions for our services to meet all their needs.
Increasingly, we are seeing the customers needs.
During the year we transformed over 130 benefits of selling services effectively, particularly with the launch stores across the Group, which included 32 Megastores.
In Italy of KNOWHOW in the UK.
the combined 2-in-1 format of Unieuro and PC City is now open in 19 locations and is proving to be a format that is as popular Our Customer Plan is at the heart of the business and a key with Italian customers as it is in the UK.
This to me proves that element of delivering on our core purpose of bringing life to a well designed store and customer offer works across many technology, so I thought I would again lay out our progress in markets.
In the Nordics we now have 20 Megastores and will the last year under the plan.
As ever, our objective is to make continue to transform stores to the larger Megastore format there the business better for customers, easier for colleagues and in the years ahead.
In the UK we now operate 31 Megastores cheaper to operate.
and 56 combined 2-in-1 Currys and PC World superstores.
We have also introduced the 2-in-1 format to the High Street with Theyre interested in working out whats great initial results.
These new store formats are consistently right for me delivering gross profit uplifts of between 15% and 20% and in Our unique FIVES training programme has formed the basis of some cases higher in the first year versus the unrefurbished ensuring all our colleagues across Europe are equipped with the estate.
Encouragingly they are maintaining these uplifts into the right tools to understand and meet customers needs.
we have continued to refine and develop FIVES training, with colleagues attending many refresher courses.
Alongside this we have introduced better product learning tools under our web Dixons Retail plc 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 A significant validation of the changes we are making manifested Directors Report itself in the fact that we were a key partner for Apples launch of Business Overview the iPad in the UK.
The fact that our stores are great places for Chief Executives Review new technology where products can be demonstrated and their continued features explained fully is why Apple chose to partner with us on this important product launch.
In October 2010 we launched an exciting new advertising campaign around the Megastore format in the UK, featuring R2D2 and C3PO from the Star Wars films, which was hugely popular with customers.
It is testament to the work we are doing that Lucas Films allowed their iconic Star Wars characters to be used to advertise the greatest technology stores in our universe.
We have also started to implement in-store demonstrations which bring the features and benefits of kitchen appliances to life in our stores with the introduction of live kitchens.
Having integrated PIXmanias market leading e-merchant platform into our UK sites we have now been able to improve the customer offer on both the pure play internet business of dixons.
co. uk and our multi-channel businesses such as currys.
We are also looking at ways to raise the bar in our store formats even higher and during the year we opened a trial store in Birmingham called Black.
The aim is to trial new ways of merchandising and demonstrating high end technology products as well as integrating our new KNOWHOW services into the proposition.
During 2011 we will learn from this trial and will be using the elements that customers like the most in all our store transformations.
Its easy to shop Our new store layout and improved websites make it easier than ever before for our customers to choose the right product.
We have made great progress this year in helping customers choose the right product for their needs through clearer signage and better information at point of sale, helping to untangle technology for our customers.
Our reserve&collect facility is proving to be a great success with our customers, giving them the ease of the internet combined with the convenience of our stores.
In the last year we have seen our multi-channel internet sales, driven by reserve&collect, rise by 13% across the Group.
In the year ahead we will make further improvements to our multi-channel offering providing customers with improved information on our websites as well as access to a wider range of products online and in-store through our websites.
I can get what I want when I want it We have launched our own label brands of Currys and PC World essentials, Logik, Advent, Goji and Sandstrm.
Having had over 70 different own brands previously, this simplified our offering and gives customers a clear good-better-best range of products from which to choose.
With our partner, Phones4U, we opened 57 shop in shops, giving our customers access to the latest smartphones and networks from one of the UKs largest mobile phone retailers.
We must ensure that we provide excellent service to our customers every time we come into contact with them.
Through our At home with FIVES training we can ensure that a customer has everything they need when we visit their homes, reducing the need for a further call out by 52%.
Having made significant progress in managing our stock in the warehouse and in-store across the Group, this year we plan to simplify processes still further which will improve availability online and in-store while freeing up more time for our colleagues to spend with customers.
As a part of the KNOWHOW rollout to our home services team we have introduced Personal Digital Assistants PDAs to the team which will help improve customer feedback and time management of our colleagues.
Dixons Retail plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Business Overview 01 -- 05 The prices are good As you can see, the volume of work on our Renewal and Our scale across Europe means that we are continually able Transformation plan is still very high.
Our reward is improving to give our customers the latest products at the best prices.
customer satisfaction and higher share in many of our markets.
We monitor prices against our competitors regularly with, for We are starting to stand out for customers and we have example, over 300,000 products checked every week in the UK, much more to deliver to make our customers shopping trip so we know we are offering real value to our customers every even better.
All this is backed up by our market leading price promise to refund 110% of the difference if a customer finds the same These achievements would not be possible without the product cheaper elsewhere.
enthusiasm, dedication and hard work of our 38,000 colleagues across the business and I would like to thank them all for their There are further changes we plan to make in the year ahead.
contribution to making Dixons Retail a great business.
By simplifying our promotions processes, for example, we can give customers better deals on new products by making our own Outlook brand products even better value through cost reductions and The economic backdrop remains challenging, particularly in the giving customers good, better and best choices across first half as we anniversary the World Cup and iPad launch.
We are also conscious that not all of our customers are aware of the significant value we offer compared to our However the Group is well prepared for this environment.
We are competitors, so we will start to improve the communication of creating a market leading differentiated customer offer, leaving us well set to emerge from the current climate ahead of the that messaging in the year ahead.
They make things work and keep them working This was a significant year for our support services.
We brought the majority of the service operations in house in the UK.
We know we can only improve the service we offer by owning and being directly responsible for all contacts with our customers.
That enabled us to launch the KNOWHOW brand bringing together the home services, distribution, contact centre and John Browett repair operations.
With all these services now operating as one Chief Executive clear customer focused brand we have already started to see the benefits for our customers.
I am immensely proud of our colleagues enthusiasm for the KNOWHOW brand, but more importantly their desire to really help customers as much as possible every step of the way through the lifecycle of the technology they use.
Our turnaround times for repair products is faster, with 93% being returned at a pre-booked time.
Our right first time delivery is one of the highest in the industry and our customer satisfaction levels are continually improving.
Under the KNOWHOW brand we will make further improvements to the services our customers receive by, for example, shortening the repair times even further: enabling customers to track their product while it is being repaired: and a no lemons policy which means that, under our support agreements, if we fail to fix the product properly after three attempts a customer can request a replacement.
We will also start to roll out the KNOWHOW services to our international businesses.
This is a multi-year project which will require tailoring to each market, but our customers need our help with their products wherever they are, so this presents a major opportunity for our customers and our shareholders.
They deal with queries and complaints brilliantly This year we consolidated our UK call centres into one location in Sheffield as well as enabled many of our call centre colleagues to work from home, increasing the ability to match colleague availability with customer calls.
By analysing the reasons why customers call us and providing them with better information to reduce the need to call us, we have reduced the number of calls we receive by 11%.
Together with increased cross skilling we have increased the availability and ability of our colleagues to resolve customers issues.
As a result we have seen increased customer satisfaction and reduced repeat calls.
We have also made the processes for stores dealing with customers issues easier for our colleagues and better for our customers.
In the year ahead we will improve our systems further so that customers and their products can be identified more easily when they call.
We will continue to identify the root cause of customer calls and eliminate the need for customers to call in the first place.
Dixons Retail plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
