fide Chief Executive Officers review Key highlights Like-for-like sales 3.0% 2010: 11.9% New stores opened 62 2010: 57 E-commerce sales 43.0% 2010: 63.0% Chief Executive Officer Lance Batchelor left with former Chief Executive Chris Moore 08 Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Report on Directors remuneration Financials Operating and financial review | Chief Executive Officers review Much of my time has been spent with our franchisees, who add so much to the energy and creativity of this wonderful brand.
Their passion and drive to take the business to the next level is compelling, and is matched by the commitment of the head office and commissary teams.
am pleased, in my first full results announcement, to be able customers, was why we didnt have a stuffed crust option.
So, to report a good set of figures.
It has been a busy year for following a comprehensive process to create, what is in our view, Dominos with an increase in system sales of 9.3% to 530.6m the best stuffed crust in the industry, the Dominos Stuffed Crust I 2010: 485.3m, the launch of our new operations in Germany was launched in the UK in June 2011.
It immediately began taking and the opening of a record 62 new stores 2010: 57 with 58 in a large share of our business and, since its launch, has contributed the UK and the Republic of Ireland and four 2010: nil in Germany.
We believe it has played a substantial role Our underlying business has continued to perform well with UK in attracting the 300,000 new households that have come to like-for-like sales growth of 3.7%.
Total system like-for-like sales Dominos during the last financial year.
growth was 3.0% across the 604 mature stores 2010: 11.9% in 553 stores, with the Republic of Ireland stores down 4.1%.
Having spent the last six months of the financial year as Deputy Chief Executive, combined with my time as a Non-Executive Director, I have had a unique opportunity to get to know the When I review our Dominos business model before stepping up as Chief Executive.
Much of my time has been spent with our franchisees, who add so rollout plans I really feel much to the energy and creativity of this wonderful brand.
Their that the future holds so passion and drive to take the business to the next level is compelling, and is matched by the commitment of the head office much potential for our and commissary teams.
franchisees, our On the technology front, we successfully completed a wholesale move of our critical IT systems to an external hosting provider.
stakeholders and our This gives us added security, greater scalability and frees up the internal team to focus on developing initiatives like our new apps customers.
and further ways to leverage greater online sales and customer engagement.
We have also started to update the store operating system to PULSE the system used in most Dominos markets across the globe.
PULSE provides improved management information and allows better labour scheduling and cost Our new product development team also launched a new Gourmet monitoring for our franchisees.
More than one in five stores have range of pizzas in both the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
These already switched to this system and we aim to have over half the pizzas are more Italian in style with a thinner base, a sundried roll out completed by the end of 2012. tomato and garlic sauce and new, interesting toppings including feta cheese, baby spinach and ventricina salami.
Again, this range While many companies see only threat in recessionary times, we has brought in new customers and in the Republic of Ireland, where see opportunity.
We will continue with our plans for the UK and it was backed by local celebrity chef Andrew Rudd, Gourmet pizzas the Republic of Ireland to open at least 60 new stores each year, accounted for 12.5% of speciality pizza sales since their launch.
reaching new parts of the country and adding depth and penetration within areas we already cover.
When I review our rollout plans Training our store teams to produce the Dominos Stuffed Crust and I really feel that the future holds so much potential for our our new Gourmet pizzas was a major undertaking, as both products franchisees, our stakeholders and our customers.
involve our signature fresh dough.
Although the majority of this training has taken place in the store, over 2,000 store managers In terms of industry recognition, it was also very gratifying to and senior team members have attended specially organised receive the Pizza and Pasta Association award for Pizza Delivery workshops to learn the finer arts of stuffing a crust and evenly Chain of the Year for the second year running.
While our sales and stretching a perfectly formed, Italian-style base.
It is this passion store openings speak for themselves, it is always nice to be and commitment that we believe sets us apart from the competition.
Despite the addition of these more complex products to our More Fabulous Products operation, we maintained our average load time i. e. the time it During the last year, we have launched two very different products takes to get the pizzas from order to oven at 3.1 minutes.
to complement our existing range and extend our target audience In addition, we launched the Spanish Sizzler in February, two the Dominos Stuffed Crust and our new Gourmet range.
versions of a Reggae Reggae pizza with Levi Roots of Dragons Den One of the most pleasing aspects of the freshly-made Dominos fame in April and the Meatilicious in October.
All of these pizzas Stuffed Crust is that it came in direct response to consumer have created excitement with our customers and we have used demand.
The most frequently asked question in our stores, from Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 09 www.
fide We do... Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Report on Directors remuneration Financials Operating and financial review | Innovation Our iPad and smartphone apps show our real appetite for innovation During 2011, Dominos launched two new apps one for the iPad and one for the Android platform as well as an online ordering site for our German business.
As online sales grow, the percentage of those sales taken over a mobile device continues to grow too and accounted for 14% of online sales during the last quarter of the year.
During the year, we broke the million pound mark for online sales 17 times.
In fact online sales 43% continued to rise, hitting a peak of over 1.26 The rise in online sales million in December.
Already in 2012 we have for the UK and the launched an app for the Windows 7 platform and Republic of Ireland improved our website with new functionality such as a Meal Deal wizard to help consumers ensure they are getting the best value for money on their orders.
We also continue to build on our social media presence with new offers for Facebook fans For more on and Twitter followers in the UK, the Republic of Ireland and in Germany.
fide Dominos Pizza International Inc. DPII MFA entered into in 1993 Royalties between DPII and DPG Master Franchise Agreement MFA Licence of rights, IP and knowhow for the UK & Ireland territory Dominos Pizza Group Limited DPG Advertising levy, royalties, training, IT support costs Franchisee License of rights Payment for investment and transfer of third party in new store knowhow products Third Party Standard Franchise Suppliers Agreement SFA DPG ingredients, Landlord Commissaries equipment costs Headlease entered into between DP Rent Franchisees buy Realty and food, dough, equipment Landlord and supplies om DPG Each anchisee commissaries enters into a SFA for each store territory with DPG DP Realty DP Realty Matching enters into rent sublease with Franchisees anchisee Stores Each store sells pizza and Income associated products to om sales customers in its territory Customers KEY Movement of monies Contractual relationships 12 Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Report on Directors remuneration Financials Operating and financial review | Chief Executive Officers review Facebook to offer a special, exclusive deal during the week before the official launch, solely for our 300,000 plus Facebook fans.
We do non-traditional We have also been mindful of the nutritional agenda during the formats... year and continue to work with our suppliers to reduce the amount of fat and salt in our raw ingredients, without the moves having At Dominos, we have never been scared any detrimental effect on the taste of our pizzas, sides and desserts.
As a result we will, during 2012, be signing up to a number of of trying something new so this year pledges in the Governments Responsibility Deal including the saw Dominos stores open in a number of calorie labelling pledge, which will see the calories in our pizzas appear at the point of order on our website, the most common way new and interesting locations including a for orders to be placed.
shopping centre in Basildon and a Tesco Innovative Marketing Extra in Dudley.
2011 has been the year of the app.
Following on from the success of Not all of these new concepts are right for Dominos we tried our iPhone app, we launched two other apps during the year one opening a site in a motorway service station at Leigh Delamere, for the Android platform and one for the iPad.
Sales taken over a but it didnt take off as we had hoped it would, so the trial with mobile device have risen rapidly during the year and accounted for Moto, the motorway services operator, has now finished but a total of 14% of all online sales during the last quarter of the year.
we have other sites to try in the pipeline.
Overall, online sales for the year in the UK and the Republic of We will continue to experiment and try new concepts and we Ireland increased by 43.0% 2010: 63.0% to 183.1m and during have created a special projects team to look at these new the year accounted for 44.3% of UK delivered sales 2010: 35.8%.
In the Basildon shopping centre, we are The rise of e-commerce in our business has been breathtaking and trying a new, more rustic look to help us stand out in a busy we are now regularly taking around 50% of our orders online, food court and both this and the Tesco store are our first stores with daily sales far in excess of the million pound mark.
A growing that dont do deliveries.
It all started with our mobile unit in number of stores take over 75% of their orders online and it is a 2009 but now we are keen to make sure that we can provide channel that Dominos continues to dominate in the quick service delicious, piping-hot pizza to even more people in even more sector.
This provides added benefits for our franchisees through places.
reduced labour costs and increased order accuracy.
In addition to the basic function of online sales, we continue to improve the way we communicate with our new digital audience.
From targeted email marketing to exciting competitions and initiatives via Facebook and Twitter, we continue to use these relatively low cost methods to promote new products, reward our top customers and create excitement in the brand.
More traditional marketing methods have also helped to build sales and our new brand ad Its What We Do was launched in June.
The ad campaign around the Dominos Stuffed Crust Get Stuffed certainly created waves and a bus side advertising campaign to support it was awarded Outdoor Campaign of the Month by Marketing Magazine.
Finally, we continue to look for new and exciting opportunities for above the line activity.
We were delighted to sponsor ITVs new family entertainment show Red or Black, which ran in September with Ant and Dec.
The show was a great platform to launch our new range of Gourmet pizzas.
In the Republic of Ireland, we continue to dominate the viewing schedule with sponsorship of TV3s coverage of all the key family entertainment shows including X-Factor, Im a Celebrity and Dancing on Ice.
Throughout the year, we have continued to recognise the importance of value to our consumers with a number of short-term, tactical, price-led promotions.
These included the first ever Global Dominos Day a worldwide promotion run on December 8, 2011, across the Facebook pages of Dominos around the world.
The promotion offered all customers 50% off any pizzas ordered via the Global Dominos Day Facebook tab on that day.
It was a resounding success generating 26,500 new Facebook fans and over 270,000 of revenue.
Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 13 www.
fide Exceptional Service Exceptional customer service is key to our sales proposition and We do new store designs... future growth and this year saw a real focus on this area of the business.
We launched our new Black Apron training programme At Dominos, we dont like standing aimed at taking great customer service to fantastic customer service and over 1,000 of our team members have already been through the still so we have been busy rolling out training.
With better routing and a more efficient operation from the a new look for our stores.
Starting with oven to the customers door, we were delighted to see our average our store in Carterton, Oxfordshire, the delivery time reduce from 24.1 minutes to 23.8 minutes.
We know that a reduction in delivery times leads to higher levels of customer new look includes a bright red corian satisfaction, which in turn increases order frequency.
Dominos panel on the counter for high We also launched two online training systems D-Tube and DOTS.
visibility and an enhanced customer area These e-learning packages allow easy access for store staff to with a more contemporary feel using training on both compliance legislation and on new products and ways to increase business.
We were delighted when D-Tube took the stone and timber effects.
Training Journal award for e-learning programme of the year.
We continue to provide brightly-lit interiors so customers can Another way in which we look to improve our customer service is see their pizzas being made and we even put a step in the through new stores in new locations to allow us to service more customer area at the counter so small children can also get a people in more places.
During the year, we opened 58 new stores in good view as their dough is slapped, the pizza is sauced and the UK and the Republic of Ireland a record for the Company cheesed and the toppings are applied with military precision.
This coming year we intend to open at least 60 new stores in the UK and the Republic of Ireland, continuing towards our stated goal of at least 1,200 stores by 2021.
At the year end, we had a total of 720 stores in these two markets, generating employment for nearly 23,000 people.
We closed three stores during the period in Blackburn, Liverpool and Portlaoise in the Republic of Ireland.
In a system of over 700 stores there will always be some adjustments.
The Blackburn store has always been in an unsuitable location and we are still seeking an alternative site in the town.
In Portlaoise, the store was opened with a view to serving a new housing estate that was due to be built.
Unfortunately the development was cancelled due to the Irish economic situation, leaving the store in something of a ghost town.
Finally, the Liverpool store closed purely due to being in a weak location.
We have also been busy trialling some new formats during the year with our first stores in a Tesco superstore, a shopping centre and a motorway service area.
Dominos has always been willing to try the unknown and go into these ventures with an open mind and a willingness to learn, amend and, if necessary, stop a trial and try something else.
For example the trial with Moto, the motorway services operator, has now ended, but we will continue to investigate new formats.
I have no intention of changing this philosophy I am a big believer that ongoing innovation and testing is an important part of our heritage and of our future.
The really good news is that our new stores are trading better than ever.
Improved site selection closer to those households with a higher propensity to buy pizza and more experienced franchisees get the operation performing to a high standard, very quickly.
Demand for new stores from our existing franchisees is very high and we love to see them grow and develop, so last year we decided to recruit just five new franchisees 2010: 10.
The average number of stores per franchisee, a metric we are keen to increase, has risen to 5.7 2010: 5.0.
The Republic of Ireland The Republic of Ireland continues to be a tough market in the current economic climate, but I am encouraged to see a gradual slowdown in the decline, although we are now up against some easier comparative figures.
Like-for-like sales in the Republic of Ireland were down by 4.1% 2010: down by 8.4% but our very high coverage of the TV schedules coupled with product innovation has 14 Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Report on Directors remuneration Financials Operating and financial review | Chief Executive Officers review We do customer service... Great customer service is one the key pillars of our business and this year we launched our new Black Apron programme to make great customer service brilliant.
Store staff attending the course learn new ways of turning an unhappy customer into a Dominos ambassador as well as getting enhanced product knowledge so they can wow their customers with interesting facts about the quality ingredients we use in our stores.
All those who complete the course and pass the test at the end receive the coveted black apron itself and can play the role of concierge within the stores.
From entertaining kids to helping new customers through the menu, our concierges help to keep our customers happy and we know that ensures they always come back for more.
1,036 The number of store team members that have completed the Black Apron programme ensured that we are still outperforming the competition.
During The passion, support and enthusiasm of the team have helped to the year, we opened only one new store in the territory but we still ensure a seamless handover from Chris Moore to me and I would anticipate growth in this market in the future.
In addition, to like to take this opportunity to personally thank Chris for his provide additional focus for our Irish franchisees, Procurement support and guidance during the last six months.
He has been Director Ian Douglas has taken on responsibility for the day to day faultless in his honesty, his advice and his humour as I have running of Ireland in a new role of Market Director Ireland, in assumed the Chief Executive position.
Dominos is a strong addition to his procurement agenda.
business, thanks in a very large part to his leadership, and I am honoured to be taking it over.
Germany Our initial progress in Germany has been encouraging.
We have Trading has continued to be robust during the first seven weeks now installed the management team, headed by International of 2012 with like-for-like sales for the Group increasing by 3.7%.
We were delighted to The UK stores are up 3.8% and, encouragingly, the stores in the open four new stores in the region during our first eight months Republic of Ireland are in positive territory, up 2.3% for the first of trading three in Berlin and one in Bonn.
In total there are time in three years.
The consumer backdrop remains a tough one, now six stores open with a further dozen to come in 2012. but with record store openings and continuing appetite from our franchisees, we remain confident of the Groups ability to drive both We have spent a lot of time analysing the German market, sales and profits going forward.
We are delighted by the enthusiasm understanding the German consumer, developing the menu and of some of our leading UK franchisees with regards to the franchise putting infrastructure such as our own dough production and a opportunity in Germany and we are confident that our franchising robust supply chain in place.
Although only one of our first six model in this market will commence during 2012. stores is franchised, we will involve ever more franchisees as the business develops.
We have been delighted to get firm expressions Your Company is in good health and I am ready for the challenges of interest from some of our leading UK franchisees, keen to ahead and confident of a successful year of growth for our develop with us in an exciting new market.
We have also already franchisees, our employees and our shareholders.
had a significant number of enquiries from within Germany itself.
Lance Batchelor It is still early days but we are learning every day, gaining Chief Executive Officer valuable understanding, and the potential opportunity in Germany 15 February 2012 is huge.
I look forward to continuing to update shareholders on our progress.
Going Forward I am excited and optimistic about the future and, with the support of our franchisees, we will continue to grow this business by focusing on opening new stores, testing new store formats and developing new products while always ensuring the customer is at the heart of everything we do.
Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 15 www.
fide We do... Our expansion continues with new store openings in Germany In April 2011, we acquired a majority stake in the exclusive master franchise to own, operate and franchise Dominos Pizza stores in Germany.
At the time, there were just two stores in Berlin.
Since April, we have opened a store in Bonn and 4 three more in Berlin.
Weve launched a website and The number of new BERL IN embarked on a steep learning curve with regards to stores opened in the culinary preferences of our German consumers.
Germany in 2011 We have put a full team in place to run the B O NN operation and we are just starting to franchise stores in the region.
As well as some exciting German entrepreneurs, we have had a lot of interest from UK franchisees too keen to explore this virgin territory.
Its an exciting opportunity for Dominos and we are looking forward to opening up For more on the German market.
Germany, see page 15 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Report on Directors remuneration Financials Operating and financial review | European expansion
