08 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Chief Executives statement Commodity markets Introduction A number of significant global events The business performed well in 2011 against a backdrop in 2011 combined to create uncertainty in the commodity markets in which of volatile commodity markets and significant regulatory we operate.
In our generation and retail businesses, The gas market continued to be the we maintained our focus on excellence in operations, dominant factor in driving power prices.
tight cost control and disciplined capital project execution.
Both the unrest in North Africa and the Middle East and the incident at one of Preparation for our biomass expansion is now well advanced.
Japans nuclear power stations which We completed extensive combustion trials in 2011, and are now increased the countrys demand for confident in our technical ability to be predominantly biomass liqueed natural gas LNG, contributed to increasing gas prices fuelled.
However, it is important to note that moving ahead through the middle of the year.
with our plans remains dependent on securing appropriate Thereafter, exceptionally mild weather regulatory support and a strong investment case.
in the fourth quarter saw gas prices come under pressure and begin to fall.
Good financial results, the successful conclusion, in April, Coal prices moved within a relatively to the Groups Eurobond nancing structure and the bank narrow range throughout the year.
renancing we completed in July, leave us with a strong Carbon prices reached their lowest balance sheet which provides a solid foundation for future point for two years amid fears for the investment in the business.
Looking ahead, the introduction of the carbon price support mechanism by the UK Government Strategy from April 2013 is likely to erode the competitive position in the market Our vision for Drax is to be a bold, customer oriented power of our coal-red generation business, generation and retail business, driven by biomass innovation.
but at the same time it strengthens We have two key strategic initiatives to enable us to achieve the case for biomass generation.
our vision, namely, our project to convert Drax Power Overall, gas prices were resilient through Station into a predominantly biomass fuelled generating much of the year and we saw improving dark green spreads, the difference asset, subject to securing the necessary regulatory support, between the price of power and the and our programme for the expansion of Haven Power Limited cost of coal and carbon, for coal-red Haven Power.
In the last quarter of the year, however, spreads began to drift down as the unusually mild weather for the time of year continued.
Bark spreads for co-ring, the difference between power price and renewable support and the cost of biomass, remained weak, with most traded biomass commanding lower margins than coal.
Retail performance Haven Power is meeting our growth expectations with over double the retail sales of 2010 during 2011.
The growth has been driven largely by our progression in the industrial and commercial I&C market, supported by the implementation of a new IT platform which is working well.
09 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 One of our key priorities: Grow our retail customer base Opening up routes to market 1 We are pleased to report a doubling of our sales volumes over the last year, driven largely by our progression in the industrial and commercial market.
Peter Bennell Chief Executive, Haven Power 2 3 1 3 IT processes Trading New IT platform Some 20% of forward 4 implemented to support sales of our generation customer growth.
output are through Haven Power.
1 for Customers customer satisfaction We have made real in SME market in 2011 progress in growing Datamonitor Survey.
our customer numbers during the year.
20% Financials Governance Business review 10 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Chief Executives statement One of our key priorities: Maintain operational excellence Delivering industry-leading performance We work hard to maintain the reliability, availability and exibility of the power station so that we can make a vital contribution to the nations security of supply.
Peter Emery Production Director 1 4 1 3 Health and safety Turbine upgrade 2011 was a record We are nearing the year for Drax, with our completion of our best ever performance turbine upgrade on total recordable programme which injury rate.
will deliver an overall efficiency improvement 2 of 5%.
Waste management 4 All waste generated as part of the operation Industrial and maintenance of Emissions Directive the power station is We are working on the carefully managed.
options available to us for compliance with the Industrial Emissions Directive from 2016.
0.10 11 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 We continued to work on increasing An excellent standard of customer our burn of fuels which have a higher service is central to our proposition for margin or lower carbon footprint over this business, and we were pleased to the standard bituminous coal which see recognition of that through being we burn.
These advantaged fuels ranked No.
1 for customer satisfaction in petcoke, pond fines and commercial the small and medium enterprise SME biomass accounted for 9% of the market in the 2011 Datamonitor Survey.
total fuel burnt during the year.
Selling our output through Haven Power provides a credit efficient route We are furthering our work on the to market for our power sales compared options available to us for compliance to the wholesale electricity market.
with the more stringent emissions These sales, when secured at a xed standards of the Industrial Emissions price, provide a hedge against adverse Directive IED from 2016.
The key power price movements.
Currently, factors in determining the optimal some 20% of our forward sales are solution for compliance are plant through Haven Power.
exibility, with some technologies such as selective catalytic reduction SCR Although Haven Power made a small allowing more exibility than others, and loss in 2011, we remain on track with fuel mix.
Accordingly, the level of biomass our target to break-even in this business burn is an important consideration.
We currently estimate the cost of compliance with the IED, including SCR, Operating performance to be in the order of 200 million see 2 Strategic capital investment plan.
Following a record year for operating performance in 2010, we continued to deliver industry-leading performance in Renewable output and 2011.
As in previous years, our availability research and development and reliability throughout 2011 meant that we were able to deliver value to the Our biomass co-ring facility operated business through providing exible well during the year, but at less than full generation output and balancing services capacity.
Unfortunately, due to the low to the System Operator, National Grid, in level of renewable support available for support of system stability and security.
co-ring, much of the biomass available for purchase was not economic to burn.
The single unit outage for 2011 was This severely limited our commercial completed in good time, especially given burn of biomass, with less than half of the complexity of some of the renewal our co-ring capacity being used for work undertaken.
Our safety statistics commercial electricity generation.
continue to be industry-leading, with the best performance on total recordable During the year, we extended our injury rate since we began using the research and development work with measure in 2005. combustion trials of a wide variety of sustainable biomass materials at For the year, our forced outage rate, different throughputs and under which measures any reduction in plant varying operating conditions.
We burnt availability excluding planned outages, significant volumes of uneconomic is in line with our long-term target of 5%, biomass to support our research which has been set through extensive and development, but the associated benchmarking with UK and international cost was necessary to support these coal-red plant to determine the critical trials.
optimum balance between performance and cost.
We delivered this operating The results of the trials to date have been performance whilst keeping a tight encouraging and we have confidence control on costs.
in the technical capability to become 3 predominantly biomass fuelled.
Financials Governance Business review 12 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Chief Executives statement Through the trials we achieved high In February 2011, in conjunction with levels of biomass burn over sustained Alstom UK Limited and National Grid periods, during which time we were also Carbon Limited, we lodged an application able to demonstrate the plants exibility.
for European funding for a new, standWe have an advanced understanding of alone 426MW oxy-red carbon capture the chemistry dynamics, and we have and storage demonstration project based been working closely with third party at the Drax Power Station site.
Following experts to understand any longer term consideration by the UK Government the plant efficiency or capacity reduction project was one of seven put forward to implications.
the European Investment Bank in May 2011 for further consideration.
In January We have also extended our research 2012, industrial gases provider, BOC a and development work to cover more member of The Linde Group, joined the fuels and further analysis of the likely consortium, further strengthening the emissions of nitrogen oxides, to help project.
The outcome of the application determine the optimal solution for for European funding will not be known IED compliance as described earlier.
The final results of these trials are due in the second half of 2012.
Legislative and The final support level under the regulatory framework regulatory framework is the main driving force which will determine the mix of In July 2011, the Electricity Market sustainable biomass materials and Reform EMR White Paper was supply contract tenors, which in turn published.
The White Paper represents determines the extent to which we co-re a major change for the electricity sector.
and, therefore, the performance of the We do, however, believe that reform plant itself.
of the electricity market is essential to creating the right environment to stimulate the huge investment necessary Further carbon abatement to provide adequate, affordable and In addition to the carbon dioxide CO2 sustainable supplies of electricity into savings through burning biomass in place the 2020s and beyond.
of coal, savings were made through In December, an EMR Technical Update efficiency improvements, with the was published, providing further detail progress of our turbine upgrade project on the Governments preferred options making a key contribution.
The low for market reform.
The document pressure and high pressure turbine confirmed the intention to implement modules of five of our six generating a market-based capacity auction with units have now been replaced and are the aim of ensuring capacity availability.
operating as expected, which means we A more detailed design of the mechanism are approaching an overall efficiency will be developed during this year.
Within the EMR, a new low carbon With only three low pressure turbine support mechanism, Feed-in Tariff with modules to be replaced during the Contracts for Difference FiT CfD first of two unit outages in 2012 we are has also been confirmed.
This will replace nearing completion of the project, which the Renewables Obligation in 2017 commenced in 2007.
On completion, 3 for new renewable generation facilities, the improved efficiency of the power but not those already in operation.
station will lead to a reduction in CO2 It is proposed that both the capacity emissions of one million tonnes a year.
mechanism and the FiT CfD arrangements will be run by a single 1 3 central body, the System Operator.
Greenhouse Pelleting facilities gas saving In order to further In 2011, the average enhance the security greenhouse gas saving of supply, we are resulting from burning exploring direct biomass in place of investment in further coal was 81%.
2 4 Sustainability Procurement Assessment of the All of our biomass is full life cycle carbon procured against our footprint of sustainable own industry-leading, biomass is now well robust sustainability developed.
13 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 One of our key priorities: Progress our biomass strategy Harvesting a sustainable resource Establishing the biomass supply chain logistics and procuring sustainable biomass are critical components of our biomass work.
Matthew Rivers Director of Biomass Business 2 4 1 81% Financials Governance Business review 14 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Chief Executives statement In addition to our focus on sustainable We will also engage in spot and shorter The 2011 Budget confirmed the biomass co-ring, we have been working term opportunistic purchases, with introduction of a carbon price support with Siemens Project Ventures on our the ability to cope with a wide fuel mechanism, as part of the EMR, which we dedicated biomass developments.
envelope being key to securing value are against.
We believe there is potential We expressed disappointment with in this market.
for conict with the existing EU Emissions the proposed level of support for this Trading System EU ETS and given the We will try to develop further UK sources technology, which makes the investment cap and trade nature of the EU ETS, the of fuel.
Although this is likely to remain case for independent generators highly oor price will have no impact on overall a small proportion of our total fuel mix.
The development planned CO2 emissions, since any reduction in the Despite targeting various geographies for the Drax Power Station site has UKs emissions will simply result in higher and bre sources, we expect to see an proved the most challenging for a emissions elsewhere in the EU.
We also early concentration in North America.
number of reasons, including its inland believe that the introduction of price location which increases logistics costs.
All our biomass is procured against support will, in all likelihood, distort the Given the significant financial liability our own industry-leading, robust wholesale market.
Nevertheless, we have that we would face were we to delay sustainability criteria, which include actively engaged with the Government on our investment decision until we have greenhouse gas emission reduction the detail and design of the mechanism.
certainty over the final support level for requirements, and habitats and In advance of the renewable support dedicated biomass we have decided to biodiversity protection, as well as socioarrangements proposed under the EMR, cancel the project.
economic considerations in the source the much awaited consultation on the areas.
A programme of independent future support levels for renewable We are exploring a number of options audits ensures all our suppliers comply technologies from 2013 was published available to us for structuring the with our sustainability criteria.
by the Government in October.
This will development planned for the Port of apply to all renewable generation Immingham site so as to make it a viable We rmly believe that robust, mandatory facilities accredited before April 2017. proposition.
sustainability criteria are vital to maintain and enhance public acceptance, and We were particularly pleased to see We participated fully during the ensure that sustainable practices are recognition in the consultation of the Governments consultation process with implemented.
Assessment of the full strategically important role that a view to securing appropriate support to life cycle carbon footprint of biomass, sustainably sourced biomass electricity progress our biomass plans and now that that is, from eld to furnace, is now well can play in the future UK renewable the consultation has closed we await the developed, especially in the UK where energy mix.
In seeking to maximise the Governments response, which we expect a mandatory life cycle standard comes deployment of the cheapest renewable to be published in the Spring.
into effect in 2013. technologies, specic support levels or bands have been proposed for the We are now in our fifth year of calculating Biomass supply chain increased use of sustainable biomass in the life cycle carbon footprint of all the and sustainability existing coal-red power stations through biomass we procure and we are enhanced co-ring and full conversion.
confident that our sustainable biomass Establishing the biomass supply chain fuel sourcing strategy will meet the logistics and procuring sustainable The new bands have been created current mandatory standard which will biomass against our robust sustainability in recognition of the greater capital ensure we continue to earn regulatory policy are critical components of our investment that is required to either support from April 2013.
Our calculations work to deliver a biomass future for the co-re large volumes of biomass or show that the range of sustainable Group.
Despite the immature and convert existing coal-red stations to biomass materials we have burnt over bespoke nature of the supply chain, we burn solely biomass.
the last few years has a far lower carbon believe we will be able to secure sufficient The proposed support level for enhanced footprint than that of fossil fuel-red sustainable biomass to meet our co-ring will enable us to increase our generating plant.
In 2011, the average ambition to become a predominantly sustainable biomass burn.
However, greenhouse gas saving resulting from biomass fuelled generator.
to maximise our potential and secure burning biomass in place of coal There are four strands to our fuel our renewable output out to 2020 and was 81%, compared to the EU fossil contracting strategy.
We are looking to beyond we require a moderate uplift on fuel comparator.
secure term rights to sustainable the proposed level of support.
This would biomass through both direct contracts guarantee that this cost effective form of for delivered biomass pellets and renewable generation will be available to contracts for unprocessed bre to help meet the UKs 2020 targets and will provide greater security over the bre lead to lower electricity prices for the UK source.
In order to enhance the security consumer, who will otherwise bear the of supply from such contracts we are also cost of the more expensive alternatives.
exploring direct investment in biomass pellet plants.
15 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 As described in Operating performance Strategic capital Looking ahead above, we currently estimate the cost of investment plan We enter 2012 with a strong hedge from IED compliance, including SCR, to be in forward power sales, which were secured As described above, the proposed the order of 200 million.
However, there is little support level for enhanced co-ring It is important to recognise that if we visibility in our markets beyond 2013. will enable us to increase our sustainable are in a position to progress our strategic biomass burn.
However, our existing In addition, whereas for Phase II of the EU investment plan, our strong balance co-ring capacity of 12.5% of our output ETS 20082012 we have an allocation sheet, with net cash of 225 million at is insufficient to meet the proposed of 9.5 million tonnes of CO2 emissions year end, provides a good foundation threshold of 15% of output necessary allowances per annum under the UK for our funding requirements.
Other to receive enhanced co-ring support.
National Allocation Plan, we will not important considerations for funding Therefore, to secure the full benefit receive any allocation in Phase III 2013 include working capital, our credit rating from our existing co-ring facilities, 2020.
We will also have the increased and our trading strategy.
We expect that, we have committed to invest 50 million cost impact of the introduction of the with an appropriate level of support in 2012 in new biomass storage and other carbon price support mechanism from and a strong investment case, we would limited plant modications to provide April 2013.
Both of these inuences are be able to finance our investment plans the capability to produce up to 20% recognised in market forecasts.
and begin the transformation of Drax of our output from co-ring sustainable into a predominantly biomass fuelled We intend to continue our hard work biomass, so enabling qualication for generator.
to deliver leading operating and cost the enhanced co-ring band.
In doing performance and to retain our focus on so, we will only burn biomass which is building options to burn advantaged fuel.
economic, that is, which commands Our people higher margins than coal.
With a commitment to delivering value Our people are a key resource and to our shareholders, we will continue We have also made good progress on we consider it a priority to deliver our dialogue with the Government on the strategic capital investment plan excellent people leadership across our the legislative and regulatory agenda.
Throughout the Group we We will continue with our preparations it is important to note again that further share the values of honesty, energy, to become predominantly biomass investment remains dependent on achievement and team spirit.
However, our plans are securing appropriate regulatory a responsibility to our people and we dependent upon appropriate regulatory support and a strong investment case.
recognise that engaging and motivating support and proving a strong investment The principal components of the plan are them leads to better business case.
With such, we are ready to make the further development of our biomass performance.
Our approach to looking a significant, timely and cost effective capability and IED compliance.
after our people is described in more contribution to reducing CO2 emissions, detail in the Corporate and social There are two phases to the development whilst retaining reliable and exible responsibility section on page 42. of our biomass capability.
Phase 1 is the capacity on the system.
committed investment of 50 million There is now recognition of the to secure full benefit from our existing strategically important role that co-ring facilities as described above.
sustainable biomass has to play in the Phase 2 requires significant further future renewable energy mix of the UK.
investment in the range of 400450 We have long advocated the benets million.
Much of this investment will be of biomass as a source of renewable in additional fuel storage and handling electricity, key amongst them being the facilities at Drax Power Station as well as ability to deliver cost effective and further investment in plant modications.
Through There may also be investment in the transforming Drax into a predominantly biomass supply chain to enhance security renewable generator fuelled by of supply for strategic fuel supplies.
sustainable biomass we will not only secure large volumes of cost effective renewable generation for the consumer, but also make a significant contribution to meeting the UKs 2020 climate cha chan ng ge e ta tar rg get ets s.. Dorothy Thompson Chief Executive 20 February 2012 Financials Governance Business review
