com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 Operating Review Group Chief Executives Statement Overview increased by 111.5 million to 351.0 million 2009 10: In the year to 30 April 2011 DS Smith grew revenue by 19.5% 239.5 million due to expenditure of 203.2 million to purchase 10.0% excluding Otor, the French corrugated packaging business Otor including acquired net debt, partly offset by strong operating acquired on 1 September 2010, improved adjusted operating cash flow and funds raised through the issue of equity in July 2010. profit margin by 80bps to 5.5% 2009 10: 4.7% and increased I am very pleased to report that the Groups adjusted return on adjusted operating profit by 38.7% 20.0% excluding Otor average capital employed ROACE increased substantially in to 136.1 million 2009 10: 98.1 million.
2010 11 to 12.7% 2009 10: 10.1%, exceeding the Groups The Group increased its market share in its key markets and recovered estimated cost of capital of around 11.0% on the current business rising input costs in line with our expectations.
This reflects the improved profitability of the Group and a achieved by focusing on what matters to our customers service, significant focus on capital management.
Divisional management quality and innovation and relentless attention to pricing for input now have their remuneration aligned to return on capital measures cost recovery.
This has also been a year of significant change for the business, Delivery against our strategic goals with initiation of our new strategy to become the leading supplier In December 2010 I set out our strategy to become the leading of recycled packaging for consumer goods in December 2010 supplier of recycled packaging for consumer goods, and the and the acquisition of Otor.
With this acquisition we are now the resultant expected improvement in our medium-term financial leading supplier of corrugated packaging for fast moving consumer performance.
I am pleased that these results demonstrate an goods FMCG customers in France.
Otor has also brought with it a encouraging first step towards our financial goals.
I also said that number of patented innovations that are now being offered to our we would deliver our strategy through focusing on improving our customers throughout the Group.
business mix, differentiating ourselves from our competition, and The Group was strongly cash generative in the year, with free at the same time concentrating on our efficiency, culture and cash flow of 100.7 million 2009 10: 76.8 million.
Net debt implementation risk management.
Cost and carbon savings for Kelloggs Nutri-Grain R-Flute has helped to achieve consumer impact and significant savings in cost and carbon for Kelloggs Nutri-Grain range.
A previous pack was reported to look washed out.
The new R-Flute pack stands out on the shelf, and is easy to find back-of-store, helping to drive onshelf availability.
The change to R-Flute means that Kelloggs receives 911 fewer pallets of inbound packaging, equating to a massive 24 full loads per year.
24 full lorry loads saved per year BB UU SS IN IN EE SS SS N N O O TT IC IC EE BR U R E SE V IN V IE IE E W S W S REVIEW G G O O VV E G E RR O N N A VA E N N RC N C EA ENCE FF F IN IIN N AA A N N N CC C IA IIA A L L LS S S TA T TA A TT T EE E M M M EE E N N N TT T SS S NO O O F TF IC M M E E E E O E TF T IN IN M G G EETING 51271 p16-22 vAW.
qxp Layout 1 04 07 2011 22:26 Page 17 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 17 I have been pleased with the progress we have already made on expect to see a 3 million benefit from UK efficiency savings implementing our strategy over the year.
and a 6 million benefit from procurement split equally between operational expenditure and capital expenditure.
We are also With regard to business mix, the biggest change has been the now able to increase our estimate of the cost savings we expect acquisition of Otor, which transforms our focus on FMCG customers in from the Otor acquisition from our original estimate of 9.3 million continental Europe and raises the proportion of revenue from FMCG to 13.0 million currently equivalent to 11.6 million, and we customers across the packaging business.
Our recycling business, expect those savings to be delivered by April 2013, one year another key area for growth, has made considerable progress earlier than originally expected.
With regard to capital efficiency, developing its activities organically in the UK and undertaking as at 30 April 2011 we had achieved an improvement in working preparatory work in Central and Eastern Europe, in advance of capital of c. 24 million.
Our capital expenditure has been applied in line with our strategy, with 80% of our net capital expenditure spent in Our actions to reduce cyclicality in our profits and margins, through either packaging or recycling.
changes to our pricing review periods within customer contracts, have progressed to plan.
The average price renewal period in the We have also made progress in reducing our involvement in nonUK and continental Europe, excluding Otor, is now at four months, integrated paper manufacturing, which is also part of our strategy down from six months, meaning that we can recover rising input to change our business mix.
As previously announced, we plan to costs more promptly.
We expect to make continued progress on reduce our net capacity by c. 250 thousand tonnes per annum.
this as contracts come up for renewal.
We are making progress on this objective and have announced the commencement of consultation regarding the proposal that we Whilst I am pleased with the progress to date, I believe that there close a UK paper mill and make an investment in our Kemsley Mill, is substantially further to go to realise the full potential of the Group.
with capital expenditure in line with depreciation, to make high Over the coming year, I plan to focus further on business mix performance papers to support our growing recycled retail-ready building the recycled packaging business in our target regions packaging offering across Europe.
Together, these proposed changes and reducing non-core activities.
The actions to improve our would reduce output by approximately 95 thousand tonnes per differentiation through service, quality and innovation are now annum whilst maintaining Kemsleys position as one of the most underway and we continue to pay significant attention to pricing efficient production sites across Europe, offering leading standards to recover rising costs.
On efficiency, engaging our people and risk of service, quality and innovation.
management, I have been very encouraged by the first steps and expect further ideas for improvement to arise as our management The Group has focused on its customer differentiation over the year, teams develop their work in these areas.
with customer service, as measured by the proportion of orders delivered on-time, in-full OTIF, now a key performance measure for Our people all parts of the Group.
While many parts of the Group were already DS Smith employs dedicated, skilled, hard-working people and providing excellent service, considerable focus has been given to I have been delighted with the effort and commitment shown in this area resulting in our Group average OTIF now standing at 96%, the past year by our employees.
We have put in place this year up 2% from 94% at the end of the prior year.
We believe that this a number of programmes to support the development of our people focus on customer service has been instrumental in growing our to fulfil their potential, such as appraisal and talent management packaging volumes ahead of growth in the market as a whole.
We have undertaken an extensive two-way communication programme to explain our goals and to listen to The Otor acquisition has broadened the range of innovative designs the issues faced by our employees in delivering to our customers.
we are able to offer as Otor brings with it 50 patents and 10 licences.
The feedback from this has been very constructive.
I would like Our UK business has its own innovative packaging products and to thank them all for their efforts.
materials, most notably R-Flute, a thinner corrugated board ideal for retail-ready packaging.
We have begun the work to integrate our Outlook innovation know-how to leverage it across the Group.
Corrugating The strong momentum in the business seen at the end of the prior equipment to manufacture R-Flute is now being rolled out in year is continuing into the current financial year, where trading has continental Europe.
The Group expects to continue to make further significant progress towards its financial objectives in the financial In terms of efficiency, we are on target to deliver the planned cost savings, as previously announced, totalling 20 million 10 million year 2011 12, with our confidence in the future reflected in the decision of the Board to increase the dividend by 41.3%.
This per annum by 30 April 2014, from improving the effectiveness of the UK operations and 10 million per annum by 30 April 2012 progress is driven by the successful integration of Otor combined with the continued implementation of our proven strategy.
