10 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Business review Chief Executives review Nick Wharton Chief Executive We have demonstrated through disciplined execution of our strategy and close operational management that our business can make good progress in challenging conditions.
Introduction Business highlights Having assumed the role of Chief Executive during the year, I want to start by paying 10 new superstore openings tribute to the significant contribution my including one relocation and predecessor Will Adderley has made over 21 refits of existing stores the 15 years in which he led Dunelm.
Will is a first class retailer and has built on the Continued market share foundations laid by his father to make growth Dunelm an outstanding business.
As the first externally-appointed Chief Executive of the Exciting developments in our Group I am delighted to have the opportunity Against this backdrop we have focused on customer offer to grow and further develop the Group with managing the controllable elements of our the close support of Will in his new role as business model, with a particular emphasis on www.
com Executive Deputy Chairman, pursuing our operating costs.
The growth achieved in gross clear strategy that has served Dunelm so number one store by margins and the progress made in the second well to date.
half of the year in cost management were turnover following strong particularly pleasing and have led to a 20 basis revenue growth Trading points expansion in operating margins year on In the context of a consumer environment year, after absorbing the costs associated with Continuing investment in which has continued to be challenging, we the expansion of retail space.
infrastructure to underpin are satisfied with our trading performance over the last financial year.
Reflecting the future growth Strategy development opening of 10 new superstores which We continue to develop the business increased overall retail space by over 300,000 through a strong focus on our four strategic square feet, our total revenue increased by priorities.
These priorities reflect our intention 9.3% over the financial year.
Like-for-like progressively to expand and strengthen sales calculated by comparing stores which our customer offer, while at the same time have traded throughout the last two financial increasing scale through store and multiyears were marginally lower by 0.6%, but channel expansion.
measurably better than the decline of 1.9% for the home textiles market as a whole, as Priority 1 develop our specialist measured by the British Retail Consortium.
proposition We continue to invest in the development The environment across the year was of the Groups Simply Value for Money characterised by new levels of uncertainty, proposition within the 11bn UK homewares both in consumer behaviour and in the rate market.
This proposition combines great of commodity price inflation, which in cotton prices, reliable quality, strong product and man-made alternatives was at a level not availability and friendly and knowledgeable experienced for a generation.
service, with our core differentiator of offering industry-leading choice.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 11 12 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Business review Chief Executives review continued Choice is at the heart of our proposition and performed within store.
For example, the We opened ten new superstores in the year allows us to attract a broad cross section of migration from a labour intensive manual one being a relocation, over 300,000 square customers.
Under the single Dunelm brand process to an automated system for inventory feet of selling space.
As at the year-end, we successfully sell entry-level products ordering is key.
Trials completed during the our superstore chain comprised 103 stores that compete with those sold by grocery year have confirmed its potential to reduce providing 3.1m square feet of selling space.
or discount multiples, through mid-range activity while maintaining availability and The high street chain totalled nine, after product to premium ranges, that compete we intend to have ordering of over 50% of we closed one shop during the year upon directly with offers within department our inventory automated by the end of the lease expiry.
stores or higher end independent retailers.
These premium ranges include bedding and Our recent openings continue to trade well bathroom merchandise under our owned We are also continuing to invest in training to and deliver strong returns on invested capital.
provide our colleagues with the knowledge We estimate that, on a discounted cash flow and confidence to engage with customers basis, the average payback period for stores Our range of choice has been particularly and are using tailored incentives to reward opened in the last three financial years will be valuable during the past financial year.
This performance have seen customer behaviour changing, enables us to acquire further space with with more affluent customers looking for We also see an opportunity to further confidence that we will continue to deliver greater value and more value-led customers enhance the Dunelm proposition through our targeted payback period for new stores seeking to trade up within our ranges to the addition of new services.
Dunelm At of 36 months, even allowing for potential provide a low cost, indulgent treat.
Home is a relatively new service offering cannibalisation of revenue and potentially a free home consultation which allows higher costs associated with operating in the south east.
We continue to use our Miss it Miss Out customers to choose bespoke, made to MIMO promotions and special buys to measure window treatments in their own Despite the lack of fresh retail development emphasise Dunelms value credentials and homes.
Recognising that the initial execution across the UK, we have opened a further provide a seasonally relevant feel to the store.
of this proposition was insufficiently scalable store since the year-end in Dartford and are without endangering quality of service, we contractually committed to 13 more units, We have developed a new advertising have redesigned our processes to ensure two of which are relocations of existing approach during the financial year which high quality delivery and a second pilot of superstores to significantly enhanced trading is focused on brand development and on this service has been launched in three stores locations.
We also continue to use our strong emphasising the Dunelm value proposition.
balance sheet to acquire interests in freeholds This is part of a migration towards a more where, for example, we wish to secure long consistent presence in the national media.
Priority 2 develop the store portfolio term tenure or avoid onerous lease clauses.
The Group operates from two formats.
Friendly, knowledgeable customer service The vast majority of stores operate as out Our committed pipeline of stores, which we is an increasingly important point of of town superstores averaging 30,000 aim to add to, will provide further growth differentiation for Dunelm.
In order to make square feet, where Dunelms market leading over the next 12 to 18 months as we expand more colleague time available for customer range, breadth and depth stands out in towards our target for national coverage in service without increasing overall labour cost, a sector that is still characterised by small the UK of between 150 and 200 superstores.
we continue to invest in a number of systems independent retailers and is best delivered to and process enhancements that reduce the our customers.
We also trade from a limited level of non-customer facing tasks that are number of smaller high street locations where there are no suitable out of town alternatives.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 13 We continue to invest in a programme We completed eight major refits in the last Sales from our on-line businesses www.
of store refits to improve the shopping financial year 2010 nine as well as a dunelm-mill.
co. uk environment in our existing stores.
These significant number of medium refits.
have continued to grow strongly over the last refits enhance revenue by introducing new financial year.
As a result of the investment ranges, for example kitchen concept or arts Through this ongoing refit programme, made, the direct channel is now ranked as and crafts, and improve the overall shopping 49 stores almost 50% of the superstore our number one store in sales terms.
experience, for example through better chain are either new or have benefited from department adjacencies or through the a major refit in the last three financial years.
During the year we invested in a dedicated introduction of a Pausa coffee shop.
warehouse facility for our top 4,000 selling Priority 3 grow multi-channel lines on the web for home delivery.
This Through new and refitted stores, we now It is clear from the general increase in multiinvestment increased on-line availability, have Dorma sub-shops in 53 stores: our arts channel revenues across UK retail and from particularly for premium delivery options, and crafts offer is present in 79 stores: and our own customer research that enthusiasm while eliminating the requirement for our extended kitchen offer, now divided for the convenience and value that multiexpensive store picking activity previously between cooking, dining and utility subchannel shopping provides continues to used to service these sales.
Enhancing our on-line offer and extending our multi-channel presence is Significant development is under way to Our Pausa coffee shop, now present in therefore an investment priority.
deliver a further step-change improvement 58 stores, provides both an additional in the convenience of our multi-channel reason to visit for new customers and This level of enthusiasm is illustrated by proposition.
Such improvements will not only increases dwell time.
Our confidence that the number of visitors to our websites and improve customer experience but will also Pausa fits with our Simply Value for Money their average spend which, at over 50, reduce operating costs.
proposition was reinforced during the year is approximately twice the level achieved when it won the coveted Coffee Shop through store transactions.
In the first half of the forthcoming Sandwich Retailer of the Year at the British com is our biggest shop window allowing financial year we intend to offer increased Sandwich Association awards.
the full range to be viewed and researched convenience through a true Reserve and by existing customers, and providing the Collect model as well as launching a mobileDuring the year we developed a lower cost opportunity to extend our reach and establish friendly website.
Through linking individual refit alternative, more suitable to newer or brand awareness with new customers.
store stock files to the web, customers will smaller footprint stores, and have reviewed be able to check availability and reserve each the costs associated with all refit activities During the year our investment included of over 20,000 products prior to visiting the to ensure that capital is focused on those a major refresh of our website to provide store to collect their purchase at a time areas which deliver greatest financial returns.
a more contemporary, functional and user of their convenience on the same day or beyond.
This review has reduced the average cost friendly shopping experience.
Responding of a major refit by approximately 25% to to customer feedback, this included around 0.6m, whilst a medium refit requires significant improvements to the key home substantially lower investment c0.1m.
and landing pages and the streamlining of the checkout process.
14 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Business review Chief Executives review continued We continue to invest in physical systems and human infrastructure in order to strengthen the current business and provide a sound foundation for our future growth.
Through reducing customer waiting time and The year saw two key developments that Summary & Outlook eliminating logistics costs, this development have strengthened our logistics infrastructure.
While we anticipate that the consumer will represent a major improvement We have doubled the space available at environment will remain challenging compared with our existing proposition, our Stoke warehouse, to 500,000 square through the current financial year, we have where customers currently reserve centrally feet and successfully transitioned to a new demonstrated, through disciplined execution held stock for delivery to their local store third party carrier to operate the delivery of of our strategy and close operational for collection.
merchandise from UK-based suppliers to our management, that our business can stores.
These developments will enable us to make good progress in these conditions.
The web will also play an increasing part in accommodate future growth either in new our overall marketing strategy with digital stores or in the proportion of product that Our focus on constantly improving our advertising planned to form a much more we source directly from overseas suppliers.
customer offer has allowed us to gain market significant part of our overall advertising share while expanding gross margins: at the and customer engagement plan.
As shown Development of our new head office near same time our future growth prospects have by the 13,000 customer recommendations to our existing base in Syston, Leicestershire been enhanced through strengthening the on our site, of which two-thirds achieve was completed shortly after the year-end and pipeline of new stores and the continuing the highest 5 Star rating, our customers are the new building was officially opened by development of our multi-channel footprint.
highly engaged with the Dunelm brand and Bill Adderley our founder and honorary Life products.
Our recent launches on Facebook President together with his wife Jean on The Groups financial position remains robust where 5,000 customers now follow us after 8 September 2011.
We will retain our existing and the trading business is strongly cash only five weeks, and on Twitter, are part of head office for a number of operational uses, generative, readily financing the investment a broader social media strategy which will such as the central stockholding of fabric and required for our envisaged growth.
While further deepen this relationship.
a photo studio to enhance product imagery retaining a preference for capital flexibility, on our websites.
our reduction in dividend cover to 2.5x and Priority 4 develop and exploit our our intention to grow future dividends in line infrastructure We also continue to enhance our with earnings reflect the Boards confidence We continue to invest in our physical, and organisational capacity and capability in the future development of the Group.
systems infrastructure and in our people, in through recruitment into a number of key order to strengthen the current business and management roles.
The existing Operating provide a sound foundation for our future Board was strengthened during the year growth.
Specifically, we continue to extract through the addition of a Buying and further benefits from our IT systems, enabling Merchandise Director, and the first half of Nick Wharton us to improve stock control and make in-store the current financial year will see the further Chief Executive processes more efficient.
addition of a Chief Operating Officer and a 15 September 2011 dedicated Director of Multi-Channel.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 15
