Group Chief Executives review Our eCommerce and Electronics offers continue to transform our business.
Over half our sales are now made through the web.
Overview and strategy implementation Market overview Our strategy continues to transform the business, enabling us to take market share from the large number of small operators with whom we compete around the world and deliver sales growth well ahead of GDP growth.
The global market opportunity available to the Group is large and growing.
We estimate that the value of the available market is around 30 billion globally: split evenly between electronics and maintenance products.
The overall electronics market has on average grown at around twice the rate of GDP growth and the maintenance market at around GDP growth, but higher than this inemerging markets such as Asia Pacific.
We operate in highly fragmented markets which are primarily Ian Mason, Group Chief Executive served by a large number of small local and regional distributors.
There are five international high service distributors, including Electrocomponents, which together have around 15% of the available global market.
They are gaining market share from smaller distributors who are not able to match their broad productrange and high customer service.
Electrocomponents, through its brands of RS and Allied Electronics, is the leading high service distributor in the world.
RS is the leading distributor in the UK, Europe and Asia Pacific, while Allied is ranked third in the North American market.
As a result we are well placed to benefit from this competitive consolidation in the markets in which we operate representing around 90% of the worlds GDP.
6 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy implementation To capture this structural growth opportunity our business strategy centres on our customers, offering them the widest possible product range with the quickest delivery, with eCommerce transforming the customer experience and offering improved flexibility and convenience.
Our strategy remains focused on five core areas: Focus on international markets Develop our electronics and maintenance offers Exploit the full potential of eCommerce Leverage our global infrastructure and increase operating margins Maintain UK profitability Our vision and strategy The worlds distributor of choice Vision International growth Electronics and maintenance offers Strategy eCommerce Operating leverage UK profitability Priorities Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 7 Chief Executives review continued International sales Focus on international markets Revenues from international markets now account for 70% of our total revenues and nearly 60% of contribution.
Revenue share has % increased from 40% in 2000, and during the year all our regions 70 delivered double digit sales growth.
Over the last five years our of Group revenue International business has achieved average annual sales growth at around double the rate of average annual global GDP growth.
Our international businesses are an important driver of profits, delivering around 70% of our contribution growth this year.
We are expecting that International revenue share will continue to grow and our focus remains on delivering our International sales target growth of 7-10% pa over the medium term.
Continental Europe continued to benefit from managements action to move the business from a federation of national businesses to a regional structure led by a single management team.
Our ability to now run our customer marketing on a regional basis and leverage our eCommerce offer continues to drive the business and increase both average order frequency and the number of customers.
Our externally benchmarked customer satisfaction ratings have improved further, ranking us close to thetop decile of participating businesses.
During the year we expanded into the large and growing Eastern European market providing customers in Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary with local language and priced web sites.
The growth strategy of Allied, our North American business, is based upon exploiting its unique network of local sales offices, supplier relationships and eCommerce to attract new customers and expand our business with existing customers.
In Asia Pacific, the RS business has a leading market position.
Thisis our most diverse business region both geographically and culturally and our sales offices are able to offer next day delivery toour customers across twelve countries.
Towards the end of the year we doubled our warehouse capacityin Shanghai, building on our leading position in the market.
Wewillbe able to offer our customers in China an additional 50,000 products and an improved local service offer which will be supported by a further 10m of locally held stock.
Revenue share by Develop our electronics and product type maintenance offers Electronics Our electronics portfolio represents over 40% of our total revenues, growing by 30% over last year.
During the year around 41% 37,000 new electronics products were introduced from leading 59% suppliers such as TE Connectivity, Panasonic, Texas Instruments and Analog Devices.
Our investment has driven a 60% growth in global semiconductor sales in 2011.
Electronics DesignSpark, our online gateway for resources for electronics Maintenance engineers, was launched in the summer of 2010, and has had more than 400,000 visitors to date.
In addition, DesignSpark PCB, 8 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview our free online design tool for electronics engineers, recorded 75,000 downloads since its launch, while there have been more than 30,000 downloads of our 3D CAD models.
These online toolsenable us to build a direct relationship with this influential customer segment and drive additional sales through this channel.
Maintenance Our maintenance portfolio is a key differentiator between Electrocomponents and our competitors as we are the global highservice distributor with the broadest range of process, controland automation and maintenance, repair and operations products.
During the year our maintenance offer sales grew by 16%, supported by 11,000 new maintenance products introduced during the year.
In order to build on our strong market leading position and to further accelerate growth we have reviewed our maintenance strategy and as a result we are strengthening our global pricing and service offer.
This includes an increased focus on better serving the needs of our maintenance customers with enhanced offers in our Automation and Control product ranges.
Our support product range, which is a key differentiator for our customers, will be further developed, with an emphasis on our RS branded range of products.
We continue to develop deeper relationships with our strategic suppliers, co-operating further on range development, joint marketing and sales activities, eCommerce development and customer transfers.
During the year sales of products from our strategic supplier partners grew ahead of the overall business.
eCommerce Exploit the full potential of eCommerce revenue share Our sales through eCommerce continue to grow with eCommerce now generating 53% of Group revenues, up from 46% last year end.
eCommerce revenues grew strongly across all regions with % 80% growth in North America, 42% in Asia Pacific, 34% in 53 Continental Europe and 24% in the UK.
For the Group as a whole exit eCommerce sales grew by 37% for the year.
Our eCommerce channel offers considerable advantages over our traditional catalogue channel allowing us to offer our customers flexible and targeted pricing, the ability to view 17,000 3D product models online, and the convenience of 24 hour purchasing from desktop PCs, laptops, smartphones and Internet tablets, including an RS iPhone app.
Earlier this year, we launched eTech, our magazine for electronics engineers as an iPad app.
This was verywell received by our worldwide customer base.
The internet gives us an unparalleled ability to reach customers locally at the point of need, and is vital for market penetration.
Wehave around 60 web sites across the world, with the majority in respective local languages.
During the year we further extended our eCommerce reach by creating new web sites in South Korea, Switzerland, Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic and more recently, Mexico.
Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 9 Chief Executives review continued Our focus this year has been on redefining and strengthening oureCommerce strategy.
Our redefined strategy embraces a multi-channel approach to growth with eCommerce at the heart ofthe business.
In parallel with the development of our strategy, we have increased our activities in search engine marketing around the world to generate more traffic for our web sites.
As a result, traffic levels have grown significantly throughout the year.
During the coming summer we will be launching our new RS websites around the world offering a greatly improved customer experience in key phases of the customer journey.
Return on sales Leverage our global infrastructure and increase operating margins % We have 17 distribution centres globally which enable us to provide our high service levels to around 90% of the worlds GDP.
10.1 We operate directly in 32 countries with distributors in a further increase of 2% points headline 37countries.
Our product range is continually refreshed, with 76,000 new products added globally in 2011.
During the year wealso strengthened our relationships with our global strategic suppliers, with sales from our twelve leading suppliers growing ahead of the overall business.
The UK is our largest individual market with a return on sales around 10% points higher than that of our International business principally due to economies of scale.
Therefore as the International business grows it is able to deliver increasing operating leverage.
Overall, the Groups operating costs as a percentage of sales have decreased by 5% points over the past five years increasing our operating leverage.
During the year return on sales has grown by 2% points to 10.1% and we see significant opportunities to increase our return on sales as the Group grows.
In addition to fixed cost leverage, we have delivered a number ofcost reduction programmes in 2011.
These have included regionalising our supply chain, more cost-effective freight forwarding and improved efficiency in our warehouses.
We have also reduced our catalogue production costs as eCommerce sales increase and more people buy our products online, while our Continuous Improvement programme seeks to further eliminate inefficiencies and remove unnecessary costs in our operating processes.
Our gross margin has remained stable during the year.
10 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview UK contribution Maintain UK profitability The UKs strategy is focused on: Maintaining its leadership position in the high margin 102m immediate delivery business Leveraging the Groups improved customer offers, especially electronics and eCommerce Developing new incremental regular revenue streams including corporate accounts and larger orders orders over1,000 Continuing to manage gross margin, cost and cash effectively This year has been very successful for our UK business achieving double digit sales growth for the first time in 15 years as the business successfully leveraged the benefits of the Groups strategy.
This included the increased electronics and maintenance product offers, exploiting the eCommerce offer, a strong sales and marketing customer focus all supported by ongoing cost control.
Contribution in the UK returned to over 100m and is now above pre-recession levels.
People Building a Great Place to Work and so improving our employee engagement is an important area of focus for us across the Group, with Continuous Improvement and Health and Safety being key elements of this strategy.
We launched Face2Face, our award winning employee communication programme in the UK, and have held similar sessions around the globe.
We regularly measure progress against our employee engagement targets through employee surveys and have achieved consistently positive results.
Current trading and outlook In the first seven weeks of the new financial year sales growth rates have remained strong at around 16% with the UK growing by 8% and the International business by 19%.
Within International, Continental Europe has grown by 20%, North America by 18% and Asia Pacific by 17%.
Whilst recognising the more demanding comparatives ahead, webelieve that the progress the Group has made on its strategic priorities and the investment that we continue to make in our International markets, electronics and eCommerce initiatives positions us well to make good progress in the coming year.
Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11
