03 GrOup cHieF executives OvervieW It is gratifying to report that in addition to record earnings we David Dutro continued to generate strong operating cash flow.
During the Group Chief Executive course of the year we substantially improved our balance sheet, ending the year in a net cash position, while we increased our dividend and drove profit margins higher than they were before the global economic downturn in 2009.
We are serious about delivering profitable growth and vigilant about managing costs, which has enabled the Group to consistently operate profitably and to generate positive operating cash flow, across all stages of the economic cycle.
We focus on generating high returns on invested capital and challenge everyone in the organisation to seek ways to increase operating profits while controlling working capital.
As a consequence, over the last three years the Group has delivered total shareholder return of 62.1 per cent per annum, while over the same three years the FTSE 250 index has delivered a return of 20.1 per cent per annum.
Importantly, we were able to accomplish all of this while maintaining high standards of health, safety and environmental performance.
Dear Shareholders, It was a busy and productive year for Specialty Products, our largest In 2011 Elementis achieved the highest earnings in its history.
and most profitable business, recording its highest ever sales and These historic results, in a year of significant economic headwinds operating profit.
At the core of Specialty Productss ability to and global uncertainty, demonstrate the strength of our growth deliver these results is an unrelenting commitment to provide strategy and the powerful momentum that exists within Elementis, technically superior products and application support that helps throughout each business and encompassing every region.
our customers to be more successful.
Elementis believes in and executes a collaborative approach to innovation with our customers.
This achievement is a direct result of the hard work and full Under this approach, we work very closely with our customers to engagement of our employees in order to deliver profitable growth develop products and technologies that add value for them today, through innovative technologies that are valued by our customers.
as well as invest in customer linked projects to enable the All three Elementis businesses made material contributions during development of new products for tomorrow.
While these market the year, including the following highlights: driven projects allow our customers to be more successful, they also position Elementis as our customers trusted and indispensable Significant improvements in each of our key performance partner.
Striking the right balance between our short term and long indicators revenue, profit, margins, EPS, cash flow.
term objectives is absolutely essential, because to be a successful Elementis Specialty Products: differentiated specialty chemical company, we must drive results delivered another record year of financial performance: today while strengthening our company for the future.
Elementis expanded capacity in North America and Europe to Specialty Products has a successful track record of executing this support our growth in coatings, personal care and oil strategy and will continue to do so going forward.
To further support drilling markets, as well as in our hectorite production.
that strategy, during the first half of 2012, our North America based Elementis Chromium: technology group will be moving into a newly built lab and pilot plant business model delivering strong earnings and cash flow facility, which has been equipped with specialised kit that simulates with reduced volatility: our customers testing equipment and processes.
Going forward, Castle Hayne, US facility converted to natural gas in Specialty Products is strategically well placed to continue to benefit April 2011, which reduced energy costs by $5 million in from: the powerful global trends of robust growth in shale gas and that year.
high pressure high temperature drilling: the opportunities provided Elementis Surfactants: by our established position in emerging and high growth regions: continued to improve the quality of its product portfolio.
and our portfolio of highly valued and innovative products in high Maintaining a strong focus on achieving excellent health performance coatings and all natural personal care formulations.
Full year dividend increased by 42 per cent.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 ELEMENTIS PLC shareholder 92 93 finanCial 50 91 Corporate 26 49 business 02 25 Company ifc 01 information statements governanCe review overview 04 GrOup cHieF executives OvervieW continued We are committed to continually expanding our portfolio of specialty 2011 was a banner year for Elementis, but it represents only a chemicals.
In parallel with Specialty Productss robust operating stepping stone towards greater achievement.
Our future has never performance and organic growth, Elementis continues to look for been brighter, due in large part to the hard work, ingenuity and appropriate bolt on acquisitions.
We are interested in companies unbounded energy of the global Elementis team.
Every day, all with value added technologies that participate in our chosen market year long, our people deliver the quality and service that builds segments, with particular focus on higher growth regions.
customer loyalty and market strength.
By continuing to embrace our long standing Company values and consistently affirming our The main focus of the Chromium business in 2011 was to optimise commitment to innovation and operational excellence, I am its business model and deliver strong earnings and cash flow with confident in our ability to continue to deliver further profitable significantly reduced volatility from cyclical markets.
To that end, growth and create meaningful value for you, our shareholders, we dramatically reduced energy costs, delivered higher earnings for the foreseeable future.
and maintained good margins throughout the year.
Overall, the Chromium business proved to be agile and robust in 2011.
It demonstrated an ability to run at near capacity levels and to improve profitability during the first part of the year and then respond well to a modest slowdown in the final quarter by shifting production to higher demand products and regions.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
