10 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Chief Executives Review Vision 2015 Delivering balanced, profitable growth from the manufacture of millions of plastic, fibre and foam COLIN DAY components Chief Executive Following my appointment as Chief Executive of Filtrona on 1 April 2011, site in Albany, US.
And in Filter Products we relocated the divisional I undertook a detailed review of the entire Company and its operations head office to Singapore from the UK to be closer to its main markets.
What I found was a business that was essentially in good shape and doing many good things, with an international footprint, Combined with rigorous control of our cost base, we are looking to leading market positions and a loyal, experienced workforce: in essence, this volume-driven revenue growth to fuel gross margin expansion.
a business that was solid, steady and stable.
This was a position on which This will provide us with the capability to re-invest in sales, marketing & I believed we could build.
As a result, at the time of our half year results innovation to drive future revenue growth, as well as delivering continued in August, we set out a more ambitious strategy for the Company for improvement in profitability.
With an equally keen eye on the Companys the next three financial years.
It looks to build on the positive features financing and fiscal positions, we intend that our earnings growth is and values which I inherited, while rekindling an appetite for growth supported on all fronts.
behind key objectives and targets, and creating a more unified culture across the organisation.
We have called this strategy Vision 2015.
Focusing on cash flow Creating a virtuous circle financial model A key measure of the success of Vision 2015 will be our ability to translate profitability into cash, and the strategy targets conversion in excess of From a financial perspective, Vision 2015 calls for balanced, profitable 100%.
While we look to the underlying profitability of the Company to organic growth: a top-down model with an emphasis on strong be the key driver of cash generation, the objective is to supplement that performance across the board, rather than placing undue reliance with further improvements in our net working capital position.
on one particular metric to drive the Companys results.
Our strong cash generation continues to enable us to invest in the Filtrona is a high volume manufacturer, supplier and distributor of business.
In 2011, we completed a number of successful projects essential components, producing millions of units every day.
As such including: the expansion of taggant manufacturing at our Coated we have looked to re-position the business to focus on revenue growth, & Security Products site at Banbury, UK: the move to a new customwith volume as the key driver.
And we are already delivering against this built facility in Bangkok, Thailand for our Filthai Filter Products operation: objective, with like-for-like revenue ahead 8% in 2011 of which volume ongoing construction of a new facility for MSI in Houston, US which is growth represented 6%.
This revenue growth has come from both on track for completion by the second quarter of 2012: and further a product and a geographic perspective.
In terms of products, we are capacity expansion at the St. Charles, US foam site for medical wound broadening our offering to reach new end-markets and have stepped care products.
We have similarly taken the opportunity to invest in up our innovations to our customers: for example, in 2011 our Coated upgrading or adding equipment and machinery, to ensure that our & Security Products division introduced a new opening solution in the manufacturing productivity and efficiency supports our future growth US food market, while Porous Technologies launched a new range of objectives.
At the same time, we have looked to streamline the business hydrophilic polyurethane foams for advanced wound care applications.
where appropriate, including the divestment of the FractureCode track And in terms of geography, we have continued to increase our penetration and trace business from Coated & Security Products and the relocation in existing markets, while there was further investment with a particular of filter manufacturing from Monterrey, Mexico to our expanded facility focus on faster-growing economies.
Growth in the Protection & Finishing at Greensboro, US.
Over and above these capital investments, we are Products division was supported by the move to larger distribution committed to returning cash to our shareholders through a progressive warehousing operations in Brazil and Poland, and we opened a new dividend policy.
Directors Report The Invisible Enablers | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Business Review | Chief Executives Review 11 Our vision To be the leading global supplier of speciality plastic, fibre and foam components Our objective To create sustainable long-term value for our shareholders Progressive dividend Our strategy and operational priorities To deliver balanced, profitable growth in both our existing and future opportunity markets and technologies Like-for-like revenue growth mid single-digit Prioritise volume growth to drive higher revenue and gross margin expansion Re-invest in the business for future growth Volume leverage to drive gross margin expansion 50% conversion to operating margin Focus on strong translation of profit into cash 100% profit conversion to cash Our responsibilities Manage our activities to reflect the high expectations of all our stakeholders Establish safe people and operational procedures, and minimise our impact on the environment Attract and develop motivated and highly-skilled employees Conduct our business to the highest ethical standards Further information on our Corporate Responsibility Vision 2015 sets out a more can be found on page 38.
Further information on our ambitious three-year strategy, Key Performance Indicators can be found on page 16. building on Filtronas positive features and values while rekindling an appetite for growth and creating a more unified culture.
2011 shows we are already on our way 12 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Chief Executives Review continued A measured approach to acquisition opportunities Taken together, these two developments are aimed at better identifying talent and employment opportunities within the Company, facilitating Vision 2015 seeks to complement balanced, organic growth with valuemobility both geographically and between divisions, and improving adding acquisitions across the Company and in 2011 we announced succession planning at all levels.
In 2011, we also expanded the Filtrona two transactions, both in our Protection & Finishing Products division.
Graduate Development Programme and the Group Management In September, we completed the acquisition of Reid Supply Company for Development Programme from Anglo-American schemes, to include up to US$32m, a leading distributor of standard industrial components, participants from our other international sites.
It is anticipated that including hardware, handles, clamps and fasteners to a wide range of these programmes will be broadened further in 2012. markets and customers.
And then in late December, we completed the acquisition of Richco, Inc. for US$110m, a leading international designer, Our overriding commitment remains the health, safety and welfare of our manufacturer and distributor of engineered plastic and elastomeric employees and all those who visit our operations.
And notwithstanding solutions for fastening and cable management applications in diverse the progress we have made in previous years, we continued to see further and growing end-markets.
In order to support our growth strategy improvement in 2011: the total accident trend declined and we saw a we successfully refinanced our bank facilities during the year, and put reduction in lost-time accidents in all four divisions.
Indeed, against more in place competitively-priced 330m sterling and euro-denominated stringent requirements in 2011 versus 2010, seven of our sites received a five-year revolving credit facilities.
Gold ranking in the Filtrona Health & Safety Awards, with a further nine achieving Silver status: had the criteria remained unchanged year-on-year, Subsequent to the year end, we announced the acquisition of 100% some 50 per cent of our facilities would have been received Gold awards.
of the share capital of Securit World Ltd for a cash consideration of 6m.
UK-based Securit distributes desktop personal identification card systems, Our responsibilities and will be reported under our Coated & Security Products division.
At the heart of our Vision 2015 strategy is a commitment to the highest We seek to balance our measured approach to acquisition opportunities standards of corporate governance and responsibility, to ensure that with a continued strong return on average invested capital.
the way in which we manage our activities reflects the expectations of all the Companys stakeholders.
As a member of both the FTSE4Good Developing the right organisational structure Index and the Carbon Trust, we recognise that our interaction with the environment and local communities is a critical component of the Key to delivering long-term value to our shareholders is the continued international reputation of Filtronas businesses and the quality of the development, skills and commitment of Filtrona employees across the Companys respective brands, as well as a cornerstone of developing world.
It is also essential that we have the appropriate leadership across a responsible, progressive and winning culture.
the Company to drive our Vision 2015 strategic objectives.
With that in mind, we established the Group Management Committee GMC All our principal manufacturing facilities hold the ISO 14001 environmental to replace the previous Executive and Group Operating Committees, accreditation and, with the exception of recently-acquired sites which, to promote a more streamlined and co-ordinated decision-making per Filtrona policy, have a period of 24 months to reach the required process.
In addition, in order to strengthen the organisational structure, standard, they have also achieved the Occupational Health & Safety we created three new GMC roles: the positions of Corporate Development Management Systems OHSAS 18001.
In respect of the latter, our Director, Corporate Affairs Director and Group Commercial Director.
We Jarrow site attained the standard in 2011 as targeted, while the BP Labels also established a Group Leadership Team GLT, being the Companys rebranded as Payne Cardiff and Stera Tape sites acquired in 2010 are most senior executives and drawn from our four business divisions and both making progress towards its achievement.
The Company also the corporate head office, as well as comprising members of the GMC.
applies a standardised process to review its distribution sites and to award certificates of Compliance, Merit or Excellence.
During the During the year, we also re-aligned and simplified the organisational year, 14sites were assessed, all of which achieved an Excellent rating.
structure within each of our four divisions, to focus and improve our go-to-market strategy, to optimise operational benefits and During the year, Filtrona was ranked equal first by the UKs Environment potential synergies from the integration of certain processes, and Agency in the first Carbon Reduction Commitment Performance League to improve accountability.
This league table is based on early actions that participating companies have taken to demonstrate their commitment to energy We are committed to ensuring Filtrona is viewed as an employer efficiency within their organisations, and is a direct result of the early of choice, in order to ensure the attraction and retention of suitably action we began in 2010 under the auspices of our Health, Safety & motivated, experienced and skilled personnel.
As an international Environment Council, including achieving the Carbon Trust Standard organisation, it is important that we attract an appropriate level at all of our principal UK manufacturing sites.
of local talent, and to support both our recruitment efforts and the career development of our employees, we are establishing Over and above the Companys carbon emissions, we have made further a divisional human resources infrastructure including investing progress on reducing the environmental impact of our business in other in a dedicated IT system.
aspects, with our water use and the amount of waste sent to landfill showing reductions versus 2010 levels.
Directors Report The Invisible Enablers | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Business Review | Chief Executives Review 13 This year the Group environmental award was given to Payne India, whose Our international footprint, combined with the diversity of our products submission demonstrated a commitment to energy and carbon reduction and end-markets, provides Filtrona with a degree of defensiveness in which, at the same time, strongly supported the local community.
And what remains an uncertain economic backdrop.
So, consistent with the I was likewise very pleased to present the 2011 Chief Executives Special more ambitious initiatives which underpin our Vision 2015 strategy, we Award to the Porous Technologies Richmond, US site for its development are well positioned to deliver further balanced, profitable growth in 2012, of a recycle extruder.
The extruder converts manufacturing waste into and anticipate that each of our four operating divisions will contribute usable material for writing instrument reservoirs, and allows the production to the overall performance of the Company.
of an eco cartridge made from 100% recycled materials.
As a result, we are aiming to continue to make progress towards our In summary Vision2015 objectives of at least mid single-digit like-for-like revenue growth and double-digit adjusted earnings per share growth at 2011 was a strong year for Filtrona, and one in which we have already constant exchange rates.
started to make good progress towards our Vision 2015 objectives.
And I would like to thank all our employees for their continued commitment and Colin Day Chief Executive diligent efforts to deliver these results during a period of leadership change.
22 February 2012 Moving forward OUR OBJECTIVES PROGRESS IN 2011 PRIORITIES IN 2012 Identify key Conversion of intellectual property and manufacturing Successfully exploit innovative and new product know-how into commercial success across divisions manufacturing capabilities in new opportunities Range developments and continued improvement technologies, products and services in marketing effectiveness across the Company Focus on faster Relocation of Filter Products head office to Singapore Further expansion of international growing New filters factory opened in Thailand distribution, sales and marketing markets Transfer of pregnancy test wick production capacity expertise, to exploit growth opportunities economies and equipment to China Duraco catalogue launched in China Growth in Protection & Finishing Products supported by warehouse expansion in Brazil, Poland and China Identify Acquisition of Reid Supply and Richco, Inc. in Protection Successful integration of value-creating, & Finishing Products 2011 acquisitions complementary Identify further opportunities M&A opportunities across our four divisions Invest in improving Capacity expansion, and investment in upgrading or adding Further investment to support operational machinery and equipment revenue growth opportunities excellence Re-aligned the organisational structure of each of our divisions, Drive revenue growth from and execution to improve the go-to-market strategy our more streamlined divisional strategic business units Strengthen Established Group Management Committee and Group Continue to grow and develop organisational Leadership Team talent across all divisions structure and Created three new senior management roles to support Increase cross-divisional moves talent base Vision 2015 strategy to enhance mobility Broadened the geographical reach of the Management Attract appropriate level of local and Graduate Development Programmes talent for a global business Established a divisional Human Resources infrastructure Widen the geographic reach of the Management and Graduate Development Programmes
