8 Unlocking Value Chief Executive Officers Statement We remain confident in the outlook for our diversified mix of commodities due to sustained growth in emerging markets.
Felix Vulis, Chief Executive Officer ENRC has delivered a solid operational an additional 325 MW power unit.
With rising The Group was able and financial performance in 2011.
The transport costs in the Commonwealth of competitive advantage of our low-cost Independent States we have made every to maintain its low-cost operations has underpinned our growth as effort to increase our self-sufficiency within position compared a leading natural resources group, allowing the Logistics Division, acquiring an additional us to continue our commodity-led expansion 2,517 wagons and 1,215 containers in 2011. to our peers despite strategy, through the diversification of our asset base and the development of our In the African copperbelt we have been increasing inflationary product portfolio.
focused on the development and consolidation of our world-class assets and pressures on our The continued successful development of we have seen significant increases in both input costs our strategic projects and expanding asset copper and cobalt production in 2011. base has been a core focus for management in 2011.
In Kazakhstan we have made good A considerable amount of resource was progress with our new Aktobe ferroalloys spent in 2011 on resolving the dispute plant, with first production expected on with First Quantum Minerals Ltd FQM schedule in the second half of 2013.
We regarding the licence for the Kolwezi Tailings foresee that the highest demand growth project.
The agreement reached with FQM in the industry over the next five years will in January 2012 and finalised in March come from speciality steels and foundries has put a period of uncertainty behind us which require high quality high-carbon and allowed us to acquire FQMs processing ferrochrome.
Due to the planned production plants at both Kolwezi and Frontier.
We are growth in our Ferroalloys Division, ENRC now well-positioned to meet our strategic will be well-positioned to meet this goal of becoming a significant global increased demand.
copper producer over the next five years.
In order to further enhance our integrated In Mozambique the feasibility study for model and maintain our advantageous cost Licence 871 in the Tete Province is set to curve position within the region, progress complete in H1 2012.
This is a substantial has continued in the Energy Division with long-term growth opportunity, with the the construction completed of a 325 MW potential to strengthen our position in the power unit at Aksu in Kazakhstan.
Work energy sector and allow us to diversify into has also begun on the reconstruction of the coal export market.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 9 www.
com Chief Executive Officers Statement ENRC will produce its first Sustainable Development Report in 2012.
Our intention is to deliver high quality data in line with global reporting practices and standards.
Aluminium of Kazakhstan Our operations in Brazil provide us with the related-party transaction was subsequently cultural conditions in Kazakhstan.
This opportunity to become one of the leading adjourned in November.
After considerable leads to a lower number of reported lost global iron ore players, providing us with engagement with shareholders, we time injury cases compared to international entry to the seaborne iron ore market.
During reconvened the General Meeting for 2 April practice.
This remains an area of focus 1 2011 we have built a considerable presence 2012 to vote on the acquisition.
ENRC firmly through our work with DuPont looking at in the region, with a 175-strong team of believes that the acquisition of this high safety culture and behaviours.
employees based in Salvador, Ilhus, Belo quality asset will enhance our position as Horizonte, Caetit, Aritagua and Salinas.
one of Kazakhstans leading coal producers We have improved our reporting to provide The location of the port has been moved to and further our strategic aims in the region.
additional information to reflect on-site Aritagua so as to minimise its environmental non work-related fatalities, which includes impact and the focus in the latter part of 2011 We are determined to deliver value to all contractors for 2011.
This is a key step was on resubmitting our application for the of our shareholders.
To this end, we will towards adoption of international best port preliminary licence.
We are currently continue to look at all aspects of our practice reporting on fatalities.
We will awaiting feedback on our submission.
business, including expansions, joint continue to take steps to align our ventures and spin-offs.
classification process to international In 2011 we initiated a major programme standards.
The on-site work and non to better understand and improve the On behalf of the Groups management work-related fatalities numbered 13 in 2011 quality of our key non-financial performance I would like to take this opportunity to thank 2010: no comparable data available.
There indicators and we have engaged our employees for their hard work and efforts.
were six work-related fatalities in 2011 five  LLP to provide in Kazakhstan and Russia: one in Africa, assurance on selected indicators.
Work Safety while in 2010 there were seven fatalities all is underway to present our first standalone of which were in Kazakhstan and Russia.
The total number of work-related injuries, Sustainable Development Report in 2012.
We express our condolences to the families including fatalities, to employees in 2011 was Developing our non-financial reporting is a involved.
Our safety programmes will 63 2010: no comparable data.
The Group long-term undertaking and our intention is continue to focus on understanding causes Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR to deliver high quality data in line with global and eliminating fatalities.
for 2011 was 0.49 0.45 in Kazakhstan and reporting practices and standards.
A Group LTIFR was not calculated in 2010 as numbers across In October 2011 we announced our intention the Group were not prepared on to exercise the Groups option to acquire the a comparable basis.
As with fatalities, our outstanding shares in Shubarkol Komir JSC LTIFR reporting currently adopts Kazakhstan Shubarkol for a purchase price of US$600 classifications across the Group and reflects million.
The General Meeting to vote on this 1 At that meeting, shareholders gave their approval to proceed with the transaction.
On 16 April 2012 the Group purchased the outstanding ordinary shares of Shubarkol for a total consideration of US$600 million.
10 Unlocking Value Chief Executive Officers Statement continued 2011 production performance Alumina and Aluminium: Bauxite Capital expenditure extraction reached a record 5.50 Mt The Groups key Divisions, Ferroalloys and In 2011 we made considerable progress 2010: 5.31 Mt.
Production of both Iron Ore, were impacted during the year with our capital expenditure programme, alumina and aluminium were also at by unscheduled equipment repairs, while with record capital expenditure of US$1.9 record levels of 1.67 Mt 2010: 1.64 Mt production at the Alumina and Aluminium billion 2010: US$1.2 billion, further and 249 kt 2010: 227 kt respectively.
and Energy Divisions reflected full available developing our pipeline of high quality Other Non-ferrous: Total copper contained capacity.
Copper and cobalt production projects which underpin the Groups growth at the Other Non-ferrous Division showed production was 29.61 kt 2010: 20.27 kt, strategy.
Strategic reviews and project whilst that of cobalt reached 11.42 kt strong growth against the prior year, in line re-evaluations have nevertheless resulted with our expansion plans for these assets.
in some delays in the realisation of capital expenditure projects in the Other Ferroalloys: Ore extraction amounted Financial performance Non-ferrous and Iron Ore Divisions.
to 4.59 Mt 2010: 4.82 Mt, whilst gross The Group continued to deliver a solid ferrochrome production was 1.37 Mt 2011 was a successful year in which we financial performance in 2011 in a 2010: 1.39 Mt, of which 1.23 Mt 2010: completed the expansion of alumina challenging economic environment.
Revenue 1.26 Mt was high-carbon ferrochrome: production, the commissioning of Power Unit rose 16.7% and Underlying EBITDA was total gross ferroalloys production was 2 a 325 MW turbine at Aksu and continued up 6.9% reflecting higher sales volumes at 1.77 Mt 2010: 1.80 Mt.
The modest the expansion of our railway fleet.
Key the Other Non-ferrous and Alumina and reduction in production related to two projects across the Groups Divisions include Aluminium Divisions and higher commodity separate fires at Aktobe, the emergency the following: prices.
However profitability was reduced stoppage of furnace 63 at Aksu and the due to increased cost pressures.
The Group suspension of production at Tuoli due Ferroalloys: Progression with the new was able to maintain its low cost position to market conditions.
ENRC plans Aktobe ferroalloys plant: compared to our peers despite increasing to divest its share of Tuoli in 2012. inflationary pressures on our input costs, Iron ore: Development of mine expansion All other operations have returned to primarily raw materials, energy and labour.
Excluding the impact of the one-off gain Alumina and Aluminium: Commissioning Iron Ore: Ore extraction amounted to arising on the acquisition of a joint venture of alumina expansion and on-going 43.21 Mt 2010: 43.61 Mt.
Saleable in 2010, EPS increased by 4.6%.
Basic EPS construction of the anode plant: concentrate production was 8.46 Mt fell to US 153 cents per share 2010: US 170 2010: 8.94 Mt and saleable pellet cents per share as a result of this gain in Other Non-ferrous: Further development production was 7.65 Mt 2010: 8.02 Mt.
A more detailed discussion of the and review of the copper expansion Production was impacted primarily by financial performance is contained in the strategy: temporary technical problems with the Chief Financial Officers Review.
Energy: Commissioning of Power Unit 2 pelletisers, which are now back at effective and reconstruction of Power Unit 6 at full capacity.
Aksu: and Logistics: Railway fleet expansion in Kazakhstan.
Incident type KZ RU 2010 KZ RU 2011 Africa 2010 Africa 2011 Consol.
2011 Fatalities Work-related 7 5 0 1 6 1 2 2 Contractors and non work-related n a 7 n a 0 7 3 Fatal injuries frequency rate 0.06 0.04 0 0.06 0.05 Lost time cases 4 Work-related lost time injuries 45 51 52 12 63 4 Lost time injuries frequency rate 0.41 0.45 2.88 0.72 0.49 1 Non work-related fatalities include on-site events caused by alcohol, sudden worsening of occupational health cases, those events occurring outside of working hours and unauthorised tasks.
2 No comparable information available for non work-related fatalities in 2010.
4 2010 data not prepared on comparable basis to 2011 data.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11 www.
com Chief Executive Officers Statement continued In 2012, capital expenditure is expected to claims in relation to its DRC operations for policy and we are now able to effectively and amount to approximately US$2.7 billion of a total consideration of US$1.25 billion.
This thoroughly investigate whistleblowing reports which US$0.8 billion relates to sustaining deal subsequently completed in March 2012. and other issues, and take appropriate capital expenditure.
The Groups total capital corrective action.
expenditure programme for its expansionary Risk and compliance projects is US$10.9 billion.
Outlook Through 2011 senior management and the Board have had regular dialogue on Although the volatility in global markets Acquisitions key risks relating to the Companys strategic persists in 2012, particularly concerning the In July 2011 the Group completed the objectives.
We know that some of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, we remain acquisition of 100% of the ordinary shares jurisdictions in which the Group operates confident in the outlook for our diversified of Dezita Investments Limited Dezita for a pose particular and often heightened risks mix of commodities due to sustained growth total consideration of US$195 million.
Dezita that need to be managed appropriately.
Our operations are owns Exploitation Permit Number PE 1284 in are open for dialogue with shareholders and expected to perform at full available capacity the DRC, a potentially significant copper and other stakeholders to communicate our in 2012 to meet this demand, with increased cobalt resource.
This asset is immediately position openly and effectively.
copper production in the Other Non-ferrous adjacent to and contiguous with the permits Division as we continue to grow volumes held by the Groups Camrose joint venture The Group continues to enhance its in the DRC.
We expect that inflationary cost and its purchase is consistent with the approach to risk management and internal pressures will be evident across the Group Groups strategy of consolidating resources controls, and is committed to the further again in 2012 but we will make every effort in areas proximate to existing Group development of policies, processes and to continue to focus on cost saving initiatives operations in the region.
to ensure that our relative low-cost position and competitive advantage is maintained.
In December 2011 the Group completed The Group is acutely aware of its obligations the acquisition of Rubio Holdings Limited regarding compliance with all applicable laws Felix J Vulis Rubio, which indirectly holds 74% of Amari and regulations, as well as our corporate Chief Executive Officer Manganese Pty Ltd Amari, for a total value for fair dealing.
We now have consideration of US$295 million.
Amaris compliance officers across our operations.
key asset is the Kongoni Manganese Project We have completed the first stage of ethics in the Kalahari Manganese Field in South training, delivered online by an independent, Africa.
This acquisition further strengthens  ethics training our position in a commodity which we provider, and have trained hundreds of believe has very attractive long-term senior managers face-to-face.
also launched a whistleblowing hotline, independently administered by the same In January 2012 the Group announced that ethics training provider, which operates 24 it had reached a settlement with FQM to hours a day, 365 days a year, in five acquire its residual assets and settle all languages.
We have a robust investigations ENRC continues to enhance its approach to risk management and the further development of practices, processes and procedures.
