14 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Chief Executive Ofcers Statement Alexander Frolov Our strategic priorities in 2011 were to grow our steelmaking raw material base and improve the performance and efficiency of our existing mining operations.
Alexander Frolov Chief Executive officer Our strategic priorities in 2011 were to grow Operations were again disrupted in 2011, Dear Stakeholders, our steelmaking raw material base and improve as we had to temporarily halt production at the performance and efficiency of our existing the Alardinskaya and Osinnikovskaya mines, 2011 was a pivotal year for EVRAZ, mining operations.
During the year we launched for longwall repositionings and additional a period in which we reinforced a number of growth initiatives to improve implementation of safety equipment.
We our position as one of the worlds productivity and secure our self-coverage in raw completed these works in the fourth quarter, leading vertically integrated steel materials.
We remain on track to reach our longand restarted operations at all the mines term objective of achieving integration levels in involved.
In October, we launched production and mining companies.
I am excess of 100% self-coverage in iron ore and at the Ulyanovskaya mine.
As a result, pleased to report that EVRAZ coking coal supply.
production rose 19% in the fourth quarter produced a strong set of results compared to the third quarter.
and a robust operational At the same time, we focused on the need for In order to increase our coking coal selfperformance in 2011, laying a operational excellence in our steel operations, firstly, in order to preserve our competitive coverage and ensure adequate long-term solid platform for future growth.
supply as existing mines become depleted, we advantage as one of the worlds leading low cost steel producers, and secondly, started construction of the Yerunakovskaya-VIII In 2011, we also recorded a significant mine.
We also looked at different options for improvement in both our lost time injury to reposition the business and increase our share of higher value-added finished products.
developing the Mezhegey coal deposit earlier frequency rate and fatal injury frequency than the scheduled 2015 start date.
rate, which fell by 23% and 50% respectively We made considerable progress in pursuit of these goals: modernising existing facilities, year-on-year.
Our aim is now to make these We expect that implementing all these plans improvements sustainable with the ultimate investing in new projects and successfully shifting our production more toward valuewill result in production volumes of coking coal goal being to operate a zero harm business.
in 2012 surpassing the levels of 2011.
As a We still have a long way to go and we will continue to focus on improving our safety result, our coking coal self-coverage should Mining Segment exceed 100% by the end of 2013, which will management systems and promoting a strong safety culture.
In 2011, we focused investment on the help improve the profitability of the business.
development of our iron ore resource base, The first half of 2011 witnessed a recovery primarily the expansion of the Kachkanar iron Steel Segment ore operations to ensure a steady supply of Buoyed by strong contributions from our core in the emerging economies matched by improving demand from developed markets.
iron ore to our steelmaking operations in future markets of Russia and North America, our years.
As a result, our KGOK plant increased steelmaking business made progress in 2011.
However, in the second half of the year, the combination of a slowing US economy, production of raw iron ore from 52 to 55 million With all our major facilities operating at full tonnes.
As a result of our continued focus on capacity, production volumes of crude steel fiscal tightening in China and the crisis in the Eurozone, caused a rapid collapse in debottlenecking our mining segment produced rose 3% year on year to 16.8 million tonnes.
7% more iron ore products in 2011 compared confidence over the prospects for global growth.
This led to significant uncertainty to 2010.
Within the product mix, we saw a further shift away from semi-finished products towards in steel markets and a noticeable softening of demand.
One of our challenges in 2011 was to stabilise higher margin, value-added finished products.
our existing coking coal mining operations As a consequence, the share of finished products as a proportion of total output Against this challenging backdrop, EVRAZ and lay the foundation for a future increase in production.
The performance of our coal increased to 77% from 75% in 2010, the reported a good set of results for the year.
highest contribution in our history.
Our financial performance was robust, mines has been affected in recent years by a combination of negative factors including benefiting from resilient steel demand in our In 2011, we placed special emphasis on cost key markets, a favourable product mix and difficult geological conditions, mine shutdowns and temporary stoppages, divestments and reduction and improving our product quality.
As a result, our We invested in the development of pulverised revenues increased by 22% to US$16.4 billion, the impact of more stringent health and safety requirements.
As a result, the production coal injection technology PCI at all our EBITDA rose by 23% to US$2.9 billion and we of raw coking coal fell from 10 million tonnes Russian blast furnaces, in order to significantly delivered an impressive cash performance, in 2009 to 6.3 million tonnes in 2011. reduce consumption of coking coal and natural generating operating cashflow of US$2.6 billion, gas in blast furnace production.
up 59% on 2010. Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The modernisation of our Russian rail mills, Operational Improvements Outlook In order to preserve our competitive advantage The long-term prospects for global infrastructure, when completed by the end of 2012, will ensure supply of better quality rails to satisfy and compete effectively in the global market, a sector where EVRAZ has established a strong we need to create more value for our reputation and footprint, remain attractive.
the immediate demand of our major customer in Russia, Russian Railways.
The next stage customers and to do so more efficiently by As a low cost, vertically integrated global steel using fewer resources, which is why we have manufacturer, EVRAZ is well placed to benefit will be production of 100-metre heat-treated rails for high-speed railroads in line with the introduced the EVRAZ Business System into from the increased emphasis on infrastructure the organisation.
We are applying Lean development globally.
Russian long-term state programme to develop rail transportation in the country.
We have also business principles across our operations to modernised the wheel production, significantly create a culture of continuous improvement.
In the near-term, the outlook for the global steel industry is likely to continue to be improving the quality of railway wheels made Our goal is not just to identify cost reductions, at our plant in Nizhny Tagil, supplied also to but to change the way our entire organisation challenging in 2012.
Our current expectation is for a modest overall rise in steel consumption, Russian Railways and commercial customers thinks and acts.
in Russia and other CIS countries.
driven by demand from the emerging markets.
The wider global economy and, in turn, the In 2011, we streamlined our business further.
Russia, our biggest market, put in a robust We moved into our new headquarters in steel industry, continues to face challenges and will likely remain volatile.
The combination of supply Moscow, relocated our North American constraints and higher raw material input headquarters and started the consolidation of However, we have substantial experience prices led to higher steel prices.
The key our European assets into a single unit.
We also drivers of demand continued to be the merged our two major integrated steel plants, of managing the business in the extremely NKMK, the leading rail producer in Russia, and challenging environment of late 2008-2009 construction and infrastructure sectors.
Such was the requirement for construction ZSMK, Siberias largest steel mill, into a new so we enter this period of uncertainty with unified business, EVRAZ United West-Siberian confidence.
Inventories at traders and at our steel that, for the first time since before the financial crisis, demand for construction Iron and Steel Plant EVRAZ ZSMK, creating mills and ports are very low and we do not one of the largest steel plants in Russia.
ship without a pre-payment, which minimises steel in Russia outstripped supply.
As these two plants are located in one city our credit risk.
Novokuznetsk we believe that such merger The domestic market accounted for 69% of EVRAZs Russian and CIS steel mills sales in will make the business much more efficient.
We continue to run our steelmaking capacities at full utilisation and expect the situation to 2011, compared to 58% in 2010, reflecting improved demand and the shift to higher Positioned for Growth remain the same in the foreseeable future.
We are committed to enhancing our mining This is expected to result in a slight increase margin finished products.
This increase was fully offset by a decrease in export sales asset base, modernising our steelmaking in volumes of finished steel products in 2012 facilities and improving product quality in order compared to 2011 due to the completion of volumes from EVRAZs Russian and Ukrainian certain maintenance and modernisation projects.
operations, which reflects EVRAZs strategy to to maintain and strengthen our competitive direct sales away from export markets where position in our key markets.
Since 2005, In Russia, steel prices remained largely prices for its steel products were generally we have invested over US$5.5 billion in key lower in 2011, to domestic CIS markets, investment projects aimed to achieve these unchanged in the first quarter 2012 compared to the last quarter of 2011, but our cost base where prices for steel products were higher.
Our total capital expenditures in 2011 amounted to US$1.28 billion.
Some of the is increasing due to the strengthening rouble.
Prices of steel products have remained broadly EVRAZ North America produced encouraging new investment projects will come on stream results in 2011.
Steel sales volumes remained by the end of 2012, starting with the increase flat since the start of 2012.
Russian Railroads remains a very strong customer and we expect at the level of 2010, but prices increased of production at our iron ore mine at Kachkanar, across all our product groups.
We made followed in 2013 by an additional 2 million it to maintain purchase volumes over the next few years.
In addition, we expect to improve investments in capacity expansion, adding tonnes of raw coking coal per annum to be capacity to produce API tubes at our structural mined at the Yerunakovskaya-VIII mine, and our product mix and generate additional revenue through our rail mill and wheel tubing facility in Portland, Oregon and the start of mining at the Mezhegey coking upgrading our rail facility in Pueblo, Colorado.
coal deposit, with an estimated 700 million shop modernisation.
tonnes of reserves and resources.
The The investment in Portland will double the mills total capacity, enabling it to meet the development of new deposits will help to In North America, demand for our products underpin our goal of reaching integration remains strong and its relative performance energy sectors growing demand for specialist tubular products.
The upgrades at Pueblo will levels in excess of 100% self-coverage so far in 2012 is ahead of the comparable in iron ore and coking coal.
period in 2011. increase the mills total capacity by 10%, to almost 525,000 metric tonnes of premium By the beginning of 2013, we will also start CAPEX plans for FY2012 are expected rail annually.
using pulverised coal injection technology PCI to remain at the level of 2011 but we at all our Russian steelmaking facilities, which continuously assess the market environment Our results in Europe and South Africa were mixed.
After a strong first half, European steel will reduce coking coal consumption by 20% and have flexibility in our CAPEX plans.
and eliminate the need for natural gas in demand began to weaken in the second half of 2011.
EVRAZs European operations increased blast furnace production, thus lowering our We strongly believe that the quality of steelmaking costs.
the Groups asset base, the competitive full year sales volumes by 8%.
In South Africa, the performance of EVRAZ Highveld Steel was advantages we derive from vertical integration, hit by poor domestic demand and a strong We are continuing to modernise and expand its low cost position, geographic breadth and highly experienced management team leave Rand, which created significant pressure on existing steel facilities, commission new steel both prices and costs.
mills, and invest in new production technology.
the Company well positioned to continue to implement its growth strategy and deliver The reconstruction of our Russian rail mills at Vanadium Segment EVRAZ ZSMK and EVRAZ NTMK should be value to shareholders.
We are the only large-scale producer of completed in 2012, enabling EVRAZ to increase vanadium in Russia and are well-positioned its manufacturing capacity for high-speed rails among the largest vanadium producers and improve the quality of the products.
EVRAZ continued to increase its share of the world vanadium market capitalising on In 2013 we expect two new rolling mills, its low cost competitive position and ability in the south of Russia and in Kazakhstan, to accelerate production in response to to start producing rebars and small sections Alexander Frolov customers requirements.
As a result, EVRAZs from internally supplied billets.
This will Chief Executive officer allow us to further increase the proportion vanadium division has managed to increase EVRAZ plc sales by 20% compared to 2010 and decrease of higher value-added products and raise 24 April 2012 the profitability of our steel operations.
inventories accumulated during crisis years.
16 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Increasing the Production Capacity of EVRAZ KGOK to 55 mtpa In December 2010 EVRAZ launched a project at EVRAZ KGOK to increase iron ore extraction and production to 55 million tonnes per annum from the end of 2012.
In order to achieve this targeted increase in production EVRAZ KGOK will acquire additional mining equipment, modernise the existing transport infrastructure and upgrade the production capacities.
Delivery of the additional mining equipment is close to completion and construction works are ongoing.
EVRAZ KGOK Asset Location in Russia Moscow EVRAZ KGOK 55 mtpa 55 million tonnes of iron ore per annum targeted extraction of iron ore at EVRAZ KGOK after modernisation Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Strategy
