Business review Chief Executives review 23 Experian performed strongly in FY11.
The results of our global growth programme are becoming increasingly apparent, and we benefited from modest improvement in conditions in some of our core markets.
Chief Executives review Total revenue growth from continuing We delivered growth across all four activities was 10% and organic revenue regions.
Organic revenue growth was 7% growth was 8% H1 7%, H2 8%.
EBIT in North America, 19% in Latin America, from continuing activities rose 11%.
2% in the UK and Ireland and 7% in There was further progression in EMEA Asia Pacific.
EBIT margin, up 30 basis points to We delivered growth across all four 24.8%.
We delivered double-digit principal activities, with organic revenue growth in Benchmark EPS of 10% to growth of 7% at Credit Services, 4% at 70.0 US cents per ordinary share and Decision Analytics, 11% at Marketing we have raised the dividend by 22% to Services and 9% at Interactive.
28.0 US cents per share, in line with our previously announced increased We met or exceeded each of our financial dividend payout policy.
objectives, namely to deliver mid-to-high single digit organic revenue growth, maintain or improve margin and deliver cash flow conversion of over 90%.
We are executing well strategically, with a strong contribution in the year from our global growth programme.
These achievements are testimony to the outstanding efforts of our diverse and richly talented global workforce.
Don Robert Chief Executive Officer 24 Experian Annual Report 2011 Chief Executives review continued Key trends 28 In North America, we saw gradual Experian opens credit bureau recovery in the financial services sector, as lenders slowly start to expand in India underwriting programmes and seek to grow credit portfolios.
This helped Experians new credit bureau in India opened for business in August 2010 in a Credit Services return to growth in the joint venture with seven of the countrys leading financial institutions.
Within Marketing Services, we emerging credit market has been growing at an average rate of 20% in recent delivered double digit revenue growth, years and provides an exceptional opportunity for Experian to share its long as we benefit from the actions we took experience of more mature credit markets and help lenders to grow in a riskto reposition the business to focus assured manner.
Digital Experian has been providing Decision Analytics services to India for the past consumption habits are evolving rapidly four years and has recently launched a range of digital marketing services.
The and marketing expenditure is lagging new credit bureau provides the platform for significantly expanding the range of behind.
We are well placed to capture services Experian can bring to India.
At Consumer Direct, the transition to new brands is proceeding Were looking forward to creating a really strong, multifaceted business that well, and the business delivered organic will match any of our businesses in Experians mature markets, says Richard revenue growth for the year.
The Mighty Fiddis, Experians Managing Director, Strategic Markets.
Net acquisition has also performed well and to plan.
31 In Latin America, we delivered strong growth in Brazil, aided by rising credit penetration and by our own efforts to grow the market, particularly within the small and medium enterprise SME segment and through recent Experian product introductions.
We also see new opportunities emerging from the legalisation of positive data usage in Brazil, which, in time, will enable credit bureaux to hold full accountlevel credit payment histories for all consumer credit accounts in Brazil.
We are developing plans to expand our data coverage and expect benefits to accrue over the next 18 to 24 months.
In May 2011, we took a significant step towards extending our global leadership in credit information when we announced the signing of a definitive agreement to acquire a controlling interest in Computec.
Computec owns the market leading credit bureau in Colombia, as well as smaller bureau operations in Peru and Venezuela.
Total growth at constant exchange rates 2.
Central Activities comprise costs of central corporate functions 3.
2010 EBIT excludes US$56m from FARES which is now classified as a discontinued operation 4.
Discontinuing activities include UK account processing, some UK hosted database activities, UK mortgage software activities and other smaller discontinuing activities 5.
EBIT margin is for continuing business only.
Further analysis can be found in the financial review on page 48 The acquisition, which is expected Income statement and earnings analysis to complete later this calendar year, will build on the strength we have 2011 2010 established in Brazil.
We are excited US$m US$m by the potential to bring Experians EBIT from continuing operations 1,044 935 global expertise to these markets and Net interest 71 81 by the attractive market fundamentals, Benchmark PBT 973 854 particularly in Colombia.
Exceptional items 2 68 33 In the United Kingdom, both credit Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 129 140 supply and demand remained muted, Acquisition expenses 8 - holding back progress in Credit Charges for demerger-related equity incentive plans 13 28 Services.
That said, new entrants Financing fair value remeasurements 142 18 in the financial services sector are Profit before tax 679 600 expanding the lending market, creating Group tax charge credit 129 9 new opportunities for Experian.
We are Profit after tax from continuing operations 550 609 also benefiting from the investments we Benchmark EPS US cents 70.0 63.7 have made in new customer segments, Basic EPS for continuing operations US cents 57.9 59.0 which are progressing well.
We have Weighted average number of ordinary shares million 1,002 1,015 seen some recovery in Decision See page 48 for analysis of revenue and EBIT by business segment Analytics as appetite increases for See the financial review on pages 47 to 49, and note 7 to the Group financial statements for definitions of non-GAAP measures our analytics and our fraud prevention and risk management software.
26 Experian Annual Report 2011 Chief Executives review continued Marketing Services delivered growth, The top contributing initiatives were In support of these and other initiatives, with recovery in telecommunications fraud prevention, consumer protection we anticipate continued investment and utilities helping to offset slower products, and the telecommunications, through the income statement in FY12 decision-making in the public utilities and SME segments.
and capital expenditure in the range of sector segment, while at Interactive, US$410m to US$440m during that year.
enhancements to our offer are Our growth focus means that we delivering greater value to consumers.
continue to deliver against our strategic Net debt metrics, with 29% of Group revenue Net debt in the year was reduced by 36 We continue to build scale across now arising from outside the US and US$126m to US$1,501m at 31 March EMEA Asia Pacific, which accounted the UK, 67% from non-financial verticals 2011.
EBIT conversion into operating for US$0.5bn of Group revenue in the and over 10% generated from product cash flow was 98%, exceeding our year.
We are seeing strong demand innovations in the past five years.
The reduction for our Decision Analytics products, in net debt was after funding net share and feel we are well placed to benefit Investment to support growth during purchases of US$349m, consistent from rising credit penetration across FY11 included approximately 200 basis with the previously announced buyback emerging markets in Europe, such points of margin, US$374m by way programme, which has been completed.
Meanwhile in of capital expenditure and US$301m At 31 March 2011, the adjusted net Marketing Services, we are benefiting through acquisitions.
debt to EBITDA gearing ratio was 1.8 from the investments we have made times, including the current value of the to expand our global footprint, which For FY12, we will continue to invest to Serasa put option of US$870m.
allows us to grow our business deliver premium growth on a sustained locally in regional markets as well as basis, both organically and through Debt funding to grow our relationships alongside selective acquisition opportunities.
During the year, we completed an 18 multinational organisations.
These Some examples of the growth initiatives month programme to refinance our factors have more than offset weak we are pursuing include: borrowing facilities, spread debt conditions in our more established New technology, as we develop maturities and diversify sources of bureau markets.
new platforms and release new funding.
This included the arrangement versions of existing software, of new five-year committed revolving Strategic progress bringing new functionality to clients credit facilities totalling US$1,700m with 10 We made progress during the financial and supporting cost-effective thirteen leading banks, and the issue in year against our five strategic goals to: expansion in new geographies: January 2011 of 400m 4.75% bonds Extend our global lead in credit Completion of the Computec due 2018, swapped into US dollars.
information and analytics: acquisition and integration into our Following this, our expectation is that Latin America region: net interest expense will be in the range Create successful businesses in new of US$65m to US$75m for the year customer segments: Organic bureau expansion, in particular ending 31 March 2012. bureau builds in India and Australia: Build large-scale operations in major emerging consumer economies: Business information development, as Capital strategy we expand our product range and invest Become the global leader in digital We remain committed to a prudent but in new sources of data: marketing services: and efficient balance sheet consistent with Multi-channel digital marketing, as our desire to retain a strong investment Become the most trusted consumer we expand and develop our market grade credit rating.
Our target gearing brand for credit information and identity position, for example in the social ratio is 1.75 to 2.0 times, calculated as protection services.
media and mobile delivery channels: net debt adjusted for the current value and of the put option over the minority During the year, we invested in a shares in Serasa, divided by EBITDA.
series of initiatives through our global Further investment in client service growth programme aimed at achieving quality and sales excellence.
We are pleased with our progress and, collectively, these initiatives contributed 2% to organic revenue growth in the year, which is in line with our previous expectations.
Business review Chief Executives review 27 Brazil credit market welcomes positive data sharing In setting our capital allocation strategy for FY12, we have taken into account At the end of last year, the Brazilian government legalised the sharing of positive anticipated free cash flow, the likely data between companies for the purposes of granting credit.
Previously, future value of the Serasa put option, consumer credit files were only allowed to contain negative information, such the current acquisition pipeline and as delinquent accounts, failed cheques or bankruptcy.
The change in legislation the anticipated completion of the brings Brazil into line with other major credit markets, including the US and Computec acquisition in calendar year UK where positive data accounts for the great majority of information held by 2011.
After adjusting for the Computec Experians credit bureaux.
acquisition, FY11 pro forma net debt is The ability to record and share full payment histories at account level will enable around 2 times EBITDA.
We therefore Experian to provide much richer credit profiles of consumers in Brazil.
It opens do not intend to initiate a further the way for more predictive credit scores and a range of advanced customer share buyback programme, although management and fraud prevention tools.
For clients, the use of positive data we do expect there to be some share will reduce the risks of lending through more informed decision-making, while purchases in respect of employee share helping to make credit more accessible to Brazilian consumers.
Experian already holds positive data on around 70 million individuals in Brazil Dividend and is now working with banks, retails chains, utility and telecommunication companies, and other data owners to secure agreements to share their For the year ended 31 March 2011, we are information and promote the benefits of positive data sharing.
announcing a second interim dividend of 19 US cents per share.
This gives a full year dividend of 28 US cents per share, 2.5 times covered by Benchmark EPS, in line with our previously announced increased dividend payout policy, and up 22%.
The second interim dividend will be paid on 22 July 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 24 June 2011.
Board In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has decided that, in future, all directors should be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
David Tyler has notified the Board of his intention not to stand for re-election to the Board at the 2012 annual general meeting, following completion of two three-year terms as a non-executive director of the Company.
