Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers Review DELIVERING ON COMMITMENTS Chief Executive Officer STRONG DEMAND, COMBINED WITH THE BENEFITS OF OUR Nicholas Hobson ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENTS, PRODUCED GROWING MARGINS AND RECORD EARNINGS.
utilisation of our organic investments.
A As a diversified group, Fenner uses a wide Introduction continued recovery was experienced in many range of materials, from thousands of tonnes Since assuming the role of Chief Executive bulk handling segments which added plant of rubber compound to a few hundred Officer on 1 March 2011, I have visited and throughput although the construction sector grammes of biomaterials.
We work closely familiarised myself with those parts of the with selected suppliers to ensure that our remains depressed in North America and Group which were outside my previous direct customers benefit from the latest technical Europe.
responsibilities, instituted a process to set a developments in materials and processes.
strategic vision for the future and met The Advanced Engineered Products Division The majority of these relationships are in the customers, investors and other stakeholders has made excellent progress.
There has been normal course of business, ensuring quality, in the business.
I have been continually high demand for our niche, performance continuity of supply and reasonable impressed by the quality and dedication of critical products.
Increased market penetration commercial terms.
Where appropriate, and Fenner employees worldwide.
I therefore see it and expansion of both our geographical spread usually relating to technical developments, as essential to secure continuity of our unique and breadth of products offered, together with relationships are formally documented.
During culture and to ensure that safe, effective and a general improvement in market conditions, the year under review, many Fenner profitable business practices developed in one have provided a favourable trading operations had to manage significant material part of the Group are shared amongst all those environment.
Within this Division, our seals price increases, short-term volatility, operations to which they are applicable.
operations have enjoyed strong demand from shortages and allocations.
Constant vigilance, the hydraulic and oil and gas sectors.
The close cooperation with established suppliers Performance drivers for our precision polymer operations and active development of new sources Our investment in the development of our remain favourable and our medical operations ensured, and continues to ensure, continuity conveyor belting business has established a are flourishing following recent investments.
global division which is unparalleled in both Growth in the development and manufacture of geographical coverage and the scope of value implantable biomedical textile components for Strategy added products.
It is befitting that as our medical devices is encouraging.
During the year, the Executive Committee, strategic milestones are achieved, our with the support of the Board, has begun a Customer satisfaction is of importance to all business is characterised by a brand which process to develop a vision for Fenner for the operating units, who ensure they are meeting defines how we fulfil our customers next 10 years and, building on our success customer expectations in each market.
Consequently, the conveyor to date, demonstrate how we will drive longExperienced sales teams maintain close belting business has been rebranded as term value for our customers, employees and contact with customers, providing feedback on Fenner Dunlop Engineered Conveyor Solutions.
These During the year, demand from the mining qualitative indicators are complemented by Ahead of completing this review, our strategy sectors has been sufficiently strong to leverage quantitative measurements including customer continues to be to increase market share and our operating base, allowing more efficient surveys and on time in full performance.
target new value added product areas.
We will Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 5 S E R Overview Directors Report Directors Report Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Business Review Governance Remuneration V I C E S S T N E N O P E N M G O I C N E E R I N concentrate on growing those businesses Fenner is proud to be a world class global Products AEP Division.
Both ECS and AEP where we already demonstrate leadership manufacturer and service provider with a provide high quality, comprehensive, whole through our skills in applications, design, strong commitment to health and safety, life value products for their customers and materials technology and dedication to operating in key territories in established and both have strong brands and a strong customer service as well as making carefully emerging markets.
reputation in their chosen markets.
This common aim, characteristics are considered to have been The Fenner Group consists of two Divisions: across a wide range of industrial markets, the Engineered Conveyor Solutions ECS the key to the success of the Group over its gives Fenner a solid basis for long-term growth, stability and investor value creation.
Division and the Advanced Engineered long history.
Engineered Conveyor Solutions Revenue 510.7m Underlying operating profit 61.1m Employees 2,487 Manufacturing units Sales and service branches The ECS Division, trading under the Fenner heavyweight ply, solid woven and steel cord ECS range Dunlop, Fenner and Dunlop brand names, is a conveyor belting and the design, installation, recognised leader in the global conveying monitoring and maintenance of conveyor Idlers Manage Belt Cleaners market.
The holistic approach taken in the systems and components, is tailored to suit IIddlleerrss Maintain CClleeaanneerrss provision of conveyor services is illustrated by each customers individual needs.
the ECS range diagram which shows the Commercial arrangements vary from a purely Idlers Install Structure Cleaners range of our offering.
transactional relationship to a full strategic partnership to reduce both conveyor downtime 24 7 Idlers Monitor Emergency Cleaners The Division offers a unique, comprehensive and total cost of ownership.
suite of products and services which serve the Idlers Design Detect Cleaners Integrate conveying needs of mining, power generation The demand for ECS goods and services is and bulk handling markets.
The suite of primarily driven by coal extraction, handling products and services, which includes and consumption followed by iron ore and Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 6 G S E I T I D L I I A C G A N F O S T I C S Million tonnes Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers Review continued other mineral extraction.
The Coal price and biggest drivers for the trading performance of improvements in the previous financial year to production graph shows that energy coal prices our Australian ECS operations.
The forecast for deliver record results.
Revenue growth was continued to rise for the first quarter of the both of these commodities remains positive.
The supported by improved operating efficiency financial year and they have remained at over Queensland floods adversely impacted demand arising from recent major capital investments.
At these prices, the main driver of for our rubber ply product in the second half Market sentiment continues to be strong in the demand for ECS products and services is the although this was more than compensated for US mining segment.
The underground coal volume of coal consumed.
The amount of coal by strong results elsewhere.
2011 saw the first mining market is steady and coal prices remain mined has continued to grow steadily in full year of production from our Kwinana facility high, underpinning mining sales performance.
support of growth in global electricity demand.
and contracts were signed with major mining Consolidation of the US coal industry This growth is predicted by the International groups in Western Australia.
In accordance strengthens customers purchasing power and Energy Agency to continue for at least the next with our original plan, we are in the process of increases focus on suppliers overall safety, decade, as illustrated by the World coal purchasing a second press for this facility quality and service performance.
which will double capacity, allowing us to handling segment has softened in the last continue to meet expected demand growth.
The ECS Division experienced positive trading three months with distributor inventories conditions throughout the year under review We have continued to round-out the ECS appearing to be at appropriate levels.
Demand with the exception of those parts of the offering in North America and Australia in certain segments such as aggregates business which serve the construction through geographic expansion, increased remains depressed with many customers markets.
The focus of 2011 was to improve breadth of products and services and increased currently more focused on a first cost manufacturing efficiencies and exploit the focus on conveyor diagnostics.
Belle Banne approach than on total cost of ownership.
capabilities of the new plant and machinery, Victoria, Leading Edge Conveyor Solutions and Prospects in Canadian, Mexican and South ramping up production to meet improved Statewide Belting Service were all acquired American markets remain positive.
This resulted in a 31% increase in during the year and quickly began to contribute belting is in strong demand and delivery lead revenue, led by our operations in the southern to the ECS model in Australia.
Product teams times have been, and remain, extended.
hemisphere and by growth in sales of steel have been established in Australia and the USA cord conveyor belting.
The US service operations are primarily focused to identify and promote product lines which are on coal mining and coal production which suitable for branch based selling and which After some stability in the first half of the continues at a reasonably high level of output.
Conveyor financial year, all ECS operations experienced We remain optimistic about the market demand diagnostic product systems are becoming rapidly rising raw material prices and some for services although competition is expected to increasingly important in supporting both the suppliers resorted to allocating volumes.
The mining industry is facing a skills ECS model and the sale of premium products.
the magnitude of the increases, we, in common shortage and therefore the recruitment, with competitors, passed these additional costs Systems are now installed in the UK, South training and retention of skilled technicians America, North America, Africa and Australia.
Diversification into The Australian operations continued their Responding to strong demand from both the new territories and market segments is growth year on year.
Coal and iron ore remain coal and bulk handling industrial markets, underway and will reduce the dependency on the main trading exports for the country and the Fenner Dunlop Americas built on the solid the coal mining industry.
Our Chilean operation World coal demand Coal price and production 250 10000 10500 OECD Pacific 8750 200 8000 OECD Europe 7000 OECD North America 150 6000 Transition Economies 5250 China 100 4000 3500 India Africa 50 2000 1750 Other 0 0 0 Sept 06 Sept 07 Sept 08 Sept 09 Sept 10 Sept 11 1980 2000 2008 2015 2020 2030 Monthly average Year Steam Coal Marker NW Europe World coal production Source: The McCloskey Group and BP Source: International Energy Agency Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 7 US$ tonne Million tonnes Overview Directors Report Directors Report Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Business Review Governance Remuneration serves the copper mining industry in the revenue but also support customers locally competition remains intense, particularly for low Antofagasta region and saw positive growth in enhancing market share.
tensile belting: however, we are seeing interest in our high tensile PVC products in coal mines, the year.
A new branch was opened in Santiago.
Most of the solid woven operations have which have traditionally only taken low tensile European markets served by Dunlop Conveyor performed well this year, largely due to high belting.
Our operation in China saw destocking Belting, based in Drachten in the Netherlands, demand from both coal and potash producers by its largest customer but the remaining returned to pre-recession levels except for the which appears to be sustainable.
Significant raw business experienced growth, recognising the construction industry which remains weak.
material price increases required robust pricing benefits from our technically superior product.
Export markets in French Africa, South action with our customers.
The solid woven South Africa has suffered from national strikes America and the Middle East continue to be operation based in the UK continued to which caused us to lose 17 days of production.
strong, with political instability in some of penetrate the markets in the former Soviet Uncertainty over mining mineral rights and calls these markets providing opportunities as well Union and benefited from robust demand from for nationalisation continues to delay new as risks.
Dunlop Conveyor Belting now has five the Canadian potash market whilst maintaining projects which in turn limits our opportunities in service outlets across Europe and one in North market share in Western Europe.
Domestic steel cord belt in the short term.
Despite these Africa which not only generate local service demand in India recovered slightly but difficulties, revenue increased in South Africa.
Advanced Engineered Products Revenue 207.6m Underlying operating profit 38.2m Employees 2,030 Manufacturing units Sales and service branches Operations within AEP provide high value the high added value, niche nature of the global basis.
These operations are detailed added solutions to their customers needs product range across the AEP operations and below.
using advanced polymeric materials, expertise provides added protection against the full Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies in application design, effective manufacturing effects of economic volatility.
comprises performance critical hydraulic design skills and timely delivery.
Expansion The AEP Division is divided into five product seals for the global fluid power industry, into further mission critical applications is a key part of the AEP strategy as this supports group operations which are managed on a trading as Hallite, and bespoke sealing Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 8 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers Review continued products for process applications CNC machines in all of the sales branches to disposable devices that spend some time including oil and gas, electronics, pumps, enable custom seals to be produced quickly.
Xeridiem is a recipient valves, compressors and aerospace In 2011, a series of new initiatives was put in of the 2011 Gold Medical Design Excellence applications, trading as CDI EGC: Award.
This international award was for a novel place: these include mobile engineers to help customers select the right seals, salesmen to chest tube, the PleuraFlow Active, which Solesis Medical Technologies, focused sell oil and gas products direct to the oilfields minimises chest tube clogging during heart on North America, comprises Secant and new products for the oilfields including and lung surgery.
Medical, a leading developer and blowout preventer blocks.
manufacturer of custom-engineered Western populations continue to age and gain biomedical textile structures for An aftermarket distributor, Transeals, located weight: these are both predictors of future implantable medical devices, Xeridiem, medical device consumption for the next in Perth, Australia, was acquired shortly after which develops and manufactures single several years.
For the longer term, additional the year end.
Transeals will be integrated into use disposable devices usually silicone emphasis will need to be placed on developing Hallite Australia to create an operation focused based and Prodesco, which provides a countries.
US legislation has had, and will on the aftermarket in the dynamic Western wide range of sophisticated industrial continue to have, an impact on the medical Australian mining and oil and gas industries.
Until now, a device only had to Investment is also being made in a new IT demonstrate that it provided better healthcare system for the operation which will enable Fenner Precision is a leading outcomes than others on the market: in the aftermarket customers to be served effectively manufacturer and supplier of coming era of comparative effectiveness and provide a platform for internet trading.
performance critical polymer components research CER, new devices will have to FAST continues to expand its global presence, to the office automation industry: demonstrate both efficacy and cost maintaining its reputation for high quality effectiveness.
The recession has dramatically Fenner Drives designs, manufactures products and selectively broadening its product reduced the amount of venture funding available and sells an extensive range of bespoke range to satisfy new market opportunities and to start-up medical device companies.
This has solutions for mechanical power further improve its performance.
had the unexpected benefit of significantly transmission and motion transfer Solesis Medical Technologies increasing the quality of the projects being applications: and There are two operations in AEP which focus on worked on as only the best receive funding.
James Dawson manufactures silicone the medical market.
Fenner continues to invest Fenner Precision and EPDM speciality hoses for the diesel for growth in this market and it is therefore engine, truck, bus and off-road equipment With one sales group and three manufacturing considered appropriate to assign a brand plants: Manheim and Buffalo in the USA and OEM market.
The brand Solesis Lincoln in the UK, as well as a presence in Medical Technologies is being used to describe Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies Shanghai in China, Fenner Precision focuses the medical activities of the AEP Division.
Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies on the self service, ATM, consumer and FAST manufactures performance critical Both Secant Medical and Xeridiem serve the commercial printing and specialist seals for mobile hydraulic equipment, mining medical device market using the same engineering particularly energy markets and oil and gas extraction and exploration business model.
Customers who have throughout the world.
With a brand promise of equipment.
FAST also produces high reliability identified an unmet clinical need contract with Designed to fit your needs - exactly!, Fenner seals and other performance critical products either company to design a component or Precision offers bespoke belts, stretch bands, for pump, valve and compressor applications product to meet that need.
Both operations are tyres and rollers for office equipment and and continues to diversify into similar structured to make a profit on those paper handling and, in addition, composite applications in the medical, semiconductor development activities while retaining mouldings in a wide range of materials and processing and aerospace markets.
It has manufacturing rights should the customers sizes for specialist engineering applications, global operations with production plants in product be commercialised.
Between them, the for example, in the offshore oil industry.
the UK, Germany, USA, China and, since April operations are active in cardiology, urology, Fenner Precision made good progress in the 2011, Singapore and sales branches located in orthopaedics, gastroenterology, gynaecology, year under review, albeit recovery in its France, Italy, Australia, Canada and Brazil.
In neurology plus general and bariatric surgery.
markets has been slow, indicating that it the year under review, demand was strong Both operations are focused on North America.
continues to grow market share and is across all the markets in which FAST successfully introducing new products.
Secant Medical, based in Perkasie, operates, generated by the global recovery, wider geographical coverage and increased Pennsylvania, manufactures textile Fenner Drives market share.
In recent years, a series of components for permanently implanted Despite quite contrary markets, the year has initiatives has begun to increase our share of medical devices.
Xeridiem, based in Tucson, seen Fenner Drives move from recovery to the aftermarket including the installation of Arizona, manufactures complete, single use real growth.
With a range of innovative Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 9 Overview Directors Report Directors Report Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Business Review Governance Remuneration products, including Nu-T-Link belts, PowerMax its materials and applications knowledge, We look forward with optimism as we start the idlers and pulleys and B-LOC and Trantorque particularly for offshore applications, to new year with our operations performing well and building on the success of 2011.
We have keyless bushes, Fenner Drives core purpose develop innovative products in the alternative is to Solve customers high cost problems energy market.
In addition to working with a highly motivated team of people in place, with high value solutions.
E-commerce is an diesel engines, James Dawson has critical strong positions in attractive markets and well increasingly important sales channel.
invested infrastructure: while we note the products which enhance the safety and Streamlined business to business reliability of the electrical systems in wind growing uncertainty over the macro economic outlook, trading and demand levels are in line transactions are in place with our major turbines.
CDI seals are used extensively in distributors and investment continues to with our expectations.
We remain positive shale and tight gas extraction which enhance our internet offering to the entire substantially increases the availability of about Fenners prospects for 2012. customer base.
The historic focus on North methane, often seen as the lowest impact Employees America presents growth opportunities across fossil fuel.
Development projects are the rest of the world, particularly Europe and underway for a number of other renewable With the return to growth, 2011 saw a 15% year the Middle East, where we focus on specific energy programmes, including wave energy.
on year increase in the average monthly applications like HVAC Heating, Ventilation and number of employees, an increase of 610 Air Conditioning.
Through investment in staff Outlook people.
The majority of this came from and equipment, we continue to improve product recruitment into existing operations rather We continue to expect that the recovery in the development which should deliver growth at a than by acquisition.
The largest increase in global economy, and the Western economies higher rate than the underlying market.
both numbers and percentage growth was in in particular, will be both inconsistent and those employees directly involved in production slow.
However, the underlying drivers which James Dawson and service activities.
are most significant for Fenner remain strong.
The resurgence in demand in the James Global demand for energy, particularly Dawson hose operations reported last year All our operations have processes that require electricity, is only marginally affected by continued throughout 2011 despite wide high levels of proficiency and technical general economic weakness and with growth variations in both geographical and market expertise, so any influx of new employees in the emerging economies driven by segments.
Supply chain restocking came to creates additional challenges to train and electrification, these will remain heavily an end early in the year and current volumes integrate these new employees into the reliant on coal for the foreseeable future.
Fenner continues to benefit from capita consumption of other commodities is generation equipment performed strongly a skilled and committed workforce in both our currently also low in China and India and the followed by off-road construction equipment acquired and existing operations.
We expected growth in demand cannot be met and heavy trucks.
James Dawson responded acknowledge the importance of our employees without a continuing expansion of extractive to the increase in demand by continuing to contribution to the performance of the Group.
industries in which both ECS and FAST are focus on streamlining production and Productivity is a key factor to success.
Within our medical operations, ageing improving capability and efficiencies before populations in developed economies and to the diversity of our operations, productivity increasing employee numbers.
Our technical for the Group as a whole is best measured by increased healthcare expectations in BRIC expertise in reinforced silicone and EPDM total sales per employee.
The Sales per countries will ensure long-term growth for remain a key competitive advantage with new employee graph shows that this year Xeridiem and Secant Medical.
products being developed to address stricter emissions standards for diesel engines.
Sales per employee Average employees Climate change While responding to climate change 200 4000 represents a continuing challenge to all operations, it presents a number of growth 3200 150 opportunities for AEP.
Fenner Drives continues its development of a niche business 2400 to improve the energy efficiency of 100 commercial buildings and reduce the carbon 1600 footprint of the owners and operators: it has 50 continued to grow, with this development 800 being rolled out across the global sales 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 network.
As well as its growing market for 0 0 Year Admin Selling & Production & solutions for the installation of offshore wind distribution service turbines, Fenner Precision continues to use Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 10 000 Number LTIFR Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers Review continued productivity increased at twice the rate of the The Health & Safety Management System Providing services at customer facilities is a prior year.
The graph also demonstrates that Framework The Framework provides growing part of our business.
Often these our recruitment has been at a slower average structure and guidance to all operations, customers demand sound health and safety rate than the increase in demand.
irrespective of size, to deliver continuous management systems.
For such customers, improvement within the unique culture and The Framework, our health and safety Health and safety autonomy of our operations.
The Framework management systems and the associated The Group is absolutely committed to ensuring is a set of 89 Expectations grouped into 13 training are a significant and unique selling that all employees can work safely at all times.
Elements covering all aspects of business from proposition.
This overriding commitment to provide a safe Accountability and Leadership to Community The absolute number of lost time incidents and secure working environment extends to and Stakeholder Awareness.
"The Framework ""LTIs"" is the KPI chosen to measure the those employees of other companies working provides individuals, operating units and new success of our health and safety policy."
The on our behalf as well as to customers, visitors acquisitions with a clear understanding of what selection of an absolute measure across the and neighbours who may be affected by our is required of them, while allowing local whole Group, which does not reflect changes activities.
It is therefore with profound sadness management the freedom to develop their in employee numbers or hours worked, that we report an employee fatality as a result systems to satisfy local legislation, practice and demonstrates our belief that everyone who of a third party incident at a customer facility in social mores.
works for Fenner should return home in the Western Australia.
Fenners senior same fit and healthy state in which they came To implement The Framework, each operating management were on site promptly to organise unit initially assessed its current level of to work.
It is disappointing that after a major help and support for the family.
In addition to compliance with the Expectations, taking into improvement last year, this year we have to the statutory investigation under the auspices account their operational risk profile and the report a small increase to 74.
The Lost time of the Department of Mines and Petroleum of incidents graph shows the results over the applicable regulatory requirements.
The unit Western Australia, we are engaged in a last eight years.
The green line is the Lost thorough and independent investigation in then produces an improvement plan which incorporates and builds on their existing health Time Incident Frequency Rate LTIFR which conjunction with two other parties.
Both and safety management programmes.
The is the number of LTIs per 200,000 hours investigations are continuing and are unlikely to report until early 2012.
Framework is a core component of the worked.
Despite the increase in the absolute number of LTIs, the LTIFR measure shows a integration plan for all acquisitions.
Progress The Group has grown in 2011 and will continue against those plans is monitored and subject to continuing downward trend because of to grow both organically and by acquisition.
In the final quarter of improvements in our health and safety growth brings with it greater responsibilities the calendar year, the improvement plans are performance and increased number of and enhanced expectations from our employees.
updated, reviewed and approved for the coming customers, employees and neighbours.
As we head to the second update and achieve our goals, we strive to embed rigour Even with significant commitment from all review, the benefits of a structured approach and continuous improvement into the way we levels of management and maintaining focus are evident in both the established Fenner approach health and safety.
Fenner looks for, on health and safety through The Framework, operations and our recent acquisitions.
and promotes, health and safety as a key delivering continuous improvement year on element in the culture of each of its operations.
Accidents and near misses are recorded and year is challenging, particularly as our reviewed locally and safe systems of work operations respond to increasing demand updated if necessary.
Accidents involving lost with higher output, additional working hours Lost time incidents and new staff.
It remains our objective that time are reported through divisional everyone should go home at the end of their management to the main Board.
The process 150 5.00 for sharing the details of an incident and the working day in the same fit and healthy state measures taken around Group operations to in which they came to work.
4.00 120 prevent similar accidents elsewhere has been Environment formalised and extended to include near misses 90 3.00 and guidance on wider health issues with a The Group is committed to identifying and business impact.
Health and safety regulators assessing the risks of pollution and other 2.00 60 are increasing their level of activity, increasing forms of environmental impairment arising penalties and extending their interest across out of its activities.
We seek to reduce our 1.00 30 businesses with common ownership: The impact on the environment to the lowest 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 Framework and our Group-wide processes not practical levels and with each new investment 0 0.00 LTIs Year LTIFR only ensure our performance improves but also ensure that we exemplify the best addresses this increased regulatory activity.
contemporary practice in respect of the Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 11 LTIs e t a R g i e t - i e M v Overview Directors Report Directors Report Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Business Review Governance Remuneration a e l u g a a t n e a M y f i t n a M u o Q n environment.
At Board level, the Chief greater than 6000MWh.
The initial intention of Fenner undertakes regular reviews of its Executive Officer has specific responsibility for the scheme was to be self-funding for activities and the workings of the environmental policy to ensure that it is the development of policy and management industry: the revenue raised by the purchase of carbon credits was to be recycled back to comprehensive and effective, identifying systems.
Responsibility for environmental matters in each operating division is scheme participants to encourage investment objectives and standards that will enable a demonstrable continuous improvement in delegated to the senior managing director in energy saving projects.
In October 2010, the environmental matters.
and, at a local level, to a senior manager on UK Government announced that the recycle element of the scheme would be scrapped, each site.
Each senior managing director Principal risks and effectively turning the scheme into a carbon reports to the Board on a regular basis and advises the Board immediately of any tax.
We have undertaken site surveys at our uncertainties major UK manufacturing facilities to environmental risks or other incidents likely Risk identification and management determine the energy baseline for the trading to be significant to the business.
No new Effective management of risks is essential scheme.
We are currently a member of a environmental risks or incidents were to the delivery of the Groups performance.
Climate Change Agreement CCA hosted reported to the Board in the last year.
There is a continuous process for identifying, by the British Plastics Federation, which evaluating and managing significant risks All acquisitions are subject to appropriate commits us to reducing relative energy faced by the Group.
The process is subject environmental due diligence which is consumption by 10% over the next six years.
The Groups specifically extended to include environmental Participation in the CCA requires us to identify approach is to identify and quantify risks at management systems and operational the energy saving potential for each location operating unit, divisional and Group level to compliance.
and draw up a plan for implementation which produce a consolidated risk universe.
The risk provides operating cost reductions and an Compliance with applicable regulatory universe is regularly reviewed by the Audit effective derogation from the complexities standards is a minimum which is subject to Committee.
For each risk, mitigation and of the CRC.
It should be noted that only 11% official audit: larger facilities validate their monitoring is identified and responsibility of our energy consumption is in the UK.
management systems by independent audit.
Where it is cost-effective, risks are transferred to third parties, for example Progress continues on environmental In addition to our environmental through insurance or currency hedging.
In management systems and we now have six responsibilities, there are sound commercial sites accredited to ISO 14001 and a further six order to ensure that the process is effective, reasons to minimise and recycle waste.
As a we have developed externally facilitated sites actively implementing compliant systems.
manufacturing group, the obvious focus is on workshops, a process that will be rolled out raw materials as the reduction opportunities A small number of operating units continue to across the Group to complement the regular are well known and, for the residual waste, assess their greenhouse gas emissions reporting of risk.
We are working GHG or carbon footprint to evaluate if to develop consistent and comparable Fenner considers the following to be the most some meaningful actions can result from reporting to capture data on all significant significant risk factors although the risk such measures and to prepare for, or comply waste generated throughout the Group.
factors listed do not necessarily comprise all with, local requirements.
Although within the those associated with Fenner and are not set UK and other jurisdictions local standards Air quality could be adversely affected by out in any particular order of priority.
have developed, slow progress is being made some of our processes and we have on an international basis.
There is currently implemented systems to ensure this does not no single system to provide a valid, consistent happen.
A number of locations use processes Risk management a continuous process measure of GHG comparable across the wide which involve a range of chemicals which are range of sizes, technologies and locations of generically referred to as volatile organic the Groups units.
However, we have now compounds VOCs.
These chemicals are established a baseline for energy subject to strict regulation: their storage and consumption from all sources at a level of use is carefully controlled.
In addition to detail which will enable the introduction of an minimising any emissions to the air of VOCs, appropriate standard when identified.
potential substitutes are assessed as soon as they become commercially available.
In the UK, Fenner registered in 2010 under the Carbon Reduction Commitment scheme The majority of the Groups operations have CRC, a key component of the Climate occupied their sites for many years, some for Change Act.
The CRC is a UK based carbon over 100 years: the Group therefore trading scheme affecting large organisations recognises and manages risk of exposure to with combined UK electrical demand of environmental legacy issues.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 12 i y t f o i r t n e d I Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers Review continued Additional risks and uncertainties not Climate change Our remuneration policies support long-term presently known to Fenner or that Fenner Recent economic concerns have taken the staff retention and appropriate succession currently consider immaterial may also have spotlight away from the protracted plans are in place.
However, the unexpected an adverse effect on its business.
negotiations for the successor to the Kyoto loss of the services of the executive officers of Protocol which will continue in Durban in the Group and other key employees could Strength of key markets November and December 2011.
Media have a material adverse effect on the The economic recovery continues to be slow business.
attention is being given to climate change and and some markets remain weak, particularly the political will to act, led by Europe, is slowly in Western Europe with concerns for the future Fluctuations of revenues, expenses and gaining momentum.
Fenner takes full account operating results of the euro.
In recent months there has been of the substantive publicised research in considerable volatility in the financial markets Fenners revenues, expenses and operating evaluating its strategic projects.
The and downgrading of growth forecasts across results could vary from period to period as a International Energy Agency 450 Scenario the world.
However, Fenner has and will result of a variety of factors, some of which sets out a policy framework and the impact on continue to benefit from underlying volume are outside Fenners control.
These factors, power generation to deliver a long-term growth in energy markets particularly oil, gas which are actively monitored and considered greenhouse gas concentration of 450ppm CO2 and coal, other basic minerals particularly in all relevant management decisions, include equivalent: less than half the level that would general economic conditions, adverse iron ore and slow recovery in industrial be emitted under current policies.
Although Fenner has successfully movements in interest rates, conditions the 450 Scenario, the amount of electricity traded through previous cycles, a substantial specific to the energy markets, seasonal generated from coal will increase over the trends in revenues, capital expenditure, other downturn in one or more of these key markets next 20 years.
could have a material adverse impact on the costs and the introduction of new products by business.
Fenner continues to identify and Fluctuations in foreign currency Fenner or its competitors.
develop opportunities within each operation Due to the global nature of the Group, Fenner In response to a changing competitive and across the Group that are counter cyclical derives a large proportion of its revenues from environment, Fenner may elect from time to to help balance out any market downturn.
overseas and hence has an exposure to time to make certain pricing, service or foreign currency fluctuations.
Whilst the marketing decisions or acquisitions that could Fluctuations in raw material costs and Group seeks to reduce this risk through availability have a material adverse effect on the Groups formal contracts and borrowings, adverse Volatility and significant increases in raw revenues, results of operations and financial movements in foreign currencies relative to condition.
material costs continues to be a key risk for sterling, particularly the US dollar and the the Group as there is a direct impact on the Australian dollar, could lead to material Employee benefit schemes costs of production and managing customer adverse movements in reported earnings.
The Group has a number of employee benefit price expectations.
The Group continues to schemes, including defined benefit postmanage raw material costs.
For example, Competition retirement schemes and US healthcare where materials are a significant cost of sale, Products are available which compete directly programmes.
These schemes expose the we have long-term supply agreements and or indirectly with the Groups products.
New Group to changes in interest rates, other arrangements which are driven by the technology, changing commercial investment returns and inflation as well as the constraints of the markets into which we sell.
circumstances and new entrants to the effects of the longevity of scheme members.
However, increases in such costs could have a markets in which the Group operates may Developments in medical science and material adverse impact upon the Groups adversely affect the Groups business.
One changes in healthcare management can profitability and cash flow if such increases source of competition comes from the low significantly increase the cost of maintaining cannot be recovered through increased sales cost economies but whilst these can compete benefits in the future.
on price, they cannot always compete on and legal advice is taken on the rules and quality or service.
Aggressive or predatory Fenner recognises that liquidity problems can funding of all such schemes.
Changes in pricing from competitors could lead to a regulatory oversight have resulted in adversely affect the availability of materials reduction in margin or volume.
All operations increased costs and management time with limited sources of supply.
All operating monitor competitor activity and continue to units continuously assess their exposure and, without any real benefits for our employees.
invest in both quality and service.
where necessary, have approved, or continue Forward-looking statements to work on approving, alternative sources.
In Dependence on key personnel conjunction with key suppliers, certain The future success of Fenner is dependent on Certain statements contained in this operations have selectively increased the continued services of key personnel.
The document, including those under the captions inventories of raw materials and occasionally Group seeks to develop and promote from Introduction, Performance, Outlook and key feedstocks.
within, augmented by considered recruitment.
Principal risks and uncertainties, constitute Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 13 Overview Directors Report Directors Report Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Business Review Governance Remuneration forward-looking statements.
Such forwardlooking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Fenner, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such statements.
Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others, growth in the energy markets, general economic conditions and the business environment.
Nicholas Hobson Chief Executive Officer Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 14
