Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 08 Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement Left to right.
Kostyantin Zhevago, Chief Executive Officer, Michael Abrahams, CBE DL, Chairman.
Prices of key inputs increased in line with Introduction world market prices for commodities, in particular energy and steel.
This accounted 2011 was another year of significant for 56% of the C1 cash cost increase.
Local costs were higher due to Ukrainian producer development for Ferrexpo, despite a volatile price inflation of 19%.
Continued progress in financial and political environment globally.
the Business Improvement Programme BIP improved efficiencies, and production The Group delivered an excellent operational at full capacity further enabled maximum absorption of the fixed cost base.
The performance with record production from own Ukrainian Hryvnia remained stable against the US Dollar during the period.
ore further increasing the quality of its pellets.
Sales volumes and average pricing reached Overall EBITDA rose by 37% to US$801 million 2010: US$585 million.
Group profit historic highs and net profit grew by 35%.
after tax increased to US$575 million 2010: US$425 million.
Operating cash flow after interest and tax and before acquisitions was US$503 million for The Groups growth projects gained expanded its logistics capabilities while the period 2010: US$380 million.
Capital momentum as investment increased to ensuring sufficient financial liquidity.
This has expenditure amounted to US$378 million record levels at approximately 75% of positioned the Group favourably for the short 2010: US$167 million with the increase operating cash flows.
This is part of Ferrexpos and medium-term, increasing value to all reflecting higher spend on growth projects.
strategy to upgrade and modernise existing stakeholders employees, customers, its mining facilities and to access new ore so as to country of operation and shareholders.
At the period end, Ferrexpo had net debt of increase pellet production output by one third US$80 million 2010: US$104 million.
from 2013 onwards and, following further Results and Dividend Board approvals, to 20 million tonnes.
These Group revenue increased by 38% to US$1.8 The Boards strategy remains to fund capital projects are proceeding on budget billion for the 12 months ended 31 December expenditure out of operating cash flows and to and schedule.
2011 2010: US$1.3 billion, primarily driven by pay a modest, consistent dividend throughout higher sales prices.
The Groups C1 cash 1 The C1 cash cost of production per tonne is defined 1 In 2011, Ferrexpo developed its resource base, cost of production increased by 28% to as the cash costs of production of iron pellets from own expanded and strengthened its customer mix, US$50.7 per tonne, compared to the average ore, divided by production volume, from own ore, and excludes non-cash costs such as depreciation, pension maintained a competitive cost of production, C1 cash cost in 2010 of US$39.7 per tonne.
costs and inventory movements, costs of purchased ore, improved the quality of its product and concentrate and production cost of gravel.
overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 09 availability in local markets.
747 thousand the economic cycle, while maintaining 2.
Capitalising on its Geographic tonnes of pellets were produced from adequate liquidity to develop the significant Proximity to Major Steel Markets: purchased concentrate compared to 998 project pipeline.
The Directors therefore Ferrexpo successfully loaded its first capesize thousand tonnes in 2010.
Total pellet recommend a final dividend in respect of ship in May, allowing it to realise significant production, including pellets processed profits generated for the Group in 2011 of 3.3 freight cost benefits as compared to using from purchased concentrate, for 2011, US cents per Ordinary Share 2010 final smaller panamax vessels.
By the end of was 9,810 thousand tonnes compared dividend: 3.3 US cents per Ordinary Share for 2011, nine capesize ships had been loaded to 10,031 thousand tonnes in 2010. payment on 1 June 2012 to shareholders on reducing freight costs, for that volume, the register at the close of business on 4 May by approximately US$7 per tonne.
The current level of production from own 2012.
The dividend will be paid in UK Pounds ore represents full mining capacity of Sterling with an election to receive US Dollars.
Strengthening its Customer Base: approximately 30 million tonnes per year It is the Groups strategy to expand sales to 30% average iron content.
This is expected Market Environment high quality customers and to develop new to remain at this level until first ore from the In 2011 Chinas crude steel output grew 9% customer relationships in Asia.
Sales volumes to Asia increased to 40% of total sales Ferrexpo Yeristovo Mining FYM deposit to 696 million tonnes, an increase of 56 million compared to 27% in 2010.
The increased is achieved at the end of 2012 see Capital tonnes.
Global steel production in 2011 grew Asian sales included additional trial shipments Investment below.
Asia to target blue chip customers in the region.
accounted for 65% of the global production The Group intends to maintain such Health and Safety source: World Steel Association.
geographic diversity in the sales portfolio.
In accordance with the Groups clearly stated policy to improve safety standards, Ferrexpo As a result of the growth in steel production, As Ferrexpo increases its production and is pleased to report that there were no especially in China, the average realised price sales volumes and targets growth regions, fatalities at its mines in 2011, and that the for iron ore was an industry record in 2011. dependence on some traditional markets is lost-time injury frequency rate LTIFR at FPM This reflected a 35% fall in the China CFR expected to decrease.
Reliance on these fell to 0.82 per million man hours worked, the index price for 62% Fe fines in September markets was reduced to 44% of total sales lowest rate in its history 2010: 1.43.
FYM 2011 from US$181 per tonne to a low of in 2011 from 55% of sales in 2010. experienced no lost-time injuries during the US$117 per tonne in October, before the year which was a major accomplishment.
price recovered towards the year end.
As a result of the above developments, the Overall, the Groups total LTIFR in 2011 Group achieved satisfactory pricing during the was 0.77 as compared to 1.46 in 2010.
A key factor in price realisation and contract year under review.
While market prices have performance throughout the year was the moderated so far in 2012, and are not The management of Ferrexpo fosters a continued evolution of the iron ore price setting expected to reach the highs of 2008 or 2011, culture of safety in the organisation, linking mechanism.
In China, the period of duration for the Group still believes that they will be above safety performance to remuneration.
The calculating the average price was shortened, average historic levels.
Meanwhile, Ferrexpo Group has regular safety audits by DuPont with many of the major iron ore producers will continue with its programme of and is determined to follow international moving to monthly time periods.
In most other developing its customer base and shipping best practice as well as to set the standard markets, the leading producers continued to capabilities as well as increasing the quality for mining companies operating in the follow a quarterly pricing mechanism which of its pellets supplied to global markets.
Commonwealth of Independent States CIS.
moved to the average quarter of loading following the fall in the spot price in September Production Cost Environment and October.
Such a move assisted contract In 2011, Ferrexpo Poltava Mining FPM, the In common with all metals and mining performance, in contrast with the second half Groups current mining operation, achieved producers, the cost environment in 2011 was of 2008, when contract prices did not one of its best production years in history, impacted by commodity price increases and immediately adjust to the changing market once again operating at full capacity inflation in Ukraine.
Specifically, the full year conditions and subsequently resulted in throughout the year.
The Division produced impact of higher energy prices, following the customers being reluctant to fulfil their 9,063 thousand tonnes of pellets from own oil price hike at the end of 2010, as well as contractual commitments.
ore compared to 9,033 thousand tonnes of increased prices for steel grinding bodies, pellets produced in 2010.
Over the last 10 resulted in higher operating costs overall for In this market environment, Ferrexpo has years, production, from own ore, has doubled the Group.
Ferrexpos C1 cash cost increased continued as a price follower but has made on a 100% Fe equivalent basis.
significant strides towards: Ferrexpo has made significant strides towards Within this environment, Ferrexpo focused 1.
Establishing Index Linked Pricing: improving the quality of its pellet output.
on limiting cost inflation through production During the year, Ferrexpo established index 2011 was FPMs best performance on record increases and BIP initiatives aimed at reducing linked pricing using the average for the regarding the production of its Premium consumption norms.
For the year, BIP reduced quarter of loading as the preferred pricing 65% Fe pellets, from own ore, which the C1 cash cost of production by 1.8%, in line mechanism.
This move was aligned with that increased 5% to 4,256 thousand tonnes.
with the Groups annual target of 1% to 2%.
of the major iron ore suppliers who moved to a similar pricing methodology for the October The production of pellets from purchased 70% of total operating costs are in Ukrainian to December quarter.
This is the first step third party concentrate was the second Hryvnia.
In 2011, the Hryvnia remained stable towards ensuring that Ferrexpo achieves highest in the Groups history, despite lower against the US Dollar compared to 2010 at prices in line with its international peer group.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 10 Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement continued Ferrexpo is well placed, in the lowest quartile These projects are progressing on time and The above treasury management has of the global pellet cost curve, to sustain its to budget and are discussed fully in the secured the Groups financial position competitive position should iron ore pricing operating review.
and provides the necessary financial decrease.
In the meantime, it will invest up to flexibility for the Group to develop its 80% of cash flows after operating activities After this first phase of investment, Ferrexpo project pipeline.
The Groups net gearing in the expansion and modernisation of the intends to increase further its production net debt to EBITDA as of 31 December existing mine and processing facilities as well output by another 60% to 20 million tonnes 2011 was 0.1 times.
The long-term nature as in new mining operations, starting with by 2016, following approval by the Board of of Ferrexpos financing arrangements means FYM.
This investment should further ensure a new concentrating and pelletising facility.
the Group has minimal debt repayments of that Ferrexpo at least maintains its position on approximately US$11 million per year in 2012 the pellet cost curve.
Currently, the Group is finalising the and 2013.
As of 31 December 2011, the engineering design for the concentrator to Group had total available debt facilities of Capital Investments ensure it complies with international best over US$1 billion, of which US$978 million Ferrexpo is currently investing substantial sums practice and local design institute requirements.
The Groups cash position as of money into its mining complex to increase Ferrexpo anticipates final approval of this of 31 December 2011 was US$890 million.
the quality and volume of its production output, project, in its entirety, during 2012. thereby underpinning future profit and earnings Ukraine growth.
The approved investment programmes Financial Management As a significant employer in the Poltava are on schedule and will increase the Groups Ferrexpo issued its debut Eurobond in 2011 region of Ukraine and as its leading pellet output by one third by the end of 2013, and the for US$500 million.
The bond has a duration exporter, Ferrexpo is committed to the future overall quality of its pellets to 65% Fe for all of five years and was issued at a yield of development of the local area and the country.
This is the lowest yield achieved by a company with Ukrainian assets since 2005, Ukraine is a young democracy which has been In 2011, reflecting these programmes, reflecting the quality of Ferrexpos iron ore subject to various changes in government over the Group more than doubled its capital assets and operations.
As is common with expenditure investing US$378 million 2010: developing economies there is a risk that the US$167 million.
This included investments The Group also refinanced its main bank debt country may develop in a manner that is of US$121 million for improving the efficiency, facility during the year.
It replaced its previous adverse to general business practice.
These reliability and output of the existing mining facility of US$350 million with an interest rate operating risks are commonly faced by all complex, and US$49 million in respect of of LIBOR plus 550 basis points with a mining companies in emerging markets, and extending the life of FPMs open pit and for five-year revolving US$420 million facility the Board believes Ferrexpo has the expertise initial engineering work for the upgrade of paying 225 basis points over LIBOR on drawn to manage them.
The facility will begin amortising in received investment of US$129 million as 2014.
This is the lowest priced bank facility As of 31 December 2011, it was estimated that part of its programme to reach first ore by achieved by a corporate in Ukraine and is at the Ukrainian government owed the industrial the end of 2012.
10 basis points lower than the pre-crisis levels sector over UAH15 billion US$2 billion of achieved by Ferrexpo in 2006 and 2007. overdue VAT repayments.
Ferrexpo is not overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11 The Ferrexpo Poltava Mining pit operates 365 days a year, 24 7 unique in being affected by this situation and procedures in accordance with the Strategy was due UAH1 billion US$172 million in VAT UK Bribery Act which came into effect It is Ferrexpos strategy to develop its repayments at the end of the year, an increase in July 2011. significant resource base, one of the largest of US$71 million compared to 2010.
Ferrexpo iron ore deposits in the world, and to improve is working together with the authorities to The Board has eight members: a Non-executive the quality of its product mix.
In addition, the ensure the arrears return to normal levels.
Chairman, four independent Non-executive Group intends to remain in the lowest quartile Directors, one Non-executive Director and two of the global pellet cost curve so as to ensure In 2011, Ferrexpo spent approximately UAH102 Executive Directors.
The Board believes that this consistent production at full capacity and million US$12 million on community projects.
is an appropriate size and structure to manage thereby a good financial performance through These included providing financial support to the Group successfully.
Ferrexpo will look to over 4,000 vulnerable people, the provision of expand its logistics capabilities and to open free medical treatments and modernisation of People new markets prior to the planned increase the local hospital as well as refurbishment of The Board would very much like to thank all in production output.
Finally, as previously schools and sporting facilities.
the management and staff for their continued stated, the Group plans to fund capital hard work and dedication which has led to expenditure out of operating cash flows Since the Groups IPO in 2007, Ferrexpo another excellent year of progress at Ferrexpo.
has invested over US$1 billion in its local operations benefiting the Ukrainian economy.
During the second half of the year, Ferrexpo Outlook Ferrexpo believes it sets the standard for best was pleased to welcome Jason Keys as the Ferrexpo, with its substantial iron ore practice within Ukraine by raising operational new Chief Marketing Officer.
Jason has reserves, is well placed to capitalise on the standards, maintaining high levels of already made a significant contribution progress made in 2011.
Its low-cost structure transparency in all its business dealings and towards the evolution of new pricing terms and proximity to its customer base together attracting new investments through debt agreed with customers.
He joined Ferrexpo with its logistics infrastructure makes it a key financing, thus demonstrating that Ukraine from BHP Billiton where he was the global supplier to its customers.
These factors is a sound country in which to invest.
marketing manager for iron ore for five years.
enable Ferrexpo to develop long-term supply He has significant industry experience in both relationships to the major steel producers in Corporate Governance the European and the Asian bulk commodity Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
The Board remains committed to maintaining markets having also previously worked for the highest standards of corporate Rio Tinto.
The Board would like to thank The Board believes that although there is governance throughout the Group in the Yaroslavna Blonska, the Groups Marketing likely to be increased volatility in the world conduct of its business.
Ferrexpo has fully Manager for the CIS and Eastern Europe, economy in the short term, the Group is well complied, since listing in 2007, first with the for acting as the Chief Marketing Officer in placed to continue to deliver sustainable Combined Code on Corporate Governance, the period prior to Jasons arrival.
and since 2011, with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010.
During the year, the Group implemented appropriate
