Overview Strategic review Performance S St tr ra at te eg giic c r re ev viie ew w Marketplace Chief Executives interview Looking ahead with confidence In 2011, we achieved our seventh consecutive 2011 Performance year of underlying revenue, PBITA and How would you sum up 2011 in terms dividend growth.
The key highlights of the oftradingperformance?
year were thesignificant level of contract It is clear that the economic environment continued to toughen during 2011, wins in developed markets in the second half becoming increasingly challenging in the second and third quarters of the year.
Despite this, we have continued to drive the business forward and have oftheyear and the continued strong growth achieved our seventh consecutive year of underlying revenue, indeveloping markets.
Group revenues were up by 4.7% on the prior year and organic growth We are confident in the future and expect increased from 2.1% in 2010 to 4.5% in 2011.
There was organic to continue our track record of growth growth of 9% in developing markets, which now make up 30% of the groupsrevenue.
whilstmaintaining our discipline on margins Low interest rates continue to be the dominating factor in holding back the andcash generation.
growth rates in our cash solutions businesses and we continue to focus on keeping the cost base under control so that we are able to maintain operating margins.
In our secure solutions businesses, we maintained our operating margins at around 7% in 2011, despite the continuing economic challenges.
Of course, one of the biggest events of year was our proposed acquisition of ISS, the integrated facilities services company.
We were disappointed not to have completed the transaction which would have transformed the global facilities services market for years to come.
What were the main highlights of the year?
The key highlight was the level of contract wins in developed markets in the second half of the year which made up for the disappointment of the loss ofcontracts for Detention & Escorting and Court Services in the UKin the first half.
In the UK, we were successful in winning a substantial number ofpublic sector contracts in areas such as welfare-to-work services for the Department for Work and Pensions and two major outsourced prisons HMP Birmingham transferred to G4S in October 2011 and HMP Oakwood due to open in April 2012.
We were also successful in winning an outsourcing contract for Lincolnshire Police to provide a range of services from HR to finance, and from custody services to fleet management, and a substantial contract for the Ministry of Justice to provide integrated facilities services to over 340 court, tribunal and administration buildings in the Midlands, Wales and the North of England.
In continental Europe, there were significant contract wins including the Brussels airport security contract which commenced in February 2011 and security for the European Commission building from April 2011.
Incash solutions, we experienced growth of more than 30% in Belgium following a competitor exiting the market.
We won a large aviation security contract with the Canadian Air Transport Security Authority covering 20 Canadian airports in the Pacific region, including Vancouver International, which commenced in November 2011 and began providing security solutions for a major motor vehicle manufacturer at over 80 locations across the US, including their global headquarters in Detroit.
G4S plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information With these contract wins, we have mobilised a number of large Turnover andcomplex contracts with very good customer feedback and no m majormishaps project management is a core skill of the group 7,522 and I am very grateful to those who have ensured that these mobilisations 7,181 7,009 have gone smoothly.
5,929 At the same time, we have ramped up our delivery of security for 4,484 theLondon 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games as we have takenon increasing responsibility for the various Games-time venues and implemented a substantial recruitment, screening and training programme toensure that we have the right level of resources and expertise to secure the Games in 2012.
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Due to the contract wins and strong growth in developing markets, we haveincreased our global workforce from 625,000 in 2010 to over 657,000 PBITA in 2011. m 531 520 500 What were the biggest challenges in 2011 and 415 withthebenefit of hindsight, what might you have 312 donedifferently?
We would have approached the proposed ISS acquisition differently if we had the opportunity to go back in time.
We genuinely believed that we had flagged our transformational acquisition options to the market, but it seems that our approach had not been received clearly.
The 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 growth of integrated facilities services, particularly in developing markets and some key developed markets led us to believe that the deal would be truly Adjusted EPS transformational, not just for G4S, but for the entire market, and would be pence welcomed by investors particularly as the financial returns were so strong.
22.8 21.6 With hindsight, we under-estimated the severe impact of the recessionary 20.2 market environment on sentiment, and investor appetite for large 16.7 transactions.
We stuck rigidly to the rules and best practice regarding 13.3 communications on M&A, but it was difficult to clearly understand diverse investor views on the deal and it became clear that, with such a complex transaction, investors needed more that the usual 2448 hours toconsider itsmerits fully.
Weve learned some valuable lessons from the process and Ithink the market has too.
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Elsewhere, whilst we have had strong performances across a range of businesses, there have been challenges along the way in 2011.
Managing Dividend debtors and collecting cash from customers has continued to be a pence challenge our teams across the businesses have done a great job to ensure 8.53 that we reach our cash flow target, but it has been difficult particularly 7.90 insome specific areas such as the US Government, where the value of 7.18 6.43 contracts islarge and the potential size of the debt would have a big impact on our cash flow performance.
4.96 In cash solutions, low interest rates and tough economic conditions mean that banks and retailers in some cases are focused on resolving their own trading issues and business challenges and not taking on new ideas and concepts such as outsourcing.
This will change in time, but it means we 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 really have to focus on the long-term relationships with key customers in key 2010 and 2011 at 2011 exchange rates and adjusted for divested and discontinued sectors andnot lose faith despite any recent short-term lack of progress.
G4S plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Performance S St tr ra at te eg giic c r re ev viie ew w M Ch aire kfe E tp xe la cc u etives statement continued From the second half of 2011 onwards, the group has been active in In specific higher-risk countries such as Iraq and Afghanistan, we have seen mobilising a number of major new contracts around the world.
In Iraq, the withdrawal of the US military means that our operations have been reduced significantly.
Mobilisation statistics Therevenue from this work will be replaced in the medium term with Contracts Sites People From business in the oil and gas sector, but there is a short-term impact on our An extra performance.
In Afghanistan, there is increasing negativity towards 19,000 foreign companies working in the country and an increasingly challenging services environment for the welfare of our employees, so we have taken the Belgium cash solutions per month 220 January 2011 decision to exit our business there.
Brussels Airport 1 850 February 2011 HMP Birmingham, UK 1 550 October 2011 Strategy CATSA, Canada 20 1,400 November 2011 Is there going to be a change of strategy or focus in 2012?
Ministry of Justice, UK 340 800 February 2012 Not at all security remains core to our global strategy it is the Lincolnshire Police, UK 106 540 Summer 2012 market which we know best and where we have proved we can deliver Major motor strong performances across a number of customer sectors.
manufacturer, USA 80 1,600 January 2012 We will take advantage of trends for integrated facilities services HMP Oakwood, UK 1 450 April 2012 in countries where the market has already developed that way and the approach has been proven to be successful.
In large new markets, we will look at ways to expand beyond security where the market opportunity is great and where there is significant growth potential for example in markets such as Brazil, IndiaandChina.
We will continue to focus on bidding for larger contracts and outsourcing services where we can take responsibility for an increasing range of outsourced services, have longer-term contracts where we can helpcustomers to reduce risk, improve financial performance, protect criticalassets, improve customer service or protect reputations.
What does that mean in terms of acquisitions ordivestments?
We will consider acquiring facilities services businessesin the UK and US, but will be focusing the majority of our acquisition efforts in developing markets, where we can either improve our market share or where an acquisition will start to drive outsourcing in key sectors.
Developing markets currently account for 30% of group revenues andweexpect this to grow to50% in the longer term.
We will also be more active on our divestment strategy, particularly where a service line or business is not in line with the groups core strategy, where a business is unable to reach our internal margin targets under our ownership or where an alternative parent could add or drive more value from a business.
We expect to spend around 200m each year on acquisitions.
We will also keep transformational options under review whilst continuing toassess shareholder appetite for such acquisitions.
G4S plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information How would you summarise the outlook for the group?
Targets and challenges Despite ongoing economic uncertainty and some of our key resources beingfocused on the proposed ISS acquisition in 2011, the business has How are you making sure the business is fit to handle performed well and has good trading momentum which we expect theongoing economic uncertainty?
With a large number of contracts being mobilised in the first We constantly keep our structure and costs under review and, at a half of the year, we would expect the operating margin to be lower in the group level, we have recently made some changes to our regional structure.
first six months of the year compared to the same period in 2011, but to Until the end of 2011, we had managed our larger, more complex cash recover for the full year 2012. solutions businesses under a separate structure to ensure that we could We have had some significant contract wins in the last year which sharebest practice, develop new service lines, maximise efficiencies and demonstrate the outsourcing model, particularly in the public sector in the ensure a common approach to security and safety.
The cash solutions team UK, is delivering real benefit to the group.
We expect these outsourcing did a great job in ensuring these standards were in place and we decided in trends to continue and will focus on bidding and winning an the fourth quarter of last year that the time was right to integrate the increasing proportion of larger, more complex contracts.
cash solutions businesses into our existing regional structure andto remove theseparate divisional structure.
2012 will of course be a year of mobilisation across a broad range of complex contracts and delivery of the security for the London 2012 Olympic This year we are creating a number of global service excellence and Paralympic Games we are very excited about the Games coming to centres to work with G4S country operations to focus on operational the UK and will do everything we can to make sure they are safe and secure.
efficiency, service standards, development of technology to support service delivery, and share best practice across our main service lines cash solutions, Integrated facilities services is growing faster than single service supply secure solutions and justice services.
markets, but the security market is still growing well in its own right this gives us confidence for the future and we expect to continue our track We have a number of procurement projects underway to ensure record of growth, whilst continuing to maintain our discipline that we are getting value for money from our key suppliers across onmargins and cash generation.
thegroup and are continually reviewing the cost base at every level to ensurethat we are operating as efficiently as possible.
What are the short-term priorities for 2012?
There are a number of significant contracts which we must mobilise in 2012 and we must maintain our track record of success in this area.
Nick Buckles Chief executive officer We have to keep the cost base under constant review and we will have an increased focus on managing debtors and generating cash it was a challenge in 2011 so we need to make sure we remain focused on continuing to improve our cash flow performance into 2012.
We are aiming to increase the proportion of our business coming from larger, more complex bids where we have already demonstrated that we can be successful and deliver value for our customers.
Overall, we expect to continue our seven-year trend of good organicgrowth, controlling margins, investing cash in quality acquisitions which add value to the business and targeting double digitEPS growth each year.
G4S plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
