Genus plc Annual Report 2011 04 Business Review Chief Executives Review Richard Wood In this my final year as Chief Executive, I am pleased to report record results with adjusted pretax profits up 19%.
Constant Adjusted operating profit, including the contribution from joint Actual Currency Currency ventures, increased by 7% to 45.3m.
North America and 2011 2010 Movement Movement m m % % Latin America both recorded double digit profit growth, due Revenue 309.9 285.3 9 9 to the strength of the market recovery and, in Latin America, underlying market growth.
The porcine operations performed Adjusted operating particularly well delivering 8% volume growth.
In Europe where profit inc JVs 45.3 42.2 7 8 the market was more fragile, bovine performed robustly.
Adjusted profit However the regions profits were held back by the depressed before tax 39.0 32.9 19 19 state of the European pig market which is also suffering from Adjusted earnings the increased cost and uncertainty associated with imminent per share p 44.8 36.7 22 23 environmental and welfare legislation.
This resulted in lower demand for porcine breeding animals.
The Far East profitability In this my final review of Genus progress as Chief Executive was at a similar level to last year.
The Chinese pig market Officer, I am pleased to be able to report that Genus achieved was depressed until the final quarter because of widespread a strong performance in the year to 30 June 2011, delivering outbreaks of disease but has recovered and is now strong.
record results with revenue up 9% to 309.9m and adjusted The region made good progress in bovine with volumes well profit before tax increasing by 19% to 39.0m.
The recovery in global agricultural markets that began We increased investment in Research and Development to improve the genetics market in the first half of this year by 8% to drive further progress in product development continued to progress.
This led to improved demand for activities to meet projected future demand and to enhance genetics from our customers, especially in Latin America genetic progress.
Genus achieved good volume growth in those markets but the Far East porcine market remained Finance costs were reduced by 3.0m to 6.3m.
Pension depressed until the final quarter and the European porcine interest and bank interest costs reduced, with the latter market is yet to recover.
benefiting from a tighter control of working capital and improved cash generation from trading.
With the benefit of the improved trading and reduced capital expenditure, the cash inflow for the year was 10.0m and this The increased adjusted operating profit and lower finance reduced net debt to below 70m.
costs combined to produce a 19% increase in adjusted profit before tax to 39.0m.
Exchange movements had a Group Performance minimal effect in the year with profit before tax up 19% at Revenue for the year of 309.9m was up 9%.
was driven principally by growth in sales in both North America and Latin America.
Growth was particularly noticeable in As explained in the Financial Review on page 28, the the porcine business where sales of breeding animals statutory operating profit of 44.8m was 5% lower than last grew strongly.
This result is struck after non-recurring Company Business Corporate Financial Overview Review Governance Statements Genus plc Annual Report 2011 05 exceptional items and certain non-cash items, particularly A newly acquired stud in Russia has been stocked with bulls the net IAS 41 valuation movement in biological assets.
The from the USA and became operational in August 2011.
We nature and volatility of these items do not properly reflect the commenced the sale of locally produced semen in India and underlying performance of the business.
It is for this reason in China, we have increased to 48 the number of Australian that we report externally and use internally adjusted profit sourced progeny-tested bulls available to support growth in to measure performance.
Statutory profit before tax was that fast developing market.
We have also expanded our 40.8m 2010: 40.8m after the benefit of reduced interest porcine operation in China, albeit at a slower pace than charges.
Statutory earnings per share rose 6% to 49.0 pence originally planned because of the temporarily depressed per share 2010: 46.3 pence.
Strategy These steps have enabled us to achieve a 9% sales increase I am pleased to report that the programme to expand in the RIC countries and leave us well placed to benefit from product development and increase production capacity further growth in these markets.
by 30% was successfully completed in the first half of this financial year.
This new capacity is helping to maintain and Outlook grow our product lead and is also providing the capacity Despite the current economic uncertainties, by the end necessary to meet rising demand both in our established of Genus financial year, most global agricultural markets markets and to open up developing markets, particularly, were considerably more favourable than a year ago and in the RIC countries, Russia, India and China.
we expect these market conditions to continue.
A key plank of the Groups strategy is to capture growth in In July, US bovine sales were reduced by a heatwave these fast growing developing markets.
Our objective is that in some states but this was offset by a much improved the Far East and Latin America regions should grow within performance in our porcine business across the Far East.
five years to become 40% of earnings from their current Overall trading has been in line with our expectations and 31%.
Good progress has been made in the laying of we look forward confidently to another year of good growth.
foundations to achieve this growth.
I am delighted to be able to hand over such a healthy and We have strengthened the management teams in both the prosperous business.
Genus has an exceptional team of Far East and Latin America.
New regional managers were managers and staff, all dedicated and hardworking.
I have appointed to an enlarged Far East region that now includes enjoyed working with them over the last 14 years and would Russia and to oversee operations in the equally important like to thank them for their courtesy, help and support in our Latin American market.
We also recruited a new managing joint endeavours.
I feel sure they will continue to show the director for China in view of the strong growth envisaged for same resolve for success and commitment to my that market.
We have also progressed our plans to increase sales of Richard Wood domestically produced product in Russia, India and China.
