GSK Annual Report 2011 11 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Chief Executives Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 review During the year we delivered underlying In Emerging Markets, future pricing GSKs record in 2011 sales growth, strong cash generation, pressure cannot be ruled out.
However, demonstrates that we significant R&D progress and we as a result of organic investment and increased shareholder returns to targeted bolt-on acquisitions we have are succeeding in our 5.6 billion.
completed, we continue to expect to deliver growth ahead of the market in strategy to create a more Underlying sales growth reects the region.
portfolio breadth and mix balanced business, deliver Our business in Japan had an outstanding Underlying sales for the group grew 4%.
This market is innovation-driven This growth was broadly sourced, and we and GSKs launch prole here is performance and provide saw strong performances across all areas exceptional.
In the last three years, our of our business with Pharmaceuticals Japanese sales have grown by 35% and new value to patients up 2%, Vaccines up 11% and Consumer we have launched eight new products, Healthcare up 5%.
including Cervarix which did especially well in 2011 following implementation of As expected, we saw a transition in our the national immunisation programme.
reported sales performance during the year, as the effects of the loss of sales Like Japan, the USA is a pro-innovation of Avandia, Valtrex and u pandemic environment.
Here, GSK is now emerging products diminished.
Reported sales were from a period of substantial patent down 3% in the year down 6% in the expirations during which we have first half but up 1% in the second half.
signicantly re-shaped our business and This clearly reects the changes we have redesigned our commercial organisation made to create a business that is more to align better with the changed payer balanced and less vulnerable to volatility, environment.
We are confident our US including generic pressures.
business is now well placed to deliver improved performance.
This performance has been achieved despite continued economic pressures and Overall, while our environment remains political instability in Europe and some challenging, and some volatility is emerging markets.
inevitable, we continue to expect underlying sales growth to translate to reported sales growth in 2012.
Driving cash generation and returns to shareholders GSK continues to be highly cash generative.
Before legal settlements of 1.5 billion, net cash inow from operating activities was 7.7 billion in 2011.
During the year, we announced a full year ordinary dividend of 70p, up 8%.
We also completed 2.2 billion of share repurchases as part of our long-term programme.
We also announced that we will return the net proceeds from the sale of our non-core North American OTC brands to shareholders through payment of a supplemental dividend of 5p, which will be paid with the fourth quarter 2011 ordinary dividend.
George Brooks 12 GSK Annual Report 2011 Strategic review Chief Executives statement continued As part of our continued focus on In the summer we announced a new Focus on R&D productivity improving returns, we have updated pricing structure for our vaccine against and returns our calculation of our expected rate of diarrhoeal disease, offering the GAVI A key element of our strategy has been to return on R&D investment.
This has Alliance our vaccine at a fraction of the improve R&D returns and productivity now increased to 12% from 11% in 2010. cost of developed Western markets.
and I am very pleased with the progress We are the only healthcare company This will save countless lives in the our R&D organisation is making towards to publish this analysis.
I am extremely future and is sustainable as we are achieving this.
encouraged by this progress and we are recouping the cost of goods and on track to deliver our long term goal manufacture.
Of the 15 medicines and vaccines of 14%.
in Phase III development that we We are also on the cusp of creating the highlighted at the start of 2011, we have worlds first malaria vaccine.
I know Operating with transparency and now received some or all of the data on first-hand the devastating impact that responsibility nine of them.
We expect to complete this disease has on Africa, having lived development programmes on six lateWe remain committed to operating with there for several years in the 1990s while stage assets and indications in 2012. transparency and responsibility.
During running our business in the region.
In Of course, not all of the readouts were the year we made multiple advances on October 2011, late-stage trials confirmed positive, but the overall balance was.
our agenda to ensure that our behaviour the promise we have seen so far, showing Importantly, we are seeing productivity and our actions meet or even exceed the that the vaccine reduces the risk of translate into real lings and approvals expectations of society.
malaria by half in African children with three new medicines approved in aged 5 to 17 months.
We continue to focus strongly on our the USA or Europe in 2011 and four more procedures for compliance, marketing ready with sufficient data in-house to le We also reiterated our commitment to and selling, particularly in the USA.
In in 2012. price the vaccine at a level that covers 2011, for example, we established a new costs and generates a small return of Since 2008, we have had 16 new drugs compensation system to reward our US around 5% that will be ploughed back and vaccines approved in the USA, 11 of sales representatives on their quality of into research for the next generation of which were new molecular entities this service to customers rather than sales malaria medicines and vaccines.
is more than any of our peers.
Outlook In our environmental strategy, I was All of this comes with positive indications As we look ahead, we are clearly mindful very pleased to see that we are already that we can replenish our pipeline on an of the potential pressures we face given making progress against the ambitious ongoing basis.
goals we set out in March across our In 2011 we completed the comprehensive However, we continue to expect to drive entire value chain, from raw materials reviews of our Discovery Performance further shareholder returns as we seek to to product disposal.
Units: these units are comprised of 5-70 grow sales across our business and scientists, with each group focusing on Another priority is to align our improve operational leverage and early stage discovery in one particular commercial success with forming new financial efficiency to deliver strong disease or pathway.
Based on this review, partnerships to tackle the healthcare cash generation.
we now believe that we can progress up to needs of people in developing countries.
In conclusion, I would like to thank all of 30 medicines into late-stage development Early in 2011, GSK began supplying GSKs employees and the many partners over the next three years.
pneumococcal vaccines to Kenya through we work with around the world for their an innovative nancing mechanism outstanding contribution and support in known as the Advance Market helping deliver a very successful 2011 Commitment.
This is the largest fund and creating the new opportunities we ever designed for a single vaccine and has see for growth and performance in 2012 dramatically increased sustainable access and beyond.
to this vaccine for babies across Africa.
Sir Andrew Witty Chief Executive officer
