GROUP ChIEF ExECUTIvES REvIEW excellent progreSS in delivering our Strategy We continue to deliver In my first review as Group Chief Executive, I am pleased to report strong operational performance across our businesses.
growth across our business While the wider economy is still facing real challenges our local market focus has ensured we are in a strong position to meet the through continued needs of our passengers while leveraging the benefits of scale that improvements in service a large group can bring.
The combination of strong government commitment to public transport and increasing modal shift from standards, better marketing, cars means the growth prospects for public transport, particularly and a local focus on high in urban areas, are strong.
We are therefore well placed to grow organically and, where appropriate, make value-enhancing density urban markets acquisitions.
The future still holds challenges, but the prospects for the business are good.
Summary of performance In the year, our operating performance was in line with our expectations.
The increase in operating profit to 115.1m was driven by increased profits in deregulated bus and rail, offset by the anticipated reduction in turnover and margin in our regulated bus business.
As we completed the disposal of our aviation services division during the year, these businesses are classed as discontinued and, unless otherwise stated, their results are excluded from this review.
The disposal of this division has enabled us to focus solely on our bus and rail divisions.
As part of our constant review of The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 14 best practice we now report on our regulated and deregulated bus businesses separately and have reclassified some elements of insurance liability and leased asset dilapidations as provisions rather Bus than accruals.
In accordance with IFRS we have presented a restated balance sheet for the year to Revenue 3 July 2010 to clearly show these changes.
Deregulated Bus Regulated Bus Cash management remains a focus for the Group and this resulted in cashflow from operations being ahead of expectations 290.9m 351.5m at 137.9m 2010: 160.6m and net debt reducing to 69.8m 2010: 273.4m 2010: 356.1m 2010: 88.3m.
Capital investment remains slightly ahead of depreciation, due to ongoing franchise commitments in both Southern and London Midland but also due to maintaining the 642.4m high quality asset base in our expanding bus division.
2010: 629.5m We continue to seek bolt-on acquisitions and, on 24 May 2011, we acquired Thames Travel, a quality operator based in Operating profit Oxfordshire that strengthens our presence in and around Oxford and opens up new local markets for us.
Deregulated Bus Regulated Bus Our refinancing was completed during the year.
We replaced 33.7m 33.4m our revolving credit facility with a new five year 275m revolving 2010: 27.2m 2010: 36.5m credit facility, maturing in February 2016.
This is in addition to our 200m sterling bond which matures in September 2017.
Our investment grade credit ratings from Moodys and Standard & Poors have retained their stable outlook.
67.1m 2010: 63.7m This financial strength and profitability ensures we can maintain our full year dividend to shareholders at 81.0p per share 2010: 81.0p.
Market environment While the wider economic environment remains challenging, we rail are encouraged by the level of growth across our business.
The Revenue Government continues to strongly support public transport.
Last year the industry was concerned about the impact of government spending cuts and, while these have indeed been difficult, the 1,654.6m underlying growth in our business has more than compensated 2010: 1,537.8m for the impact.
We welcome the publication of the  McNulty Report on rail franchising and look Operating profit forward to playing a key role in transforming the rail industry in the months and years ahead.
In the medium term, we fully expect to benefit from both a cyclical economic recovery and from the 48.0m underlying strengths of public transport in the UK.
2010: 37.3m Our strategy The Board remains committed to the Groups strategy to continue to focus on providing high quality passenger transport.
Group The underlying elements of this strategy are to: Revenue Run our companies in a socially and environmentally responsible manner: 2,297.0m Provide high quality, locally focused passenger transport services: 2010: 2,167.3m Prioritise high density, urban markets: and Operating profit Maintain strong financial discipline to deliver shareholder value.
Each element has a number of performance indicators, both financial 115.1m and non-financial, which are routinely measured for improvement 2010: 101.0m trends and comparison between operating companies.
Before amortisation and exceptional items.
com 15 Strategic Review GROUP ChIEF ExECUTIvES REvIEW CONTINUED In the near term, our priority is to deliver value from our existing Rail portfolio of operations and seek value-enhancing opportunities.
The results of our rail division remained resilient with operating profit of 48.0m, some 10.7m ahead of last year, underpinned by Key risks include a major accident or incident, or an unexpected approximately 13m of non-recurring contract management benefits.
reduction in demand for our services.
We operate a strong governance structure and control environment to mitigate these All of our three rail franchises deliver core commuter services and other risks as far as possible.
Our key risks and uncertainties to high density urban markets.
Passenger revenue growth is are detailed on pages 28 to 31. fundamental to their success as the passenger revenue growth offsets the profile of reducing underlying DfT subsidy, or in Divisional performance overview Southerns case, increasing premia.
Like-for-like passenger revenue growth for the division was 8.5%, with 8.6% in Southern, 8.4% in Deregulated bus Southeastern and 8.6% in London Midland.
Growth in passenger Our deregulated bus division performed well during the year, numbers was strong in the year with overall growth for the with strong growth achieved in our existing businesses and also division of 4.2% on a like-for-like basis.
In Southern, Southeastern in those acquired by the Group in the previous financial year.
and London Midland passenger numbers grew by 2.3%, 5.0% and Operating profit was significantly ahead of last year at 33.7m 7.2% respectively.
This was driven by passenger numbers increasing by 4.7% and passenger revenue growth of 7.4% 2.3% and 5.1% The Southern franchise continues to meet its core franchise respectively on a like-for-like basis, adjusting for acquisitions and commitments and is in line with its bid assumptions.
Southeasterns the additional week in the prior year.
Cost savings achieved high speed service between St Pancras International and Kent through Group purchasing continue to support the businesses.
We is now fully established and is expanding.
It has benefited, in continue to fide-risk fuel costs through a hedging programme which particular, from excellent contract management.
London Midland is now rolling forward into 2014.
Capital investment continues at continues to improve its operational performance and has made above depreciation, ensuring that we retain one of the youngest steady progress in addressing key staffing issues.
bus fleets in the sector and maintain our strategically important in summary freehold depot locations.
We are pleased with the set of strong results we have reported.
Go-Ahead North America, our joint venture with Cook Illinois, While the wider economy still faces challenges, we are making commenced trading in August 2010 with its first yellow school bus excellent progress in delivering our growth strategy.
franchise in St Louis, Missouri.
We have established ourselves as a reliable and credible operator in the market and while the 2011 We stand ready to benefit from any recovery in the economy tendering round has not secured new work for the joint venture, and, while we remain cautious in the near term outlook for the we will use the experience gained in the 2012 tendering round.
UK, we are confident in the underlying strengths of and growth opportunities for our business.
Regulated bus Our regulated bus division traded in line with management expectations.
Revenue was down by 1.3%, primarily through reduced receipts through Quality Incentive Contracts QICs following the abolition of the QIC2 scheme, with profits of 33.4m 2010: 36.5m.
Like-for-like mileage operated was slightly down on last year at 72.2 million miles and we continued to perform well in TfL league tables operating 99.6% of scheduled mileage.
David Brown, Group Chief executive Following recent contract gains, we expect to see mileage and 31 August 2011 revenue growth next year.
Tendering competition and the QIC bonus structure have stabilised although the costs of uninsured claims are increasing.
Overall we expect margins to be relatively stable although there will be some impact from the decrease in the Bus Service Operators Grant BSOG in April 2012.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 16 GROUP ChIEF ExECUTIvES Q&a David Brown returned to Go-Ahead in April 2011 and became Group Chief Executive in July 2011. he has nearly 30 years experience in the transport sector.
mixture of ambition, experience, and knowadapt.
Clearly local authorities are under Q how will allow me to serve the Group and pressure and this has impacted the wider shareholders well in the years ahead.
however, as the vast majority of What do you bring to the role of Group our services are fully commercial rather than Chief Executive?
local authority contracts, we do not have any significant exposure.
Concessionary fare Q negotiations continue to be tough but we a are confident that we will be able to retain Do you plan to radically change the direction reimbursement at a level the business can A strong ambition for the future of the of the Group?
business, an in-depth knowledge of the transport sector, and an understanding a of, and background within, the Go-Ahead Group.
I am hugely proud to be leading Q Q We have a successful business model, a first class business which has significant involving autonomous business units, and opportunities for growth and business How confident are you of your ability to there is no need to radically change what development.
having spent almost 30 years operate in the UK rail market which is works well.
I do believe, however, that in the transport industry I know the sector, very competitive?
there is considerable potential to grow and in particular the markets that Go-Ahead the business both organically and through operates in, incredibly well.
Before rejoining bolt-on acquisitions and to use Go-Aheads a the Group, I spent five years as Managing scale to deliver business synergies that will Director for Surface Transport at Transport improve our cost base.
We are becoming Rail is a very good market in which to for London running one of the worlds significantly better at marketing our services operate and I believe we excel at it.
Alongside that, and we are benefiting from higher costs of Go-Ahead delivers 30% of all UK I was responsible for Londons Red Route motoring as motorists move to the better rail passenger journeys and we have road network, congestion charging, taxi value alternative of public transport.
In the rail demonstrated an ability to win franchises.
and private hire regulations, coach, river, industry, a number of franchise opportunities We have a very strong base from which to and mobility transport as well as transport will be coming up in the years ahead.
The McNulty review is a chance for policing and enforcement.
I also introduced the rail industry to be put on a much more the successful Barclays Cycle hire Scheme.
sustainable business model for the long term.
In the past, I was Chief Executive of GoWe welcome that and the opportunities it Q Aheads London bus business and served might bring.
as an adviser to the main Board before How has Go-Ahead been affected by central joining Transport for London.
I hope that this and local government cuts?
Q a How secure is the dividend?
The whole transport sector was concerned about the potential impact of the a Maintaining the Comprehensive Spending Review.
I am pleased that our underlying performance Delivery of the dividend is a key priority for dividend per share is has more than made up for the impact of the Board.
We have an excellent balance an absolute priority the reduction in bus subsidies.
This time last sheet and our cashflows support the level year, the sector was concerned about the of dividend we are committed to delivering for the Board future of the Bus Service Operators Grant.
whilst ensuring we can invest to grow the The Government chose to reduce rather business further.
In line with our long term than scrap this grant and, as the reduction strategy, we will continue to seek acquisitions is gradual, there is time for the business to where they add value.
