business review chief executives review of recession but failed to deliver anticipated Across all businesses, our operational growth levels.
Real household income fell and focuson delivering industry-leading Value, is expected to do so again in 2011, impacting on Service & Quality VSQ to our customers consumer confidence.
We also saw changeable has driven our record performance.
In this trading in the second half of the year due to austere age, our customers are looking for the weather, with snow across the country in affordable treats, which we are delivering December but much better Spring weather.
by continuously adding value to our offers, We also benefited from a successful Royal particularly in food, by exceeding customer Wedding weekend.
expectations on service, and by maintaining industry leading product and offer quality.
The pub and beer industry also continues to face political and social challenges.
The duty We are focused on increasing our share escalator is penalising responsible drinkers ofthe growing eating-out market.
In Retail, and accelerating the closure of pubs and food and food-related sales are approaching clubs in communities across the country, 60% of total sales following another year of asalcohol isincreasingly consumed in the strong growth.
We have upgraded kitchen This has been another strong year for home.
We believe the government should be facilities across the estate, further developed Greene King with good progress across all doing more to reverse current consumption our menus and targeted cover growth and businesses delivering record revenue and trends, starting with setting a credible and share gains through delivering exceptional profit.
Revenue was 1,042.7m, up 6.0% on meaningful minimum price for alcohol to value to our customers.
Similarly in Pub last year, with strong growth in Greene King target irresponsible retailers and drinkers Partners, our investment is focused on Retail and Brewing and Brands.
Operating without penalising the responsible majority.
improving the food capability of our pubs.
profit was 222.0m, 5.1% ahead of last year, Our recruitment and training is increasingly with a healthy operating margin of 21.3%.
To deliver a record performance in this context geared to improving the overall food Profit before tax and exceptionals was demonstrates the success of our strategy expertise amongst our licensees and we 140.0m, up 13.8% on last year and another forgrowth and the strength of the people, continue to utilise our Retail expertise to record performance, while adjusted the brands and the pubs at Greene King.
offer licensees a range of food solutions to earnings per share was up 11.1% at 48.2p.
Webelieve the best way to deliver long-term, grow their food sales.
The board is recommending a final dividend profitable growth is to focus on expanding of 16.8p per share, 7.7% ahead of last year, our Retail business and growing our share We are investing in the development of the taking the total dividend for the year to of the eating out market.
This strategy is Greene King brand.
We have launched our 23.1p per share, up 7.4%.
supported by improving the quality of our proper pubs and proper pint campaigns, tenanted and leased estate via targeted investing 2.5m, and since the year-end, we Market and business overview disposals, agreement innovation and enhanced have launched the new Greene King brand We have delivered a record performance in control of the offer, and investing in our identity.
We have updated brand imagery, a year in which the UK economy moved out leading ale brand portfolio.
brand colours and the company website, to Key performance indicators 1.
PBTE Summary Summary Summary EPS grew 11.1% to 48.2p as a result of record Following record results and strong cash We achieved a record profit before tax and revenues being converted into record PBTE.
generation, the board has recommended a final exceptionals of 140.0m, up 13.8% on last year.
dividend payment of 16.8p per share, 7.7% ahead This was driven by 5.1% operating profit of last year, producing a total dividend per share growth and lower interest charges.
for the year of 23.1p, 7.4% ahead of last year.
48.2p 23.1p 140.0m 53.4 23.1 140.0 21.5 21.0 48.2 123.0 43.4 118.5 2011 2011 2011 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Definition Definition Definition Profit for the period attributable to equity Total dividend per share paid and proposed Group profit for the period after financing holders, excluding the effect of exceptional inrespect of the period.
charges but before tax and exceptional items.
items, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period excluding own shares held.
8 Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 www.
co. uk Business review reflect Greene Kings reputation for delivering In addition, we exchanged on eight acquiring additional sites in London and authentic hospitality to its customers.
All acquisitions should expanding the Realpubs concept outside improve the overall quality of the Retail ofthe M25.
We have completed the integration of estate by either driving greater exposure Belhaven, maintaining business continuity tothe eating out market or driving the Tenanted quality improvement and capturing anticipated synergies of 1m premiumisation of our overall offer.
The net We reduced the number of tenanted per annum.
Belhaven has been a great success acquisition cost of the acquired sites was andleased pubs by 4% and grew average story for Greene King.
Profits have increased 130.7m and these acquired sites are expected EBITDA per pub in Pub Partners by 1.9%.
by 77% since the 2005 acquisition, following to deliver an average site EBITDA of 436.4k, We are increasingly operating Pub Partners another good year this year.
Investment in more than double the average for the as a more customer focused business, Scotland continues: our new brewhouse existing estate.
becoming more directive and influential opened for business in May 2011 and we over our licensees offers.
This is reflected in acquired another four Retail pubs in the We acquired Cloverleaf Restaurants on the agreement innovation we have delivered year.
I am confident that the fully integrated 28January 2011 for 55.7m.
Cloverleaf in the year, including the launch of Blueprint, Scottish operations will continue to be consists of 12 freehold, food-led sites, our new and innovative franchise-style successful going forward.
As a result of this delivering, at the time of the acquisition, an agreement, which is delivering site profit integration, our Business Review is presented average weekly turnover AWT of c. 40k increases of 65-70k per annum.
We are on the basis of the post integration model.
and average EBITDA per site of c. 540k.
recruiting better quality licensees through Food is 69% of sales.
Cloverleaf brings us amore demanding recruitment process, Strategy update carvery expertise and another concept to weare reducing direct licensee support Our strategy for growth is three-fold: first, expand through our new-build programme.
andwe have increased investment in our expanding the number of sites in Retail, The Cloverleaf pipeline of new sites will pubs by 33%.
ourbiggest and fastest growing division, to deliver a minimum of ten additional sites 1,100, and improving the overall quality of trading by the end of April 2013 and we are Core ale brand growth and investment the estate: second, reducing our tenanted looking to expand the concept further south In the year we launched Man Deserves and leased business to around 1,200 sites, and into Scotland.
aProper Pint, a 1m media campaign for and taking more control over the offer in the Greene King IPA.
The campaign is expected core estate: and third, increasing investment We acquired Realpubs on 27 April 2011 for to reach around 14m men through the and driving growth of our core ale brands.
Realpubs consists of 14 London pubs, national press and male targeted magazines.
Following good progress in the year, we all but one freehold, trading a well developed We also increased our above-the-line media remain on track to meet our targets.
AWT is c. 25k investment in Belhaven Best with a new TV and EBITDA per site is c. 450k.
Greene King IPA is Retail expansion currently 33% of sales and growing strongly.
the official beer of England Rugby and We started the year with 888 sites and We are looking to work closely with the OldSpeckled Hen sponsors prime time ended the year with 915 sites.
We acquired, team at Realpubs to spearhead our premium onthe Dave TV Channel.
Total investment or transferred in from Pub Partners, 39 sites growth by converting a number of Greene in our brands in the year was 6.8m.
and disposed of a small number of sites, King London pubs to the Realpubs concept, mainly from the value high street segment.
Fixed charge cover Summary Summary Summary Despite another challenging year, Greene King Increased EBITDA and strong working capital Fixed charged cover improved to 2.6x in the Retail average profit per outlet grew 9.6% and performance has helped to generate positive free year due to increased EBITDA and reduced Pub Partners average profit per outlet grew 1.5%.
cash flow in the year of 51.2m, a 28% increase interest costs.
This was achieved through strong revenue growth on last year.
retail pub partners 51.2m 2.6x 148k 47.9k 51.2 2.6 148 47.9 47.3 2.4 135 2.1 40.0 23.7 2011 2011 2009 2010 2009 2010 2010 2011 2010 2011 Definition Definition Definition Operating profit for the period, pre-exceptionals, Free cash flow is the movement in net debt due to Fixed charge cover is calculated using the divided by the average number of pubs in the period.
operating cash flows, after interest payments, tax formula EBITDAR operating profit before payments, core capex and dividends, but excluding depreciation, amortisation, rent and exceptionals exceptional items, acquisitions, disposals and less maintenance capex divided by the sum of share movements.
co. uk Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 9 business review retail We have increased the size andquality of our Retail estate through outstanding value, service & quality delivery, a focus on food growth and development, and targeted acquisitions.
Food is now approaching 40% of sales with LFL salesgrowth of 8.1%.
During the year we acquired 39 additional Retail sitesincluding acquisitions of Cloverleaf Restaurants and Realpubs.
Our brands Greene King Retail has again demonstrated its ability to generate profitable, industry-leading sales growth, both through underlying organic growth and by growing the size and quality of its estate.
Revenue was 710.7m, up 8.1% on last year on 1.5% more sites.
Operating profit was 132.0m, up 11.2% on last year with operating margins growing 60bps in the year.
In the KPIs year, all brands and segments performed well, as did all strategic growth categories, average number revenue m ebitda m including food, wine, soft drinks, coffee of sites trading andcask ale.
892 173.0m 710.7m Our strong growth has been achieved 1.5% 9.8% 8.1% through a focus on three strategic pillars: 710.7 173.0 892 879 657.7 157.5 1. delivering the best VSQ in the industry to drive volume and value growth: 2. investing behind our food offer to drive industry-leading growth and a greater share of the sales mix: and 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 3. focusing on operating branded and operating profit m operating profit margin % ebitda per site 000 segmented offers.
118.7m 18.6% 193.9k Value, service and quality 11.2% 0.6%pts 8.2% We only operate pubs, restaurants or hotelsif they can deliver the best VSQ in 132.0 18.6 193.9 18.0 118.7 179.2 their markets to drive both organic volume and value growth.
We have improved value across the estate through menu management, targeted promotional activity and known value item KVI drink pricing.
We have enhanced our service standards as measured by 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 10 Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 www.
co. uk Business review Cloverleaf Restaurants We acquired Cloverleaf Restaurants in January2011.
With large, freehold, quality pub restaurants across the Midlands and theNorth of England, Cloverleaf Restaurants are well positioned tocapitalise on the growing carverymarket.
a 230bps improvement in our Net Promoter Branding and segmentation The eating out Score and by rolling out table service through Greene King Retail operates a focused branded the Eating Inn brand.
On quality, we are rolling and segmented structure.
In Destination market in the UK is out illy coffee, which is driving a 9% increase Pubs, every pub or restaurant isbranded, in sales per site, we have won a series of awards operating a strict, centralised commercial worthover 40bn for our exclusive wine range, we have signed and operating structure.
Each brand appeals up 400 apprentices to our new apprenticeship to specific segments of the population and scheme and we have invested 76m in istargeted at specific occasions during the and is expected to improving the fabric and facilities of our week.
In Local Pubs, we operate under a pubs, restaurants and hotels.
segmented operating policy, but each pub deliverlong-term appeals to a broad cross-section of the local Food community and each house manager has growth.
The eating out market in the UK is significant opportunity to stamp their own worthover 40bn and is expected to flair and imagination on each business, to deliverlong-term growth.
Greene King is cater for specific local needs.
This brand outperforming the market with food sales and segmented approach gives us significant Greene King is inthe year of 263m, up 13% on last year, buying scale, facilitates a higher level of and LFL food sales growth of 8.1%.
We sold customer understanding and analysis, and outperforming the over 36m meals, of which two million were simplifies our acquisition strategy and capital market with food sales fish & chips, and food is now almost 40% expenditure programme.
All brands have ofsales with food-related sales approaching their own market positions and are taking inthe year of 263m, 60%.
We are investing in kitchen market share.
improvements to drive higher maximum up 13% on last year, Destination Pubs cover turns and improve service standards.
Our growing scale, which has facilitated It was another strong year in Destination and LFL food sales Pubs.
Hungry Horse delivered good growth, moving to a central distribution CD system in Local Pubs, taking the total food with LFL sales up over 10% for the third growth of 8.1%.
year running and average weekly turnover distributed through CD to 94%, and increasing buying and food development AWT up 7.0% to 19.0k.
VSQ improvements delivered cover growth of 17%, with further expertise, are allowing us to offset rising cost pressures.
And, we are acquiring dish innovation such as the Leaning Tower of Pizza Burger.
food-led businesses, such as Cloverleaf, andexpanding existing food-led brands, such as Eating Inn and Hungry Horse.
co. uk Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 11 business review retail continued Branding and segmentation continued It was another successful year for All our brands have Destination Pubs continued BelhavenRetail.
LFL sales were 4.1% Our success over the last two to three withall major sales categories in growth.
their own market yearshas led to Hungry Horse winning Coffee sales grew 71%, LFL wine sales were the2011 Great British Pub Food Concept up 6.4% and food grew 130bps to over 30.0% positions and are ofthe Year award.
Old English Inns OEI also had a good year Local Pubs with good LFL sales growth and all major Our Value, Mainstream and Premium segments categories in growth.
all achieved strong LFL sales growth.
In Value, Food covers grew 12% and we introduced a we extended food trading hours and improved cultural change programme to OEI, putting our value proposition with total food spend service and people at the heart of the per head falling 7.0% to below 5, driving customer offer.
We made another step-change in product quality including introducing Our mid-market family dining brand, hand-battered Fish & Chips.
EatingInn, is now up to 14 sites with a further 19 to be developed this year.
Eating In Mainstream, LFL sales growth accelerated Inn offers full table service, a contemporary in the second half of the year driven by strong design, excellent value for money and a fresh, growth in food sales with spend per head healthy food offer.
flat at just over 6 and food covers up 14%.
We enhanced our lunchtime meal deals, Loch Fyne Restaurants LFR saw LFL sales improved our mystery guest scores and slightly down.
We launched the first loyalty increased the amount of fresh food on card in Greene King across a number of trial themenu.
sites in LFR, signing up an average of 300 customers per trial site, of which 72% were Excluding Realpubs, Premium is now 40% new to the database.
Their average transaction of Local Pubs sales value.
LFL sales growth value is 7% higher than the LFR average.
was strong and food is up to 28% of sales.
Weintroduced new feature dishes such as Spend per head was flat, at over 8, while the Fishermans Plate sharing platter and covers grew 9%.
We revamped our segment Awatere Pass Sauvignon Blanc, exclusive operating policies, focusing on improved toLFR, won a gold medal in the recent service standards, we extended our range Sommelier Wine Awards.
ofworld beers, including San Miguel and Estrella Damm, and we began rolling out illycoffee.
com ar11 ceo Eating Inn Our mid-market dining brand, Eating Inn, offers full table service and, with its contemporary design, excellent value for money and a fresh, healthy food offer, it appeals to all ages, from families to couples, old and young.
12 Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 www.
co. uk Business review Food Our priority is to invest behindourfood offer During the year we sold over 36million meals and saw food-related sales approach60%.
Over two million of the meals we sold were fish and chips.
co. uk Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 13 business review pub partners Profitability has improved, for bothPub Partners and licensees, through agreement innovation, increased customer offer control and targeted investment.
Our three-year Greene King tenancy is our most popular agreement and is supported by innovative agreements such as Blueprint, our new franchise-style agreement.
We have also increased our control of the customer offer via value, service and quality contracts with licensees.
Capital investment into estate has increased by 33% to support licensee recruitment and the profit sustainability of each pub.
Our agreements One year Greene King foundation Pub Partners has delivered profit per pub growth and made good progress in further Three year Greene King tenancy improving the quality of its agreements, its licensees, their offers and its pubs.
This was Six to ten year Blueprint franchise agreement in the context of another challenging year for the tenanted and leased sector and the Ten year Greene King lease successful integration of the Belhaven tenanted estate.
Our strategy to reduce the size and improve the quality of the estate is KPIs on track.
We are also driving customer focus throughout Pub Partners, have launched, average number revenue m ebitda m and embedded into the business, our new of pubs trading BII accredited Code of Practice, and we have 1,554 166.4m 82.6m recently won the HIM Tenant Tracker Pub -3.0% -1.4% -1.2% Company of the Year, based on a survey oflicensees across the industry.
In the original Pub Partners estate, excluding Belhaven, LFL EBITDA was 1.0% and average EBITDA 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 per pub was 2.9%.
Operating profit margin was 44.8%, only 10bps below last year.
co. uk Business review Business Development Manager Training Pub Partners has developed a training But the Post Graduate Diploma is programme for their Business Development helping me support my licensees much Managers to ensure that they provide more strategically, planning long term first class business consultancy advice to for the future rather than just their licensees.
Twelve Pub Partners BDMs considering the next couple of years.
are taking apost graduate diploma in multi site retailing with Birmingham City Business School, with the remainder commencing it in October 2011.
Mike Mannion, BDM in the South says, Ive been in this business for 16 years sohave plenty of experience.
PubPartners is driving innovation in Recruiting and retaining the best licensees We are unique itsagreements, including: to run our pubs remains the most important factor in a successful tenanted and leased amongst our main 1.
We have upweighted our recruitment within which Pub Partners directs and team and campaigns, with particular focus competition with controls the product offer, driving a on our online programme, and we have minimum forecast franchisee profit toughened the recruitment process, including ourmystery customer of45k per year: holding final interviews for every prospective licensee with an operations director and programme and 2. Business Builder lower wholesale delivering mandatory training for all new prices are linked to VSQ contracts with licensees.
Bythe year-end, we were receiving ourtraining for licensees and Pub Partners invests up seven enquiries for each vacancy in the to15k: and English estate, compared to four at the end ourBusiness of the first half, while licensee churn fell 3.
Local Hero the pub is transformed into sixpercentage points.
Including Belhaven, Development a local pub, selling local ales and local there were just seven pubs closed for food, supported by local licensees and reopening and 76 TAWs at the year-end, Managers.
while bad debt was 0.7% of sales.
co. uk Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 15 business review pub partners continued There are 60 of these agreements in place, Investment in our pub estate, to support We are also with a further 150 planned for the new ouragreement innovation and our efforts to financial year.
This would take the share improve returns for both Pub Partners and drivingcustomer ofthe core estate under an element of its licensees, has increased 33% to 16.3m.
Greene King control to almost 20%.
Our investments are strategic and focused focusthroughout on improving the long-term profitability We are also unique amongst our main ofan outlet, through improving both the PubPartners.
Our free competitors in two innovative ways.
external dcor and the internal facilities, First, we have introduced a mystery particularly by improving the provision of customer surveys customer programme, called Missing food.
The average return on expansionary Something, to improve service levels and capital was 37%.
have helped many of encourage return visits and spend per head.
Second, we have introduced a diploma for our licensees improve our Business Development Managers BDM the retail offer to their in Multi-Unit Leadership in conjunction with Birmingham City University.
group of our BDMs, across England and Scotland, have already started using their learnings from the course to improve their ways of working and effectiveness in the business, to the benefit of our licensees.
com ar11 ceo Customer satisfaction survey Long term licensees, Dave and Trish It was helpful to bring that toour McManus have run their upmarket attention and make us see whatour destination food pub, The Hare Arms, customers were seeing.
They welcomed the Having a fresh pair of eyes look around initiative, using the results to reward the pub and giving you their honest, great service and improve their offer.
impartial advice is certainly helpful.
Speaking about it, Trish said, The Itmeans we can make small changes to mystery shops are a very good idea.
maintain the high standards for which When you get such great results back, we have become renowned and which its a big boost for our team.
Our recent our customers expect.
survey highlighted some areas in our garden which could be improved.
Wetook that honest feedback on board and now keep an even closer eye on maintaining really high standards outside.
16 Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 www.
co. uk Business review Innovation Pub Partners is driving innovation with a range of new agreements andoffers.
Our new Blueprint agreement is a franchise style agreement designed toimprove tenant profitability and driveimproved levels of value, serviceand qualityfor customers.
This is the Orange Tree at Braintree, a Blueprint pub.
co. uk Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 17 business review brewing and brands Our efficient route to market drives industry-leading investment in an iconic national ale brand portfolio.
Our leading portfolio of national ale brands includes Greene King IPA, Old Speckled Hen, Abbot Ale and Belhaven Best.
Operating from just one English and one Scottish brewery helps us to optimise our production efficiencies to reinvest in our brands.
Our brands Brewing and Brands is the UKs leading independent brewer with the best ale brand portfolio: Greene King IPA, the UKs No.
1 cask ale brand: Old Speckled Hen, the UKs No.
1 premium ale brand: Abbot Ale, the UKs No.
1 premium cask ale brand: and Belhaven Best, Scotlands No.
Our profitable growth is driven by our focus on using an KPIs efficient production and distribution model to maintain the best product quality and revenue m ebitda m consistency in the market and to invest ahead of the market in our core brands.
165.6m 38.3m Own-brewed volumes were -2.0% against 5.0% 1.9% the UK ale market down 6.3%, while total 165.6 38.3 37.6 volumes, driven by another excellent year 157.7 inFree Trade and Belhaven, were up 2.5% against the total UK beer market at -2.1%.
This was converted into revenue up 5.0% to 165.6m, driven by price and mix benefits, while operating profit grew 4.1% to 33.1m.
The margin was just 20bps lower at 20.0% 2010 2011 2010 2011 despite cost increases in the year of 3.4m.
operating profit m operating profit margin % Old Speckled Hen was our biggest selling brand in the year and is the UKs No.
Its leading share of the 4.1% -0.2%pts growing premium off-trade ale market rose70bps to 13.2%.
The brands success is 33.1 20.2 20.0 31.8 supported by sponsorship of prime time on Dave TV, which reaches 17m ale drinkers through the year.
The future for the brand looks strong: in recent research by YouGov, Old Speckled Hen ranked second in brand health within the long alcoholic drinks 2010 2011 2010 2011 18 Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 www.
co. uk Business review Old Speckled HentheUKsNo.
Its leading share of the growing premium off-trade ale market rose 70bps to13.2%.
In recent research by YouGov, OldSpeckled Hen ranked first in allage categories in terms of the alebrand customers most want tosee in their pub or on their supermarket shelf.
category, while it ranked first in all age Brewing and Brands has an intense Brewing and Brands categories in terms of the ale brand focusonproduct quality.
We complete consumers most want to see in their over100 quality checks on each product is the UKs leading puboron their supermarket shelf.
batch, which includes the approval of an independent panel.
No product leaves the independent brewer Greene King IPA outperformed a weak UK brewery without meeting our exacting standard ale market.
We are currently awarded ale brand, a truly national brand with top with thebest ale an A by the British Retail Consortium for five market positions in nine UK regions.
our quality and food safety standards and we The official beer of England Rugby saw over have ISO9001 accreditation and Red Tractor brand portfolio.
2,000 on-trade outlets activating our rugby status for all brands.
We invested 80k in promotional activity.
Installations of our cellar upgrades in Local Pubs, delivering innovative Revolution font are up almost anaverage 12% cask ale volume uplift, 70% to over 1,500 and we are targeting a Old Speckled Hen while3,000 employees have taken our further 1,000 this year.
Revolution continues newCask Beer Masters course.
wasourbiggest selling to deliver excellent rates of sale increases and strong returns.
We invested 1.0m in brand inthe year.
launching our Proper Pint campaign and Very Special Greene King IPA won its first Monde gold award.
Greene King IPA is We successfully completed the integration theUKs No.
1 cask of Belhaven, while Belhaven Best, Scotlands No.
1 ale brand, grew again, with volumes up alebrand.
We again came first in the DRAM awards for customer service in Scotland, including achieving 100% for delivery times, despite the particularly inclement weather.
Belhaven Scottish Stout won a silver medal at the International Beer Awards, maintaining its record of winning an award every year since its launch.
co. uk Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 19 business review outlook Current trading and outlook as our Retail expansion strategy and strong We remain confident Trading conditions in this calendar year group-wide operational performance, have been variable and recently this has driven by value, service and quality, will ofthe prospects been even more pronounced.
As we have underpin another year of growth and previously reported, April was unusually significant progress.
Consumers then reined in their expenditure in May.
June has seen more withourRetail normalised trading, notwithstanding the Rooney Anand tough comparatives with last years Chief executive expansion strategy WorldCup.
29 June 2011 andstrong group-wide In the first eight weeks of our new financial year, Retail LFL sales growth is 1% with operational performance.
underlying LFL growth, excluding the impact of the World Cup, of 3%: Pub Partners average EBITDA per pub growth is 1% withLFL EBITDA at -1%: and core brand own-brewed volume in Brewing and Brandsis -2%.
We anticipate another challenging year as continued high inflation and the impact ofgovernment cutbacks limit consumer spending power.
Despite this, we remain confident of the prospects for Greene King Find out more greenekingreports.
com ar11 ceo 20 Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 www.
co. uk Business review A year driven by value, service &quality www.
co. uk Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 21
