7 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Chief Executives report I am pleased to report a year of progress against the background of continuing pressure on consumers disposable incomes and substantial increases in energy and ingredient costs.
We have grown sales and made Greggs even more accessible to new customers by opening a record number of new shops across the UK.
Increased investment in promotional activity has reinforced our long-established reputation for great value, while our drive to improve efficiency throughout the business has contributed to the delivery of another year of profitable growth.
We have grown sales and made Greggs even more accessible to new customers.
Market background: comparatives with the period of more detail in the Financial Review on pages 11 and 12. consumers under pressure heavy snow in 2010, as well as the more favourable trading pattern Consumers disposable income Our products: of Christmas and New Years Day remained under significant pressure listening to our customers falling on Sundays.
throughout 2011, as they were hit Throughout 2011 we recognised that by the impact of rising costs for Financial performance: customers were seeking out even fuel, domestic energy and food.
in line with expectations greater value and we responded The number of people out of to this with substantial increases In this challenging trading work also continued to grow, with in our promotional investment, environment, we achieved record total unemployment reaching its particularly our popular Meal Deals.
sales of 701 million, a rise of highest level since 1994, and youth A very strong performance in our 5.8 per cent.
Like-for-like sales savouries category during the year unemployment rising to a record increased by 1.4 per cent, slightly further underlined consumers focus of more than one million.
Greggs ahead of our expectations of on outstanding value, with these naturally experienced the effects marginally positive like-for-like products offering a lower average of reduced footfall on high streets growth over the year as a whole.
selling price compared resulting from these tough times Operating profit before exceptional to sandwiches.
for the economy as a whole.
Some items was up 1.2 per cent at 53.0 brighter spots included a shortmillion and pre-tax profit before The breakfast market continued term boost in sentiment around exceptional items rose 1.1 per to grow and we performed the royal wedding in April, and very cent to 53.1 million.
Our Finance strongly in this area, aided by our strong demand over the Christmas Director, Richard Hutton, comments breakfast Meal Deal.
This benefited from softer on our financial performance in also performed very well, following 8 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Chief Executives report - continued completion of the roll-out to all our our move into the motorway with the opening of our 1,500th shops of coffee machines serving services market through a trial with shop in York in March 2011, and freshly ground Fairtrade coffee: we Moto Hospitality Limited.
The first had a total of 1,571 shops at the franchised Greggs shop opened sold a record 17.3 million cups of year end.
We plan to continue our coffee during the year, an increase at Lymm services in Cheshire in investment in shop expansion January 2012 and is performing of 15 per cent.
and refurbishments in the current well.
We will be exploring further year, adding around 90 new shops, Consumers welcome innovation opportunities to open shops in net of closures, by the end of and we launched 180 new products partnership with Moto in the 2012, and refitting a further during the year, an increase of year ahead.
Notable successes We completed 183 shop included our range of Superstar New channels to market refurbishments during the year, Doughnuts, introduced in October, During the year we diversified into making the Greggs shopping of which we sold more than wholesaling as part of our strategy experience even more enjoyable 4.8 million by the year end.
Hot to access new markets.
We believe for our customers by increasing sandwiches also showed good that Greggs has the potential to space for browsing, making more growth as we continued our roll-out expand significantly into the take products available for self-selection of the range, which is now available home food market.
The successful and providing seating wherever in over 700 shops.
trial of Greggs branded four-pack possible.
As part of our continuing frozen sausage rolls was extended The quality of our products was drive to improve customer service to all 750 Iceland stores nationwide recognised by our success in a we completed the installation of in October, with strong results, number of awards during the year.
card payment facilities in all our and we are now working closely This included the British Sandwich shops during the first half and with Iceland to add more Greggs Associations prestigious British introduced contactless payment products to their range.
facilities in the second half.
we have seen no cannibalisation of Our shops: accelerated sales from existing Greggs shops We believe that there are potentially expansion and new formats three types of shop format and have received very positive We set new records for both shop appropriate for Greggs: Food on comments from Greggs customers.
openings and shop refurbishments the go, Local bakery and Coffee Our supply chain: in 2011.
In total we opened 98 new shop.
The Food on the go and investing for future growth shops, a net addition of 84 shops Local bakery formats already after 14 closures, and we have been At Greggs we are both a baker and exist within Greggs but we believe very pleased with the performance a retailer.
This gives us a distinct that there is the potential for a new of these new outlets.
Our new point of difference from most of our coffee shop format.
Therefore, shop in the Westfield Stratford City competitors and a deep passion in September we opened a new development in London broke all for our products and the quality of coffee shop concept, Greggs our records for a first day of trading, their ingredients.
The use of our moment, in Newcastle upon Tyne.
and is already our second highest own unique recipes, and our bakery Greggs moment offers a range turnover shop in the country.
expertise, enables us to make great of specially developed bakery tasting food that our customers food to complement our freshly We have continued to move into love, all at great value prices.
ground coffees and broad selection a wider range of locations where of teas, served in an attractive our customers are at work, on the During 2011 we completed two contemporary environment with move, or at leisure, with one in three major investments in our supply seating on two floors.
It has been of our new shops opening away chain, with the commissioning well received by our customers from traditional high street locations.
in September of new bakeries in and we will be opening three more This included nine openings in retail Newcastle upon Tyne and Penrith.
Greggs moment outlets this parks and six in industrial parks, Our 16.5 million Gosforth Park year as we continue to pursue together with two new shops at bakery in Newcastle replaces an the opportunity presented by the petrol filling stations and a kiosk on older bakery in the city.
Our 4.5 growing coffee shop market.
the concourse of Newcastle railway million Penrith bakery is a specialist station.
In October we announced We passed a significant milestone confectionery facility supplying 9 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 shops throughout the country.
By the end of the in 2011 is not expected to continue Following the opening of these year Greggs Breakfast Clubs were at the same level, and sentiment new facilities we closed our older operating in 180 schools across the should benefit from major national bakery in Penrith as part of the events including the Diamond UK, providing 8,000 children with strategic repositioning of our supply Jubilee celebrations, the London a free, healthy breakfast every day.
Fourteen clubs are now operating Olympics and the Euro 2012 football championship.
We are through partner organisations Both new bakeries were completed planning to make the most of and I am delighted that more on time and within budget, and these opportunities while focusing companies are becoming involved without any interruption in the throughout the year on maximising in supporting Breakfast Clubs.
supply chain to our customers: our customer appeal through We are enormously grateful to a major achievement that is a continued product innovation and these organisations for having the testament to the expertise of our promotional activity.
vision and compassion to tackle bakery teams.
Operationally, both child poverty right here in the UK.
bakeries are performing very As we expected, there has been a We were particularly pleased to be well and delivering the expected slow start to 2012.
The pattern of able to open five new clubs during improvements in efficiency as well Christmas and New Year holiday the second half in areas of London, as providing us with increased trading that contributed to the Birmingham, Manchester and capacity to support our continued strength of our sales at the close Liverpool affected by the summer shop expansion.
of 2011 reversed in the first week of riots.
I would also like to pay tribute January, and two weeks of severe Across our supply chain as a whole, to the head teachers, their staff and weather, with snow and ice in many our investment in more efficient the volunteers who make these parts of the country, also had an processes has delivered significant clubs work so brilliantly.
Total sales savings and we now expect to for the first ten weeks of the current achieve our targeted 10 million of Our people: our greatest strength financial year to 10 March 2012 are annual savings two years ahead of We remain indebted to our up 3.3 per cent, with like-for-like schedule in 2012. people for their incredible energy, sales down by 1.8 per cent.
It is enthusiasm and commitment to In 2012 we will not be making the too early to tell if this slower start is same level of investments in our delivering products and service a sign of a more prolonged trend in that will delight our customers.
supply chain that have been a sales, however we have managed I am particularly pleased that we feature of the last two years.
We will costs well through this period and complete a 2.5 million upgrade of were able to create more than 800 our profit performance remains our savoury manufacturing plant in new retail jobs through our shop on target.
Newcastle, which will increase its opening programme during the Total sales this year will benefit from capacity by 10 per cent.
In addition year, lifting the total number of the opening of around 90 net new we will also invest in a micro Greggs employees above 20,000 shops, creating a further 700 - 800 bakery in Norwich to support our for the first time.
We continue to new retail jobs and making Greggs expansion in East Anglia, an area share 10 per cent of our profits with even more accessible to customers outside the reach of our main our people and I am delighted that across the UK.
We will also continue bakeries.
a record 5.9 million will be shared to drive our programmes of among our staff in respect of our Social responsibility: efficiency improvements throughout performance in 2011. doing the right thing the business.
Our strategy for long At Greggs we have always prided Outlook for 2012 term growth is well on track, and I ourselves on doing the right This will undoubtedly be another believe that 2012 will be a year of thing, whether for our people, our challenging year for UK consumers, further progress for Greggs.
customers, local communities or with disposable incomes expected Kennedy McMeikan the environment.
to continue contracting well into Chief Executive One great example of this has the second half.
However, the 14 March 2012 severe inflationary pressure on been the fantastic work done by so many to support children in fuel, domestic energy and food some of the most disadvantaged costs that the consumer suffered We sold over 800,000 porridge pots in 2011, as part of our new, wider breakfast range.
