26 Business Review Chief Executives Review David Wild In our Retail business we have also Chief Executive built sales through Halfords.
com, made progress with our store portfolio refresh programme and significantly extended our wefit services.
Introduction Within Retail, sales across the year on a like-for-like basis LfL averaged -5.5% as customers responded to economic The UK and ROI retail sector is going through one of the conditions.
Our sales performance was also affected by some toughest times for many years.
A combination of low economic one-off factors like supply issues from the Far East following the growth, higher taxes and successive increases in VAT to 20% Chinese New Year, reduced availability during the commissioning have reduced disposable income while higher raw material and of our new Distribution Centre and the product balance in our fuel costs have put pressure on input prices.
Halfords response has been to do what we do best to offer Car Maintenance had a solid performance growing by 0.6% LfL great value to our customers through the quality and price of our and a raise in market share.
We saw strong sales during products and the expertise and service of our colleagues.
In our Decembers severe winter weather when products like antiRetail business we have also built sales through Halfords.
com, freeze, fide-icer and scrapers sold in record volumes.
made progress with our store portfolio refresh programme and significantly extended our wefit services.
We have done this Our wefit service has seen another year of strong growth.
We whilst managing costs sensibly and investing for the future.
Our now fit 23.5% of the bulbs, blades and batteries we sell as more Autocentres business, acquired in February 2010, was customers look to Halfords for expert help with basic car rebranded during the year and is now positioned to leverage the maintenance.
Halfords brand in the automotive aftercare sector.
Car Enhancement suffered from the continued market We completed the closure of our operation in Central Europe to contraction of Sat Nav and Audio.
Halfords consistently gained focus on the growth opportunities in the near term.
share in a declining Sat Nav market across the year.
Audio gained market share in the last three months, through better Review of Trading deals with branded suppliers and a focus on accessory sales.
In what has been a difficult trading year the Group generated an 7.2% increase in underlying PBT and continued cash generation In Leisure we again saw increases in the sales of tents and for shareholders through good cost management and margin camping equipment and increased market share.
Cycle sales control with free cash flow of 54.7m, after paying dividends of were less buoyant, due in part to the range issues in the Spring 46.2m.
Summer and winter snow that slowed sales pre-Christmas.
Group sales were 869.7m, up 4.6% overall.
com business has grown strongly across the year.
acquisition of our Autocentres business, which added 98.1m of Sales have increased by 36.4% and now represent 9.2% of total sales to our Retail sales of 771.6m.
We have invested in better technology, site information and deals.
18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 27 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com While the sales performance has been challenging, this year has been a period of significant operational progress for the group.
Sales at our Autocentres business were also affected by economic conditions and sales decreased by 0.6% LfL as drivers Group Revenue cut back on mileage and deferred some repair work.
We also decided to delay our marketing spend until the completion of rebranding and refurbishment of the whole Autocentres estate so Car maintenence 31% 242.6m that we could advertise on a national basis.
Since the relaunch of the centres and a new Autocentres Website we have seen encouraging signs of increased awareness and sales.
Car enhancement Group 29% 219.6m Revenue Operational progress 869.7m While the sales performance has been challenging, this year has Leisure 40% 309.4m been a period of significant operational progress for the group.
Our major initiatives have enhanced customer service, reduced costs and established a solid platform for future growth.
We successfully reconfigured our distribution network with a new Distribution Centre at Coventry, equipped with state-of-the-art Retail logistics technology.
Following some initial disruption, the new 88.7% 771.6m DC is now running smoothly and was a major contributor to the Autocentres excellent availability of winter products in our stores pre- 11.3% 98.1m Christmas.
The second element of our revised logistics is our Redditch warehouse dedicated to cycles.
We also reorganised our store staff structure and rostering wefit werepair schedule and strengthened store management.
This makes 5.9% jobs more staff available to serve customers during peak periods, 35.5% 000s 2,263 provides a clearer career path for colleagues and brings savings 2,136 in our overall cost of labour.
97.0% 5.9% New brand campaign 1,576 Our plans for the year ahead are supported by the launch of our new brand campaign thats helpful, thats halfords.
This reinforces our unique service proposition, demonstrating how we understand our customers needs and can help them live life on 800 the move.
These initiatives give us the potential to trade more strongly in the year ahead.
2008 2009 2010 2011 Retail Our consistent strategy continues to provide a roadmap for the development of our retail business.
Whilst the economic environment will remain tough in the year ahead, we remain confident that our leading positions in strong markets, and the continued development of our multichannel offer will continue to provide good opportunities for future growth, backed by active gross margin management and tight cost control.
Our ongoing focus is to offer great value to our customers through the quality and price of our products and the expertise and service of our colleagues.
18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction 28 Business Review Chief Executives Review continued We will: Looking to the year ahead our focus on product innovation continues.
We have launched a 2011 range of Boardman cycles, 1.
Extend our range and service advantage designed exclusively for Halfords in the UK by former Olympic Champion Chris Boardman.
This completely new range of 17 2.
Invest in our store portfolio models has already been widely acclaimed for its leading 3.
Continue to focus on cost control designs, construction and price competitiveness and is endorsed by world famous riders like Alistair Brownlee, the reigning World 4.
Leverage the Halfords brand in multichannel Triathlon champion.
Halfords also has an exclusive arrangement 1.
Extending our range and service advantage to sell Voodoo bikes in the UK, designed by Joe Murray, the Range award-winning American mountain biker.
This range offers a Halfords Retail maintains market-leading positions across a premium product to the serious mountain bike rider and we have unique blend of categories with ranges of unrivalled breadth and introduced a new range for this year.
Our scale provides a unique ability to develop and source Most of the bikes we sell we also build for our customers.
This high quality, own brand alternatives to branded ranges.
These year we are extending our range to include our Trax brand sold offer customers real value through innovative, high specification boxed for self assembly.
This quality bike will be available at products at great prices and create a competitive advantage for entry-level prices and gives Halfords a competitive offer against Halfords.
This programme complements the close association supermarkets and other non-specialist outlets.
These innovations and exclusivity we have with many leading global manufacturers mean that Halfords is uniquely positioned to compete strongly at brands.
all levels of the cycle market from entry level boxed bikes to Halfords Apollo is the nations leading bike brand and this year premium cycles for the competitive rider.
we completely relaunched the range with 16 new models with Extending our Service stronger designs and a focus on the trend towards hybrid bikes The expert knowledge, advice and service of our instore for adults.
In our Travel Solutions ranges we successfully colleagues are at the heart of the Halfords customer offer.
They launched a new exclusive brand of child seats called Pampero sell and fit many of our products and this differentiates Halfords and a redesigned range of Exodus roof boxes.
We developed from our competition, acts as a barrier to market entry and and extended our camping range and were particularly generates attractive levels of return.
successful with our Halfords and Urban Escape branded tent packs.
Meanwhile in Car Entertainment we were the first movers in the development of a digital radio offering through the introduction of our new own-brand Sonichi units.
18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 29 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com We build 95% of the bikes we sell and all new bikes come with the offer of a free six-week first service.
Sales of our Bike Care Plan, which provides repairs free of labour charges, increased by over 28.3% during Sales of our Bike Care Plan, which the year and have contributed to a 16.3% increase in our service sales provides repairs free of labour revenue.
charges, increased by over 28.3% All product categories include a core service element, for instance, more than 2,000 colleagues are professionally trained and accredited by RoSPA to fit child seats to cars.
The foundation of our fitting proposition though is wefit, the on-demand fitting of Car Bulbs, Windscreen Blades and Batteries, 3Bs, by our trained in-store colleagues.
During the year some 1.91 million wefit jobs were completed and 23.5% of all 3Bs sold were also fitted.
Our strategy is to grow awareness of our fitting capability and to continue to invest in technical and skills training of colleagues so that we can further increase fitting levels.
We have set stretching targets for the year ahead to increase awareness, uptake and revenue from our service offer.
Our colleagues, in all areas of our business, are of paramount importance to the provision of both our services and our helpfulness to our customers.
Their passion and abilities are central to the delivery of our strategic objectives and we are extremely proud of their commitment and enthusiasm.
18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction 30 Business Review 2.
Investing In The Store Portfolio 4.
Leveraging the Halfords brand in multichannel The location, assortment and layout of the Halfords Retail store estate Online sales have grown rapidly during the year by 36.4%, ahead of the is a key element of our customer proposition.
Online sales currently represent approximately 9.2% of Halfords Retail sales.
With 466 stores trading throughout the UK and Ireland our scale supports our position as the store of first choice.
90% of our customers We have made enhancing our online offer and further extending our live within a 20-minute journey of one of our stores.
multichannel presence an investment priority.
In line with market trends, we continue to increase the amount of advertising dedicated to this We have refurbished 26 stores with plans for 50 more in the next medium.
This year customers have also added 26,000 ratings and twelve months.
The sales uplifts are encouraging and represent a good reviews, which together with our Ask and Answer facility allows return on the invested capital.
In London we are exploring new formats, customers to tap into the expertise and experience of other users.
reflecting the shortage of suitable Superstore opportunities.
In addition to extending the site functionality, we have increased the 3.
Ongoing focus on cost control range of products we offer online.
Much of the additional inventory is We are committed to an ongoing focus on cost control.
This ensures managed in partnership with 3rd party suppliers, this reduces stock efficient use of resources, the correct operating base for the prevailing costs and obsolescence risk.
economic environment and the headroom to fund strategic investments Our strategy is to seamlessly integrate halfords.
com and our store in future growth.
Our product mix lends itself to this strategy, as customers Our three major initiatives this year included the reconfiguration of our often want further advice, or a demonstration and fitting.
Our online distribution network, the review of our store labour structure and ordering service offers customers the option of direct delivery or to favourable negotiations with landlords.
reserve and collect items at their local store.
85% of online transactions are collected in store.
The ability to add further expert advice and We have a flexible sourcing policy and work closely with suppliers service to our online mix gives Halfords a differentiated offer and a around the globe to ensure we achieve the most competitive product competitive advantage.
Our sourcing team based in Asia control all aspects of the supply chain to eliminate unnecessary costs in transport, shipping and stock Autocentres holding.
This has been a year of significant progress and integration since we Looking to the year ahead, payroll, energy and occupancy costs are acquired the business in February 2010.
We carried out detailed expected to increase the underlying cost base by around 2.5%.
customer research on how to apply the Halfords brand into the auto Planned investments in incentives and IT infrastructure will add a further servicing market and then rebranded and refurbished the whole estate 1.5%.
Product cost pressures are also increasing, but our market of 240 service centres as Halfords Autocentres in a rolling programme leading positions and sourcing options provide some flexibility.
18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 l t a l a r u i f e d p c n l p e a e r h O b p s t s a s d h r T o f l a H e h t g s n i d s g n r o a s i f r l e e h a v t H n e L w i s t s a o h u t r l g u b f p e l e e e v c r h i i v r o s r t e D a c S h T & e g n a R g s n i d e d r S v r n o o R f e e l M t e a E x e H c m E D h s a t L t o f n a O h t o Halfords Group plc Online version 31 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com t Shareholder Value Since rebranding was completed we have been actively promoting We believe Halfords unique, market-leading position provides strong Halfords Autocentres through a national radio campaign and online potential for us to consolidate further the fragmented markets in which marketing with encouraging results.
Our Autocentre business gives us a market leading position in a large and unconsolidated market and opens another Halfords Autocentres is an excellent complement to Halfords Retail, exciting avenue of growth for Halfords.
building on our growing car parts and wefit service business.
Car aftercare is a large and highly attractive sector with a value of 9bn.
We expect the consumer environment to remain challenging, but we Capacity is shrinking as the number of independent garages declines have demonstrated that our business can make good progress in these leading to increasing demand from motorists for a reliable, quality conditions.
Our market leading positions, ongoing actions to reduce independent operator.
costs and strong cash flow characteristics provide a solid platform for medium term growth through our core strategic growth initiatives.
The long-term growth opportunity of this business remains compelling given the market size, its fragmentation, the strength of the Halfords Through this focus on creating value for our customers and active Autocentres proposition and the potential to leverage the Halfords management of the business, the Board believes the Group is well brand.
During the year we also opened 16 new centres, 30 new centres positioned for the year ahead.
are targeted in FY12 and in the medium term we believe there is an This has been a demanding year for the business and our colleagues opportunity for up to 600 centres nationally.
Further growth have risen to the challenges of the year with energy and determination.
opportunities exist from fleet customers and accelerating tyre sales.
It is a pleasure to lead such a great team of people and I would like to Benefits of the operational gearing of the Autocentres business are thank them for their adaptability and hard work in the tough expected as sales improve, supported by cost and purchasing environment in which we currently operate.
Summary and outlook David Wild Halfords retains clear leadership in its core retail markets of cycling and Chief Executive Officer car maintenance.
We are a resilient business with an excellent brand 8 June 2011 and have adapted to the changing needs of our customers by creating innovative, quality products at great prices supported by the expertise and service of colleagues.
18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 e s e l H l f u i S g u f E S L p o n R l i c R R l e g A i o S n A h L f S R i t p o E A L s H r e L I t o L t e P a I S K p D P h C T C e I I L r G G o E T E t A O s T R A T e S R H h - t T L S A n E N i s P O g I d R U T n r A O i o R t e R E A f s l P t e G a c O s v H H n o I s f S t c a o h Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction t t - l s u k f a l p o c e l r t e a L n h o b s c t a t h s T o c n o s u c o f s d g n r n o i o l f o l i a g a t n n H a O s o s t i a t i h
