Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 10 Directors Report Business Review Strategy and Performance continued Return on Sales ROTIC Return on Total Invested Capital We choose to operate in markets which are capable of delivering high returns.
The ability to sustain Strategic focus these returns is a product of maintaining strong market and product positions together with excellent management of our operations and assets.
Return on Sales ROTIC KPI denition Return on Sales is dened as adjusted profit Return on Total Invested Capital is dened as 1 before taxation from continuing operations thepost-tax return from continuing operations expressed as a percentage of revenue from before amortisation of acquired intangibles continuing operations.
asapercentage of adjusted shareholders funds as detailed in note 3 to the Accounts.
2010 11 performance 1 1 Return on Sales % ROTIC % 25 20 20 15 15 10 10 5 5 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 0 Target 18% Target 12% Performance 20.2% Performance 15.5% High returns achieved representing a significant High returns maintained in excess of our Comment improvement in performance against the long-term Weighted Average Cost of Capital previous year.
This performance reects both WACC of 8.5% 2010: 8.5%.
good management to ensure increases in xed Earnings increased faster than our asset base and variable costs do not overtake revenue due to good operational management and growth, and the quality of acquisitions.
We aim to achieve a Return on Sales within the The target of 12% was set in 2005 when the 2011 12 target 18% to 22% range whilst continuing to deliver Groups ROTIC was 12.1% and WACC was profit growth.
Arange of 12% to 14% is considered representative of the Boards expectations overthe long term.
Link to other disclosures Chief Executives Strategic Review, Chief Executives Strategic Review, FinancialReview.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11 ROCE Return on Operating Cash to profit Capital Employed Generating sufciently high levels of cash provides the Group with freedom to pursue its strategic goals of organic growth, acquisitions and progressive dividends without becoming highly-leveraged.
ROCE Operating Cash to profit Return on Capital Employed is dened as the Cash generated from operations expressed as operating profit from continuing operations apercentage of adjusted profit from continuing 1 before amortisation of acquired intangibles operations.
asapercentage of capital employed as detailed in note 3 to the Accounts.
Cash conversion of 108% was above the target, The significant increase in recent years is due to an excellent performance across the Group.
concerted efforts to improve profitability and improve efficiency in our operations.
The target of 45% is set in order to ensure the The goal of cash inow exceeding 100% is a efficient generation of cash at all levels to fund metric that has relevance at all levels of the organic growth, closely targeted acquisitions organisation and aligns management action andsustained dividend growth without Halma withthe strategic goals of organic growth, becoming a highly-leveraged group.
Chief Executives Strategic Review, Financial Review.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Directors Report Business Review Higher rates of return 1 Return on Sales increased to 20.2% 2010:18.8% reecting excellent operational management across the Group, an impressive recovery in Industrial Safety and the increasing proportion of our revenue coming from the Health and Analysis sector.
Our strategic objective is to operate in the 18% to 22% range for Return on Sales and recent acquisitions support this goal.
All Halma companies are incentivised to deliver both profit growth and high return on capital.
This year, the average Return 1 onCapital Employed of our operating companies increased to 71.9% 2010: 61.3% demonstrating the strength of our operational management and the benets of decentralised, light-assembly manufacturing operations.
Andrew Williams The combination of strong earnings growth, Chief Executive effective operational management and paying sensible prices for acquisitions resulted in Halmas post-tax Return on Record results and increased strategic investment TotalInvested Capital improving to15.5% Halma has had a terric year, achieving strong organic growth and 2010: 13.6%.
addinggreater product and market strength to our existing business sectors through acquisitions.
We are creating value for customers and Growth in all regions and sectors shareholders in the short term, yet we are also increasing investment Revenue from the USA increased by 18% to for growth in the future.
We have a proven product, market and operational 150m 2010: 127m and Europe was up by strategy which adapts as technology and market needs change.
We achieved 8% growth in the UK, which now represents just 20% of total revenue at 106m 2010: 98m.
1 Adjusted profit increased by 21% to 2013 and therefore have the capital Revenue from outside our largest markets 104.6m 2010: 86.2m, including strong resources available for further acquisitions in Europe and the USA increased by 26% to underlying organic growth of 19%, and a 2% in 2011 12, should we nd the right 124m 2010: 98m, contributing 24% of the contribution from recent acquisitions.
The strongest performance Therewas a minimal 1% positive impact After a strong first half year it was came from the Far East and Australasia on profit and revenue growth due to encouraging to see order intake growth region, which increased by 29%.
China grew currency exchange rate movements.
momentum maintained throughout the by 28% to 23.6m 2010: 18.4m.
second half, continuing to run slightly Health and Analysis is now Halmas Organic growth of 11% underlined the fact aheadof revenue, giving us a positive largestsector that our continued investment in startto 2011 12.
Health and Analysis performed strongly to management development, innovation and Halmas sustained high level of performance become our largest sector.
Revenue was up emerging markets is enabling us to achieve 2 over the past four decades has been by 23% to 218m 2010: 178m whilst profit and sustain higher rates of growth.
achieved through the commitment, was 33% higher at 46m 2010: 35m, Acquisitions contributed 2% to growth.
innovation and excellence of our employees.
All four Cash generation and operational However, I believe their achievements sub-sectors increased revenue and profit.
management were excellent across the during the recent financial downturn have Growth was stronger in the USA and UK Group.
We ended the year in a strong been outstanding.
I would like to thank all than Mainland Europe, with revenue outside financial position with net debt of 37m Halma employees for both their contribution these core territories increasing by 34% to 2010: 9m net cash after having spent to these successes and in ensuring that we 53m 2010: 40m.
Here Photonics, Fluid 82m 2010: 2m on acquisitions and are well placed to achieve even greater Technology and Health Optics made the payinga total of 33m 2010: 30m to things in the future.
major contributions whilst Water made shareholders in dividends.
We have core greater progress in the developed countries.
borrowing facilities of 165m in place until Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 13 21 1 1% % % profit Infrastructure Sensors made revenue and 10% per annum profit Innovation excellence in Halma is recognised goodprogress reecting our ability toconsistently through the monthly Eureka award and the Our Infrastructure Sensor sector has outperform our markets by building Halma Annual Innovation Award.
Both are continued to increase profit throughout the sustainable competitive advantage through open to all employees, and award a top prize downturn with demand largely driven by our products and customer service.
safety regulation globally and increasing International expansion with a focus on Asia The Halma Annual Innovation Award for urbanisation of population in developing Our strategic objective is for at least 30% of 2011 was won by an employee from Ocean countries.
This year revenue was up by 8% revenue to come from outside the UK, USA Optics who developed a new way of testing 2 to 197m 2010: 183m whilst profit grew and Mainland Europe by 2015 2011: 24% products, resulting in superior product by 10% to 39m 2010: 36m.
Steady growth and, bythat time, for China to be 10% of the quality, faster lead times for customers was achieved in the UK, USA and Mainland Group total 2011: 4.5%.
anda 400,000 annual cost saving for the Europe with an encouraging 20% increase company.
The runners-up included the Since 2006, we have made a series of from outside these three regions.
All four Ricochet wireless security sensor system strategic central investments in China and sub-sectors increased revenue and profit.
from Texecom and the Memcom elevator India to accelerate the rate at which Halma Elevator Safety and Door Sensors emergency telephone from Memco.
subsidiaries can establish a local presence performed very well in the Far East and to design, sell and manufacture their R&D expenditure in 2010 11 increased Australasia whilst our Security business products in these faster growth economies.
by20% to 26m 2010: 21m, equivalent made good progress in all regions, most to5% of revenue and well above our notably in South Africa.
Fire Detection had In the past year, we opened three new minimum spend target of 4% of revenue.
apositive year, especially in the USA.
regional ofces in China Guangzhou, R&D investment is greater in our higher Chengdu and Shenyang, expanded our Industrial Safety achieved high profit technology businesses where the execution Door Sensor manufacturing facilities and growth and Return on Sales risk on new product development is higher acquired the assets of a Beijing based Industrial Safety maintained the positive too.
In response to this challenge, we business to give us a local manufacturing momentum it had coming into the year to haveestablished a training programme base for our Fire Detection products.
Revenue forourtechnical engineers called Halma improved by 5% to 103m 2010: 98m In India, 10 companies now have a direct Certicate in Applied Technology HCAT.
2 whilst profit grew by 20% to 25m 2010: presence in our Halma hub in Mumbai HCAT provides engineers with training 20m giving a Return on Sales of 24%, compared with five at the start of the year.
innance and project management as thehighest of our three sectors.
All four During the past year, revenue from India wellas providing them with the opportunity sub-sectors increased profit whilst all, grew by 32% to 6.4m.
to visit and network across other except Safety Interlocks, grew revenue.
More Halma companies are investigating Revenue grew steadily in the UK and USA.
establishing adirect presence in South Management development InMainland Europe, there was a slight America.
In the coming year, we will Halmas decentralised operating structure decline in revenue due to the non-repeat determine whether anycentral investment relies on local managers making good, ofa major order for Safety Interlocks is appropriate to accelerate this process.
timely decisions in the best interests of their lastyear although this was more than business.
R&D, manufacturing, sales and compensated for by 34% growth in the High rate of innovation administrative resources are controlled FarEast and Australasia.
Product and process innovation enables us locally where the intimate knowledge of to build competitive advantage, gain market market dynamics and customer needs Clear strategic priorities share and sustain high financial returns.
Strategic objectives, annual We aim to operate in global specialised AllHalma businesses measure the direct performance, goals and management markets offering long-term growth and contribution of major innovations in their incentives are aligned together with a real establish strong market positions with business each month and increasingly are commitment to attract and develop high products and technology that can sustain collaborating more with each other to share quality talent at all levels.
Our strategic priorities guide best practice or nd new solutions to our activities and resource allocation at both technical and operational problems.
In May Halma offers a range of training a corporate and subsidiary company level 2011, we held our second Halma Innovation programmes for employees including the ensuring a balance between organic and and Technology Exposition in Orlando, Halma Executive Development Programme acquisition led growth in the medium term.
The focal point of HITE is a two-day HEDP, Halma Management Development exhibition where every Halma company Programme HMDP and Halma Certicate Organic growth exhibits transferrable technology and in Applied Technology HCAT.
During We aim to continue to deliver organic processes to each other.
This ability to 2010 11, over 130 employees attended these growth above the blended medium-term transfer state of the art technology from one Halma-run programmes and many more growth rates of our end markets, which sector to another is something most of our benefited from training provided by their webelieve to be at least 5%.
Over the past competitors simply dont have.
The value of this veyears, the average of our annual organic investment is shown both in our excellent growth rates has been 8% per annum
