Directors report | business review chief executives strategic review building a stronger, broader based and more efficient business alistair cox Chief exeCutive Our businesses in Brisbane, Christchurch and Tokyo each faced natural We have continued to invest rapidly disasters of unprecedented scale during the second half of the year.
The disruption created in each location was severe and we all witnessed the across the growth areas of the business, heart-rending scenes of destruction and loss.
It is a testament to the while keeping firm control on costs and spirit and commitment of all our people in each of these businesses who overcame these harshest of challenges and quickly re-established raising the productivity of our consultant operations.
I thank each and every one of them for their outstanding efforts and they are a credit to our company.
strategic progress in 2011 review of performance in 2011 As well as delivering strong financial results in the short term, we also We delivered a strong set of results in 2011, despite the challenges of the have a clearly laid out ambition to build the pre-eminent global business markets and the economic uncertainties that we have faced.
Our focus in professional recruitment.
Last year I set out our key priorities for the has been to react quickly to those challenges and to capitalise on every year towards achieving this goal and I am pleased to say that we have opportunity that came our way.
By doing so, we grew our Group net 1 made significant progress in each area.
fees by 18% and I see that as a very encouraging start to our recovery since the depths of the economic downturn.
What is also reassuring International growth and diversification is how widespread this recovery has been around the world.
TwentyTen years ago just 14% of our net fees were generated outside the 1 two countries grew their net fees by over 20%, with 12 of those UK.
Today 67% of our net fees come from our International divisions 1 countries recording over 40% net fee growth.
The investments we and I expect this trend to continue after another excellent year of have made over the last few years to expand our footprint globally international growth.
is very clearly paying off when we see that level of growth rate, all Ours is an industry characterised by a very small number of relatively of it delivered organically.
mature markets around the world and a very large number of immature We have successfully turned our fee growth into profit growth too, markets where the concept of using agencies to help source 1 2 with Group operating profit increasing by 33%.
We have achieved professional and skilled people to fill key roles in business is new.
In this by carefully balancing our investment across the business, keeping these immature markets, clients tend to undertake their professional firm control on costs and raising the productivity of our consultant base recruitment in-house.
Our challenge and opportunity is to demonstrate worldwide.
At the same time we have further grown our network, to these new markets the value we can bring as a result of our deep building ever greater scale in existing locations, as well as expanding expertise and understanding of the talent marketplace they need to into new cities and countries.
access, whether that is for local resources or looking further afield for resources from the global market.
With a business as diverse as ours, and with the world economies at this early stage of recovery, it is to be expected that our performance Over the years we have developed our approach so that we can now around the world shows some variation.
We saw this impact this year, very quickly establish and then grow new businesses in new markets 1 with the International business growing net fees by 31% an excellent at very little risk.
We are at the vanguard of our industry in terms of result but the UK remaining broadly flat as the UK Governments opening up these opportunities: building scale in existing operations, austerity drive severely impacted recruitment in the public sector.
expanding city networks in existing countries and opening up new Consequently our net fees in the UK public sector fell by 35% and the countries.
The results this year speak for themselves, having opened public sector now represents just 22% of the UKs net fees.
however, offices in 12 new cities around the world, launched operations in Mexico over three-quarters of our UK business is now in the private sector and the United States and increased our international consultant base and here we delivered strong net fee growth of 19% in a market still by 27% to around 2,800 consultants.
Consequently, we are currently characterised by fragile client and candidate confidence.
Clearly, well on track to deliver on our ambition set out in April 2010 to double however, we are not happy with the overall UK operating profit of 3.6 our international consultant headcount over a five-year period.
We have already taken further action to reduce our cost base in line with market activity and are very focused on raising productivity in a market that remains difficult but not without opportunity.
1 L FL like-for-like growth represents organic growth for continuing activities at constant currency.
13 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2011 Directors report | business review chief executives strategic review CONTINUED hays in action: LEvERAGING OUR GLOBAL BUSINESS over 40% of the CAndidAtes i hAve PLACed in singAPore hAve been sourCed internAtionALLy Jon hampson, hays Singapore In the past 12 months over 40% of the candidates Jon hampson has been working in our fastI have placed in Singapore have been sourced growing Singapore office for just over a year.
We have to search further afield his team focuses on finance technology because the required specialist skills are difficult to roles, largely into the banking sector.
hays new global database has been considerable demand for experienced skills instrumental in identifying quality candidates across that are not always available locally.
By our international markets, and this is one of the factors that sets us apart from the competition.
utilising hays global database and network, We have succeeded in finding the highest quality he is able to access candidates from a global candidates possible for our clients, wherever they talentpool.
Jon hampson Associate Director hays Singapore 14 Directors report | business review Driving productivity and operational effectiveness hays in action: Our business is all about our expert consultants helping other DEvELOPING BUSINESS LEADERS professionals find the next role in their career or the resources they need for their own business.
It is the ultimate people business.
however, Alexander heise, hays Germany it is also a business that can use technology to great effect to enhance customer service and make us more efficient in what we do.
We have invested in our core technology platforms and, having substantially completed our systems programmes, we are now focused on exploiting our technology to deliver returns on our investment.
The power of our database allows our consultants to very quickly identify the best people for our clients vacancies and thereby raise their productivity.
Our new internet and mobile platforms provide effective channels to market, communicate and transact with our clients and candidates.
Our UK back-office automation programme streamlines and automates areas such as timesheets, payment and billing processes, thereby speeding up our administration, reducing costs, delivering better service to our customers and above all, providing us for the first time with a fully scalable system that can handle significantly higher volumes of work without significantly increasing costs.
Elsewhere, we have continually managed our cost base to align with local market demand.
In most of our International operations this has resulted in investment in terms of increased headcount and office network capacity.
In the UK, where the markets have been more challenging, we have further reduced costs, trimming our employee numbers, closing 23 smaller offices over the year and restructuring the non-fee-earning team.
These changes were completed before the end of the year as we saw confidence in the UK market soften and are expected to yield i hAve deveLoPed around 7 million of cost savings per year going forward.
Attract, develop and retain the best people in the industry the sKiLLs to To be the best in our industry, we need to bring in the best new recruits LeAd And locally, deliver to them the very best training available and give them career opportunities second to none.
Demand for our services can grow mAnAge our very quickly so our ability to find and induct successful new consultants is a key aspect of our success.
To achieve this, we have invested in our fAst-growing consultant attraction programmes and this has been instrumental in successfully increasing our International consultant headcount by nearly business 600 people over the year to fuel our growth.
Our employees now span 69 different nationalities demonstrating how international our business truly is.
We have also significantly raised our investment in consultant and management training and development programmes.
Our hays Training and development is a fundamental part Academies standardise the training we deliver around the world of our culture: it embeds the hays DNA in every and are aimed at providing the Gold Standard of consultant training team and individual across the globe.
We spoke to anywhere in our industry.
Similarly, we have introduced advanced management and leadership programmes in conjunction with some Alexander heise, Business Director in Germany, to of the worlds leading business schools, designed to equip our discover how he had benefitted from attending our global leaders with the skills to run ever larger and more complex international leadership programme.
Over 150 of our senior team are currently going through these programmes.
I recently attended our international leadership programme, a course put in place for our senior business leaders.
This course was specifically targeted at broadening the range of skills needed to lead and manage our fast-growing business.
Networking with my fellow business leaders from across the Group, we openly discussed the opportunities in our markets and shared ideas on how to best capitalise on them.
Alexander heise Business Director hays Germany 15 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2011 Directors report | business review chief executives strategic review CONTINUED key characteristics that will drive hays long-term growth PURE PLAy SPECIALIST BALANCED PORTFOLIO 31 countries 20 specialisms temp and perm RECRUITMENT 672m net fees 255 offices STRONG COST CONTROL market-leading conversion rate % flexible cost base MARKET-LEADING POSITIONS top 3 in our core markets STATE-OF-ThE-ART TEChNOLOGy market-leading it systems ATTRACTIvE MARKETS WORLDWIDE PROvEN MANAGEMENT strong long-term growth drivers underpinned by hays dna BUSINESS MODEL REPLICATES hIGhLy CASh GENERATIvE self-funding growth low expansion risk low capital intensity surplus cash returned Finally, as a global business with the largest consultant base in our programmes, how we build relationships with our customers or how we industry in the world, we have taken the opportunity to move significant provide expert insights into the professional employment marketplace.
numbers of our people internationally into new markets to enable us We have made significant progress on this front over the year and two to grow quickly and securely.
Over 100 of our employees have moved excellent new examples of how we bring this value to the world we live around the world, for example from Australia to China and Japan, from in are the hays Journal and our report on Creating Jobs in a Global Japan to the US, from France and Portugal to Mexico and from the UK Economy, published in conjunction with Oxford Economics.
The hays to many of our markets.
Not only does this provide our people with Journal is designed to bring real and practical insight to our clients unprecedented career opportunities but importantly it transfers skills, and candidates about the issues we know they face in the world of knowledge and experience, our hays DNA, around the Group making professional work and the feedback we have received from all around us a stronger and more integrated business and creating a broader the world on our first publication has been enormously encouraging.
platform for growth in the future.
Similarly, the Creating Jobs in a Global Economy report highlights the profound changes we are likely to see in global workforce populations Leveraging our brand within our own lifetimes, together with an approach on how society and Building the leading business in our industry means building the leading business may address these challenges.
Both of these publications can brand too.
Our brand as the Experts in Professional Recruitment sits at be found at haysplc.
the heart of everything we do, whether it be the design of our training 16 Directors report | business review Delivering exceptional customer service priorities for 2012 As a leading professional recruitment business we advise our Our ambitions remain unchanged and our priorities for 2012 emphasise candidates and clients through one of their most difficult decisionthis.
Our task is to balance the long-term development of a business at making processes, and we help ensure these decisions are the right the forefront of opening up our industry in multiple markets around ones.
We call this Powering the World of Work.
Our key differentiator the world, with the shorter-term need to continually improve our therefore is the expert service and advice we deliver, aiming to earn the effectiveness in all our markets and deliver good financial returns.
respect and loyalty of our clients and candidates as their trusted adviser, This translates into the following areas for 2012: based on the quality of the work we deliver to them and the way we Driving UK performance deliver it.
Continually measuring this performance, acting on their The UK market remains difficult.
After significant declines over the last feedback and raising our own hurdles on service levels will keep us 18 months, we expect the UK public sector to broadly stabilise but do ahead of our competition.
This process never stops and will always be not expect any material recovery in the short term.
The private sector there as a key priority.
recovery witnessed during 2011 progressively softened over the year, causing us to take early action on the cost base to defend profitability.
summary We will continue to react as necessary according to how we see current 2011 was a year of significant progress, both financially and strategically.
demand, as we did towards the end of the year.
however, despite the Many of our businesses rebounded to levels above their previous peak market conditions, we see opportunities to strengthen our market performance and our platform around the world is bigger and better position in each of our locations across the country and raise individual than ever before.
Not only does this footprint give us a broader base consultant productivity.
Delivering profit growth in the UK is our from which to grow, but it is also a base that gives us real advantage as key objective.
a multinational, integrated and joined-up business worldwide, servicing our clients and candidates locally and globally.
Continued international growth and diversification We had a very successful 2011 in our International divisions and we We ended last year with good levels of momentum across a great many intend to use 2012 to drive further growth by structurally developing of our markets.
Clearly a number of macroeconomic uncertainties markets all around the world.
We are now in 31 countries, having remain around the world and since the year end we saw these recently opened our first office in Colombia and expect to open new uncertainties manifest in significant volatility in the worlds stock businesses in Chile and Malaysia in the year.
We also intend to open markets.
It would be premature at this stage to determine how these several offices in existing countries and rapidly build scale by recruiting uncertainties may impact on our own business but understandably additional consultants in virtually every international market within we monitor and assess the situation in each of our markets daily.
industry with such limited visibility as ours, our task is to build a business that is highly flexible and ensure we act quickly and decisively to all We have a tried and tested organic growth model with an excellent track changes in our markets, both positive and negative.
We have a great record of success at developing our International business and I fully track record of delivering this over the last 40 years and will continue to expect 2012 to be another year of significant investment andexpansion.
Most importantly though, our business faces the best long-term Investment in people structural growth opportunities in new markets around the world that The biggest single restraint on growth in the majority of our markets Ihave ever seen and while businesses need people and people need is people: having enough highly skilled, trained and experienced jobs, we have a very bright future and intend to capitalise fully on that.
consultants and leaders to drive the business forward and satisfy alistair cox market demand.
This is why we have been steadfast in our commitment Chief Executive to developing our people, from grass-roots level through to our senior management and business leaders.
Next year I expect to bring a substantial number of new employees into the business across a range of fee-earning and non-fee-earning roles.
Our investment in our leaders gives me the confidence they are well equipped to manage these rapidly growing workforces and the high levels of international mobility we enjoy across the Group allows us to move skilled and experienced operators to the most attractive opportunities.
This is increasingly a multinationality, globally integrated team sharing the same hays DNA worldwide and, combined with strong local teams in each operation, gives us real competitive advantage.
Ensuring that we continue to identify, train and develop the very best people in the industry continues to be at the very heart of what we do.
17 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2011
