Chief exeCutives Review anthony buCkingham Chief exeCutive offiCeR We have made progress across the portfolio in 2011 through the addition of acreage, investing in opportunities and pushing forward with work programmes across our existing assets.
In particular we have added exciting new exploration Prices gave up the years gains by August amid concern the acreage in Tanzania, invested in Libya, a hydrocarbon US economic recovery was stalling and speculation that prolific area providing potential access to Africas largest oil Libya would resume oil production faster than expected industry, conducted seismic across most of the existing after Gadaffis ousting that month.
The price of Brent licences, increased production in Russia through employing crude slipped in October to its lowest level for the year, as horizontal drilling techniques, and moved ahead with the debt crisis in Europe sapped confidence in the health of exploration, appraisal and development work in the Miran the global economy.
Recent threats of supply disruption in Field in Kurdistan.
the first quarter of 2012 have led to strengthening in the oil price again.
Global stock markets experienced extreme volatility during 2011 due to the Eurozone crisis, and this came to exPLoRation oPeRations a head in August.
kuRdistan At the beginning of 2011 we announced the discovery of a The oil price, since the beginning of 2011, strengthened as major gas field with oil and condensate after completing supply side issues outweighed concerns over the financial drilling of the Miran West-2 well.
crisis in global stock markets.
A popular uprising in Tunisia sparked similar protests across the Middle East and North The Miran West-3 well commenced drilling in August Africa, the Arab Spring, which still continues in certain 2011 with the primary objective of appraising the countries.
The Libyan crisis threatened the supply of productivity of the Jurassic reservoir intervals from which approximately 1.5 million barrels of oil per day and, in we had achieved significant flow rates in the previous well.
addition, non-OPEC countries had outages that reduced To date, results from the well have confirmed oil in the production by an average of 0.7 million barrels per day, Upper Cretaceous and gas in the Lower Cretaceous and according to the International Energy Association.
heritage oil plc Annual Review 20 4 The Miran East-1 exploration well has the potential to add significant hydrocarbon resources at all of the multiple reservoir intervals.
We successfully completed testing of the Upper Cretaceous The early production will be paralleled with full reservoir after drilling to a depth of 876 metres in development from 2015 and the export of gas to Turkey November 2011.
During testing the maximum measured Europe with the full production of blended oil and rate achieved from this reservoir section was 1,950 bopd condensate.
Independent gas marketing studies have and attempts to flow the well at higher rates were severely highlighted increasing gas demand in the Kurdistan region, restricted by the capacity of the surface test equipment.
Turkey and Europe that can provide valuable markets for the gas volumes.
Work on conceptual development studies Gas was confirmed in the Lower Cretaceous and in April and gas marketing plans and strategies has continued and 2012, it was announced that the testing of a reservoir we are in discussions with the Kurdistan Regional interval above the main Jurassic reservoir resulted in a flow Government the KRG, gas buyers and contractors of up to 17.5 MMcsfd of dry gas.
This reservoir is proven to regarding both early and full field development.
be separate from those identified to date within the Miran structure.
The well is drilling ahead to the primary Jurassic tanz ania reservoir targets.
We are excited to have been appointed operator and awarded new PSAs in Tanzania with Rukwa in November In March 2012, the Miran East-1 exploration well 2011 and Kyela in January 2012.
With both of these areas commenced drilling.
This is the first well to be drilled on we recognise certain geological similarities with the Albert the highly prospective eastern structure, which has an area Basin of Uganda, where we have had previous experience of approximately 130 square kilometres.
The well is and commercial success, thereby providing us with a targeting exploration potential within the Cretaceous and material advantage in assessing these blocks.
Our work Jurassic reservoir intervals of the eastern structure, programme on Rukwa has commenced with the contiguous with the large hydrocarbon bearing Miran reprocessing of legacy 2D seismic data and we are planning West structure.
The well design utilises recently acquired on acquiring further 2D seismic in the summer of 2012.
3D seismic data and an enhanced understanding of the On the Kyela Block we will shortly commence the structural configuration within the Miran Field that this acquisition of a gravity survey following which a seismic has provided.
Multiple intervals will be evaluated and programme will be planned.
tested as the well is drilled and have the potential to add significant hydrocarbon resources at all of the multiple Economic scoping has shown that, in the event of oil reservoir intervals.
exploration success from either licence, there is commercial viability of either rail export or export by pipeline.
Seismic acquisition Acquisition of 3D seismic, covering 730 square kilometres, otheR exPLoRation assets over the Miran Block was completed in 2011.
This is In Malta, we have an extensive data set of approximately believed to be the largest 3D seismic programme ever 5,000 kilometres of 2D seismic that indicates the presence acquired in the region.
The increased coverage and quality of multiple prospects and leads.
This includes the of the 3D data is assisting greatly with our selection of well acquisition over Area 7, in July 2011, of 1,400 kilometres of locations.
Preparations are now underway to drill a high-impact well in Area 7.
In addition, the acquisition of 180 kilometres of 2D seismic on the southern portion of the Miran Block to help identify In 2011 seismic was acquired in Mali, over Blocks 7 and further potential prospectivity was completed in October 11, which is now being interpreted and integrated with 2011.
The interpretation of data has indicated the presence legacy data and the acquisition of a 3D seismic programme of a structur and we are in the process of identifying offshore Tanzania completed.
PRoduCtion oPeRations Gas monetisation and development Russia We consider the Miran Gas Field to be of such a size that it Production averaged 673 bopd over 2011, an increase of is a commercial discovery.
Accordingly, we are currently 24% on the previous year.
In August 2011 we completed the reviewing options, and are in discussions with third drilling of well 363, the first horizontal well to have been parties, for a phased development of the Miran Field drilled in the licence, with a year end exit rate of c. 937 bopd.
which includes early gas production to existing and Results of this well exceeded pre-drill expectations and we planned cement and power plants for local markets in achieved a significant increase in production from the field.
Kurdistan as well as exports to Turkey and possibly to the European market under full field development.
The initial Historical development of this reservoir type throughout priority will be to satisfy local gas demand by supplying the region has been through conventional drilling on a grid gas on commercial terms to local end-users in the pattern.
We recognised an opportunity to improve the Sulymaniyah region in 2013.
Early gas production efficiency and economics of field development by utilising would also result in associated condensate production horizontal drilling technology, thus decreasing the number for blending with oil production.
of wells and the total cost required to develop the field, heritage oil plc Annual Review 20 5 Chief exeCutives Review C onti n u e d We recognise that our new acreage in Tanzania shares certain geological similarities with the Albert Basin of Uganda where we have had previous commercial success.
Currently, we plan to uganda commence drilling a second horizontal well in the field in In 1997, Heritage became the first oil and gas company in the fourth quarter when the ground has frozen allowing almost 60 years to undertake exploration in Uganda after access throughout the licence.
being awarded a licence in the Albert Basin in western Uganda.
Heritage had remarkable operational success in Libya Uganda as a result of technical excellence and first mover We announced an exciting acquisition in October 2011 advantage.
when we acquired a controlling interest in Sahara Oil which owns the entire share capital of Sahara, an oil field On 18 December 2009, Heritage announced that it, and its services company in Libya.
We consider that Heritage, wholly owned subsidiary Heritage Oil & Gas Limited through Sahara, is uniquely positioned to pursue field HOGL, had entered into a Sale and Purchase Agreement rehabilitation activities and be awarded exploration and SPA, with ENI International B. V. Eni for the sale of production licences as we have operator status.
This means Blocks 1 and 3A in Uganda the Ugandan Assets.
On 17 Heritage is well placed to play a significant role in the January 2010, Tullow Uganda Limited Tullow exercised future oil and gas industry in Libya.
We view this its rights of pre-emption.
The transaction was acquisition as consistent with our strategy of first mover overwhelmingly approved by Heritage shareholders at the advantage and entering regions with vast hydrocarbon General Meeting on 25 January 2010. wealth where we have a strategic advantage.
Ongoing discussions with the NTC and other stakeholders continue On 27 July 2010, Heritage announced that HOGL had to highlight opportunities with the potential to transform completed the disposal of the Ugandan Assets.
paid cash of $1.45 billion, including $100 million from a contractual settlement, of which Heritage received and C o R P o R ate retained $1.045 billion.
Cash As at 31 December 2011, Heritage had a cash position of The Uganda Revenue Authority URA contends that approximately $311 million, excluding amounts related to income tax is due on the capital gain arising on the the tax dispute of approximately $405 million, which is disposal and raised assessments of $404,925,000, whilst more than sufficient to cover the current work programmes Heritages position, based on comprehensive advice from into 2013. leading legal and tax experts is that no tax is payable.
PetRofRontieR CoRP. On closing, Heritage deposited $121,477,500 with the Heritage has continued to acquire common shares URA, representing 30% of the disputed tax assessment of Shares of PetroFrontier Corp. PetroFrontier for $404,925,000.
A further $283,447,000 was retained in investment purposes and currently holds 15.25% of the escrow with Standard Chartered Bank in London.
PetroFrontier is listed on the TSX Venture Exchange and has commenced a In August 2010, the URA issued a further income tax high-impact drilling programme in Australia targeting assessment of $30 million representing 30% of the billions of barrels of resources.
additional contractual settlement amount of $100 million.
HOGL has challenged the Ugandan tax assessments, buy baCk PRogRamme totalling $435 million, but in the fourth quarter of 2011, Heritage commenced a share buy back programme in April the Tax Appeals Tribunal in Uganda dismissed HOGLs 2011.
To date 33,856,107 Ordinary Shares have been applications.
HOGL has subsequently commenced appeals bought back and are held in treasury.
Consequently, to the Ugandan High Court in relation to the rulings by Heritage has 255,891,923 Ordinary Shares in issue the Tax Appeals Tribunal which it believes is fatally excluding treasury shares as well as 2,811,408 flawed.
exchangeable shares of no par value of Heritage Oil Corporation, each carrying one voting right in Heritage.
In May 2011, HOGL commenced international arbitration proceedings in London against the Ugandan Government.
The total number of voting rights in Heritage, excluding HOGL is seeking a decision requiring, among other things, treasury shares as at 17 April 2012, is 258,703,331. the return or release of approximately $405 million, plus interest, in aggregate currently on deposit with the URA or in escrow with Standard Chartered Bank in London.
The heritage oil plc Annual Review 20 6 arbitration proceedings are being held in London in Finally, to our shareholders, thank you for your continued accordance with the provisions of the PSAs in relation to support and interest in Heritage.
We are focused and the Ugandan Assets.
dedicated to generating shareholder value in 2012 through development of our existing portfolio and other On 15 April 2011, Heritage, and its wholly owned acquisitions.
subsidiary HOGL, received Particulars of Claim filed in the High Court of Justice in England by Tullow seeking $313,447,500 for alleged breach of contract as a result of HOGLs and Heritages refusal to reimburse Tullow in anthony buCkingham relation to a payment made by Tullow of $313,447,500 on Chief exeCutive offiCeR 7 April 2011 to the URA.
Heritage and HOGL believe that the claim has no basis and are in the process of vigorously and robustly defending it.
CoRPoRate soCiaL ResPonsibiLity We continue to develop our approach to CSR and engagement with stakeholders towards achieving a shared future is a key element supporting our core business model.
We have developed, and continue to review, a policy framework disclosing our essential core values.
I am delighted to report that we continue to maintain a strong track record for health and safety which is fundamental in being viewed as a preferred partner.
During 2011 we spent a total of approximately $700,000 on CSR related activities with community programmes focused on areas where we were operationally more active.
For example, in Kurdistan we have continued with our focus on the development of local infrastructure and supporting education and in Mali we supported local healthcare.
o u t Lo ok 2011 was a year in which we enhanced the portfolio in our core areas of Africa, Middle East and Russia and secured an investment foothold in Australia though our holding in PetroFrontier.
We are currently drilling a high-impact exploration well in Kurdistan and are reviewing results from seismic programmes that could provide direction for future growth in the portfolio.
In addition to increasing our exposure to Tanzania, in blocks where we believe we have a technical and operational advantage, we acquired a controlling interest in Sahara Oil that has, we believe, made us extremely well positioned in Libya where we expect to play an important role in the oil industry.
As always, I am very grateful to our management team, employees and supportive Board for their dedication and contribution to the progress made by Heritage this past year.
heritage oil plc Annual Review 20 7
