12 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 C H I E f E x E C u t I V E Of f IC E R s R E V I E W HOW aRE WE dElIVERInG On OuR stRatEGy?
WE COntInuEd OuR tRaCk RECORd Of dOuBlInG salEs EVERy fOuR yEaRs WHIlE dElIVERInG On OuR stRatEGy fOR GROWtH said darwazah Chief Executive Officer BusiNess aNd fiNaNcial review 13 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 OuR stRatEGy fOR GROWtH Strengthen Develop Extend Increase Leverage Build our leading our global our reach and the scale of our expertise on our world-class position in the product range diversity through our speciality and capacity manufacturing mEna region in growing partnerships Injectables in the us and apI sourcing therapeutic areas business market capabilities in 2011, we continued our track record of each of the countries in which we operate developing our global product range doubling sales every four years while at the building local manufacturing facilities in some, ingrowing therapeutic areas same time achieving a number of strategic investing in local sales and distribution the continuous introduction of new products milestones, including doubling the size of capabilities in others and across all countries in growing therapeutic areas is critical to the ourglobal injectables business and expanding developing a skilled and experienced workforce.
growth and profitability of all of our businesses.
our leading position in the meNa region by the strength of our local presence played in 2011, our product portfolio continued to entering the moroccan market.
a significant role in our ability to tackle the grow as we added 218 new products and 615 these achievements are all the more headwinds created by the arab spring in 2011. new dosage forms and strengths to the Group impressive for having been delivered in a the rapid and effective response by our local portfolio through our successful r&d efforts verychallenging economic and geopolitical management teams and the dedication and and through acquisitions.
our success in 2011 perseverance of our employees in the region to be on developing our cardiovascular, diabetes, demonstrates the robust nature of our enabled us to quickly stabilise our meNa central nervous system cNs, oncology business, the strength of our diversified operations.
our commitment to building our andrespiratory portfolios, particularly in the business model, our commitment to business in the region meant that we continued meNa region.
deliveringour core strategic objectives and to make significant investments toenhance acquisitions continue to be an excellent thededication of our talented employees.
and expand our meNa manufacturing facilities, way to build our product portfolio.
through resulting in increases in local production the acquisition of msi, we acquired 35 products strengthening our leading position capabilities in egypt, tunisia and algeria.
in 58 dosage forms and strengths, including inthemEna region investments in our people, through improvements a portfolio of 10 controlled substances.
in 2011, the top nine meNa pharmaceutical to salaries and employee benefits, strengthened this has significantly enhanced our global markets grew by 11.2%, according to ims our operational andsales and marketing teams.
injectables portfolio and we hope to be able Health.
since 2007, the private retail we were also successful in establishing to bring the msi products into our european pharmaceutical market in meNa has grown alocal presence in morocco, the fourth largest and meNa markets in the comingyears.
ata compound annual growth rate of 12.4% meNa market, through the acquisition of our acquisitions in the meNa have also to $9.3 billion.
asthe leading regional socit fide Promotion Pharmaceutique du enhanced our product offering.
Promopharm pharmaceutical company in meNa, we are maghreb s. a. Promopharm.
in sudan, has an extensive portfolio of 195 products uniquely positioned totake advantage of this where we already have astrong local sales and577 dosages for the moroccan market.
consistently fast-growing and attractive andmarketing team, we acquired a local elie Pharmaceuticals in sudan brings a further market.
one of our key differentiators isour manufacturing plant and a portfolio of locally 48 products and 73 dosage forms to our ability to act locally.
we are committed to registered products, reinforcing our position as leading portfolio in sudan.
building strong pharmaceutical businesses in the largest pharmaceutical company in sudan.
14 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 CHIEf ExECutIVE OffICERs REVIEW Extending our reach and diversity Increasing the scale of our global Continued through partnerships Injectables business developing successful partnerships is key to over the years we have developed a leading accessing new products and new technologies generic injectables business focused on the that will enhance and expand our business.
our strategy is to we are committed to developing our existing expand this business through the development relationships and fostering new ones.
of our product portfolio, manufacturing capacity, our wide footprint in the meNa region, technical capabilities and globalfootprint.
with our 1,649 strong sales and marketing in may 2011, we completed our acquisition team, makes us the partner of choice for of msi.
the acquisition has already had a companies looking to market their products in transformational impact on our global injectables the meNa region.
during 2011, we signed an business, nearly doubling sales and manufacturing agreement with vifor Pharma for their product capacity.
we are extremely pleased with the ferinject, an innovative treatment for iron progress we have made in integrating the deficiency.
we also entered into one of our first msi operations with our organic business.
partnerships for a product still in development, we have begun implementing our restructuring partnering with aeterna Zentaris for perifosine, programme to reduce headcount, upgrade and their cancer treatment currently in two Phase 3 expand the facilities, optimise pricing, expand programmes in the us and europe.
the portfolio and establish a strong senior increasingly, we are also working with management team that will be able to deliver companies that can help us to develop our the significant growth potential we see for the product pipeline.
today, Hikma is the second largest the one with exela, a North carolina-based generic injectables supplier by volume in the 1 company that develops and manufactures us, with a market share of more than 17%.
innovative and generic injectable products, outside the us, we have continued to see we hope to bring more differentiated products strong growth in private sales in europe and to market.
a great example of this is our Nda the meNa region.
in these markets, we have approval for our formulation of argatroban, also generated significant growth in tender received in January 2012. sales, as we benefit from increased scale 1 ims Health, ytd december 2011 BusiNess aNd fiNaNcial review 15 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 across the global business.
this is reflected in we have continued to invest in the the significant underlying sales growth and development of more differentiated products margin expansion delivered in2011.
we expect this investment to deliver interesting opportunities in 2013 leveraging our expertise and and2014.
capacity inthe us market while we lack the scale of many of our oral Building on our world class manufacturing generics competitors in the us, we have and apI sourcing capabilities maintained a relatively strong track record in we are committed to maintaining the highest terms of delivering profitable growth albeit standards of quality and compliance in stronger in some years than in others.
this is was an exceptionally strong year, thanks to an incredibly challenging task, particularly thecontribution of colchicine, a treatment given the continuous drive for higher quality forgout.
in 2011, we managed to deliver standards across the industry and the range double-digit revenue growth excluding ofrequirements mandated by the us food colchicine and more normalised margins.
and drug administration us fda and the this segment of the market remains many other international regulatory authorities extremely competitive, requiring us to who audit our manufacturing facilities on a maximise the potential of our product regular basis.
portfolio, focus on driving efficiencies and during 2011, our facilities underwent a onfinding new, differentiated opportunities.
our manufacturing in2011, we were successful in driving volume facility in Portugal, including the newly built increases in our core products and increasing lyophilisation plant, which produces for the our market share in terms of prescriptions us, european and meNa markets, was written.
we also increased the percentage of inspected by the us fda and passed products produced at our fda approved successfully.
ourfacilities in Germany and facilities in the meNa region to 27% of italywere inspected by the Brazilian National 2 Generics sales, up from 21% in 2010. over Health vigilance agency, also with successful results.
in 2010 our German injectables facility, the longer term, we believe this will help to 2 sales figure in 2010 excludes colchicine drive efficiencies and lower operating costs.
was inspected by the Gulf community 16 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 CHIEf ExECutIVE OffICERs REVIEW countries and was approved in January 2011. unimark to develop new strategic aPis and Continued at a time when many injectable pharmaceutical new product formulations, enabling us to companies were struggling to maintain bring more products in more therapeutic areas compliance, these are excellent results.
we also acquired a at our oral solid dosage manufacturing minority stake in Hubei Haosun facility in eatontown, New Jersey, we have Pharmaceutical co ltd Haosun, a chinese hadto address observations made by the us company that develops and manufactures fda during its inspection of the facility in June niche, difficult to make aPis.
this investment 2011, which resulted in a warning letter being gives us access to a high quality, long-term issued by the fda in february 2012. we have source of oncology aPi.
been taking, and continue to take, the necessary looking ahead steps to address the issues raised.
we are we are expecting a strong performance in committed to the highest standards of quality 2012, reflecting the investments that we and compliance and regard our relationship havemade across the Group in 2011 and the with the fda as critical to both our past and excellent growth opportunities we see for future success.
ourbusiness, particularly in the meNa region during 2011, we have had success in and in the global injectables market.
executing our strategy to build on our active pharmaceutical ingredients aPi and r&d capabilities through strategic investments in india and china.
we acquired a minority stake in unimark remedies limited unimark, aleading manufacturer of aPi andaPi intermediates.
we will collaborate with said darwazah Chief Executive Officer Qua l I t y f OR l I f E stREnGtHEnInG OuR lEadInG pOsItIOn In tHE mEna REGIOn we invested over $215 million in acquisitions andcapex in meNa in 2011, establishing alocal manufacturing presence in morocco and sudan and expanding capacity in algeria, egypt and tunisia.
BusiNess aNd fiNaNcial review 17 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 HIkmas kEy pERfORmanCE IndICatORs kPi defiNitioN commitmeNts PerformaNce 2009 2010 2011 Revenue growth percentage increase or We aim to double We continued our 9.7% 14.8% 25.6% decrease in the current years Group revenue track record of revenue compared tothe every four years doubling revenue prior years revenue organically every four years andthrough acquisitions 3 Adjusted measures the growth in We aim to increase We grew adjusted 21.6% 24.6% 2.0% operating profit underlying profitability, our underlying operating profit, growth excluding the impact profitability despite the impact ofamortisation and year-on-year of the arab exceptional items whilstdriving spring and the revenue growth discontinuation of colchicine Growth in Calculated as growth in We aim to deliver high adjusted diluted 23.8% 21.4% 2.6% adjusted adjusted profit attributable growth inearnings earnings per share diluted earnings toshareholders divided by and tomeet the declined slightly, per share theweighted average number expectations of primarily reflecting ofshares inissue ourshareholders the impact of the arab spring, the discontinuation of colchicine and a higher finance expense Net cash measures the Groups cash We target a cash Our cash conversion 18.7% 20.9% 13.8% generated from conversion.
Calculated as conversion ratio in 2011 reflects a operating operating cash flow divided of15% to 20% cash injection of $21 activities sales bysales million to fund the msI working capital requirements and the discontinuation of colchicine.
Excluding the investment in msI, our cash conversion ratio was 18.5% Return on measures the Groups We aim to maximise Our return on 10.6% 12.4% 8.1% invested capital efficiency in allocating capital shareholder value invested capital to profitable investments.
Calculated as operating profit long-term growth This reflects the after interest income and tax investments we made including non-controlling in our facilities interest share of profit divided across our business by invested capital calculated and acquisitions, as total equity including with associated cost theequity attributable to of approximately non-controlling interest $16million.
These plustotal debt and obligations investments will under finance leases deliver returns in future years 3 Before the amortisation of intangible assets excluding software andexceptional items
