Hochschild Mining plc 06 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview Chief Executives review A strong set of full year results with 2011 provingto be arecord year for Hochschild, reflecting asolid operational performance and reinforcing ourorganicgrowth strategy andfinancial position.
I am pleased to announce another strong set of full year Total resources have now increased to almost 150 million silver resultswith 2011 proving to be a record year for Hochschild, equivalent ounces.
Weare confident that these resources will reflecting a solid operational performance and reinforcing grow significantly from this excellent starting point in the same ourorganic growth strategy and financial position.
We firmly manner as our other mines and see Inmaculada develop into believe that the combination of our enviable operational, amajor contributor for the Company.
exploration and project development skills, with ourpremium In addition, Hochschild is pleased to see a positive result geological land position spread across the Americas, is the key fromits 100% owned Crespo project which is set to add to maximising long-term sustainable shareholder value.
another 2.7million silver equivalent ounces from 2014 at an initial capital cost of $111 million for a 6,850 tonne per day Strategic progress operation.
This open pit project is expected to have a low The first key pillar of our strategy encompasses our current unitcost per tonne, high gold recovery rates and, given its assets and ensuring their long-term sustainability.
We have proximity to Hochschilds other operations in southern Peru, already increased the life of these assets extensively since will benefit from operational synergies.
Current Inferred ourIPO in 2006, and in 2011 we continued this trend with resources at Crespo are likely to deliver more mineable significant increases at all three main operations.
Resource life material for the project and the exploration team remains for the Company grew from 8.7 years in 2010 to 9.7 years in positive about the geological potential of the surrounding areas.
2011 with a 20% increase in resource life at Arcata, a 7% increase atPallancata in Peru, and a 7% increase at the San We remain excited by the potential of the Azuca deposit, Jose mine in Argentina where we continue to find new veins especially with respect to the ongoing exploration of the newly and extensions, thus increasing total resources at this exciting discovered higher grade Colombiana and Cimoide Vivian property to 172.2 million silver equivalent ounces.
It is our intention to continue exploration work at the project throughout 2012 in order to consolidate resources 2011 was also a key year in the development of our andprovide a more comprehensive picture of the complex projectpipeline, the second pillar of our strategy.
One of its vein structures present in the area before moving the project cornerstones is our aim to ensure the smooth progress of on to the feasibility study stage.
allour projects through their developmental stages.
In this regard, the delivery of two feasibility studies on our Inmaculada Exploration work continued in 2011, with a total of and Crespo projects early in 2012 provided ample evidence 315,373metres of drilling completed.
At our greenfield ofHochschilds project management capability.
These two targets, we had positive results from our Company Makers exciting opportunities, based in our southern Peru cluster, pipeline at Victoria, Valeriano and Encrucijada in Chile, giveus an expected 50% uplift in our production base whilst Mercurio in Mexico and Soranpampa in Peru, as well as generating an attractive return even at conservative price strongprogress at the Medium Scale Mosquito project andresource assumptions.
Overall, Hochschild hasagain reaffirmed its exploration commitment with a $90million budget for 2012, Our most exciting asset is the 60% owned Inmaculada the largest in the Companys history, which will be invested in project.
This is set to start construction with total initial our brownfield, Advanced Projects and greenfield exploration capitalexpenditure of $315 million for a 3,500 tonne per day programmes, which are expected to encompass drilling underground operation with total average annual production campaigns in 26 different locations across the Americas.
of 12 million silver equivalent ounces and a commissioning date in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Overview e x p l o M r 07 Strategy key Improve productivity Brownfield exploration Optimise life-of-mine CreAte Core Greenfield Project pipeline Advanced Projects shAreholder Assets vAlue Early stage Geological potential Highly accretive Control 2011 Overview Production in 2011 of Our operations once again met their annual targets withproduction in 2011 of 22.6 million attributable silver equivalent ounces, comprised of 15.0 million ounces of 22.6million attributable silver silverand 127.3 thousand ounces of gold.
San Jose continued to deliver, with silver equivalent production up 3% on the equivalent ounces comprised previous year a highly creditable performance, with a particularly strong second half.
At Arcata and Pallancata, of15.0 million ounces of wecontinued with our policy of adjusting the extracted gradeto ensure a consistent and sustainable level of long-term production as well as taking the opportunity afforded by high silverand 127.3 thousand precious metal prices to process low grade material at both mines.
The high prices have also allowed our Ares mine in ouncesof gold.
southern Peru to continue operations throughout the year and into 2012, whilst our Moris mine in Mexico contributed just over one million silver equivalent ounces before its closure late in the fourth quarter.
In 2011 we continued experiencing cyclical cost inflation inline with the industry trend, primarily resulting from the ongoing high commodity prices.
In Peru, unit costs were up by some 14% excluding royalties principally due to wage inflation in the industry and a higher proportion of production from narrower veins in the production mix at Pallancata and Arcata.
Employees at Arcata In Argentina, Hochschild continued to face the challenges ofongoing high local inflation rates of some 2530%, and although unit costs excluding royalties at San Jose only increased by 18%, this was principally due to a devaluation ofthe local currency of 6%, as well as the extraction of low costsuperficial material located in new mine areas and also improvements in operational processes.
We expect overall 2012 unit cost inflation in Argentina to continue to be high, at around 2530% for the same country specific reasons mentioned above, whilst in Peru we have forecasted an increase in unit costs of approximately 15% excluding royalties and the increased refining cost due to the effects of our dore project at Arcata.
The main contributory factors to this increase are anticipated to be expected local industry inflation of 10% and the increasing number of stopesat our main operations.
& A a t i o n Hochschild Mining plc 08 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview Chief Executives review continued The Company again achieved record results with revenue The 2012 production target consists of similar levels of ofjust under $1 billion, up some 31% on 2010, driven by production at each of the core operations to those of 2011, continuing strong precious metal prices, with the average with anticipated further declining production at Ares silverprice for 2011 up 53% and the average gold price up andMoris.
EBITDA also rose sharply, by 42%, to $563 million We have had a very busy start to 2012 with the completion 2010: $398million with pre-exceptional EPS of $0.49 for ofthe Inmaculada and Crespo feasibility studies and we are thefull year, approximately 75% higher than 2010. excited that following the Boards approval of these projects We finished 2011 with a continuing strong cash balance and sanction of their capital expenditure requirements, of$627 million which together with our healthy operating thekey stages of project construction can begin in earnest.
cashflow, having increased 53% to $464.1 million in 2011, Ourstrategy for this year will once again be to deliver on givesus the financial ability to embark on capital expenditure ourproduction target, execute the first stages of the above programmes for our Advanced Projects, pursue our ambitious mentioned project development and demonstrate consistent exploration programme in 2012, continue investing in our progress on our ambitious exploration programme, supported main operations, and monitor any potential value accretive by its $90 million budget.
acquisitions to be assessed against our previously stated criteria.
I am confident that Hochschilds talented and experienced We also have minority investments worth approximately team will continue to create opportunities for future value $350million as at 31 December 2011, principally represented generation and that realising our 2012 targets will provide by our 25.2% stake in Gold Resource Corporation.
more evidence that we have the optimum strategy for long-term growth.
Outlook Hochschilds production target for 2012 is 20.0 million Ignacio Bustamante attributable silver equivalent ounces, which takes into account Chief Executive Officer the reduction of almost 300,000 silver equivalent ounces that 19 March 2012 will now not be recovered at Arcata as a result of the implementation of our dore project.
A geologist at the Crespo Advanced Project 09 Our people making the difference The potential ofHochschild hasnever been stronger.
We outline our strengths and the talent of our people onthe following pages... Hochschild Mining plc 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Nicasio Magao Aged 42 Mine Supervisor, Arcata Nicasio is a Mine Supervisor at Arcata, our flagship mine which has been in operation since 1964.
In 2011, Arcata produced 7.1million silver equivalent ounces and thelife-of-minewas increased to 11.5 years.
Wealso completed the first stage of the Arcatadore project and by the second half of 2012, 100% ofArcatas concentrate will beconverted intodore.
11 Employees at Pallancata Years of operational expertise We have almost 50 years of experience operating underground narrow veined deposits.
Our three main assets, Arcata, Pallancata andSan Jose are currently ranked amongst the 14 largest primarysilver mines globally and continue to deliver a solid baseofproduction.
We are focused on consistently improving the operational productivity and efficiency of our operations and since our IPO in2006, we have doubled overall Group throughput capacity at our operations and have achieved allof our annual production targets.
Hochschild Mining plc 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Ernesto Calla Hilario Aged 34 Geologist, Pallancata Ernesto is a geologist working at our 60% owned Pallancata mine.
Pallancata has been inoperation since 2007 and Hochschild isthemine operator.
In 2011, almost 51,000metres of exploration drilling was conducted at Pallancata and the life-ofminewas increased to7.4 years.
13 Employees operating We have an extensive pipeline of brownfield and greenfield adrillrigatAzuca projectswith drilling campaigns in 26 different locations across fourcountries in the Americas, as well as over one million hectares ofpremium geological land.
Ourrecord $90 million exploration budget for 2012 demonstrates not onlyour strong strategic focus ongrowth through exploration, but also ourconfidence in the significant potential of our project pipeline.
In 2011 we drilled a total of 315,000 metres at our brownfield, greenfield and copper projects and in 2012 the drilling campaign ofover 330,000 metres will be focused on exploration work atourexisting operations, ourAdvanced Projects and our greenfield opportunities.
Focused onexploration Hochschild Mining plc 14 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Joel Andia Aged 28 Geologist, Inmaculada Joel is a member of the team of geologists based at our Inmaculada project.
We recently published positive results from the feasibility study on Inmaculada, which is located close to our existing operations in southern Peru.
We believe there is also considerable further geological potential at the property which hosts over 25 kilometres of gold silver-bearing quartz veins, most of which remain largely untested.
15 Geologists atPallancata Depth of exploration skills We have an unrivalled knowledge of the Americas, with a team ofover 90geologists and exploration offices in Peru, Argentina, Chile and Mexico.
We believe that our exploration team has the technical experience and expertise required to deliver a steady stream of value accretive project opportunities.
Our exploration team all have proven exploration and project development skills and are also continually evaluating new opportunities.
We recognise the contribution our exploration team makes  of our business and have devised an incentive programme inorder to attract and retain our geologists, with direct economic rewards for geological discoveries.
We also have education initiatives including partnerships with local and international universities and a graduate trainee programme where graduates from universities are trained and recruited by the Group.
Hochschild Mining plc 16 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Natalie Carbonel Aged 27 Business Development Analyst Natalie is an Analyst working in the Business Development team in Lima.
Thishighly qualified team has delivered several key acquisitions and projects over the last few years.
The team can draw on a vast knowledge of the Americas and the mining industry as a whole, and continues to identify and evaluate projects andacquisitions according to the Groups strict M&A criteria.
17 View of Crespo, one of anumber of properties acquired in 2008 as part oftheSouthwestern Resourcesacquisition Dedicated Business Development team Our Business Development team is based in Lima.
The members ofthe team are all highly qualified andfollow a disciplined approach to the assessment ofacquisitions.
Our strong financial position not only supports our significant exploration programme but also gives us the flexibility to capitalise on acquisition opportunities that arise.
The team has a clear mandate to pursue opportunities that are early stage, with strong geological potential, highlyvalue accretive, but also with a clear pathto control.
Hochschild Mining plc 18 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Domingo Herrera Aged 62 Manager, Medical Services, Arcata Domingo is one of the doctors based at Arcata.
Our operations are all in remote regions, where we have almost 50 years experience of operating, working alongside the local communities and authorities.
We have a significant number of programmes in place to improve health services and education facilities and to promote infrastructure development.
In addition, we constantly monitor our operations to minimise their impact on the environment and ensure the sustainability of the land where we operate.
19 The Companys mobile medical units We are committed to ensuring a safe and healthy workplace for all brought into use during the year ofour employees, to manage and minimise the environmental impact of our operations and to encourage sustainability by respecting the communities surrounding our operations.
We seek to comply with all relevant legislation and leading international standards and encourage our employees to adopt the Groups values through the use of training and internal communications.
We strive to work together with our local communities and our strategytoachieve this revolves around three key pillars, to improve health and nutrition, to enhance the provision of education and topromote sustainable economic development.
We are committed toestablishing and maintaining constructive relationships with our communities with the long-term aim ofimproving the quality of life.
We also endeavour to minimise the impact of our business on the environment and to ensure the ongoing sustainability of the land where wedevelop operations and activities.
