REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Chief executives statement As the UKs leading home and general merchandise retailer, the Group operates with a clear scale advantage derived from a well invested infrastructure which has been built up over a period of many years.
We continue to expect a return to attractive Differentiated and market leading formats growth rates in our product markets over the The Groups retailing formats are well positioned longer term, driven particularly by consumers and clearly differentiated from other retailers in the market and continued investment in store investing in their home environment, new technology and new product developments.
Even in the current challenging economic Stores represent an integral part of the environment both Argos and Homebase continue Argos model as places to shop as well as to strengthen their customer propositions by providing convenient pick up points for the further investing in multi-channel initiatives, customer.
The programme to refurbish Argos stores is performing ahead of plan.
expanding choice, developing both ranges and services, enhancing product presentation in Homebase continues to roll out its Midi Re t stores, in catalogues and online and delivering programme that signicantly improves its big value to the customer.
ticket offer as well as enhancing its home and These investments will shape the future of decorative offerings.
Terry Duddy shopping for our customers, ensuring that we Chief Executive continue to build successful businesses that bring Expanding our product ranges and unrivalled convenience and value to customers related services every day lives, whether shopping at home or on The Group uses the strength of its retail brands the move.
to drive leadership in its core markets and grow market share through expanding its Strategic focus product ranges.
Leadership in multi-channel retailing During the period under review, Argos has Home Retail Group is the UKs market leader in seen market share held or gained in most of its multi-channel retailing.
We have developed product categories and it continues to develop highly successful internet and mobile channels ways to further expand choice, reviewing to meet consumer demand and we will continue category opportunities which can leverage to develop an integrated shopping experience its highly exible operating model and that encompasses the latest technology and online presence.
new ways in which customers want to interact Homebase offers 38,000 products to Hear Terry talking about the and shop.
support the home and garden enhancer using Groups performance in our new reporting centre, Argos has continued to grow its multiinspirational roomsets and an installation service available online at channel sales, which now represent 1.9bn or to extend its presence into big ticket items.
Argos is the second largest Homebases differentiated proposition continues reports internet retailer in the UK, with 400 million to drive market share gains.
website visits in the year.
During May 2010 Argos launched its iPhone app which, to date, has Delivering value to the customer seen more than 1.3m downloads and has been The Group maintains its competitive price used to drive about 1% of Argos sales.
Future position using its purchasing scale and developments include the introduction of a capabilities in all areas of sourcing to create a TV shopping channel and mobile apps for iPad highly advantaged supply base particularly for direct import and direct sourcing of product.
The introduction of Reserve & Collect at Argos has maintained its commitment to Homebase has helped to drive further growth in being highly price competitive through the use its internet sales and there has also been strong of weekly price comparisons on around 10,000 growth in trafc to the Homebase website.
products and is able to offer even greater value to customers through Argos Value and WOW lines.
8 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Homebase continues to improve its value Given the volatility in trading experienced position, through its Value range, best buys, at the end of the 2010 11 financial year and the bulk deals and other promotional offers.
Actions ongoing challenging retail environment, the taken over the last two years have resulted in Group has adopted a cautious stance in its a significant improvement in the customers planning for the 2011 12 financial year.
perception of value at Homebase.
The Group is planning for like-for-like sales performances that could see a low-to-mid Leveraging scale and infrastructure single-digit percentage decline at Argos and a The Groups scale and infrastructure enables broadly at outcome at Homebase.
Our view on it to leverage financial benets and synergies the potential gross margin movements is for a that would be difficult to replicate given the marginal reduction at Argos and a marginal investment required and the period of time improvement at Homebase.
The combination over which these scale advantages have been of increasing operating cost ination and the established.
The Group also provides an in-house ongoing investment in long-term growth financial services operation, providing customers initiatives, offset in part by further cost with a range of both revolving and promotional efficiencies, will likely result in absolute costs credit products, as well as a home delivery being moderately higher year-on-year in both businesses.
service which supports the multi-channel proposition at both Argos and Homebase.
Given our strong financial position, with a net cash balance of 259m, we are investing ahead efficient cost base of the recovery in consumer demand.
We Over the past two financial years the Group has therefore remain confident in the Groups ability successfully delivered a number of signi cant to deliver growth in shareholder value over the long term by maintaining our clear competitive organisational and infrastructure changes that have reduced costs by 125m and improved advantage as the UKs leading home and general the exibility of our business for the future.
This cost reduction has been achieved through a rationalisation of the distribution network, Terry Duddy store-based management restructuring Chief Executive programmes, headcount reductions in central ofce and numerous other cost ef ciency initiatives together with a lower level of unit volumes.
Financial strength The Group has strong cash ow characteristics, which are reected in the significant net cash generation in the period since demerger.
This cash generation resulted in the Board taking the decision in April 2010 to undertake a share buy-back programme, returning 150m to our shareholders during the course of the 2010 11 financial year.
The Groups strong financial position continues to support investment for We remain confident in the growth and it therefore plans to continue investing in its retail formats, developing Groups ability to deliver growth in the multi-channel retail offer and opening new stores.
shareholder value over the long term Outlook by maintaining our clear competitive Prospects for the 2011 12 financial year are uncertain as consumers disposable income, advantage.
and their willingness to spend, is impacted by an increased VAT rate, an increase in personal taxes and the rising cost of living plus the additional threat of public sector job losses and potential interest rate increases.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 9
