Chief executives statement Our results demonstrate the The results we are reporting for and a nett monthly account that benefits of the investment we 2011 reflect the inherent profitability allows them to manage their have already made in service of the business, and its capacity to cash flow.
and efficiency, and of the hard generate cash, which has allowed Second, we promise small builders work that has been evident in us to grow and develop as well as everywhere that all our ranges are every area of the business.
They available locally, all the time, so they also demonstrate the benefit of the can pick up a complete kitchen when investments we have already made they need it, and they can finish their in service and efficiency, and of the job and get paid by their customers, hard work that has been evident in which means they can pay us.
every area of the business.
Third, Howdens is a local business.
In this review I would like to discuss We have 509 local depots, because three themes: builders do not want to waste time First, the reasons why the Howdens driving to and fro they want to get model is so successful: on with the job.
Their account is with their local depot.
The depot staff second, the plans we have to know what each account customer develop the business: and needs.
And so there are no misunderstandings, and no call third, in the shorter term, our centres, which saves everybody approach to the market in the 10 a lot of time, as well as money.
Local also means that each Ill start at the beginning, with the Howdens depot is fully accountable Howdens model, which is based on for its own performance.
Depot a number of well-defined elements.
managers hire their own staff, refine their own stock to suit local First, and principally, it is trade only, needs, market it themselves to their which means a constant focus on own customers, and adjust their serving one customer the small own pricing to suit local conditions.
We must not forget that we They are wholly responsible for their supply builders, who in turn supply own sales and their own margin.
Only Howdens can offer: a well-designed range of Depot managers and staff are all rigid cabinets, frontals and joinery incentivised to drive more sales that are easy to install, saving the and more margin, as efficiently as builder time and therefore money: possible.
Their bonus is based on a a quality of construction that means share of their locally generated profit our kitchens do not break, look less any stock loss there is virtually good and work well, saving more no stock loss.
time and money we call it fitability : a confidential discount It is therefore not surprising that that allows builders to determine depot managers and staff are their own margin and make a living: keen, willing and able to open Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2011 new accounts and make sure that As I have remarked before, the The Howdens model only they trade.
Last year they opened Howdens model only works if it works if it is implemented as 76,000 new accounts, which is implemented as a whole, which a whole, which means all of the equated to 38,000 net new means all of the elements are elements are non-negotiable.
accounts in just one year.
total number of credit accounts Our model was designed when the now stands at almost 250,000. business began in 1995.
Its aim is to On any given day, you can observe enable the business to find solutions the combination of around to complexity efficiently and 80 million of stock, spread across profitably, because we are engaged 509 depots, with 1,000 kitchen in a highly complex activity that of planners capable of planning up getting kitchens into homes and to 3,000 kitchens per day, 600 making sure they work.
depot-based telesales people, 700 At Howdens, we work very sales reps out on the road looking differently to our competitors.
As I for new customers, and 250,000 have pointed out, we are trade only, existing customers also out on from local stock, from 509 locations, the road looking for their next job open 5 days a week, with around to be getting on with all of which 6,000 SKUs kept in low-cost makes Howdens a business to be warehousing, offering everyday low reckoned with.
11 prices and a nett monthly account Fourth, we run Howdens as for our customers.
a focused and therefore low-cost The alternative to this is either operation, with high volumes complete retail, or a mixture of and predictable sales.
One could find invested in our own manufacturing oneself offering home delivery of capability to ensure better service, a complete kitchen, with a four to greater efficiency, and no waste six week lead time, which at whether of money, people, Howdens volumes would mean process or space.
delivering 400,000 kitchens to Our trade depots are typically 400,000 different addresses.
You 10,000 square feet in size, with rent might offer installation, which is a of around 5 per square foot.
You would definitely are located on trading estates not need a showroom, with retail rent retail parks.
We do not have glossy and rates, and you would find showrooms.
Our depots open early yourself paying for seven-day in the morning and are shut on working, as well as offering Saturday afternoons and Sundays.
seasonal discounts, and asking So altogether, they are not like High your customers for cash upfront Street retailers at all, and their and you would be running a large costs are very different too.
Chief executives statement continued There are major differences In comparison, the Howdens model Also, choosing a Howdens kitchen between the way Howdens has many advantages.
We are only is a different experience for our operates and the model employed dealing with 6,000 SKUs to 509 customers.
They can change by our competitors, and not all locations, not 400,000 kitchens to their mind and choose a different of them are readily apparent.
400,000 addresses, or home delivery, worktop, or sink, or tap, or cabinet, or installation.
Because we keep all right up to the point of collection.
items in stock, we do not have The sale has been neither invoiced to worry about order lead times or nor picked.
There is no pressure what choice our customer will make.
on the purchaser, and no The sale is only invoiced when the administrative confusion for us.
product is picked from stock in the Finally, of course, we can collect warehouse, which by the way is the money owing to us.
located just behind the counter where the customer is standing.
There are major differences between the way Howdens If, however, you were selling a operates and the model employed complete kitchen via a retail by our competitors, and not all model, your purchaser could of them are readily apparent.
pick any combination of SKUs, so you would find yourself dealing In essence, Howdens maintains with many possible permutations.
simplicity all the way along the line From the moment it is ordered, until the builder installs the SKUs 12 the requirements are set in stone to provide a very complex and and you have to run with them.
sophisticated product in the home.
Multiply your many differing orders The combination of Howdens by the number of addresses you and small builders means there are delivering to, and the possibility is extra value for everybody.
of mistake or re-delivery, and as you will readily appreciate you are The Howdens model has proved in a world of extraordinary its worth over sixteen years, and we complexity and cost.
see no reason to change it which does not mean it is inflexible.
On By contrast, Howdens sales are the contrary, the model has enabled local, and service recovery is local, Howdens to survive and thrive in and therefore fast.
There is no very different conditions.
First, from lead time because our products 1995 to 2006, as the business grew are always in stock.
In terms of rapidly: and then during the critical stock management, we can forecast years from 2006 to 2008, when we our needs accurately and manage faced enormous challenges that product lifecycles efficiently.
included restructuring the Group, This means that for product we reshaping our manufacturing manufacture ourselves, we can capability, managing our legacy set up for long runs: and for product property portfolio, funding our we buy in from elsewhere, the commitments to landlords and same applies so we are popular pensioners, and trading with our suppliers too.
successfully through the banking crisis and subsequent recession.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2011 Since 2008, we have all been rents.
Also, sophisticating kitchens Serving one customer means living in uncertain times.
As the require more product knowledge.
making sure that we can offer the economy has struggled, and We are seeing an increased level of builder both service and efficiency, incomes have fallen, costs have trust from builders keen to benefit which together are the drivers continued to rise.
Markets have from our knowledge, as well as of margin and market share.
House building outside from the other aspects of our offer, London is virtually at a standstill.
including the attractive terms I Retailers are facing difficulties.
have described, and our planning facilities, which are second to none.
Meanwhile, other changes are afoot.
Whatever the market conditions, As we have always said, builders kitchens are constantly becoming follow the work and right now, more sophisticated.
They have to be proportionately, we are seeing more complex in order to deal with more money spent by the private our increasing demands.
For sector and less by the public sector.
example, we all take it for granted I mentioned at the start of this that surfaces in our new kitchen will review that continuing investment be more durable, as well as more had been a critical factor in our attractive, than in our last kitchen.
ability to outperform the market Also, we live in a world of increasing and to continue to take market share regulation.
In recent years it has in these challenging times.
But what 13 focused on the kitchen.
Every year we have invested in?
we see new directives governing The short answer is that we have such factors as raw materials, invested in serving one customer.
electrical elements, food That means making sure that we can preparation, child safety, recycling, offer our customer both service and water consumption and so on.
efficiency, which together are the We have also noticed changes in the drivers of margin and market share.
People In order to improve service, we have only buy kitchens when they really invested in customer awareness.
want them, and they dont just want We provide each of our 250,000 a kitchen they want one that account customers with catalogues, works.
So they take their time to videos, samples and plans of make sure they are getting the best kitchens, worktops, joinery and design, the best functionality, the flooring to support their sales.
best service and the best value.
We have also invested in focused Our customers are not buying advertising aimed at the end-user kitchens solely on price.
We are or consumer, rather than at our seeing an increase in average selling customer, the small builder, because prices, driven both by ownerwe have observed that this helps the occupiers seeking to maximise the builder to market the whole range of value of their homes, and by Howdens products to an expanding landlords seeking to maximise their population of aware consumers.
Chief executives statement continued We have also made significant We have also invested in people in Last year we introduced five new investments in product, with order to improve both service and kitchen ranges: Burford Grey, the emphasis on innovation, efficiency as our business has which was an immediate success: quality, range and availability.
We have employed more Burford Maple, which was popular, dedicated sales staff, and our van but not popular enough to satisfy fleet has expanded to include 110 our need for volume: Tewkesbury depot-based vans, each of which is Skye, which is performing well: and set up to display and advise on our two colours, cream and white, of range of hardware and flooring.
We a new design with an integrated also have more people focused on handle which is selling very well.
product design and new product All of these ranges have different development.
Altogether, we created price points and all represent the nearly 300 jobs last year.
We very best of modern kitchen style.
currently have around 6,500 people Last September, we introduced working in the business as a whole, a two-year warranty for all our roughly 20% of whom work in Lamona appliances, and it has manufacturing and supply, with proved very successful.
We sold 80% in depot sales and support.
130,000 Lamona ovens during the As well as having more people, year.
The most popular type of we have also invested in having oven is our basic conventional one, motivated people.
Every Howdens the white model of which sells to 14 employee knows they have a builders in a pack with a hob and special responsibility, not just to extractor for 170. their depot or their production line, It is worth noting that, no matter but to their colleagues, to their how good it looks, the kitchen is own households, to their local much more than the triangle of communities, to the builders we functional food preparation.
A serve and to the families in whose whole range of things go on in homes our kitchens are installed.
the kitchen debating, reading, That responsibility is rewarded teaching, homework, not to mention with targeted incentives that are entertaining, arrivals, departures integral to our culture and to our and phone calls.
The kitchen can be ability to offer better service and a computer room, a television room, greater efficiency to our customers, a home cinema, a doctors office or and to deliver sustainable margin a vets surgery.
And we store a lot of to investors.
things in the kitchen usually important things.
So a kitchen is a We have also made significant special place.
It is the heart of our investments in product, with the homes, and a home is more than emphasis on innovation, quality, just a house.
In Howdens we try range and availability so that always to remember that point.
we can deliver a constant flow of market-leading new product.
Our investment in product extends beyond new kitchen ranges.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2011 It includes a new, more stylish It follows that we have also invested A key margin driver is that we cabinet interior as standard: in process.
As previously reported, understand how to make simple concave curves and a taller wall we have already committed elements very efficiently and cabinet in all our best-selling ranges: 20 million to new production lines then, through design skill and a wider range of flooring: and a at Howden and Runcorn, and it is technical innovation, make them co-ordinated range of joinery doors worth reflecting on the importance capable of being combined by the which are exclusive to Howdens.
builder, in the home, to produce a highly desirable kitchen.
It is hard to exaggerate the pace We manufacture all our own of our recent product development.
cabinetry, most of our worktops The last three years have seen and some frontals, and this brings remarkable progress not only in many benefits.
terms of look but also of technical In this sophisticating kitchen detail that combines to give a market, by having control of as bespoke feel, which coupled with much of the process as possible we availability and price mean that can increase our speed to market.
We also have our own bespoke I mentioned that kitchens are machinery and tooling, making becoming more sophisticated and specialised products that are I would like to be clear about why exclusive to Howdens not making that is an advantage for Howdens.
general products for anyone else 15 Sophistication is not the same as and the manufacturing process is complication, and Howdens is not therefore highly efficient.
I mean that no waste there is no just Howdens is increasingly attractive to in case in this business.
We are many more end-users because we making the required quantity of can offer them the combination of a precisely specified product.
range, design, quality, workability Accuracy of manufacture is very and availability that they simply important, especially when it cannot find, or want to pay for, concerns kitchen units.
A key margin driver for builder is fitting a long run of units Howdens is that we understand how into an exact space in the kitchen, to make simple elements very if each one is slightly smaller or efficiently and then, through design larger than it should be, the result skill and technical innovation, make is chaos.
However, because we them capable of being combined by know that precision fit is important, the builder, in the home, to produce and we are in complete control a highly desirable kitchen.
of the process, we can focus When I say we have invested in on being as accurate as it is product, I mean we have also invested possible to be.
in product availability, all the way back Furthermore, manufacturing up the supply chain, so that we can supports our reputation with keep our promise to the builder that our customers.
Builders do not everything he needs will always be like surprises with product.
in his local Howdens depot.
Chief executives statement continued In this market, we need to be They prefer to buy from manufacturers, Finally, we have invested in space.
The way and feel they know what they are By that I mean that we have Howdens is organised means getting, from people with credibility continued to open new depots in new we are very close to where sales and a track record.
happen, and that is a source We added 20 new depots last year, By manufacturing product of competitive advantage.
and 55 in the last three years.
The ourselves, we are also investing breakeven point for a new depots in supporting the margin of the annual turnover is typically around business as a whole and growing 600,000, so depots can move into it, compared to others because profit over one to two years, and then of the inherent efficiencies of not keep on growing.
We have taken opportunities to There is also the matter of security improve service and efficiency of supply.
This is extremely wherever and whenever they have important to a business that occurred.
We are redoubling our makes over 3.5 million cabinets efforts to find those opportunities and 860,000 worktops last year.
within the business as well as making sure that our operations We have also invested in the systems run effectively from day to day.
that control the manufacturing process, and by so doing have We know the importance of supported our ability to increase 16 vigilance and we monitor productivity and reduce waste.
everything, all the time sales, For example, we have invested in margin, stock, cash, and the robots at the end of the production performance of every part of the line, which have helped us gain more business.
In this market, we need efficiency in the smooth transition to be quick on our feet.
The way from manufacturing to warehouse.
Howdens is organised means we are very close to where sales Our investment in systems happen, and that is a source of underpins our sales activity too.
For example, we have invested in the Vigilance also means latest CAD technology that means responsiveness in every area.
If a we can offer the builder an industrydepot has an IT problem, we see it leading design service to support his the moment it happens, and will set sale, and he can fit a properly about fixing it immediately.
If a planned kitchen as quickly and customer account does not trade for efficiently as possible.
15 months, we close it, so that we keep a clean account base and We were pleased to note that last know that we are tracking only October, during our peak trading active customers.
We control credit period, our systems allowed us to by means of our nett monthly process 100,000 worth of sales account, which is tightly managed, in one minute.
so that our total cost of credit, including debt recovery and bad Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2011 debts, still remains less than 1.5% that they drive growth they do not We plan to stick to the model of sales.
cannibalise the trading of older ones that we know works, and to grow to any significant or lasting extent.
the business on that basis.
What this all adds up to is that Howdens outperforms because we We have already improved are clear about what we are doing.
performance across our existing We design and build a professional depots through what we call BDP, product, with an up-to-the-minute or best demonstrated practice, to design, that requires a professional drive better service to our customers.
fit, and we sell it to professional We also have scope for more product fitters who can go and pick it up innovation.
Our design and marketing from local stock day in, day out: and teams are probably the best in the because we give them a truly reliable country, and they are helping to raise service, and a confidential discount, our customers expectations of what they can make a living out of it.
We also have the As we have made clear, Howdens still opportunity as well as the capacity, has onerous legacy commitments.
the technology, and the knowledge Thanks to our expert property team, to manufacture more products we have made great progress with ourselves in order to derive all the our legacy portfolio.
Since 2008, we benefits I described earlier speed have freed ourselves from some 300 to market, specialised knowledge, 17 million of total costs for premiums credibility with customers and of 70 million, and have reduced the end-users, product quality, accuracy number of properties concerned of fit, flexibility to respond to market from 89 to 19. needs and security of supply.
For all these reasons, it follows that we are However, we still have significant actively seeking more manufacturing pension obligations, which continue opportunities, but only if they will to consume large sums of cash on support and grow margin throughout an annual basis and require the our business.
business to continue to deliver high margins and high levels of cash.
We We also have the opportunity to believe that Howdens can meet grow in France.
We have traded these obligations, because the 10 depots in France since 2004 business is well-founded, and has and they performed well in 2011. prospects.
So we plan to stick to the They grew sales, introduced model that we know works, and to new product and developed their grow the business on that basis.
So it now seems reasonable to contemplate Certainly we have scope for more extending our test.
In the past, we have one or two more depots this year envisaged a total of at least 650.
We to see if we can replicate success now believe it is likely to be more more quickly.
Unfortunately, the than that, probably around 700.
We inherent costs of doing business have analysed the performance of in France mean that any operation new depots and have concluded there is unlikely to be as profitable Chief executives statement continued The business has momentum as in the UK.
However, over time We will keep operating and and morale, and it is well we have found that there are small capital costs under close review positioned for any improvement builders in France who are happy to ensure that we can respond in trading conditions.
to sell our product, and we observe rapidly to any change, good or that the market is moving our way, bad, in market conditions.
bringing the potential for market I would underline that this is a share gains as the Howdens tactical view, and in our opinion proposition becomes more the only sensible approach in this widely known.
For the moment, however, we It does not change our ambitions should take a short-term view of for Howdens at all.
We have built a the business as a whole.
As I have business that is growing.
It makes said, we are in very uncertain times.
products that are relevant and highly The market is down, by as much regarded.
as 30% over the last four years It is inherently low-cost and according to some reports.
are being reshaped and targets It has momentum and morale, redrawn all over Europe.
It is still and it is well positioned for any unclear what all this means.
We improvement in trading conditions.
take the view that in the current circumstances, and given the as yet There is always more work to do.
We 18 unknown impact of events including are always learning new things and the Queens Diamond Jubilee and using them to refine our successful the Olympics, we should model so that it becomes even more advance with caution.
What we are seeking to do, as we take Howdens forward, is to So we are going to proceed find more solutions to complexity by as follows: investing in even better service and We intend to open a similar even greater efficiency the drivers number of depots this year as in of margin and by staying focused 2011, and we will do so in on our one customer, the small tranches.
If market conditions builder, and via the builder the improve, we will open a few more, end-user at the centre of the home.
but in any event we will adapt to Because of all of the actions we market conditions and take a have taken and the path we are prudent approach, as we have following, we are well placed for done in the past.
this year and for the future beyond.
We will continue to invest in new matthew Ingle product development and at the Chief executive same time we will, as usual, review our slower-selling ranges and 29 February 2012 pursue greater stock efficiency so that we can maximise the potential of our best-sellers.
