Job: ChiefXExecutiveXsXr v28 Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: kevin Date: 9 March 2012 7:40 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions Chief Executives Review Increasing shareholder value 1 2 PROPRIETARY PRODUCTS, MARKET SHARE DELIVERING TECHNOLOGY STRENGTH INNOVATION Integrate new Technology business and R D PRICING LEVERAGE Product offering Products, services footprint and customers EXPANDING OUR CAPTURING SYNERGIES, GLOBAL FOOTPRINT ADDING VALUE 3 4 Our core strategy is to deliver acquisitive and organic growth across all of the Groups core operations.
We do this by investing and developing the business platforms to augment: Proprietary products and services: Increased market share strength: Enlarged global footprint: and Capture of synergies from the opportunities thus created.
06 Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 ChiefXExecutiveXsXr v28.
indd 6 09 03 2012 19:56 Job: ChiefXExecutiveXsXr v28 Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: kevin Date: 9 March 2012 7:40 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the business development highlighted, the Group Introduction During 2011, Hunting achieved a number reported a 44% increase in revenue to 608.8m 2010 423.3m.
Our existing businesses ofsignificant milestones in its growth strategy leading to the excellent financial results reported.
contributed 120.7m to this growth, with the balance of 64.8m coming from our newly The Group successfully concluded four acquisitions totalling 597.9m in the second half acquired companies.
Profit from continuing operations before amortisation and exceptional of the year, which extended our technology offering and product reach into the oil and gas items increased 80% to 81.0m 2010 45.0m wellbore, while also broadening our advanced comprising 65.9m from existing operations and manufacturing capabilities offered to our 15.1m from acquisitions.
In parallel to these acquisitions, us to report a 70% increase in diluted earnings Hunting has continued its significant investment per share from continuing operations before programme within its existing manufacturing amortisation and exceptional items to 38.7p facilities, with new sites formally opening in 2010 22.7p.
China and Scotland and further expansion projects commencing in North America.
Within Profit from continuing operations after this positive operating environment, Hunting has amortisation and exceptional items was seen many of its facilities increase the number 41.0m 2010 31.0m and the reported diluted ofproduction shifts in the year, with demand in earnings per share from continuing operations certain areas of the Group exceeding the historic was 20.3p 2010 15.4p.
highs seen in 2008. Business Development Supporting our strategy for growth has been Huntings strong financial performance astrengthening in market momentum.
In 2011, during2011 has been driven by an excellent worldwide rig counts increased 12% to close the performance from our existing businesses and a year at a near record high of 3,612 active units.
good contribution from the acquisitions made in Accompanying this increase has been a 20% the second half of the year.
increase in horizontal drilling compared to Hunting has 2010and a further shift to focusing on oil Huntings strategy is to invest in proprietary seenmany of its drilling.
These factors have driven the demand products, which have a strong market share and forHuntings products and with the WTI oil price good synergies with the existing products offered facilities increase averaging US$95 per barrel in the year, which by the Group.
Each of the acquisitions completed the number of reflects a tight balance between supply and during the year fulfilled these criteria: production shifts demand, the Group enters 2012 with a confidentoutlook.
Dearborn Precision Tubular Products in the year, with Dearborn In August 2011, the Group demand in Much of what Hunting has achieved in the completed the acquisition of Dearborn for a yearhas been due to the high quality people consideration of 50.6m.
The business provides certain areas weemploy.
Following the acquisitions, the specialist precision machining services to the ofthe Group Groupnow has 3,453 employees 2010 2,233. energy, aviation and power generation sectors, As part of the integration of the new businesses which demand close tolerance machining for exceeding the and personnel, the senior management within components used in critical applications.
historic highs our primary operating unit, Hunting Energy Dearborns energy related product lines seen in 2008.
Services, has been restructured, with the new includethe manufacture of complex components positions ofChief Operations Officer, Director of used in  MWD Manufacturing, Manufacturing Analyst and a new and  LWD tools.
Each Managing Director of Hunting Americas being customer has specific MWD LWD requirements created.
These new positions will direct new and each order is highly complex and can initiatives to maximise the manufacturing takemany hours to complete.
Dearborn fits efficiencies across the Groups operations.
wellwith the product lines manufactured byHunting Innova, as Innovas electronic With this strong business momentum, particularly measurement tools are often housed in seen in the final quarter of the year, coupled with Dearborns products.
Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 07 ChiefXExecutiveXsXr v28.
indd 7 09 03 2012 19:56 Job: ChiefXExecutiveXsXr v28 Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: kevin Date: 9 March 2012 7:40 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions Chief Executives Review continued W L Doffing Doffing In early September for Huntings existing products through Titans Part of the 2011, Hunting completed the acquisition of the 20distribution outlets throughout North America immediate business and assets of Doffing, a precision are also being developed.
machining services business, for a consideration integration of 14.2m.
Doffing complements Dearborn, Specialty Supply Specialty In October strategy of inthat it supplies critical tolerance machining, 2011, Hunting completed the acquisition Titanis to prototyping and first-pass specialist production ofSpecialty Supply, a supplier of precision services used in MWD LWD applications.
machined components, for a consideration of commence the 24.5m.
Specialitys products are used in the manufacturing of Titan In mid-September 2011, the Group global directional drilling markets and include alsocompleted the acquisition of Titan, the drill pipe screens, running gear, steering tools its products at largestacquisition in the Groups history, for a andgyro systems.
Titan is a leading provider of perforating gun systems, shaped Since the completion of these acquisitions, facilities.
charges, well logging instrumentation and allbusinesses have performed in line with perforating gun switches used in drilling management expectations, with business complexhorizontal wells, predominantly for shale momentum being maintained from the final related drilling.
Titan is a supplier of proprietary quarter of 2011 into the new trading year.
perforating products in North America and further Manufacturing and sales synergies have already exposes Hunting to the high growth global shale been identified and are being implemented, drilling market, to which the Group already withfurther systems integration planned for supplies many other components.
Part of the thenear future.
immediate integration strategy of Titan is to commence the manufacturing of its products at From the start of 2012, Hunting has commenced other Hunting facilities including the Wuxi facility aunified marketing initiative for the Innova, in China where large growth opportunities have Dearborn and Doffing product lines.
Further cross-selling opportunities thenew branding of Hunting Advanced Manufacturing Group, the Group now offers asingle source solution for MWD LWD Group Income Statement measurement tools.
Using the technical expertise 2011 2010 of these three businesses, Hunting is aiming to m m become a leading supplier of MWD LWD tools, Continuing operations: removing the need for multiple componentRevenue 608.8 423.3 sourcing currently required by our customers.
EBITDA 102.5 62.6 Following the four acquisitions, Hunting now has Depreciation and non-exceptional impairment 21.5 17.6 38 manufacturing facilities worldwide 2010 30 Profit from operations before amortisation and with a global footprint totalling over 2.5m square exceptional items 81.0 45.0 feet of capacity.
Amortisation and exceptional items 40.0 14.0 Profit from continuing operations 41.0 31.0 During the year, Hunting continued its internal investment programme across its global facilities.
In 2011, the Group increased capital expenditure Diluted EPS before amortisation and exceptional items 38.7p 22.7p Diluted EPS reported 20.3p 15.4p to 58.0m 2010 49.0m, of which 57.8m 2010 48.7m was invested within the Groups primary operating unit, Hunting Energy Services.
Within the Group figure of 58.0m, new business development comprised of 45.2m 2010 36.8m and replacement expenditure was 12.8m 2010 12.2m.
During 2011 the Group completed a project in Scotland to consolidate manufacturing to two principal sites at Badentoy and Fordoun, relocated and consolidated its 08 Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 ChiefXExecutiveXsXr v28.
indd 8 09 03 2012 19:56 Job: ChiefXExecutiveXsXr v28 Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: kevin Date: 9 March 2012 7:40 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Oil and gas demand is forecast to continue to manufacturing capabilities in Dubai and formally opened its Wuxi facility in China.
In 2012 new grow as we continue through the year, subject tothe economic and geopolitical climate not capital projects at Houma, Louisiana and Stafford, Texas are due to be completed, which will further declining further.
In the medium to long term, industry commentators are forecasting a 70% increase the total operating footprint.
increase in investment in capital spending over the next decade to meet anticipated hydrocarbon The Group also continued to build its Exploration and Production business where 2.3m was demand, which provides confidence that Huntings products will be required in the future.
Business Strategy Health, Safety and Environment The key elements of the Groups business strategy During 2011, Hunting Energy Services recorded to deliver long term shareholder value remain: 3.36m personnel hours compared to 2.30m in To deliver both acquisitive and organic growth 2010, an increase of 46%.
We are pleased to across all of the Groups core operations.
report that even with this increase, the number To invest and develop the business platforms ofrecordable incidents decreased by 26% to 26 to augment: incidents compared to 35 in 2010.
The incident Proprietary products and services: per million person hours worked therefore Increased market share strength: decreased 49% to 7.7 compared to 15.2 in 2010.
Enlarged global footprint: and Capture of synergies from the opportunities Outlook thus created.
Hunting has commenced 2012 on a solid footing, as the demand for energy remains firm.
Underpinning these strategic objectives is a The Group now has an established global commitment to manufacture and deliver high Investment in proprietary products manufacturing presence in key energy regions and expanded facilities, here in quality products and services with a reputation Scotland, have continued.
around the world, with a broad product and for reliability and on time delivery under the service offering for our customers.
With our new Hunting brand.
acquisitions, we have extended the number of touch points in the oil and gas well bore and Business Model have many opportunities to cross-sell our The key features of the Groups business model products into the new and existing market which seeks to deliver its strategic objectives are: segments in which we serve, while maximising A decentralised management structure allowing the Groups manufacturing efficiency with our local management to identify and react to enlarged operating footprint.
customer or local market requirements.
Close monitoring, support and direction from In North America, shale related drilling the centre.
willcontinue to support product demand as Short chains of command allowing for faster customers continue to focus on oil related resource decision making.
As activity in the Gulf of Mexico continues Framework of controls with discretionary to increase, Hunting anticipates increased business limits and powers for local management.
in this area, which will increase the demand for Flexible cost structures which can adapt to our products, particularly those applicable to market conditions.
In Europe, despite Common standards for quality, health and thereduced number of active rigs following safety across operations.
theUK governments new tax legislation, new development projects continue to be sanctioned Maintaining high operational standards across in the North Sea, which will maintain activity allof the Groups activities is viewed as one throughout the year.
In South East Asia, the ofthe building blocks in delivering a strong continued increase in demand for energy will financial performance.
support our manufacturing activities in Singapore and China.
Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 09 ChiefXExecutiveXsXr v28.
