Chief Executives Review The value and relevance of The difficult economic environment held back PURE revenues.
the Groups range of market Whilst the markets for PUREs products are increasingly leading technologies is becoming more global, 76% of PUREs revenue was still in the reflected in Imaginations UK which has seen particularly tough retail conditions.
continued strong growth Group gross profit was 77.3m, a 38% increase 2010: 55.9m.
despite the challenges of The gross margin has continued to improve to 79% 2010: 69% the global economic as the revenue mix continues to be driven by the higher margin environment.
The full year saw excellent Research and development expenses increased 26% to financial and strategic 44.7m 2010: 35.4m.
This is a 17% underlying increase progress for the Technology business, with strong chip volume, excluding share-based incentive costs and the incremental royalty growth and a very active licensing period.
The Group research and development cost of Caustic and HelloSoft.
successfully closed a number of important licensing deals and The Group is increasing and widening engagements with secured many new partners.
This resulted in a significant jump its partners across our full range of graphics, video, display, in operating profit for the Technology business.
The licensing broadcast and processing technologies and has received prospects and pipeline has never been stronger.
positive feedback from customers in relation to the recently The PURE business continued to be held back in the short-term acquired technologies.
It is critical that Imagination continues by the general economic pressure on consumer spending, to invest in its market leading IP cores to enable the Group to particularly in the UK market, which has to date been the main exploit opportunities and to ensure that our partners deploy our driver of PUREs revenues.
However, PURE saw its international technologies effectively.
business grow strongly with more than 75% year on year In addition to the research and development investments, which growth in the second half.
are central to our business, Imagination is also strengthening its technical support both centrally and in the field as part of our Financial Review plans to scale the business.
Group revenues for the period ending 30 April 2011 were PURE continues to play a key role in pathfinding and promoting 98.0m 2010: 80.9m, an increase of 21%.
Technology the Groups technologies, notably in the area of the Cloud revenues, comprising licensing and royalties, were 47% internet connectivity, digital radio and other emerging trends ahead at 69.8m 2010: 47.3m.
PURE revenues were 28.2m such as machine-to-machine connectivity.
activities are vital to support the licensing of our newer Within Technology, royalty revenue increased by 69% on both connectivity broadcast and processing technologies to partners.
a sterling and dollar basis to 41.3m 2010: 24.4m, driven by Sales and administrative expenses were 16.3m 2010: 10.6m.
a very strong increase in chip volume which increased 94% to The underlying increase was 16% net of non-cash share-based 245m 2010: 126m.
incentive costs, amortisation of intangible assets, profit and loss Based on the high level of customer activity throughout the year, on exchange, acquisition transaction costs and the incremental licensing revenue increased 24% to 28.5m 2010: 22.9m, the costs of Caustic and HelloSoft.
The revenue contribution from Caustic and HelloSoft was, as expected, minimal.
3 The adjusted operating profit for the Technology business increase in Group operating profit.
This has led to net cash increased 97% to 26.7m 2010: 13.6m driven by the very resources increasing to 49.4m 2010: 29.4m.
Cash resources strong increase in royalty revenues.
The adjusted net operating are adequate for the Groups future requirements.
margin for the Technology business increased to 38% The reconciliation from reported results to adjusted results is set out in note 3.
The difficult trading conditions have resulted in PURE recording Technology Business an adjusted operating loss of 2.8m 2010: loss 0.3m.
During the 2010 11 financial year, the Technology business continued to make significant progress in its three key metrics: The adjusted Group profit before tax increased by 80% to 24.0m 2010: 13.3m.
The reported pre-tax profit was 16.4m New licensing deals, which generate short-term revenue and 2010: 10.2m.
represent a key measure for general technology adoption There was a tax credit of 2.9m 2010: credit 4.0m arising Growth of SoC design wins, which are indicative of from the recognition of 3.0m of previously unrecognized technology deployment and the underlying drivers behind tax losses and a cash receipt of 1.3m in respect of an R&D future royalty generation tax credit, offset by 1.4m of tax on overseas earnings.
The Partner chip volume ramp-up, which drives royalty revenues deferred tax asset on the Group balance sheet to be utilized against future UK profits has increased to 24.9m 2010: Other important developments: 11.0m as a result of the tax credit of 2.9m recognized Two key strategic acquisitions in H2, HelloSoft and Caustic through the profit and loss account and 11.0m recognized to add strategic complementary technologies and provide through equity.
The Group has now recognized all of its deferred further scale to our business.
tax assets in respect of UK tax losses, and UK corporation tax payments will only commence once these have been utilized.
Licensing Adjusted earnings per share increased by 48% to 10.8p 2010: The active and strengthening pipeline of opportunities led to 7.3p.
The Groups reported earnings per share increased to 7.7p a number of strategically and financially significant licensing 2010: 6.0p.
agreements or deal extensions including over 20 major licensing agreements and a number of smaller deals and upgrades.
The Group carried out a share placing in November 2010 and raised 37.1m in order to finance the acquisition of Caustic and Among the major agreements, there were new partner deals HelloSoft.
29.4m of cash was paid out in the year in connection with STMicroelectronics, ST-Ericsson, Fujitsu, LG, SiS, NetLogic, with these acquisitions, with further payments dependent on Skyviia and General Plus as well as significant new licenses or HelloSofts performance.
extensions with existing partners including Intel, TI, Renesas, MediaTek and CSR.
The Group also signed software licenses Capital expenditure was 13.5m 2010: 2.0m.
The Group and upgrades with a number of existing partners as well as acquired its existing and adjacent offices in Kings Langley with a number of key OEMs deploying partners chips with for 9.0m gross in order to be able to redevelop the site and Imagination IP.
A mortgage of 5.2m has been taken out on these properties.
Plans for a new building on site are The major licence agreements involved over 35 IP core licences.
The target markets for these include mobile phone, digital TV STB, personal media player, mobile computing tablet and in-car There was a substantial increase in operating cash in-flow of navigation dashboard.
19.1m in the year 2010: 8.6m generated from the strong 4 Chief Executives Review Significantly, the Group has seen accelerating momentum in Display PowerVR I2P and FRC are enabling the best image design-wins for its PowerVR graphics technology, which has so processing for TVs, STBs and other consumer devices.
far achieved over 70 licenses, including many partners that are Convergence trends are increasingly requiring features working on designs using the multi-processing MP SGX543MP previously reserved for the TV market to migrate into other and SGX544MP core variants of the Series5XT family.
The categories including mobile phones, personal computing and Groups next-generation technology codenamed Rogue has tablets, and in-car multimedia.
Our offerings are particulary been acknowledged by many key partners as the market leader strong in low power and size efficiency whilst delivering and has already secured six early licensees.
Additionally we are seeing a steady diversification of design Embedded processor cores the Meta family of processors wins and growing interest across our other key IP cores offers multi-threading, hard real-time and signal-processing including: capabilities which are ideal for highly integrated, feature-rich and cost effective systems.
With its extensive capabilities Video PowerVR VXD and VXE families support the latest Meta technology is also ideal as an application processor for and emerging video decode and encode formats.
We are running the operating system whilst also offering the built-in seeing a growing adoption of these technologies among our multi-threading, real-time and signal processing capabilities to partners.
Already well over 40% of the devices with our IP carry out other key tasks, eliminating external hardware.
shipped annually include our video cores.
These features combined with our Ensigma technology offer The growing demand for video technology is driven by a highly efficient connected processor which we believe is content delivery and, increasingly, content creation and twowell positioned for many connected devices and Machineway delivery of video.
The trend is towards the widespread to-Machine M2M.
We have introduced the new MetaFlow use of the internet for video content delivery including family to address these market segments and are supporting both mobile video delivery and the internet-protocol IP TV this offering with innovative Cloud-connected client and capability needed in video-on-demand and catch-up TV.
portal technologies marketed under Flow Technology.
Also user generated content e. g. YouTube and video Many of our IP cores integrate Meta processing cores conferencing are increasingly making video encode already.
Over 40% of the annual volume of our IP shipments capabilities a standard feature of many connected devices.
deploy Meta technology and we expect this trend to continue Connectivity broadcast the Ensigma UCC family of IP cores upwards.
The emergence of open source operating systems are seeing growing demand.
We have secured multiple including Android and the inevitable trend towards internet design wins in this area including a recent significant and connectivity across the majority of devices will further drive extensive agreement with a top-tier semiconductor partner.
deployment of higher-end Meta processors in application We also have a strong and growing pipeline of engagements processors in a variety of markets.
and evaluations ongoing for this technology.
Ensigma Since the acquisition of HelloSoft, in addition to better UCC programmable radio processing units RPU support integration of development work on connectivity Wi-Fi, worldwide TV and radio reception as well as important we have also seen a number of important engagements connectivity standards such as Wi-Fi, all running on the same with respect to our VoIP and V. VoIP technologies with key silicon engine in software.
This technology is increasingly customers which include a tier-one network operator and a essential for delivery of Cloud and broadcast content to home key handset maker.
and also within the enterprise.
5 Given the relevance and competitiveness of Imaginations Acquisitions offerings and increased pipeline of prospects, the strong Caustic Graphics Caustic licensing activity level, which led to the reported 24% growth in licensing revenue, has continued into the current financial year.
Imagination acquired Caustic in December 2010 for its raytracing acceleration technologies.
Ray tracing is a technique for rendering three-dimensional graphics with complex and Partner chip shipments and royalties more natural lighting models to achieve cinema-quality 3D and Partner chip unit shipments grew strongly and almost doubled a level of near photographic realism that is impractical with to 245m units 2010: 126m units.
Growth was driven by traditional 3D graphics techniques.
To date, ray tracing has increasing sales of mobile phone, personal media player, TVs, been used in specialized applications such as special effects tablets netbooks, digital radio and car navigation dashboard.
and computer animated movies, industrial design, mechanical and architectural modelling to create lifelike and photorealistic SoC design wins and pipeline imagery.
SoC design wins are the driver for future partner chip shipments and royalty revenue growth.
Strong continuing momentum Caustic has developed unique and patented hardware saw new partner SoC design wins increase to 115 net of and software technologies to radically lower the cost and obsolescence compared with 91 as at April 2010.
Of these, 48 dramatically increase the efficiency and performance of ray are shipping or beginning to ship, with the balance of 67 still in tracing, opening up the potential of highly photorealistic design.
The latter will be the driver for significant further royalty computer-generated animated imagery to a host of new realrevenue growth.
time applications and markets not possible previously.
Very importantly the ray tracing approach has the added benefit These committed devices are continuing to diversify across of substantially simplifying content creation and reducing Imaginations partners and key market segments: associated cost.
Caustic technology also allows the co- 40 for mobile phone multimedia devices existence of traditional polygon based rendered objects and 10 for handheld multimedia personal media player, hand-held lifelike ray-traced elements in the same scene.
gaming entertainment, camera, mobile TV The acquisition of Caustic is helping to achieve a number of 30 for home consumer entertainment TVs, STBs, DVDs, the Groups objectives: digital radio and audio, connected audio, and home Imagination has gained access to unique and patented entertainment devices technology which enables real-time ray-traced and cinema- 15 in mobile computing tablet netbook ultra-mobile PC quality 3D graphics to be implemented in a novel and highly cost-effective manner.
The capability can be efficiently 14 for in-car navigation, dashboard, personal navigation added to the Groups highly successful PowerVR Graphics devices Processing Units GPUs Six for other markets covering green energy, networking, Caustic technology operates fully in conjunction with, and healthcare, amusement and toys complements, Imaginations existing graphics processing IP.
This helps ensure Imagination stays at the technological 6 Chief Executives Review forefront, driving major innovations in the growing 3D work.
The clear trends towards Cloud-based content storage graphics market and delivery are further increasing the demands for internet connected devices and in particular Wi-Fi Acquisition enables Imagination to bring further disruptive technologies, as part of its roadmap, to its mainstream Driven by the above industry dynamics, Imagination expects graphics markets across the mobile, embedded, console the revenue streams for HelloSofts products, which provide and computing segments leading-edge solutions to enable such changes, to build progressively as markets emerge and grow.
Acquisition provides access to professional and specialized markets that take advantage of Caustics much more The acquisition of HelloSoft is helping to achieve a number of efficient photo-realistic and cinema quality graphics solution.
Imaginations objectives by: The combined technologies from Imagination and Caustic Providing access to leading edge V. VoIP and VoLTE will dramatically change the price-performance point of technology that, with the migration to internet protocol these solutions and enable real-time operation networks, is of increasing importance in all key markets Acquisition will enable Imagination to extend its ecosystem Imagination addresses today to include very advanced graphics content and tool Combining HelloSofts technology and Imaginations developers, and ultimately bring such content and tools to multimedia processing cores offers an optimized end-to-end mainstream markets solution for media-over-internet protocol delivery, important to all connected devices HelloSoft Opening up the path for wider and deeper engagement with Imagination acquired HelloSoft in December 2010 for its other parts of the telecommunications value-chain, including leading connectivity Wi-Fi and V. VoIP Video and Voice over handset OEMs and network service operators.
This process Internet Protocol technologies.
HelloSoft is one of the worlds has already resulted in important agreements with network leading providers of V. VoIP and wireless LAN technologies, service operators and device manufacturers supplying key service providers operators, OEMs and semiconductor companies.
In combination with Imaginations Ensigma Universal Communications Core Processor UCCP platforms, provide Delivery of media to connected devices is increasingly a comprehensive and market-leading Wi-Fi technology becoming a key aspect of many modern service providers.
solution, and complete a fundamental part of Imaginations Among the key technological changes in this area are: connected home roadmap.
The emergence of CloudThe migration of many networks from circuit-switching connected devices, smart TVs and set-top boxes is 2G, 3G, traditional phone landlines to packet switching, dependent on easy-to-deploy and high performance home more commonly referred to as IP Internet Protocol based connectivity which is strengthened through this acquisition delivery, which include Wi-Fi, LTE VoLTE: Voice over LTE The integration of both acquisitions is proceeding well.
and all other modern communication standards The growing relevance of wireless Wi-Fi to connectivity in the home, on the move mobile devices and hotspots and at 7 PURE Business Within the UK the overall consumer electronics market titles, eReviews and iTrends, while Contour has received four environment continued to be tight over Christmas 2010 with stars from What Hi-Fi?
Monthly consumer electronics A new colour range for the EVOKE Mio was also announced sales were down by 10% to 20% across the period.
The iconic radio now comes in a colour With similar recession driven softening in international collection that complements popular kitchenware colours.
markets, historical overstocking in some markets and the These have been very well received by lifestyle press and have timing of certain new product introductions, PURE showed been featured in top womens and interiors magazines such as a 16% revenue reduction for the full year, with a small Ideal Home, Red, Good Homes, House Beautiful and Bella.
improvement for the second half over the first half.
Despite this Other products that have been awarded in the last six months continued tough environment, PURE maintained its number include the i-20, a ground-breaking digital iPod iPhone dock, one position in the digital radio market in the UK.
which has received a five star award from Hi-Fi Choice and During Q4 2010 11, a modest year-on-year improvement top tech site, TechRadar.
Sensia has retained interest with a 9% has been noted and more importantly PUREs fledgling five star award from iPad and iPhone User and also won the international revenues are showing significant second half title of Best Digital Radio 2011 from Australias SmartHouse year-on-year growth of around 75%.
The transition from analogue to digital radio is underway on a The Groups investment in developing the internet and web global scale but the pace of progress depends on each region.
com, in support of its connected Importantly, Germany has agreed on DAB national roll-out radio and multimedia platform with its first deployment in the and has set a launch date of 1 August 2011, backed up by form of the PURE Flow range, is enabling the next generation impressive regional and local broadcast plans.
Norway has of Cloud-based products and services.
PURE recently announced analogue switch-off in 2017, Australia is showing completely revamped thelounge.
com, adding a music store strong growth with Switzerland and Denmark showing good and new search facilities.
Hong Kong is expected to launch DAB in December These connected technologies and services are considered of 2011.
France and Italy although active and growing markets significant strategic importance to the Group: not only in the for PURE have suffered slow-downs in the transition to delivery of internet-based multimedia content but also for other digital radio.
connected services such as automation, security and remote Despite the tougher environment in the UK and other markets healthcare.
Over time we will be offering our Flow technology PURE retained its market-share leadership position in key in its own right, bringing our portal, connectivity and processor product categories.
During the last six months, PURE has IP together to address the many emerging connected launched three more radios with Flow technology, ONE applications beyond the radio market.
Flow, Contour and most recently, Sirocco 550, which takes PURE is making very valuable contributions to the development the connected range to eight products.
Both ONE Flow and of fundamental intellectual property that is critical for key Contour have been well received internationally with ONE Flow aspects of the Groups future strategies.
receiving five stars from PC Pro magazine and What Hi-Fi?
Sound and Vision magazine, plus 80% accolades from Danish 8 Chief Executives Review Outlook and way forward The Groups technologies, which have been instrumental in many of the key recent market trends, continue to gain ground and are powering many market-driving and iconic end-user products.
With well over 500m devices in total, across numerous categories, having already shipped, and with approximately half of this volume shipped during the last financial year alone, the Group now sees that within five years a revised target of around one billion units is a reasonable goal for the annual run-rate of our partners chips.
Despite the current economic environment, PURE continues to showcase effectively and drive some of our key technologies.
The business is expected to see improvements during the current financial year and in the medium term.
PURE is an integral part of the Groups strategy and focuses on targeting emerging consumer markets that can benefit from a concerted drive and pathfinder approach.
This has been successfully executed on digital radio in the UK with the focus now moving to international development.
Connected devices and the associated Cloud-based solution are another key area where PUREs efforts are directed, with a starting point that bridges the broadcast and internet arena and enables optimal delivery of both mass and individual targeted content.
Our strategy will ultimately also lead to complementary areas involving home connectivity and the provision of useful remote Cloud services.
The two acquisitions complement our technologies and markets whilst also providing us with further capabilities and tools to launch disruptive technologies.
We always look very carefully for market discontinuities or disruptive technologies to help us in developing and growing our business.
These acquisitions are part of this process.
Even with the significant progress we have made to date, the exploitation of many of our key technologies is still at an early stage in many markets.
For example, the worldwide embedded graphics market alone has the potential to reach multi billion annual units over the next five years or so.
Video technology deployment is exploding and is migrating from just decode to both decode and encode, which creates further significant opportunities ahead.
Similarly the rapidly developing importance of internet connectivity and Cloud-based services will ultimately require almost all home consumer devices such as TVs, STBs and other home appliances to incorporate both connectivity and advanced user interfaces.
Despite the volatile macro economy, the Group remains very well placed for further solid growth based on its very active and growing licensing pipeline, extensive SoC design wins already secured, expected chip volume ramp and royalty growth, as well as the potential for PURE to exploit its strong product line-up, including its Cloud-connected solutions, internationally.
Hossein Yassaie Chief Executive 22 June 2011 9 Business Overview 10
