GROUP OPERATING REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 2011 WAS ANOTHER YEAR OF GOOD PROGRESS FOR IMI, WITH ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH OF OVER 5%, RECORD OPERATING MARGINS OF 17.5% AND ENCOURAGING DEVELOPMENTS ACROSS MOST AREAS OF THE GROUP.
Against a macro-economic background where uncertainty Over time we would expect to increase signicantly this increased markedly in the second half, the results reect proportion through disciplined choices around customer the continued benets that are being derived from the selection, new product development and acquisitions.
fundamental reshaping of the Group over the last decade.
To support this objective, each of our platform businesses The consistency of approach has delivered a significant has made an assessment of the current strategic and sustainable improvement in the underlying quality and sweetspot positioning, and has developed a set of plans profitability of the Group.
for increasing convergence over the next few years.
The macro-economic environment remains uncertain with Growth acceleration limited GDP growth forecast in developed Western economies Against the background of global macro-economic in the medium term and with global growth being propelled uncertainty with limited market growth expected in largely through emerging economies.
Within this context Western economies, IMI needs to allocate its resources current trading patterns have nevertheless remained stable as carefully to drive future growth.
In particular, we will focus we enter 2012, with no material changes in trends witnessed on three principal areas: over the last few months.
Acceleration of new product activity with the s We remain committed to our three pronged strategy of prioritisation of product applications with high exposure gradually increasing each year the proportion of our to favourable mega trends and to emerging markets.
business in our favoured end market niches Strategic significant expansion of our emerging markets s Convergence : accelerating our growth through increased presence, through accelerated investment in sales and investment in new products and emerging markets: and engineering resource in the key targeted territories.
maintaining a long established upward trend in margins Supplementing our organic initiatives through an active through a process of pricing optimisation and year on year s acquisition programme, prioritising businesses with reductions in our manufacturing and supply chain costs.
high sweetspot exposure and a strong emerging Strategic convergence markets presence.
In this regard we were pleased to During the year we continued to develop our long term announce two Severe Service acquisitions, Remosa thinking around strategic convergence, providing a route SpA and Grupo InterAtiva, in February 2012.
These map for gradually increasing the percentage of our revenues businesses signicantly strengthen our isolation valve in our sweetspot.
For IMI, strategic convergence means capabilities and our emerging market exposure, notably prioritising both organic and acquisition investment in favour in South America.
We retain a strong balance sheet of differentiated uid technologies, applied to global market and have a number of additional acquisition niches where we already have, or can aspire to, a leadership opportunities in the pipeline.
position, and which benefit from a heightened exposure to Margin sustainability attractive market trends.
These trends include climate Funding for our increased investment in growth will be met change, resource scarcity, urbanisation and an ageing through a continuation of our ongoing initiatives to improve population.
We believe these trends are set to be with us for margins which remains therefore a key focus for us.
As we generations, surviving economic cycles and our increasing highlighted in the interim results we have built up a strong exposure to them will deliver a signicantly higher level of track record over many years of delivering price and value growth over the long term.
benets comfortably in excess of any labour cost and Today just over half of IMIs operations are positioned supply chain ination, the so called ination equation, within the sweetspot which is characterised by irrespective of the macro-economic circumstances.
higher growth, higher margins and greater resilience.
18 Group operating review BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Martin Lamb Chief Executive Looking forward we expect to continue winning the ination Whilst the global macro-economic outlook remains equation over time through optimising prices, driving down uncertain, we are committed to our well dened plans to supply chain costs and delivering substantial productivity drive strategic convergence, accelerate future growth, deliver further margin improvement and make greater use gains.
In addition, our long term programmes to move more of our strong balance sheet in delivering value enhancing manufacturing and procurement to lower cost countries is acquisitions.
continuing and we are gaining traction on our initiatives around supplier rationalisation and value engineering.
Based on current market conditions we remain optimistic that the Group will make further progress in 2012.
Outlook IMI has delivered another strong set of results in 2011 with good growth and record underlying profits, margins and earnings.
In light of this performance, and our confidence in the future prospects for the business, we are pleased to propose an increase in the full year dividend of 15%.
Martin Lamb Chief Executive 1 March 2012 IMI plc Annual Report 2011 19
