Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 8 Chief Executives Review We are building on our sales momentum driving growth through our unique total tobacco portfolio.
Alison Cooper, Chief Executive Gauloises Blondes volumes were up by 2 per cent Overview reflecting a very strong performance in North Africa, notably Algeria and Morocco.
However the overall Our strategy for delivering quality earnings growth brand performance was held back by sanction and creating long-term value for our shareholders compliance in the Middle East.
West performed well in the emerging markets of We have achieved good sales growth across our Eastern Europe and Asia, but overall volumes were geographic footprint, with particularly strong gains down 2 per cent impacted by market weakness in in emerging markets.
I am pleased with our sales performance and, as We delivered another very good performance weve continued to build momentum, I have been with JPS increasing volumes by 12 per cent, with focusing on how we can accelerate sales growth: particular success in the UK, Australia, Portugal how we can do things differently to fully realise the and New Zealand.
EU Highlights Key to achieving this is our focus on our four sales We have leading positions in cigarettes and fine cut growth drivers: portfolio management, innovation, tobacco in many markets in the EU and have made pricing and customer engagement, all of which we good progress with our value portfolio across the intend to excel at going forward.
Our value cigarette brands have grown share Our work on our key enablers supports the in the majority of EU markets and we also increased delivery of our sales goals.
Our priorities here are to volumes of fine cut tobacco by 4 per cent.
continue developing consumer insights, aligning our In the UK and Germany, JPS benefited from value operations behind our sales agenda and shaping our seeking consumers both in cigarettes and in fine cut external environment.
While Spain has been difficult, we have actively managed our portfolio to improve and protect 1 2011 Results Highlights our market leadership position.
This has included launching a number of innovative cigarette line I am pleased that we have again grown overall extensions and value offerings in fine cut tobacco and volumes of our key cigarette brands, fine cut tobacco, cigars.
Elsewhere in the EU cigarette market shares mass market and luxury Cuban cigars and snus.
were up in Austria, Czech Republic and Portugal.
Our stick equivalent volumes declined by 1.5 per cent, We have had particular success in developing popular a good result given the exceptional circumstances in cigarette brands into fine cut tobacco brands and Spain and trade buying patterns in the UK.
Adjusting achieved exceptional growth from Route 66, with these factors, our stick equivalent volumes were flat, volumes up by 49 per cent.
In addition, our fine whilst tobacco net revenues were up 4.5 per cent.
cut tobacco shares have grown in Poland, Spain 2 and Belgium.
Key Strategic Brand Highlights Within our key strategic brands we grew volumes of Non-EU Highlights Davidoff by 6 per cent with excellent gains in Russia, Outside the EU we delivered an excellent performance Ukraine, Taiwan and Saudi Arabia.
in emerging markets where we are particularly focused on developing our strategic cigarette brands.
We made very strong gains in fast-growing segments such as superslims and kingsize superslims.
1 Percentage increases and decreases in our adjusted results are on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise.
2 Volume changes on stick equivalent basis.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 9 Realising our potential Reflecting our total tobacco approach we also made Outlook further good progress with luxury Cuban cigars and snus.
We grew volumes of luxury Cuban cigars by These pleasing results highlight the growth momentum 4 per cent in markets outside the EU with further in the business and provide a strong platform for success in Russia, Brazil and China.
we have continued to build our snus volumes which Our strategic focus on delivering quality earnings were up by 30 per cent.
growth and the continued commitment of our people These portfolio successes have resulted in excellent will enable us to realise our growth potential.
We grew our profits in Eastern Our commitment to delivering sales excellence Europe by 21 per cent, in Africa and the Middle East combined with our expertise in cost and cash by 8 per cent and in Asia-Pacific by 27 per cent.
management will enable us to continue maximising In the USA, the integration of our cigarette and mass returns to our shareholders.
market cigar sales forces is progressing well and we delivered good revenue growth in our premium cigar portfolio.
Senior Management Appointments We made two appointments to our Operating Executive to further drive our sustainable sales Alison Cooper growth agenda.
Roberto Funari was appointed Group Chief Executive Marketing Director in November 2010, joining us from Reckitt Benckiser where he was Global Category Officer, and Arthur van Benthem, formerly Customer Management Director of the Metro Group, was appointed Group Sales Director in March 2011.
Our People Our people make our strategy happen: they are passionate about what they do.
Their response and support for our enhanced sales growth agenda gives me great confidence for the future.
Our recent global management engagement survey results were ahead of other similar FMCG companies and have given us a real insight into how we can be For more information visit: even better at what we do.
The survey results have www.
com helped to develop a number of engagement initiatives.
We are further developing our people capabilities focusing on the values, behaviours, knowledge and skills to further realise our sales aspirations.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 10 Chief Executives Review continued World Tobacco Market Overview The global tobacco market remains relatively stable, The combination of our unique total tobacco with around a third of the worlds adult population portfolio and balanced geographic footprint choosing to smoke.
provides a strong platform for growth in both EU and non-EU countries.
Cigarettes are by far the most popular tobacco product, with approximately six trillion consumed Total tobacco means we have strength in all major every year which is equivalent to 85 per cent of tobacco categories at key price points, which gives total tobacco volumes worldwide.
The remaining us more flexibility to respond to changing consumer 15 per cent is largely made up of fine cut tobacco, dynamics and build sales in growth segments.
cigars and smokeless tobacco products.
We see significant growth opportunities for our The largest cigarette market in the world is China, business in emerging markets, where we are accounting for around 40 per cent of global particularly focused on further developing sales consumption.
Outside of China, the largest of our global strategic cigarette brands and world cigarette markets are Russia and the USA.
In EU markets, our versatile portfolio remains well placed to continue capitalising In mature markets, such as those in the EU, overall on the growth in value cigarettes and fine cut cigarette consumption is declining.
The general tobacco, as consumers increasingly seek value stability of the world markets is as a result of growth brands and products in tough economic conditions.
in emerging markets outside the EU, where consumption is increasing as adult populations And although consumers are demanding value they continue to rise.
also expect quality and innovation, so delivering excellence in these areas is an integral part of Regrettably illicit trade is a significant problem in our sales strategy.
We are actively developing many markets, often fuelled by excessive regulation our innovation pipeline to drive growth, ensuring and rising excise duties.
We continue to step that all our portfolio innovations are based on up our anti-illicit trade activities, partnering with consumer preferences.
governments and law enforcement agencies to disrupt the supply and sale of illegal tobacco.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011
