Directors Report: Business Review Group Chief Executives strategic review Engineered for performance Andr Lacroix Group Chief Executive Our results for 2011 clearly demonstrate the resilience of our unique business model as we strengthened our profitability and balance sheet while continuing to grow market share around the world.
Sales Operating profit Profit before tax before exceptional items before exceptional items 5.8bn 244.4m 227.7m -1.0% 8.4% 6.4% premium vehicles in Asia Pacific and the Emerging Markets, A strategy engineered for performance although consumer confidence weakened further in the more Inchcape is a global industry leader in automotive distribution and mature and developed economies of the UK and Europe.
We have deep relationships with the worlds leading luxury and premium brands and have scale operations in 26 markets.
However in the UK, we benefited from our position in the market, 21 of these are in the fast growing economies of Asia Pacific and as the luxury and premium segment continued to outperform in the Emerging Markets with burgeoning new middle classes that an increasingly competitive environment.
This meant that we too are driving the robust growth of global industry volumes.
outperformed the industry, managing to again win market share.
Our vision is to be the worlds most customer-centric automotive Against a difficult economic backdrop, it is pleasing to report that retail group driven by our Customer 1st strategy to both strengthen our disciplined approach to performance enabled us to grow the performance of our existing assets through improved market market share in Europe during the year.
We benefited from strong share and aftersales service retention and, through the strong growth in Russia and Emerging Markets as we focused on meeting brand partner relationships that this creates, to gain access to the aspirations of these economies fast-growing middle classes.
expansion opportunities in high margin high growth areas of the All this was achieved despite significant supply difficulties due to world.
We operationalise this strategy to deliver organic growth the Japanese earthquake in the spring that affected our through a disciplined focus on our Top Five Priorities, growing operations in Asia Pacific.
market share, growing aftersales, improving margins, controlling In 2011, we also made important strategic investments in working capital and being selective about capital expenditure, our retail and aftersales capacity in a number of key markets and we drive consistently superior customer service in every site including China, Russia, Poland, Peru and Chile, and we were through the proprietary processes of our unique Inchcape awarded two strategically significant distribution contracts in Advantage programme.
Our close relationship with our manufacturer Over the last three years, we have taken swift and decisive action brand partners and long standing track record of performance to protect and strengthen our business against the impact of the has given us access to expansion opportunities in these exciting economic downturn.
These actions have supported the delivery growth markets.
in 2011 of strong profits for the Group, with EPS 11% year on year We first entered China in 2007 with the three objectives of testing following 18% EPS growth in 2010.
This was achieved despite a the retail unit economics, building a local organisation and small decrease in revenue from the previous year, highlighting the establishing best practice operating processes.
We achieved this effectiveness of our cost controls and governance at the Group, by 2010 through three successful pilot operations, one in Shanghai country and retail centre level.
2011 saw further expansion in China, with Our results for 2011 clearly demonstrate the value of our two Jaguar Land Rover facilities in Shaoxing and the award of international reach, which has successfully protected us against the highly prestigious retail franchise for Porsche in Nanchang, the uneven recovery of the global automotive market.
During which is set to open in 2012.
These are key elements of our strategy the year we witnessed strong growth momentum for luxury and for China, which sees us target 20 retail sites in the next five years.
