14 Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 BusIness revIew chIef executIves Q&A chief executive Adrian ringrose discusses some of the topics most frequently raised by shareholders.
How has Interserve performed target for the division of 5 per cent by the in 2011?
Construction has done well both in the UK and internationally in a A. I think we can feel proud of what tough market where margin pressure and Interserve has achieved for shareholders increased competition have had an effect.
Equipment Services is emerging from We continued to make excellent progress the bottom of the cycle in good shape, in increasing the margins in Support maintaining healthy margins and a good Services and are on track to reach our return on capital employed.
Weve also had a successful year for new business we won more work than we consumed in revenue, with the result that our future workload rose from 5.3 billion to 5.6 billion.
Where weve needed to, we have reduced costs.
But we have also continued investing for future development where we can see new opportunities for instance in the justice sector, in welfare and in local government.
It has been pleasing to see our performance reflected in a 39 per cent increase in our share price at a time when the FTSE 250 index fell by 13 per cent.
Adrian Ringrose Chief Executive ovERvIEw busInEss REvIEw govERnAnCE fInAnCIAl stAtEmEnts Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 BusIness revIew chIef executIves Q&A 15 chief executives Q&A Q.
How do you see the uK Q. there has been talk of the uK Q.
Has the business reached the construction market developing?
governments need to outsource end of cost cutting?
more in order to cut costs without A.
We always have to look for ways to A.
We expect to see a further decline having too great an impact on frontimprove efficiency and deliver better in the short term before an upturn in line services.
Are you seeing this value to our customers thats part of volume, probably from 2014.
Our ability translate into reality?
why they choose us to work with them.
to maintain a fundamentally healthy In addition we did, correctly as it turns business through this period is due in A.
The pace of change is variable.
We are out, anticipate the pressures on some large part to our focus on sectors and seeing exciting developments in welfare of our businesses from the recession clients with long-term construction needs and justice: health could be another and take the necessary action to reduce and to the strong reputation we have built growth opportunity, while the picture in our fixed costs in good time.
However, for quality and value for money.
local government is more fragmented.
that has not stopped us investing in Overall, we continue to see UK public new opportunities.
Our markets offer services as a good area for growth.
Q. where do you see the the potential for sustained mediumopportunities in the middle East?
As part of our strategy we have identified term growth at attractive margins and several areas where we can apply our it is important that, while making any A. Qatar is our largest overseas market, management capabilities in new sectors necessary cost savings, we hold our where we focus on civil engineering, to generate additional business.
In 2011 shape to enable us to capitalise on building and engineering services.
we won two regions in the Department these opportunities as they emerge.
Weve been there since 1996 and have for Work and Pensions DWPs Work a workforce of over 10,000 people.
Qatar offers strong growth prospects: its investment in natural gas gives it a very our markets offer the potential for sustained secure financial base and the resources to back development for many years medium-term growth at attractive margins.
In addition, hosting the World Cup in 2022 provides a renewed focus on infrastructure, generating new road, Q.
You said last year that you Programme, and in January 2012 we rail and port schemes and investment in believed Interserve had the were selected by the Ministry of Justice power, water and drainage.
Interserve is capability to double earnings per MoJ in its new framework for the a key provider in many of these areas and share over a five-year period.
The we anticipate that well see the impact Does that still stand?
MoJ has indicated that it has broader of these requirements from 2013 and outsourcing plans, and our involvement onward.
has the potential to lead to activity in A.
We have come through the further areas such as the delivery of last two years well, our existing In Saudi Arabia our start-up Equipment probation services.
We are seeing further markets have good potential, we are Services business has had a good opportunities emerge as the health, exploiting new markets and we have first couple of years and this provides a local government and defence markets a strong balance sheet to support strong platform from which to explore develop.
The Kingdom is prospects remain strong.
the largest projects market across the Gulf Co-operation Council, accounting for 45 per cent of the total, and has ambitious construction and infrastructure plans.
See notes 10 and 31 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 85 and 106 respectively for a reconciliation of non-statutory measures to their statutory equivalents.
