Chief Executive Ofcers Review Wolfhart Hauser Our mission Interteks mission is to provide solutions to our customers that Chief Executive officer allow them to improve the quality of their products, operations and processes.
The worlds leading companies, their suppliers and partners trust us to add value to their brands by providing solutions that enable them to increase their competitive advantage and support their global trade.
Whether we are looking at the largest piece of energy It positions us to capture enduring infrastructure or the smallest molecule or fibre, more than 30,000 Intertek people are working in partnership with our drivers of growth for our business customers across the length of their supply chains each day.
and to increase our value to Our customers rely on us to be with them at every step from product development to point of sale, wherever in the world shareholders and to our customers that may be.
Our mission requires us to understand the diverse as their global quality partner.
local markets and supply chains and industries they operate in, whilst also giving them the benefit of global perspective.
We deliver our services across a wide range of industries as shown in the Intertek at a Glance section of this Report.
The market for quality Interteks marketplace is the drive for quality.
As organisations develop and pursue success, the quality of their products and processes becomes an increasingly important differentiator.
Quality encompasses many dimensions: all of which Intertek sets out to serve.
It may include establishing the safety of a new prototype or the performance of a new technological innovation.
We may measure the technical accuracy of a piece of infrastructure or verify the sustainability of a supply chain.
Interteks strategic focus is on meeting our customers need for quality wherever it arises in their organisations and processes.
The demand drivers for our services come from within our customers organisations and from external commercial, regulatory and macro-economic forces.
Drivers of the quality market include the development of new technologies, the trend towards outsourcing non-core activities and the demands of consumers across a range of quality, safety and environmental criteria.
Our clients are also under pressure to increase efficiency, speed up time-to-market and reduce costs, to increase their competitive edge.
Global trade and the continual flux in sourcing patterns and supply chains, as well as end-user demand for higher quality and more sustainable products are also increasing the demand for our services.
These drivers have shown resilience in times of global economic uncertainty, although like all companies we are also impacted by developments in the global economy.
com Chief Executive Ofcers Review Differentiation Our organisation Interteks focus on quality and our service delivery to customers Intertek is connected by specialist divisions and by geography.
differentiates us in the marketplace.
We aim to create a trusted Our customers benefit from global knowledge combined with partnership with our customers, providing solutions that can local support and in-depth understanding of local market improve their competitive advantage.
Our goal is to create conditions.
Our internal Intertek as One programme is enabling added value to their business above and beyond the immediate us to better combine and bundle services to our clients to meet services provided.
a wider range of quality needs across their organisation.
This programme is also allowing us to improve our operational As a customer-focused organisation, we recognise that the efficiency with better operating platforms and connectivity way we deliver our services is as important as what we deliver.
between our people and business services.
We continue to Our customers want to get their products to market today invest in our people and processes to provide our customers more quickly than they did yesterday.
They want their cargoes with even better delivery of quality.
transferred faster and their infrastructure projects completed ahead of schedule: and they want all of this with more Going forward reassurance and less risk than before.
We continually develop Our strategy is well-established and continues to allow us to our services to meet customer needs for more efficiency, lower grow our business and to increase our value to shareholders.
-PPLJOH GPSXBSE JU XJMM FOTVSF UIBU XF DPOUJOVF UP DBQUVSF the increasing demand for our services, and to maintain Expanding capabilities differentiation which positions us as a sought-after and trusted Intertek focuses on providing a range of complementary services partner to our clients.
to meet the needs of our clients along the entire supply chain.
Our broad portfolio of industry services and geographic diversity We continue to deepen our presence in each of our industries provides the platform to invest in fast growing sectors and through a combination of organic investment, acquisitions and markets and positions us well for future growth.
launching new products and services to meet customers present and future needs.
In 2011 we opened over 20 new facilities in regions where our clients are increasing their activities in sourcing new goods, producing new technologies or extracting and developing new resources.
We extended our capabilities and expertise at over 40 of our global locations in 2011, where our clients innovations continue to lead us to invest in new testing technologies, capabilities and knowledge.
Our acquisition of the global energy infrastructure and business assurance services company, Moody International in 2011 has significantly expanded our capabilities in the energy infrastructure market.
We are now a leading provider of global technical inspection, consulting and safety services, supporting our energy-sector customers on their new and existing infrastructure projects.
We also completed four further acquisitions in 2011, bringing us additional capabilities and geographic presence in the food, chemical, agriculture, oil and retail sectors.
Intertek launched a number of new services in 2011.
These included a dynamic online portal for our retail clients that enables them to better collect and collate data on the sustainability and quality of their suppliers factories, allowing continuous monitoring of operational performance inside their facilities.
For our commodities clients, we launched new retail fuel quality management programmes in emerging markets, and extended our combined fuel additive and cargo transfer solutions into Central and South America.
We doubled our testing capability for renewable energy testing technologies in North America and opened new energy storage and electrical vehicle battery testing laboratories in China, Europe and North America.
We launched new expert analytical capabilities in the biologics pharmaceutical market.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 07 Chief Executive Ofcers Review Our market Global quality services The global marketplace for quality solutions is dynamic and diverse.
As organisations in developed and developing economies pursue success, the need to develop and maintain the right quality in their products and processes arises.
Below are some of the dynamics that create Interteks chosen marketplace: Quality.
Market drivers in our industries The need for quality arises at many As our customers develop new products, build new infrastructure and get separate and interrelated points across a their products and projects to market more quickly, we help them ensure customers organisation.
Quality is diverse that their business isnt compromised by poor quality.
Companies seek quality and may reect one or many of the solutions for a wide variety of reasons.
Some common ones are listed here.
following dimensions all of which Intertek serves.
Safety End-user expectations Reducing the risk of injuries and Consumers in developed economies trust companies that deliver products, or danger to life and health from perform, with consistent quality.
This requires investment in quality solutions to products, materials, components maintain or increase their reputation for quality.
Consumers in emerging markets and operations.
are also demanding higher levels of quality across a diverse range of criteria, creating new markets for quality services from local and international brands.
Sustainability Helping companies to improve the social, health and environmental New technologies impact of their products and Companies create new products and technologies to create new markets, increase processes.
sales and to respond to diverse end-user demands.
Quality services are needed from the concept stage through to delivery to the end market.
Performance Enabling organisations to optimise the technical output of their Regulations products or processes.
Quality, safety and environmental regulations and industry standards continue to expand and change across companies and cultures.
Companies utilise quality Integrity services to maintain compliance and navigate regulatory change.
Evaluating the composition or reliability infrastructure, materials, commodities, components and Supply chain dynamics systems.
Our customers create products and infrastructure using suppliers and components across multiple countries.
They seek assurances on quality along the supply chain Desirability to reduce the risk of product, brand and operational failures, and to increase visibility Increasing the appeal of products, and efficiency along the supply chain.
materials and new innovations to the varying preferences of end-users in different markets.
Energy growth and development Global demand for energy is driving increased development and trading of energy resources and infrastructure.
Our customers are requiring more quality, safety and environmental assurance support in their expanding resource production and trading activities.
com Chief Executive Ofcers Review Our growth opportunities Macro-economic trends and opportunities in our sector create growth in the demand for quality services and add resilience to our business model.
We see continuing opportunities to expand our business and increase value to shareholders due to the following enduring drivers of growth in our marketplace.
Intertek is positioned to capture the additional market created Global trade and through growth and increasing interconnectedness in global emerging market trade as well as expanding regional trade among fast-growth nations.
In creating, buying and selling products each day, our trade growth customers seek independent assurance on the quality of materials received from their trading partners.
Our customers efforts to innovate, meet consumer demand Market drivers for quality, develop energy resources, maintain efficient supply in our industries chains and comply with regulations create demand for quality services.
Their ongoing development of new technologies, energy resources and quality in their products is increasing the demand for our solutions.
Expanding our services into new markets and developing Network and new services in existing markets will enable us to capture service expansion new business.
We continue to invest in new services and capabilities to support our customers current and future needs and to expand in growing markets.
By creating quality solutions that enhance our customers Outsourcing and business, we can increase the outsourcing of quality services consulting services and related consultancy by companies to Intertek.
Today, many companies address quality needs internally but at a higher cost with less flexibility and dedicated knowledge.
By making value-adding acquisitions, we are consolidating Industry consolidation our position in key industries.
These also allow us to add complementary capabilities to our service portfolio and grow our business through a full-service offering for each customer in each industry.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 09 Chief Executive Ofcers Review Our strategy Differentiate Interteks mission is to deliver quality solutions that add value to our customers processes, products and brands.
Our business is differentiated through our strategic choice of target market, how and where we deploy our services in that market, and in the way we interact with our customers.
Intertek has a unique and strategic focus on Global trade model supporting organisations needs for quality as they arise in the context of global trade.
Our business model targets the testing, inspection and certification of goods, commodities and infrastructure flowing along supply chains and between different markets and into global trade.
Global We are organised around the industries that Industry focus we operate in.
This enables us to best meet the quality needs of each industry, which arise at many separate and interrelated points specific to their industries and organisations.
Quality Different quality needs exist at each stage of the Target whole supply chain: from the sourcing of raw materials supply chain or prototype testing, to the manufacture and distribution of a finished product.
We position our business along the length of the supply chain to support the needs of customers at each stage.
The way that we approach our customer relationships Customer-oriented differentiates us.
We aim to create a trusted Partner relationships partnership with our customers, becoming an integral part of their businesses and providing solutions that can improve their competitive advantage.
We focus on understanding our customers businesses and their needs and pressures.
Our strategy is to provide our solutions in a way that can help them better meet those needs and improve their businesses.
com Chief Executive Ofcers Review Deliver Our strategy is to be the premier service provider in our chosen markets.
We continue to invest in and develop our business delivery model in order to be our customers partner of choice.
We continue to expand and deepen our network and Network expansion knowledge in new regions and in new and existing industries to capture opportunities for growth.
This enables us to meet demand from changes in global, interregional and local trade and deepen our position in established and growing markets.
We develop our service lines to support quality needs alongFBEJOH QPTJUJPOT the length of the supply chain through organic investment in key industries and acquisition.
We concentrate on industry sectors where we have the critical size to hold leading positions and provide our customers with world-class services.
We create new services and innovations for our customers to New services for the help their businesses succeed.
We develop capabilities along present and future the frontier of science and innovation which drives market demand for quality services in the future.
We develop new tools and interfaces in areas where we can support customers in new, smarter ways.
Our people are our core assets and we invest continually Investing in in them.
They are chosen for their technical expertise, our people values and their understanding of local culture.
Our people are experts and leaders in their fields, including engineers, chemists, biologists, consultants and geologists.
Many are holders of research doctorates, are graduates or advisors to global institutions.
Our talented and dedicated people provide our customers with the expertise they need to succeed.
