Chief Executives Statement I like to describe our strategy in simple terms as being based upon using our distinctive technologies and delivery capabilities to build global market share and increase shareholder value.
Wayne Edmunds, Chief Executive Revenue m I am delighted to be leading Invensys in We will be concentrating upon a number thenext stage of its development.
ofimportantareas: Having worked closely with our businesses Continuing to win further greenfield over the past two years as Chief Financial projects in emerging markets to 2,486m Officer, it is clear to me that we have three enlargeour installed base and provide strong divisions, each with management opportunities for additional sales.
We Revenue was 2,486 million strength in depth and the ability to create have demonstrated that our technology 2010: 2,243 million, up 11% significant growth and value.
Weare a is well-suited for large, complex solutions up 9% at CER global company operating in endmarkets and our unique ability to team with which each have strong growth prospects.
global partners offers our customers distinctive value.
We need to create a common theme Building a larger footprint in regions Operating profit m forexecution across the Group.
Execution andindustries with higher growth means having a discipline for linking expectations such as Asia and the people, strategy and operations tocreate nuclear power generating industry.
To that end, wehave Continuing to invest in the development 262m decided to move away from an integrated of our key technology platforms to our operating model, with centralised Operating profit was 262 million competitive advantage in key areas.
functions and matrix management, towards 2010: 248 million, up 6% up5% Using our strong balance sheet to a holding company model where divisional at CER addnew capabilities to our portfolio management has greater control and oradditional market presence in responsibility for their operations.
Having reached provisional agreement on the triennial review with the trustees of our UK Main Pension Scheme that there is no change to the deficit funding contribution schedule, either in terms of duration or amount of payments, we will continue to keep our legacy pension issues under review.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Performance highlights Our strategy In particular, China and India will Overall, the Group produced another good Our overall strategy remains unchanged beimportant markets for each of performance with revenue and operating but we will have an increased focus upon ourdivisionsand we will be using our profit up 9% and 5% respectively at CER execution.
Ilike to describe our strategy in combined knowledge and experience and underlying earnings per share up 48% simple terms as being based upon using from operating in these countries to to 19.8 pence per share 2010: 13.4 pence our distinctive technologies and delivery improve our capabilities and to capture per share.
capabilities to build global market share growth opportunities.
Invensys Operations Management had a Mid-term growth catalysts strong order intake driven by a recovery in Across our businesses we have a number As part of linking our strategy to our industrial capital expenditure in developed ofcore attributes that should enable us execution capabilities, each of our divisions markets and the winning of further togrow faster than the competition: has identified mid-term growth catalysts contracts to supply our control and safety onwhich they intend to focus: Distinctive technologies, including systems for four additional Chinese nuclear software and advanced applications.
At Invensys Operations Management, reactors.
Revenue growth was also strong Strong delivery skills, in particular for the focus will continue to be on mainly due to the ramp-up of activity on large systems integration projects, responding to the significant number many of the large greenfield projects that whichcan be applied globally.
oflarge contracts inemerging markets, we have won over the past two years.
A large installed base and exceptional including nuclear power.
Advanced Operating margins returned to double customer relationships.
applications market demand also digits for the year and our cash conversion A proven ability to be effective at remains strong.
was in line with our targets.
business development, teaming and At Invensys Rail, the global order Invensys Rail reported a lower than partnering, the combination of which pipelinefor large complex rail schemes expected order intake, which reflects enables us to take advantage of our remainsrobust.
theuneven nature of order intake in the market position.
At Invensys Controls, the opportunity industry and in particular the unexpected A strong balance sheet.
toexpand the commercial and wholesale delay in the award of some larger contracts.
businesses will allow growth and margin Our core markets remain robust However, the strength of its order book expansion.
Each of our divisions is operating in helped it to increase revenue by 9% at CER.
Each of the divisions has identified industry verticals which have strong Operating margins for the year reflected suitable bolt-on acquisitions to growthprospects: some provisions for additional costs on supplement their organic growth.
three mass transit contracts in the first half, At Invensys Operations Management, We continue to invest in research partially offset by the benefit of risk register our core markets of oil, gas and power anddevelopment to ensure we are releases on contract completions in the have long-term structural growth due atthetechnological forefront of each second half.
Cash conversion was adversely tothe need for greenfield capacity in the ofourindustries.
affected by the phasing of receiptsfrom developing world, especially India and some customers.
China, and the potential for optimisation and efficiency of plant operations, Invensys Controls improved both revenue particularly at brownfield sites in the and operating profit despite some weaker developed world.
than expected markets in the second half At Invensys Rail, the global rail of the year, particularly for US appliances.
infrastructure market has long-term Itis clearly benefiting from the significant structural growth due to industrialisation restructuring that has been implemented and urbanisation in the developing world in recent years and it continues to reduce together with capacity needs and its cost base to ensure that this will drive pressure to reduce carbon footprints in profit growth as revenue recovers.
At Invensys Controls, our core markets ofappliance, commercial and wholesale should grow due to the expected recovery in Europe and North America and consumer aspirations in the developing world.
| | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 15 Chief Executives Statement continued Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Invensys people I intend to reinforce our commitment to I have inherited a very talented and supporting the principles of economic committed group of professionals who success, environmental stewardship, drive our business on a day-to-day basis.
We have We also have the strength in depth that programmes in place across the Group to willprovide us with the flexibility and ensure that we act as a responsible global capability to deal effectively with inevitable citizen and these are supported by our challenges that will arise going forward.
Code of Conduct which defines how each Allof our people have contributed to our of us acts in our business life.
resilience through the worst recession ingenerations and together they have Our CSR report, which starts on page 28, created the strong divisions and corporate contains a summary of our achievements centre that will drive future growth.
and these are explained in more detail in our third Sustainability Report, which I would like to pay tribute to each of them willbe available for download from our for their efforts and thank them for helping website.
Iam especially pleased by the very to make Invensys what it is today.
I look low incidence of injuries to our employees: forward to working with them to create their health and safety remains the highest aneven better Invensys.
During the year, there were a number of incidents of natural disasters and civil unrest around the world and our teams ensured that all Invensys people andtheir families who were affected werehelped where needed.
Wayne Edmunds Chief Executive | 16 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review Business Review 18 Financial Review 22 Financial Policies 23 Invensys Operations Management 25 Invensys Rail 27 Invensys Controls 28 Corporate Social Responsibility 32 Risks and Uncertainties
