Chief Executive's review It has been said before but can never be underWe have worked with many of our customers - which estimated: knowing your destination is half the journey.
range from international oil companies, to utility In late 2009 we set out our Vision 2015 growth strategy companies, to local and national governments - for and everything we have done since then has been many years.
During 2011, we continued to build consistent with this.
Against a backdrop of economic successfully on these long-term relationships.
There and political uncertainty, AMECs continued growth are many examples shown throughout this report and towards our Vision 2015 targets is something of which on our website, including BP, ConocoPhillips, BG and I am very proud.
In 2011, revenues grew by 11 per cent, Magnox.
Since the year end, we have announced the operating profits were 12 per cent higher and earnings renewal of our contract with National Grid.
per share, at 70.5 pence, up 13 per cent on 2010.
We have also targeted and won work with new In many ways, ours is a straightforward business.
In customers, such as GDF SUEZ on their Cygnus gas each of our markets, we provide technical expertise field development in the North Sea, a three-year to support our customers as they build, operate or nuclear services contract with URENCO and decommission their assets.
We are paid for the hours importantly, the work we are doing for the Marine Well of service we provide and for helping our customers Containment Company MWCC in the Gulf of Mexico.
Our reputation for consistent The sectors we are operating in are growing, supported and successful delivery is invaluable in achieving by population growth and its impact on the demand success: simply put, if we do good work, we win more for energy.
At the same time, the requirements of our good work.
To achieve this, we need to employ, train customers are becoming more complex, as their and retain high-quality people.
Our Vision 2015 growth activities take place in more remote locations.
We are strategy and ongoing success are built on these two increasingly providing a wider range of solutions to key pillars our customers and our people.
help them manage these challenges in a sustainable Customers way.
Just one example is the Ecospacial information In recent years we have been positioning AMEC to database which is discussed further on page 25. meet our customers challenges: including increasing During 2011, the carbon emissions in tonnes per complexity: remote and harsh locations: and safety, employee increased by 1.5 per cent, as the result of our community and environmental concerns.
If we are more accurately measuring the site usage.
A continued to achieve our goals, we also need a strong culture focus on our carbon emissions not only helps us which is consistent with our vision.
During our achieve one of our core sustainability goals, but global conference in March 2011, AMECs top 100 importantly has the potential to reduce the cost of managers discussed how to make the company more doing business.
We challenged ourselves on our preconceptions and drew lessons from our successes People and the experience of others outside our industry.
It is easy to sound glib when talking about the These analogies can be very helpful in prompting a importance of our people to our success.
We now different way of thinking, for example by comparing employ over 27,000 people, directly or as agency and contrasting the customer service we provide with labour, and it is their skills and talents which we sell that of a world-class hotel or restaurant.
Among many to our customers.
We need to hire the best people actions which have been implemented as a result are and keep them safe while they are at work.
This is the the introduction of global leaders for each of our 11 right thing to do, and also has a direct impact on our sectors: a simplification of our values to make them reputation and financial results.
It is why we track a easier to remember and apply see inside back cover : number of non-financial metrics in this area which and a more explicitly client-focused vision.
The results we believe are important forward indicators of of our most recent employee survey suggest that performance, some of which are shown on pages our employees understand the importance of this 24 to 26. customer focus.
We will continue to do more work in this area in 2012.
6 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials AMEC Academy is now well established and provides line with our Vision 2015 objectives.
At the same time, a well-used suite of tools to support our employees the strength of our customer relationships and the as they develop their skills and talents and so their skills of our people will support continued organic careers.
In 2012, we expect underlying revenue growth to be in double digits.
Our health and safety performance remains strong and is an important component of our sales proposition to clients.
We had 15 lost time incidents in the year 2010: Our vision is that by continually 22, a significant improvement in a growing company, delivering excellence, we inspire trust though above our target of zero.
"More importantly, the and loyalty in our customers. """
total recordable case frequency rate also dropped, to 0.37 per 200,000 exposure hours 2010: 0.42.
But we cannot afford to be complacent.
During 2012 we will Summary be focusing on three key areas which have been I started with a quote and I will finish with one too: responsible for high potential incidents in the past, know your limits but never stop trying to exceed namely working at height, working around energy them.
We are seeking to create a culture for AMEC sources and driving.
where our people respect each other, work sustainably and ethically, never compromise on health and safety, As we continue to globalise our operations, we need understand customer needs and are engaged with the to be able to protect our employees in new countries company.
I would like to thank all our employees who or regions.
This last year our plans were tested by the have worked so hard to achieve the many successes unrest in Libya.
It was a great relief to us all once our demonstrated elsewhere in this report.
expatriate workers were safely home and our local workers had been reunited with their families.
Irrespective of the economic and political climate, we need to stay focused on what we are good at and what How we work to support our customers is a core matters to our clients.
Our 2012 priorities remain component of how we expect to deliver our Vision simple: to deliver consistently and excellently to our 2015 strategy.
Our employees increasingly take a customers, time after time.
collaborative approach, with projects being worked on across offices and divisions.
The way in which we manage projects has been standardised, to facilitate this sharing of work and ensure that our global Samir Brikho customers receive the same level of service from us, Chief Executive no matter where in the world they are.
We will continue to work to improve this, consistent with our value of 21 February 2012 consistently delivering excellence to our customers.
Growth During 2011, we welcomed almost 3,500 new employees to AMEC through acquisition.
The largest of these was MACTEC, based in the US, which has now been well integrated into our existing Environment & Infrastructure business.
As one of their employees said recently: We used to think we were big with 2,600 employees, but now weve got the power of 27,000 people supporting us, around the world.
Harnessing this power is what makes an acquisition successful: an investment rather than a cost.
We will continue to look for other suitable acquisitions which allow us to expand Those which could have escalated to serious multiple injuries, our geographical presence and or our capabilities, in fatalities, asset damage or pollution impact AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 7
