08 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Chief Executives review Expanding ITEs portfolio has created a number of opportunities to leverage the customer base and achieve synergies across the Group Russell Taylor, Chief Executive Officer Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 09 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The Groups performance In March 2011 the Group announced the The Group has delivered a strong financial and acquisition of a regional exhibition business operating performance in a year which saw in Krasnodar that is located in the South-West the momentum of last years nascent recovery of Russia.
Krasnodar is in an increasingly in the Moscow business continuing through prosperous region and is near to the cities the year and spreading to related CIS markets.
of Sochi Winter Olympics venue in 2014 and Trading conditions have been strongest in the FIFA world cup venue in 2018 and RostovMoscow exhibition market which accounts on-Don.
The exhibitions acquired reflect the for circa 51% of the Groups annual revenues.
local industries and agricultural bias of the The Groups like-for-like volume sales reflect region.
The biggest events are agriculture, this improved trading environment with a 15% construction, wine and tourism but overall increase over last year.
In addition, the Group the business runs more than 20 exhibitions completed three important acquisitions in the covering all aspects of the local economy.
These acquisitions and the reported return ITE is now the principal organiser both in the to economic growth in its markets have helped local venue and the region.
This expansion ITE to become a broader and stronger business.
provides a more balanced geographic exposure to Russia complementing the existing Revenues for the year increased by 37% to businesses operating in St Petersburg, Moscow 16.6p 155.5 million 2010: 113.5 million.
The Krasnodar portfolio time contribution from the newly acquired contributed 4.3 million of revenue and 1.2 Headline diluted EPS businesses accounted for 16 million of the million of profits before tax to the 2011 result.
increase and 26 million was from organic growth and the biennially recurring Moscow In July 2011 ITE announced the acquisition of International Oil & Gas Exhibition.
On a 60% of the leading construction events portfolio like-for-like basis revenues grew 18% year on in Turkey.
The Yapi portfolio comprises the year.
The effect of currencies on the Groups largest and longest running construction revenues was negligible as average Euroexhibition in Istanbul, Yapibuild, together with Sterling exchange rates over the year were two smaller regional exhibitions taking place largely unchanged from the previous year.
Construction is one of Groups reduced gross margin of 48% has been Turkeys main industries and strongest sectors.
644 affected by the addition of lower yielding event There is good potential for growth in these Sq m sold 000s portfolios in the newly acquired businesses.
exhibitions as well as synergy with the rest The additional overhead costs associated with of the ITEs portfolio, especially as Russia and adding two large portfolios of events has CIS remain strong export markets for Turkish contributed to an increase in administrative construction businesses.
The Yapi portfolio expenses before amortisation costs to 24.1 contributed 0.6 million of revenue and 0.1 million 2010: 19.9 million.
The net impact million of operating profit to the 2011 result.
of these changes on operating profit margins before amortisation and transaction costs has Expanding ITEs portfolio has created a number been an increase from 32% to 33%.
of opportunities to leverage the customer base and achieve synergies across the Group.
Within Business development the existing markets the aim is to replicate some The Group has successfully completed three of the new sectors acquired in Moscow into the significant acquisitions in the last year.
In other regional Russian and CIS markets.
There December 2010, the Group announced the are also added benefits from cross marketing acquisition of the MVK portfolio of events in the Moscow customer and visitor base into the Moscow.
This portfolio of events had little new regional Russian markets and vice versa.
overlap with ITEs existing Moscow portfolio The opportunities to extract additional value and has provided the Group with access to from the steps taken this year mean that the new sectors as well as a broader exposure to main focus of the Group for 2012 in Russia will the Russian economy.
The principal events be on consolidation and integration.
acquired through MVK include packaging, printing and furniture events, which can now The acquisition of the MVK portfolio triggered be counted alongside ITEs traditional Moscow an unexpected renegotiation of ITEs existing sector strengths in construction, oil and gas, trading terms with the venue.
As a result, in travel and tourism, food, transport and security.
March 2011, ITE Moscow took the decision to The new events have local Russian exhibitors relocate a number of its leading events from as their main customer base and ITE now has the Crocus venue to more centrally located the opportunity to increase the international venues.
The move will provide a more stable customer base for these events.
The MVK future for these events, but in the short term the portfolio contributed 9.2 million of revenue scope for growth of some of the events could and 3.7 million of profits before tax to the be restricted.
Bookings for these re-located 2011 result.
events are currently progressing in line with managements expectations.
10 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Chief Executives review continued Alongside this expansion of the business we ITEs performance against its strategic The Group will continue have continued to develop the strength and objectives is set out below: depth of its management team as well as the to look for opportunities Groups infrastructure.
There are a number of i To continue to strengthen and develop initiatives to develop the Groups management its existing positions of market leadership to expand the business and the internal communication systems to ITEs positions of market leadership are founded model both in market reflect the expanded size of the business.
A on its strength in international sales, its strong Group Human Resources Director has been brands, its established local offices and its and by diversifying recruited to bring more focus on Group wide longstanding relationships with venues.
talent development and succession planning.
geographically International sales strength While ITEs focus in Russia and CIS will be ITEs strength in international sales differentiates largely on developing the newly acquired it from most of its competition in Russia and businesses, the Group will continue to look the related CIS markets.
Through its subsidiary for opportunities to expand the business sales offices the Group has established a loyal model both in market and by diversifying customer base and a specialism in promoting geographically.
There are opportunities to sales into ITEs Russian and CIS exhibitions.
In increase the Group sales from Asia into ITEs 2011 the total net metres sold by the Groups existing markets through expanding the international sales offices increased by 7% 2 Groups network of international sales offices to 98,000m.
As a proportion of total sales in the region beyond the Beijing office.
the international element has fallen from 41% to 38%, reflecting the acquisition of new Strategy businesses which are mostly weighted towards ITEs primary business objectives are to: local sales.
The Group has invested in building Create sustainable growth in headline up its sales offices this year and expects to see earnings per share: and an increase in international sales next year.
This Create and maintain sustainable positions of year the majority of sales were generated by market leadership in the exhibition business its London office 12%, its German office 4%, its in emerging markets.
Chinese office 2% and its Turkish office 2%.
ITEs strategic priorities for achieving these ITEs market leading brands objectives are: ITE has established strong brand identity in i to continue to strengthen and develop its certain exhibition sectors.
In particular, the existing positions of market leadership Build brand in construction, the Oil & Gas events ii to expand its business model into new brand, the ITE Travel exhibition and World Food sectors and geographies where there is brands all have strong reputations as leading potential to develop strong market positions events in the Russian and CIS markets earned iii to grow and improve its portfolio of through more than 15 years of sustained international exhibition brands good performance.
The Group is working to iv to invest in the development of management establish more recognition for these brands talent in ITE.
outside their current identification with the Russian and CIS market places.
There are also a number of new and developing local brands in security, packaging, furniture, printing and mining events.
The Group is also working to consolidate and establish these brands more visibly in the international exhibition world.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 11 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Enhancing local office strength The Group has expanded the sector exposure ITEs brands have built their reputation through of its Moscow business through the acquisition sustained delivery of successful exhibitions to of the MVK portfolio of events and in Turkey customers.
The foundation of this are ITEs local through the acquisition of Yapibuild.
The MVK offices which, like its exhibitions and brands, portfolio of events has no overlap with ITEs have been in place for over 15 years and existing Moscow portfolio and brings to the today employ over 1,000 staff who organise Group strength in the packaging, printing the details of staging an exhibition.
Construction is in an they own and manage the database of visitors existing Group sector, and Yapibuild acquisition necessary for making an exhibition successful extends the Groups representation to a new for ITEs customers.
ITEs local office skills in market.
ITE also extended its regional business Russia and CIS are a competitive advantage over exposure in Russia through the acquisition of an other international organisers and a barrier to exhibition business in Krasnodar.
The exhibition entry for new organisers wishing to run events business acquired reflects the local industries in these markets.
ITE continues to strengthen and agricultural bias of the region.
The largest its local office presence through investment in events are in construction, agriculture and infrastructure and training its staff.
high level of equity ownership in the Group with more than 56% of staff participating in equity iii To grow and improve its portfolio of schemes of some description.
international brands The Groups management has been developing Maintaining venue relationships initiatives to improve the strength of ITEs ITE has established long-standing relationships existing international brands and to improve with the venues that host its exhibitions.
the international awareness of its strong Historically ITE has supported the development local brands.
By developing the international of venue facilities which in turn has helped recognition and strength of its brands ITE the Groups exhibitions to grow.
Through this improves the Groups ability to clone its ITE has acquired the rights to run its main events into new geographies.
exhibition themes in its chosen venues at the time of its choice.
ITE has continued to work iv To invest in the development of on maintaining its good relationships, though management talent in ITE as noted earlier there has been a significant ITE has benefited over the years from the relocation of events between venues in Moscow commitment, loyalty and expertise of its this year.
This year ITE have reached agreement employees.
As ITE grows in its staff numbers 2 to be the anchor tenant of a new 14,000m and geographic spread it is important to facility in Novosibirsk.
However, there will be maintain its culture.
The Group has continued new opportunities in the future with a new with last years process of identifying, training venue development expected in St Petersburg and developing selected individuals to ensure by 2014, and possible new venue developments that quality management is generated internally mooted in Moscow by 2016. in the future.
ii To expand the business model into new sectors and geographies where there is potential to develop strong market positions In existing markets this strategy means targeting Russell Taylor new sectors or regions in which to acquire or Chief Executive Officer develop businesses where there is potential for the participation of international exhibitors.
In new markets ITE is targeting the development of exhibition businesses where there is clear opportunity for strong future growth.
