8 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Chairmans and Chief Executives statement Introduction Through our market-leading 2011 was a year of successful strategic repositioning for the Group as we positions in engineering, production completed the acquisition of PSN and the disposal of the Well Support division to focus on our market-leading positions in engineering, production facilities support facilities support and gas turbine and gas turbine services.
services, we are well positioned to Overall, it has been a year of strong growth.
In Engineering, increased activity in take advantage of strong growth upstream and subsea & pipelines led to higher revenues and improved margins.
trends in energy markets and we We have largely completed the integration of the PSN acquisition with Wood continue to anticipate good growth Groups Production Facilities business, to create Wood Group PSN, and are on track to deliver expected synergies.
The PSN acquisition has performed ahead of in the longer-term.
Overall, Wood Group PSN performance benefited from strength in the North Sea and North America, but was held back by previously announced losses on Wood Group Production Facilities contracts in Oman and Colombia.
In Wood Group GTS, we saw strong revenue growth and margin improvement in our Maintenance business and good progress in Power Solutions, which recognised significant levels of profit in the second half.
In support of our continued development, we formalised the common values and culture which unite the Group.
These Core Values Safety & Assurance, Relationships, Social Responsibility, People, Innovation, Financial Responsibility and Integrity define who we are, what we believe in, set out how we act and how we expect to be treated, and provide a sound basis to make decisions.
2011 2010 % 2011 Group performance $m $m Change 1 Total revenue 6,052.3 5,063.1 19.5% 2 Revenue from continuing operations 5,666.8 4,085.1 38.7% 1 Total EBITA 398.7 344.8 15.6% 2 EBITA from continuing operations 341.6 218.7 56.2% Total EBITA margin % 6.6% 6.8% 0.2%pts EBITA margin from continuing operations % 6.0% 5.4% 0.6%pts Profit from continuing operations before tax 254.1 156.2 62.7% and exceptional items Basic EPS 530.7c 32.4c n m 3 Adjusted diluted EPS 60.2c 39.8c 51.3% Total dividend 13.5c 11.0c 22.7% 4 18.4% 19.5% 1.1%pts ROCE Note: Total revenue and EBITA figures represent the sum of the Groups continuing operations and Well Support activity up to the date of disposal.
Continuing operations revenue and EBITA figures include the results of PSN since acquisition, and exclude the results of Well Support in the period prior to its disposal and those of the Wood Group GTS Aero engine overhaul business.
Total revenue increased by 20% and total EBITA was up 16%.
Revenue increased strongly in all divisions, including the impact of PSN results from 20 April 2011.
Revenue from continuing operations increased by 39% and EBITA from continuing operations increased by 56% to $341.6m.
Continuing operations EBITA margin margins increased by 0.6 percentage points due to improved margins in all divisions.
Adjusted diluted EPS increased by 51% to 60.2c, reflecting the increased EBITA in Allister G. Langlands Sir Ian Wood the period, lower finance expense, the lower effective tax rate and the favourable Chief Executive Chairman impact of the share reduction related to the return of cash.
Reflecting our confidence in the longer-term outlook for the Group, we are declaring a final dividend of 9.6 cents which will bring the full year dividend to Energy Supporting Energy Overview of year Operational review go online at www.
com 9 : Further reading Financial review pages 16-21 Governance pages 34-55 Directors biographies pages 36-37 Footnotes page 21 13.5 cents, up 23% on 2010.
This takes the annual compound growth in on 26 April 2011 following the sale of the division.
We thank Jim for his dividends since our IPO in 2002 to 18%.
considerable achievements in leading the Well Support division during his tenure with the Group.
John Ogren resigned as a non-executive director Markets after 10 years on the Board at the 2011 AGM.
We are immensely grateful Conditions in oil & gas markets remained strong.
Some uncertainty for Johns contribution, in particular his broad industry knowledge, both around the global economic outlook remains, but we believe that energy as an operator and a contractor, and insight into events and market market fundamentals will continue to be driven by supply side challenges trends in North America.
Jeremy Wilson was appointed as a new noncoupled with rising global energy demand over the longer-term.
In 2011, executive director on 1 August 2011. there was good growth in global E&P spend and this is forecast to increase by around 5% - 10% in 2012.
E&P spend has a particular benefit Risks and Uncertainties for our Engineering activities focused on clients development-related Risks and uncertainties are inherent features of the oil & gas and power capex and we remain encouraged by our order book & prospects list.
For services industries and provide challenges that cannot be completely Wood Group PSN, we believe the market for our brownfield production eliminated.
However, we assess risk carefully and mitigate where we can support services will expand as the number of assets increases and to ensure that we keep our people safe, serve our customers well and, at ages, and operators increasingly focus on asset integrity, process safety, the same time, achieve acceptable returns for our shareholders.
performance assurance and production enhancement.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that, where possible, risk Economic conditions for our power customers in Europe and North is managed effectively as part of the established governance structure.
America remained challenging, although our Wood Group GTS In 2010, the Board prepared a statement of its attitude to risk which maintenance business secured a number of new awards, and levels has been updated in 2011 following the sale of Well Support and the of interest in our fast-track power solutions offering remain strong, acquisition of PSN.
The growth in global electricity demand over the longer-term, relatively favourable gas prices and Safety & Assurance environmental considerations continue to support the future prospects for Safety & Assurance is our top priority and first Core Value.
Over many gas-fired power generation.
years we have reduced injury rates to our people whilst growing our workforce significantly.
This continued in 2011 with a 31% reduction in Strategy lost time injury rate and an 11% reduction in total recordable injury rate, In 2011, we completed the acquisition of PSN for a consideration of compared to 2010.
However, two incidents provided a stark reminder around $1bn and the disposal of the Well Support division for $2.8bn and of the need for a continued focus on safety improvement: two engineers these steps enhanced the Groups strategic focus and market-leading died in a road traffic accident in Saudi Arabia and one technician died positions.
Following completion of the transactions, we returned 1.1bn following the collapse of a customer crane in the Gulf of Mexico.
Lessons in cash to shareholders through a tender offer and B C share scheme.
have been learned and actions taken to improve risk management as a result.
Management remain committed to a relentless focus on Safety & The strategy of the refocused group has four strands: Assurance improvement and continue to invest in appropriate leadership To maintain a balance between development and later cycle and technical safety training.
production support To grow and maintain our market-leading positions, based on Outlook differentiated know-how, innovation and technical capabilities We anticipate good progress in all divisions in 2012.
To develop long-term customer relationships often through performance-based contracts In our activities supporting clients development capex, we are forecasting To extend our services within our three core businesses and broaden strong growth in Engineering driven by increased E&P capex spend and our international presence have good visibility in our Wood Group GTS Power Solutions business into 2012.
In our activities supporting clients production opex activities, In pursuit of this strategy, and in addition to the PSN acquisition, we we see performance improvement in Wood Group PSN and further completed the acquisitions of Dar E&C and Pi-Consult to enhance our growth in Wood Group GTS Maintenance.
Through our market-leading Engineering capability in Saudi Arabia.
We also established a joint venture positions in engineering, production facilities support and gas turbine in Kuala Lumpur and acquired ISI Solutions in Argentina to provide services, we are well positioned to take advantage of strong growth engineering and consulting services to markets in South East Asia trends in energy markets and we continue to anticipate good growth in and Latin America.
In Angola, we established the Wood Group Kianda the longer-term.
joint venture to provide engineering and production facilities support services.
In Wood Group GTS we took a number of steps to improve our differentiation, including the acquisitions of IMS and Gas Turbine Efficiency, and the formation of a strategic alliance with Pratt & Whitney Power Systems to service the important frame 7 FA aftermarket.
Sir Ian Wood, Allister G. Langlands, The Board Chairman Chief Executive Bob Keiller joined the Board on 20 April 2011 as Group Director, Wood Group PSN, following the completion of the PSN acquisition.
Jim Renfroe, Group Director, Well Support, resigned from the Board
