Chief Executives Statement Neil Carson Chief Executive I am pleased to say that Johnson Matthey performed strongly in For the group as a whole, revenue was up 27% on last 2010 11, recovering throughout the year from the effects of the year at 10.0 billion and sales were 21% higher than last year recession that impacted the first half of last years results.
Underlying profit before tax was 36% up at the groups businesses performed well with sales excluding 345.5 million.
The groups underlying return on sales increased precious metals sales substantially ahead of last year.
Underlying to 16.1% from 14.4% last year, benefiting from operational operating profit was also well up and 2010 11 marked a return leverage as plant utilisation across the group increased as a result to strong growth for the group.
of the strong demand for our products and from the continued Our Environmental Technologies Division performed well management actions that we have taken to reduce costs.
The divisions Emission Control Technologies business During the summer and autumn of 2010 we carried out benefited from good growth in light duty vehicle production a comprehensive review of the groups strategy for the next around the world and the recovery in the proportion of diesel ten years.
Its heavy duty diesel HDD business As a result of this review process, the board agreed a ten year recovered very well with robust sales throughout 2010 11 in strategy to deliver superior growth in value for Johnson Matthey Europe and strong growth in the United States in the second shareholders.
Importantly, the key elements of our strategy half as the truck market recovered.
Our Process Technologies remain unchanged: continued focus on leading edge catalysis, business performed well with good growth in its Ammonia, maintaining differentiation through technology, recognition that Methanol and Gas business.
Intercat, Inc. which was acquired in our strong position in platinum group metals remains an intrinsic November 2010, made a good contribution to sales in the final part of the group and the maintenance of a primary focus on quarter and Davy Process Technology DPT had another organic growth.
However, following this strategy review, we are strong year.
increasing our efforts to identify new opportunities underpinned Precious Metal Products Division also achieved very good by our core chemistry, recognising that Johnson Mattheys key results.
Its Services businesses benefited from robust precious attributes provide a focus for investment, placing increased metal prices throughout the year and its Manufacturing businesses emphasis on manufacturing excellence and focusing further on saw strong demand across the wide range of industries that tackling the challenge of integrating Johnson Mattheys culture they serve.
across our expanding global operations.
Further details of the Fine Chemicals Division performed well with good sales review process and of our group strategy are presented on growth in its Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient API Manufacturing pages 8 to 13. businesses.
Its global Research Chemicals business also grew well in the year.
04 Sustainability Precious Metal Products Division supplies products and services to a wide range of industries and therefore its Sustainability remains a key element of our strategy for future performance is influenced by a number of different market growth and we have continued to focus on sustainability efforts drivers.
The Manufacturing businesses have started the year well across our businesses this year.
Our Sustainability 2017 Vision with good demand across our markets, particularly from the sets out our direction and aspirations in this area and includes automotive, LED and glass sectors.
In 2010 11 the divisions challenging targets to support business growth.
It is now just Services businesses benefited from higher pgm and gold prices over three years since the launch of our vision and during the and while they have been quite volatile recently, they remain year we undertook a detailed review of our sustainability strong.
Indeed, platinum, palladium and gold in the first two strategy.
The review confirmed support throughout the months of 2011 12 have averaged $1,795 oz, $756 oz and company for Sustainability 2017 and highlighted several areas $1,493 oz respectively, approximately 7%, 47% and 27% higher where we are now working to evolve the strategy, as detailed than in the same period last year.
The division delivered very on page 48 of this annual report.
strong growth in 2010 11 and with demand expected to remain We have continued to realise considerable savings through robust this year, we expect it to show further growth in 2011 12. our sustainability programme and maintain our focus on We also expect that Fine Chemicals Division will continue developing the next generation of products to enable our to grow steadily in 2011 12 benefiting from increasing demand customers to improve their sustainability footprint and their for our APIs, new product introductions and the additional competitiveness.
Many of Johnson Mattheys products and capacity following the acquisition of the Conshohocken, USA technologies have a beneficial impact on the environment, plant in November 2010. human health and wellbeing and these products generated a As we detailed in our presentation to analysts and investors major proportion of Johnson Mattheys profit this year.
The in February 2011, the drivers that will provide superior earnings sustainability benefit of our products is an important aspect of growth for the group in our existing markets are expected to our sustainability strategy and work is underway to better assess remain strong for at least the next five years.
Beyond that, we the impact of our products in the market place.
are confident that these markets will continue to deliver growth.
Our employees continue to show great enthusiasm for As a technology company, being at the forefront of research and Sustainability 2017 and there are a huge number of initiatives development is vital to satisfy our customers needs and to exploit underway at sites around the world.
Thanks to their efforts we new market opportunities.
We are increasing our investment in have continued to make steady progress towards our R&D in order to target new areas of future growth for our Sustainability 2017 aspirations and remain committed to business.
We are confident that the combination of our existing building a sustainable business for the future.
strengths and the investments that we are making now will position the group well for longer term growth.
Outlook At this time last year we commented on the short term uncertainties in our markets.
This year confidence in our markets is more robust and after our strong performance in 2010 11, the group is expected to make further good progress in the current year.
Environmental Technologies Division is well placed for Neil Carson continued growth.
For the year as a whole, Emission Control Chief Executive Technologies should benefit from higher global car production, particularly in Asia, but there may be a temporary hiatus in the first half of our year following the Japanese earthquake and its consequences on our customers supply chain.
This is however expected to reverse by the second half of 2011 12.
The increasingly important North American HDD truck market has started 2011 12 well and is expected to continue to improve.
In addition, the action commenced this year to reduce our autocatalyst manufacturing capacity in Europe will lower our costs.
Higher rare earth prices will however adversely impact the business, particularly in the first half of the year.
Process Technologies will benefit from a full years contribution from the Intercat business.
Furthermore, demand for its syngas catalysts and DPTs licensing services remains strong, particularly in China.
Johnson Matthey 05 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY IN ACTION Opportunities in Hydrogen Catalysts Emissions regulations provide growth opportunities for hydrogen catalysts in Johnson Mattheys Process Technologies business.
Hydrogen gas is used by petroleum refiners to remove sulphur and improve the quality of fuels and Johnson Matthey has a leading position in the supply of the catalysts used to produce hydrogen.
As regulations on sulphur levels in fuels tighten globally and as the proportion of heavier dirtier crude oil in refinery feedstocks increases, refiners will need more hydrogen to remove sulphur and other contaminants to meet legislated fuel specifications.
Estimates suggest growth rates of 6% to 8% for the hydrogen market over the next five years as demand increases, particularly in Asia.
This is good news for Johnson Matthey as we already command a strong position in hydrogen catalysts with a 35% average market share.
Our strong presence in Asia and good relationships with the major industrial gas companies that supply hydrogen to petroleum refineries mean that we are well placed to benefit from the trend towards lower sulphur levels in fuels around the world.
