18 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM Business review Chief Executives review Margin enhancing opportunities 2011 marked another period of 2011 marked another period of transition for Kentz: transition for Kentz: as we graduated as we graduated to the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange three years after our initial public to the Main Market of the London Stock offering on AIM.
I believe there will be benefits to Exchange three years after our initial the move: greater interest in our story, a wider shareholder base and ranking among our peers.
More importantly, having delivered another 30% growth in revenues and a 50% rise in our work on hand during the year, the move to the FTSE 250 is the right platform for the Company we believe Kentz can become.
During 2011 we achieved a record backlog of US$2.4 billion that gives us greater visibility of earnings, and supports our investment in building out our capability and resources.
This investment is key to our sustainable and profitable growth which we believe will continue in line with market expectations.
Our approach to achieving critical mass and growth across our three Global Business Units, underpinned by moving up the value chain to grow margin and earnings remains as the key element of Kentz strategy.
We will continue to review acquisition opportunities in support of this strategy.
The last year proved yet again why our core historical Construction capabilities are central to the Kentz growth model.
Kentz has been delivering multidiscipline construction services globally for over 30 years.
Performance on tough and remote jobs is what has shaped our reputation and opened the door to provide other, higher-value, service offerings to our clients.
Page 34 for further details on Construction Delivering our own, direct-hire, construction labour means we are in control of our field execution activities and can better manage and control safety, execution and risk.
This capability allows us to successfully deliver world class performance in such places as Far-East Russia, Papua New Guinea or Sub-Saharan Africa.
Consistent delivery of such world class mega projects for major international clients was the key ingredient in our ability to win the Gorgon MEI US$2.3 billion reimbursable construction project which is being developed by three of the worlds largest oil companies.
business review KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM 19 Oil, gas and petrochemical projects have diversification of Kentz business from a value chain, consistently made up around 75% of our work, end market and geographical standpoint affords but 2011 saw a marked jump in mining and Kentz the opportunity to grow further by increasing metals work that exemplifies the Kentz model of our addressable market.
Over the years we have delivered a number of Construction scopes of work with major Kentzs revenues were historically derived 90% from mineral resource clients in Southern Africa.
Now as a clients capital expenditure in the development of they seek out new projects and need more remote new facilities and only 10% from operational services Kentz is ideally placed to support them, expenditure delivering services on existing facilities.
with a complementary global footprint and services While we had all the requisite expertise in Asset that sit across the lifecycle of their projects: from Enhancement Services AES maintenance and front-end engineering design, through provision shutdown, brownfield engineering, and operations of early infrastructure, construction services, support targeting specific opportunities with clients completion and commissioning and into the has reaped rewards in the past year with the award operating phase.
of five long-term brownfield engineering service Page 24 for Client Project Lifecycle contracts in the Middle East alone.
Our strategy is to capitalise on the opportunities available in this 2011 proved an uncertain year in terms of the global business line through wider geographic expansion.
economy, but all the signs point to buoyant and During 2011 the capacity of our Development group sustained capital expenditure on the development of has been increased to commit greater resources into resources.
I see huge potential still for Kentz: in the new client development in the sectors we service to provision of more services to new and existing clients further expand our addressable market.
as well as in new geographies and sectors.
The Increasing addressable Client account markets management plans Oil and Gas New client development Metals and Mining GBU awareness Increase Asset campaign Enhancement presence Early project participation Increase Process EPC Segmental growth focus Innovation and Customer capabilities Development Focus JVs EPS growth Safety leadership Performance Internal Margin growth Risk management Metrics Processes Cash generation Ongoing development of Tender performance internal project ratios controls tools Safety performance metrics Culture and organisational Backlog and pipeline growth development Talent development Communication 20 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM Business review Chief Executives review continued visibility of Future Work During 2011, the total order FY2011 612 months 1218 months intake converted to backlog was up almost 80% to US$2.26 Backlog Current prospects Strategic prospects billion, providing very good visibility of future work through to 2015.
US$2.40bn US$3.91bn US$6.11bn As of end Dec 2011 As of end Dec 2011 As of end Dec 2011 Process EPC, or the delivery of onshore modular potential acquisitions as well as forming a joint production facilities, is a further niche area where venture called Kentz Global to address opportunities Kentz can differentiate its offering to our core clients in the market for the provision of oil and gas as part of the continuing development of our production facilities.
Recently in following this business.
Our target market is production facilities strategy Kentz has been able to develop a significant for the onshore oil and gas sector and in particular, pipeline of opportunities, with existing clients that will upstream oil and gas process facilities including all underpin future growth.
the associated site infrastructure, process and non-process utilities, and off-sites.
For international During 2011 we completed the acquisition of RNE, oil companies the modularisation of early and central a South African supplier of engineering services, production facilities is key to the economic viability which has exceeded its revenue and profit targets of their field development plans: in achieving for the year.
Its addition reinforces the development revenues sooner on modest production levels, and execution of several EPC projects underway in conducting more in-depth field analysis via test-train South Africa and in time should support the global facilities, and in many cases, maintaining the licence operations of Kentz.
ownership for an area of operation that may not be first in line for full production development.
In a number of cases Kentz has been able to pursue The opportunity to provide oil and gas production growth and new opportunities with clients through facilities to clients is underpinned by Kentzs proven the formation of strategic joint-ventures.
During 2011 success in the delivery of projects, often in logistically new joint-ventures in Australia, Qatar and Saudi challenging locations, and it capitalises on reputable Arabia were created with larger Engineering and in-house engineering, procurement, modular Construction companies: confirming my belief that fabrication and construction.
Kentz brings significant benefits through its global approach and local presence.
These partnerships Part of our stated strategy for completing the public have supported Kentz to follow larger projects listing in 2008 was to raise new funds to complete bringing an integrated service solution to existing an acquisition in the Process EPC space.
At the time and newer clients.
we took a twin track approach: both identifying business review KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM 21 Sasol Polymers PP2 Shutdown Team, South Africa At the end of December 2011 we had grown our Execution excellence in health and safety is central gross cash to just over US$238 million, an increase to the successful operation of our business.
It is a of approximately US$27 million from the position value that is reinforced from the very top level of reported at June.
We see three uses for this cash: the organisation to every individual working in our further acquisitions, working capital finance for projects across the world: and defines our reputation organic growth and reassurance: that we have the in securing repeat work with core clients.
During balance sheet strength to take on larger projects 2011 our workforce grew to an average of 14,000 with our clients.
employees worldwide and we delivered 52.5 million man-hours of work in 29 countries.
Our dividend policy remains as it has been: to pay between 20-25% of profits, and I am confident that Given our strong pipeline of opportunities and the utilisation of shareholder cash, to grow the sound financial base, the most pressing constraint business organically and through acquisition, will to our growth is hiring and retaining the very best provide the best return to our investors.
The global people in the industry.
Kentz has a strong culture energy and resources landscape for new project and well-established training and development development during 2011 continued to focus on programmes for people at all levels of the remote and emerging areas.
In line with this Kentzs organisation.
Nonetheless, our rapid growth has addressable market: our pipeline of opportunities meant the need to supplement the existing team with our key clients and sectors, has grown 23% with a number of external hires and 2011 saw the to in excess of US$10 billion.
We are continuing to culmination of this search at a senior level: including convert opportunities from this extended pipeline in my recruitment in August 2011 and subsequent line with previous tender success rates.
During 2011, appointment in February 2012 as the Groups Chief the total order intake to backlog was up almost 80% Executive Officer.
to US$2.26 billion, providing very good visibility of future work through to 2015.
It was an easy choice to join a business with a great track record and with such potential for the future.
Risk management is a constant focus of the I look forward to the next few months with great Company.
We have witnessed some fluctuations in excitement and will seek in the coming year to the variables that make up our costs and retaining define where we see the greatest opportunities to a disciplined approach to risk management further strengthen geographic and end market throughout the bid, proposal and delivery phases is diversification and to enhance earnings growth of paramount importance to our success.
I believe focusing on 2014 and beyond.
that some amount of risk is mitigated by doing business with clients we know and who like working with Kentz.
Once again repeat business with existing clients was a strong feature of Kentz in 2011.
Page 38 for full risk breakdown Christian Brown Chief Executive Officer
