Chief Executives review We remain a robust and sustainable business, with committed and professional staff in whom we have confidence and their abilities will underpin further progress by the Group in the new financial year.
Paul Sheffield Chief Executive Overview of the property portfolio from Lloyds: Kier has had another successful year to however, it is the quality of our revenue that Profit before tax 30 June 2011, with underlying revenue and is most pleasing.
profit before tax ahead of last year.
This good performance has been supported by Operating profit for the Group, before the 68.9m strong cash generation, with an average amortisation of intangible assets, was 23% Group month-end net cash balance of ahead of last year at 71.1m 2010: 57.7m 2010: 55.5m 129m June 2010: 95m.
excluding Homes land transaction principally Before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets because of the significant operating margin Excluding Homes 2010 one-off land transaction Much hard work has produced these strong of 2.7% in Construction and the resilient profit of 7.1m results.
Our broad skill base and integrated operating margin of 4.5% in Services, both business model continue to provide Kier with of which were underpinned by strong cash a wide range of opportunities across our generation.
Our diversity and flexibility, when combined with our track record of Exceptional items amounted to a net credit delivery and customer service, ensures that before tax of 7.0m for the year 2010: net we are in a position to significantly benefit charge of 2.0m, as follows: from the varying market opportunities and be the partner of choice for our customers.
a gain of 25.7m arising from inflation changes RPI to CPI announced in the Total Operating 2010 Budget which have been applied Financial performance revenue profit to the Kier Group Pension Scheme: m m a reduction in the fine levied by the Office Construction 1,445 39.3 of Fair Trading OFT, from 18.0m to Services 484 21.7 1.7m, with associated costs of 0.7m Property 97 11.1 incurred in relation to our appeal: Homes 153 4.2 a charge of 33.5m relating to a Centre 5.2 write-down of our land and work in progress following a further review and 2,179 71.1 in light of the values received from recent Before exceptional items and amortisation land sales: and of intangible assets external costs of 0.8m relating to the acquisitions of Beco Limited Beco Revenue for the year at 2,179m was slightly and the property portfolio from Lloyds.
Underlying growth was achieved in all divisions, most notably in Property following the acquisition 6 O t h e s r e s e t y a o k l e p h m o l E d e r s s t s y l a T n h a e t n m e e d m i t a s e v n I Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Operating review Financial statements The strengths of our integrated business model By providing our customers with the highest Full range possible quality of service and through of services sustainable, profitable growth, our vision is to be the most highly respected company in the industry.
By maintaining our core values Business and remaining focused on improvement and risks delivery, our vision will become reality.
Managing responsibility Business Brand We believe profoundly that by managing ethics management our corporate responsibilities, our brand, business risks, governance, ethics and finances, we manage responsibly.
Delivering quality Kier What Kier and its constituent parts do as a business is to provide a full range of quality Integrated Corporate services to plan, invest in, build, manage, financial governance management maintain and service the built environment nationwide and overseas.
Nurturing stakeholder relationships Corporate We value customers and aim to deliver responsibility the highest quality of services in all we do and therefore our supply chain partners, subcontractors and suppliers alike, are key 2 to enabling us to deliver the best quality of product and service.
3 Profit before tax, before the amortisation of intangible assets and exceptional items, How we are managed for the year was 24% ahead of last year at Kier Group is managed through a short, 68.9m 2010: 55.5m excluding Homes land clear and efficient structure that gives a fully transaction.
On the same basis, earnings per integrated and coordinated approach which share was 26% ahead at 148.4p 2010: 117.7p remains both adaptable and agile to meet excluding Homes land transaction.
The trading result for the year was underpinned by strong cash generation, Board of Directors with high average Group month-end net cash balances of 129m June 2010: 95m after investment of approximately 50m during Executive Board the year including the property portfolio from Epsom Station Lloyds, deferred land payments, further Work progressing at Epsom Station one of investment in Pure Recycling, and the several stations in the south-east and London Executive Management Team acquisition of Beco.
that are the subject of redevelopment by Solum Regeneration, a joint venture between Network Rail and Kier Property.
As part of the project, Kier is Group structure and strategic developments undertaking the building and civil engineering works Four divisions support our integrated business for a mixed-use scheme to deliver improvements to model: Construction, Services, Property and the station and provide retail space, a hotel, parking Construction Services Property Homes Homes.
The Groups management structure and 124 high quality apartments.
and segmental analysis for reporting purposes for the year to 30 June 2011 are based on Divisional Boards these four divisions.
We are able to offer integrated solutions through the provision of a range of services including investment, planning and design, construction, maintenance, soft and hard facilities management, waste, energy and environmental services and regeneration.
This is a combination of services, which few other organisations can offer and makes us resilient during the current challenging economic environment.
7 C o s m r e m n u t r n a i t p i e n s i a a h n d c y t l h p e p p u u S b l i c S s h r a e r e m h o o t l s d u e C r s M M 2 2 Chief Executives review continued National presence, Kier project locations in UK CCS National Awards won in 2011 local focus Kier office locations Kier has a long-established network of 65 regional offices across the country enabling us and our supply chain to be truly local everywhere.
Delivering through this nationwide network of local offices means we can create work for local SMEs which in turn can offer local employment and apprenticeship opportunities.
This is coupled with the robust national buying power and resources available to a major company like Kier enables us to offer any scale of work to our customers, anywhere.
Considerate Constructors Scheme National Awards Kier has been awarded more CCS National Awards 1 in 2011 than any other company in the scheme 3 42 2010: 29 6 UK projects We currently have projects underway in approximately 250 towns and cities throughout the UK and participate 4 in over 70 frameworks across the UK 2 250 Employees in UK The Group employs 10,700 people worldwide 10,700 2010: 11,600 Local subcontractors Subcontractors used across the UK by our Construction division 5 c. 6,500 Kier participated in the 2011 BITC Mayday Journey.
Reporting through the Princes Mayday Network enables us to track our progress along the Mayday Journey from reducing costs, engaging employees, building resilience to climate change and transforming our business strategy.
8 5 5 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Operating review Financial statements 1 2 3 Josephine Butler Academy, Northumberland Kris McGough and Paul Menton, Sheffield Photovoltaic panels, Nottingham Kier signed a 46m contract with Northumberland Kris McGough and Paul Menton at work in Sheffield Solar-powered energy generation is one of the County Council to deliver three new buildings for where Kier designs, supplies, installs, refurbishes most exciting sustainable energy opportunities for the Northumberland Church of England Academy, and provides a responsive repairs service to lifts and the housing and construction sectors and one of sponsored by the Duke of Northumberland and stairlifts.
This service is offered to clients in both the key ways in which we can help the UK towards the Church of England Diocese of Newcastle.
the public and private sector.
Wayne Bullement is The Josephine Butler Academy in Ashington will pictured installing photovoltaic panels in Nottingham.
be one of the biggest and most ambitious Academy Kier worked in partnership with Eon to install the buildings in the north of England and is scheduled panels on 600 homes for Nottingham City Homes.
4 5 6 Bexhill High School, East Sussex Adanac Park, Southampton Sainsbury Laboratory, Cambridge Kier designed and built the 12,000sq m Bexhill The new Ordnance Survey head office, sited Kier was involved with the construction of a High School responding to the unique demands of a alongside the M271, is a flagship corporate building new research laboratory for the study of plant transformational curriculum focused on project-based at the gateway to Southampton.
Developed as a joint development situated in the Botanic Garden at learning.
Sixteen learning pods provide facilities venture between four Kier companies, the turnkey Cambridge University.
for up to 90 students surrounding the heart space.
development is another example of Kier offering The 32m project received a BREEAM Very Good The building provides a home for the University innovative solutions to customers seeking alternative rating and was nominated in the British Council Herbarium, which contains over one million pressed funding methods by capitalising on the integrated for School Environments annual awards under the and dried plant specimens from all over the world, expertise of the Group.
category of Excellence in Design for Teaching and including those collected by Charles Darwin on Learning: Secondary Schools.
The 68.3m scheme also houses 120 scientists, supported by more than 30 additional staff.
