Ladbrokes plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Last year you described an Could you share a little more detail Chief ambition to make Ladbrokes on the key developments within favourite again.
How have you Digital and how you expect these Executives progressed since then?
review There is no doubt that we are making We have taken significant strides this year good progress.
A good example is the towards building and shaping a more momentum we have achieved in our competitive Digital business.
This is being machines performance where, with the achieved through a combination of right technology, the right product and a investment in technology, key personnel, determined operational mindset, we have improved commercial relationships, regained our competitive edge and are fast better online marketing and the expansion closing the gap on our competitors.
The speed at which we have caught up Throughout the year we have been has been a real success and the team developing a new pricing and trading should be very proud of that.
I am excited platform which has enabled us to increase about our plans for machines in 2012 and I significantly the number of Bet in Play BIP know that the team cant wait to get started.
or in running events matches games we I always saw machines as the first major test offer, as well as the number of markets in terms of reinvigorating Ladbrokes, but traded per event.
In just the last six months they are only part of the clear vision for the of the year we increased our football offer business that I laid out in February 2011. from 200 events per week to an average of 700.
BIP is the fastest growing area of the In 2012 we are looking to achieve a similar sports betting market and a real consumer acceleration in our Digital performance battle ground.
We will continue to expand which is the next key part of the strategy.
the number of events and markets in 2012.
The business is well positioned to grow.
We have taken great strides to increase our To make the most of having better ability to deliver to customers, significantly products we also have to ensure that expanding and improving the range of customers enjoy using them.
Another key sports betting and gaming products which part of our Digital investment in 2011 has they can play through a better and easier to been the development of a more use website and a faster, more sophisticated sophisticated, attractive and up to date range of mobile apps.
It is now a real test of website.
Far more than a lick of paint, this our ability to execute and deliver.
has seen us develop functionality, ease of use and the overall customer offer.
Richer Over the past twelve months, our content, more personalisation and superior investments in new trading and search and navigation enable customers to e-commerce platforms have enabled get to their bet quicker and provide a more Richard Glynn us to plug into different technology.
dynamic and exciting live betting experience.
Chief Executive Officer We have continued our longstanding relationships with key suppliers like While our heritage is very much founded in Microgaming, but have changed the terms sports betting, we have also strengthened under which we work together.
This means our gaming offer, which is key to enhancing we can use their market leading services our credentials as a truly multi-product, but also work with other suppliers to multi channel business.
Following the ensure we offer the best products in the negotiation of a new agreement with our marketplace to Ladbrokes customers.
key supplier Microgaming in the summer, Richard Glynn we now have the flexibility to offer a What has been particularly pleasing has broader range of games to customers, considers how the been the response of the Ladbrokes team.
adding 61 new slots since July.
There is a great deal of talent at Ladbrokes business is positioned and Im really pleased to see the real desire We now have greater control over what 18 months after and passion our people have for taking we offer customers and how we present it on the challenges we face.
The cultural to them, greatly improving our ability to starting in his role progression has been a real success evolve in line with fast-changing customer this year.
preferences in the digital market.
This is as Chief Executive key to developing a multi channel customer 2012 is a critical year for us all.
We will and looks forward as offer where the same products are offered continue to invest in the business in a way to customers online and in Retail.
he looks to build upon that drives real improvements for our customers and also further grows our Another important area of our Digital progress to date in marketing presence where we are already capability is online marketing.
This is about 2012, a key year for seeing good early results.
making sure that we are attracting new potential customers, whilst also stimulating operational delivery We do not expect to receive any assistance existing ones in order to drive profitability.
from the economy in the near term we Throughout the year we have restructured in the strategy to know the consumer environment will be this part of the business and continue to tough.
However we have a clear strategic reinvigorate refine the way in which we use affiliate plan, are organised in the right way and are marketing, pay per click PPC and Ladbrokes.
investing in the right areas.
We have a clear search engine optimisation SEO, set of priorities which enable us to build on the cornerstones of digital marketing.
our early successes and grow the business Better management and measurement into next year and beyond.
has helped improve their effectiveness and efficiency, with higher rates of conversion from website visits through to registration and sign-up.
Business review Ladbrokes plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 There is no doubt we are making progress In order to take advantage of this, we have The consumer environment on in Digital.
Clear growth in sign-ups, actives changed the organisational set up of the the UK High Street is tough at and turnover, particularly in the sportsbook, business into the matrix type structure the moment.
How is your Retail are encouraging.
As all the pieces of the seen in other industries.
We are now business addressing this?
jigsaw start to come together we expect organised into three areas of expertise: I think we can be pretty certain that 2012 toprogress further, particularly through Channels, Product and Customer.
will continue to be very challenging for UK growth of net revenue, in 2012.
These groups enable us to learn more consumers and businesses alike.
about customer behaviour across the You have spoken before about entire business, develop the products In this environment it goes almost without customers want regardless of how they the importance of mobile to your saying that we continue to maintain a tight consume them and deliver a better, more overall Digital offer.
Has this control on costs and look to build on the service orientated experience across all also progressed?
success we have had in this regard over points of consumption.
We have already, the past couple of years.
We all rely increasingly on mobile devices for the first time, begun to offer the with the mobile internet changing the way In January 2012 we introduced a new same games across all our channels in which we purchase goods and services.
operating structure to our retail shops maximising our supplier relationships The growth in mobile betting has been which simplifies the way in which shops and delivering a more consistent offer driven by convenience, ease of use and are staffed, reducing average number of to Ladbrokes customers.
the facility to place a bet spontaneously.
staff per hour and thereby generating cost savings.
Our focus however extends far You have always been very clear Our mobile net revenue grew by 174% in beyond cost discipline alone.
that international opportunities 2011 with 22% of Digital customers now would be reviewed on their own using Ladbrokes mobile.
The size of our I believe that in difficult economic times, mobile business is ahead of many of our companies that maintain a competitive merits.
With the development of key competitors.
We are continually edge and deliver value and excellent the Digital business starting to evolving existing apps, adding new ones service to customers can capture market come together, is now the time to and looking to innovate our offer to ensure share.
The new operating structure has be expanding overseas?
that we grow this competitive advantage.
been designed to be consistent with the We have been very focused up to this point way in which the retail betting and gaming We are all excited by the opportunity that on getting the basics right.
There remains a experience has evolved in recent years, mobile betting and gaming represents and huge opportunity for us right here in the UK to become much more of a leisure 2012 will be a big year for us.
An increased and making sure that we have the right entertainment activity with a growing focus on gaming products, specific apps capabilities and offer to take advantage of trend towards a proactive approach to for tablet devices and the launch of a new that is still the priority.
sportsbook platform will see us driving to That said, there are opportunities create genuine differentiated experiences Redefined staff roles place much greater internationally and where tax and regulation for mobile users.
emphasis on this and allow us to reward are sensible we can and will engage.
staff better, providing greater incentives We are now a licensed operator in Denmark We have heard you talk before for good performance and results.
and have applied for an online licence in about reinvigorating the Ladbrokes Changing roles also support a drive to push Spain.
In early 2012 we invested $3 million in brand.
our existing estate harder and smarter as the Stadium Technology Group, a Nevada we look to compete more effectively, The Ladbrokes brand remains strong in the based provider of sportsbook software to making better use of market data and UK with the best unprompted awareness in Las Vegas casinos.
The investment places customer insight.
Whilst our retail presence is a us well to grow in the US if plans to liberalise huge advantage, I have always believed sports betting in that market progress.
New shops opening in 2012 and beyond that increasing the relevance of the brand will also account for changing retail trends, to todays consumer is critical.
2012 will be a big year for sport.
and their design reflects the growing need How significant will this be for more interaction between staff and Since the launch of our new Game On customers and greater use of technology.
marketing campaign which is fronted by the eccentric Italian football commentator We are confident of our ability to maintain You dont need to be a huge sports Tiziano Crudelli, we have seen strong aficionado to be looking forward to this momentum in the growth of machines, growth in the sign-ups, actives and which generated an additional 58 million summer.
A combination of the London turnover of both our sportsbook and Olympics and Euro 2012 promises to have gross win in 2011.
2012 will see us use casino products.
yield management tools to drive machine the whole country buzzing.
Euro 2012 in particular is a big opportunity for us.
Major profitability further, whilst the expansion The new campaign is about creating of the Odds On loyalty card will enable football tournaments are landmark events vibrancy and capturing the real excitement for betting companies and while you cant us to personalise the machines offer.
that placing a bet can generate.
guarantee results, it is a major customer We will not be resting on our laurels in However advertising is not about awards recruitment opportunity, particularly for a Retail: rather pushing harder on all fronts to but about delivering results.
Increasing our recognised brand like ours.
The Euros has control, develop and grow in 2012. marketing investment didnt make sense the ingredients to be very successful for us earlier in the year, but now that we are with both England and Ireland having You placed great emphasis on starting to develop a more compelling qualified and in good form.
offer, with more and better products for putting the customer at the heart Whilst the Olympics themselves are customers and can now evaluate the of your business how is this unlikely to generate significant turnover, response and returns from campaigns, vision taking shape and is it related they are a huge sporting event and we will maintain an increased level of to the way in which you have now therefore provide a great opportunity to advertising spend going forward.
In addition to the The move to a new operating structure has Olympics and Euros, we have our standard enabled us to form a single view of the fare of Ascot, Wimbledon, the British customer across all products and channels.
Grand Prix and The Open, as well as the Customer behaviour shows that channel Ryder Cup in Chicago and the ICC and product divisions are starting to blur, Twenty20 World Cup in Sri Lanka, so have with an increasing number of customers a great opportunity to perform well and betting on more than one product and capture our share of what is likely to be a doing so in a shop as well as on their massive year for sport.
Data shows us that customers who exhibit these behaviours are more valuable than those who do not.
Ladbrokes plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The change to our operational structure in September was the logical progression of ourdesire to evolve our commercial approach from being product or channel focused to being customer and serviceorientated.
The new structure enables us to place more emphasis on the consistency of product quality and delivery across every channel, allowing teams to specialise in the areas of customer thinking, customer delivery and productdesign.
Customer Group The Customer Group is headed up by ourselves in a way which enables the Stephen Vowles.
Its objective is to ensure business to learn from the behaviour of that the Ladbrokes brand and offer is ourcustomers as it develops.
We are now rooted in a deep understanding of our using this insight to shape the games and customers and their behaviour.
products we offer through the Product Group and to evolve the way in which they More and more people are now consuming are delivered through the Channels Group.
betting and gaming products online.
Increasingly reliable and secure technology, Stephens team is responsible for all areas the rapid evolution of smart phone within Ladbrokes which directly touch the ownership and sophisticated marketing customer.
This includes: techniques have changed the ways in which development of the brand through customers interact with us.
As this trend has traditional marketing via television, developed, we have also seen the evolution Stephen Vowles radioand printed media: of multi channel customers, with the Customer Group online marketing activity which division between retail and digital becoming covers customer acquisition less distinct.
throughpresence and promotions As a business we are fundamentally andcustomer development loyalty committed to ensuring that we fully andcustomer journey : understand this evolution and tailor our research: and commercial approach to respond to it.
Operationally we have therefore aligned consumer public relations.
Tiziano Crudelli, the Italian football commentator, and Chris Kamara the football pundit, who both feature in our current advertising campaign.
Business review Ladbrokes plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The Product Group is headed up by products and services across each of Richard Ames and is responsible for these channels we aim to capitalise on this sourcing, developing and delivering trend, encouraging customers to use our best-in-class products in all sectors and on products across retail, online and mobile.
It is also responsible for the Over the past year we have renegotiated technology which underpins all of our commercial agreements with many of our betting and gaming products.
This includes key suppliers and are well progressed in the pricing, trading and liability management, development of our own trading platform, an area in which we have made good both of which have given us more flexibility progress this year.
This is well demonstrated in sourcing a broader range of products, through the growth in the number of which can be offered to customers on a football matches per week in which we broader range of platforms.
This enhanced offer Bet in Play markets.
Significant level of control is critical to ensuring that we increases in the level of automation in our can offer the same range of products across trading systems have enabled a 250% the whole of the Ladbrokes business, increase from 200 matches a week to something that we have now started to do.
weeks where we now offer over 700.
We have already referred to the growing trend for customers to interact with us or use our products across more than one channel.
By providing a consistent set of Product Group Thunderstruck & Mermaids Richard Ames Millions available on iPhone Product Group and Android smartphones Our mobile offer is competitive, innovative and growing strongly.
Convenience and spontaneity make mobile exciting and we are investing to grow further in 2012.
