12 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Chief Executives Review Nigel McCue markets became more active, and this rigorous control remains central to our activities.
We also continue to focus on delivering best in class execution of projects, and once again in 2011 we saw the benefits of this delivery-led strategy as repeat business contributed significantly to revenues.
The Group maintains a substantial order book extending to Q2 2014 which at the end of 2011, was USD 1.2bn, comprising USD 914m from new build marine projects, USD 220m from offshore construction projects, including offshore wellhead platforms, floating production storage and offloading units and accommodation modules, USD 17m from Land Rig Services, USD 14m from Jackup Rig Refurbishment projects, and USD 50m from the Groups other fabrication activities and subsidiary operating companies.
The Company continues to place great emphasis on the development and 2011 was a very positive year for the year with unprecedented levels of application of practices designed to provide a workplace that is both safe Company, with contract awards enquiries and bid activity.
totalling USD 1.1bn together with a and which minimises environmental impact.
We are proud of our safety backlog of USD 1.2bn at the year-end.
The results for the year were very pleasing The transformational acquisition of with revenues totalling USD 1,148m, record: in 2011 the lost-time injury frequency was 0.27, significantly below Maritime Industrial Services Co. Ltd. resulting in an adjusted net profit for Inc. MIS significantly contributed to the year of USD 73.8m USD 63.3m the UK construction industry average for similar businesses.
consolidating our position as a market after exceptional charges reinforcing leader in the provision of contracting the firm commercial foundations of There remains widespread uncertainty products and services in the oil & gas the business.
and renewables industry together with regarding the macro economic climate, although we have seen negligible increasing our reach into new regional Our longstanding strategy of markets.
Ongoing strength in the oil maintaining a strong balance sheet has impact on our business.
Continued strength in the oil price has ensured price has also helped to bolster a continued to underpin our disciplined record bid pipeline and we ended the fiscal approach to our business even as that operator activity and investment USD 333m Contract award from National Drilling Company in Abu Dhabi OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 The results for the year were very pleasing with revenues totalling USD 1,148m, resulting in an adjusted net profit for the year of USD 73.8m.
remains high, and sentiment throughout the industry supply chain is positive.
However, we can never be complacent about this situation given the prevailing macro economic issues and we continue to keep a close watch on our costs and ability to remain flexible throughout the business.
The year was a very strong one for contract wins, with awards being boosted by contracts for New Build Jackup, New Build Offshore and Land Rig Services.
We were also pleased to announce in we anticipate that the transaction will Significant project milestones during November 2011 the award, by Nexen be substantially earnings accretive in the year included the contract award Petroleum U. K. Limited, of two platform the first full year of ownership.
As the from Greatship Global Energy deck construction contracts for the enlarged Group moves forward we Services, Singapore, announced in Golden Eagle Development in the UK see both new business opportunities February 2011.
This award was an North Sea.
The offshore fixed platform and operational and financial synergies, early indicator of the strength of the market remains strong and the with cost synergies of USD 11m per jackup rig market throughout the year: Company is well positioned to benefit year expected to be realised as strength that was further demonstrated from that strength both regionally and planned.
Lamprell now has over 2 both by the exercise by the National internationally.
925,000m of yard space and 2.2km Drilling Company, Abu Dhabi, of its of quayside, making the Company option for the construction by Lamprell Acquisition of MIS one of the largest players within the of two LeTourneau Super 116E Class The acquisition of MIS, for a total Middle East region.
jackup rigs valued at USD 333m, and consideration of NOK 1,869m USD the contract award by Jindal Pipes 338m, was completed on 13 July 2011, The strong complementary fit between Singapore also for a LeTourneau and was a transformational step for Lamprell and MIS has enhanced Super 116E Class jackup rig.
The acquisition expanded our in-house engineering capabilities, the breadth and depth of our service providing extra capacity and key The USD 41m contract with Weatherford offering, our customer base, the resources and adding a number of Drilling International, announced in geographical range of our operations established businesses in target March 2011, for the engineering, and consolidated Lamprells position geographies.
Lamprell is now able construction and delivery of two 3000 as a regional leader in the new build to pursue new opportunities through HP land drilling rigs, was the largest jackup rig market.
Additionally, the its enhanced resource and yet for our Land Rig Services business, significant increase in resources and technical competence.
demonstrating the exciting opportunity expertise also further enhances our to develop Lamprells offering in this position for future profitable growth.
We see real competitive advantage in emerging regional market.
Delivery of the Companys newly combined the rigs is scheduled for Q1 2012 and The acquisition of MIS was compelling engineering offering and our ability to construction is almost complete at our both financially and operationally.
We offer a vertically integrated service to our Jebel Ali facility.
believe that this transaction will rapidly clients through conceptual engineering, create value for our shareholders, and process design engineering and detailed USD 726m Value of our order book at year end from repeat customers 14 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Chief Executives Review continued predecessor, has decided to remain The Company is actively pursuing a engineering.
This will help increase margins by removing the need to with the Company in the new role of number of exciting prospects for its Integration and Development Director.
Land Rig Services business including outsource process design engineering, and the enlarged Group now has greater new build land rigs, refurbishment We were delighted to welcome projects and equipment overhaul and access to new business in the downstream and onshore sectors.
Christopher Hand, Chief Operating is confident that new business for this Officer, to the Board in January 2011. segment can be secured in the Management initiated a detailed coming months.
integration plan with an integration Market overview committee appointed involving senior The Company has a record bid pipeline The current trend in high oil prices representatives from both Lamprell and which at the end of February 2012 underpinned by persistent supply MIS in order to identify and maximise amounted to USD 5.2bn.
The increase side concerns and exacerbated by synergies.
Following meetings of the in activity levels in the new build jackup geopolitical production constraints committee the organisational structure rig market that was seen in 2010 continues to support significant of the enlarged Group was finalised continued into 2011, and that market investment in offshore development and savings identified.
Integration of segment remains buoyant.
With eight projects internationally and particularly the two companies has been largely jackup rigs currently under construction in the Middle East region.
Lamprell, completed, with the operational Lamprell has become one of the with its experience and well established structure finalised and in place.
leading builders in the world.
As track record in offshore process the search for oil & gas becomes fabrication, is well positioned to take The physical relocation of the MIS increasingly more technically advantage of the opportunities that will management and finance teams has demanding, rigs that can drill horizontal arise in this sector.
taken place and operationally the wells more cost effectively in deeper, integration of yards is complete.
harsh environment, waters, will demand Dividend Notably, the MIS facility in Sharjah has higher day rates and hence will help The Board of Directors is recommending been integrated with the adjacent drive the new build rig construction a final dividend payment of 8.00 cents Lamprell yard.
In this regard, the Company is per ordinary share.
This will be payable, actively looking to construct the next when approved, on 22 June 2012 to The acquisition added over 4,000 generation of much larger, higher eligible shareholders on the register at people to our workforce which now specification, jackup rigs to meet these 25 May 2012. totals 14,000 including labour supply technological challenges.
personnel, and it is to the great credit of Outlook all our staff that the integration process As previously reported, we experienced a We continue to see high levels of has proceeded smoothly.
slowdown in the rig refurbishment market enquiries for our services in most in the second half of 2010 but there are sectors of our business.
While The Board now encouraging signs of renewed remaining vigilant with regard to the In April, Jonathan Cooper was activity triggered by a significant upturn risks posed by the volatile global appointed as Chief Financial Officer, in the Saudi Arabian market.
We continue economic climate, the Board remains bringing with him extensive experience to see significant potential for Lamprell in optimistic that the long term prospects in the oil and gas sector.
Jonathan took the liftboat market for both the oil & gas of the Group continue to be promising.
up his position in October, and I am and renewables sectors in the medium certain he will make a very valuable and longer terms and aim to build on our contribution in the coming years.
I am early leadership position in this part of pleased that Scott Doak, Jonathans our business.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 The Board remains optimistic that the long term prospects of the Group continue to be promising.
To underline our growth record it is Lamprell business model worth highlighting that this is the first time in the Companys history that the annual revenue has exceeded Best in class execution USD1bn, in fact totalling USD 1.15bn.
of projects, on time and Operations Ten years ago in 2002 the Company on budget turned over USD 80m and in 2006, the year of our AIM listing, we turned over USD 330m: percentage increases of 1,333% and 248% respectively.
With the business opportunities currently available to us, we look forward to Competitive continued growth with confidence.
Value advantage Finally, I would again like to take this opportunity to express my personal thanks, together with those of the Board of Directors, to all of our management, staff and employees for their hard work Downstream & and dedication which they have given Expansion throughout the year.
Following the onshore clients acquisition of MIS, Lamprell now has over 14,000 employees including labour supply personnel, and everyone has played their part in the success of the Company.
On a final note, I would like to thank, as ever, our founder and Enhanced resource & Synergy President, Steven Lamprell, for his technical competence continuing encouragement and support.
Nigel McCue Chief Executive Officer Conceptual, design & Diversity detailed engineering Wider access to global Positioning markets and sectors USD 1,098m New contract awards
