Business Review A view from our CEO Our markets KPIs Our business model Our strategy Risks Our people Sustainability and responsibility Dear shareholder 2011 was more difficult than we expected.
The decisive action we took will both improve our 2012 business performance and allow us to develop our business for the long term.
As the year began, the good work done a more pessimistic view of future contract and resolving the issues created by in previous years to reduce overhead, values, in part due to the state of the resultant externalities.
At Logica, our European economy.
Sustainability Services business is increase blended delivery and strengthen our client relationships provided a solid Our key priorities in 2012 are to working with clients to optimise transport base on which to build.
Sustained execute our restructuring swiftly, to return systems, create low-carbon cities, roll out economic uncertainty in the Eurozone our Benelux business to profitability and to electric cars and install smart metering.
meant that clients were focused on improve our Swedish and UKbusinesses We continue to receive global recognition for our sustainability work.
We are confident our boughtfewer professional services which Outsourcing business will remain very Our path to better business negatively impacted our business in the competitive.
With a strong order book sustainability relies on the talents and of business with clients such as Shell enthusiasm of our 41,000 people.
We will Benelux and Sweden in particular.
And we were left with too many people and BAE Systems, we are well placed be investing in our peoples futures with whose skills no longer matched demand.
Even in tough new career models, skills development In December 2011 we took decisive action economic conditions, we expect our full and people management training.
We will to ensure our future success.
year adjusted operating margin to be continue to recruit graduates in Europe Despite challenging economic above 6.5% for 2012. and in our nearshore and offshore centres.
conditions in 2011, strong demand for We understand our clients businesses Thedecisive action we took in 2011 outsourcing grew our order book to a and can help them apply technology to willboth improve our 2012 business performance and allow us to develop record 4.6 billion and helped increase reduce costs in an uncertain world.
We won important Outsourcing and blended delivery can our business for the long term.
We are new business with clients such as Michelin minimise everyday running costs, allowing well-positioned to create value for our maximum investment in key areas such clients, invest in our peoples future and the Swedish Pensions Agency.
Our French, Northern and Central European as supply chain management, customer and generate good returns for our and International businesses all analytics, Business Intelligence and shareholders on a sustainable basis.
experienced growth with good margins.
We have competitive I would like to thank our shareholders, Our investment in Business Consulting strengths in all these areas.
We are also clients and people for their continued support and confidence.
paid off in growth and improved client investing in shared-service business engagement.
Outsourcing continued process platforms, in intelligent energy, to grow, and our offshore headcount card processing, electronic payments and Machine-to-Machine communications, increased by more than 20%.
Adjusted operating profit was down as well as other cloud-based solutions.
This These will allow clients to benefit from shared costs and faster time to market.
was in part due to weak performances in Andy Green the Benelux and Sweden.
But it was mainly More broadly, the challenges of global CEO due to two decisions we took in December.
environmental sustainability continue, as With regret we found it necessary to growth in economies like Asia, Africa and make 1,300 jobs redundant, because South America put enormous pressure the skills involvedwere not core to our on the worlds resources.
Business will be future strategy.
We alsochose to take at the forefront of enabling this growth, Unless otherwise stated, underlying numbers for 2011 have been used for ease of comparison.
For definition of underlying, adjusted and pro forma numbers, see page 45.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 03 Business Review
