[ 06 ] Chief Executive Officers Review Growing production capacity for the inevitable market recovery.
Introduction Operationally, 2011 has been an encouraging year for the Company in which we have reaped the benefits of the operational turnaround we undertook in 2009 and 2010.
Lonmin is a fundamentally healthier business, and is moving in the right direction towards clear goals.
However, against the backdrop of a fast changing South African environment the year has not been without its difficulties either, and I will address these later in this report.
There are areas which affect our business which we, like our peers, do not control the Rand, the price of platinum and, of course, the global economy in which an international business like Lonmin operates to name but three.
In the last year the entire Lonmin team, from mine to market, has focused relentlessly on those things we can control and in taking as much uncertainty out of the business as possible.
I am, therefore, pleased to be able to report that we achieved our revised Ian Farmer Platinum sales guidance of 720,000 ounces and revised unit cost guidance Chief Executive Officer of around 11%.
Encouragingly, the mines hoisted ore containing 720,000 Platinum ounces, whilst metals in concentrate was 719,000 Platinum ounces, ahead of 715,000 and 694,000 Platinum ounces delivered last year respectively.
These results are particularly pleasing given the safety issues and illegal strike we experienced.
For ten of the twelve months of the year our business delivered according to plan.
In the two months where it did not, we saw factors around safety and an illegal industrial action at Karee affect performance.
The operational review covers these events in more detail.
Those ten months of delivery demonstrate that when these events do not affect us we are a fundamentally sound and successful operation.
Our challenge is to ensure that those events become rare or are eradicated in future.
Safety After many years of improving safety we lost six colleagues in separate fatal The healthy state of our incidents at Marikana in the first seven months of 2011. ore reserves bode well Lonmin, and mining, has been my working life for many years.
The shock of losing colleagues never changes, and the loss of Jonas Thomage Kgwatlha, Modisaotsile Edward Setlhare, Afiado Mazive, Hermanus Potgieter, Rafael for 2012 and we Macamo and Alpheus Mogane Moerane was felt across the entire business.
anticipate sales of around 750,000 Platinum ounces.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 07 ] Whilst our safety performance was unacceptable I Immediately available ore reserves at our Marikana believe that our fundamental approach to safety operations were 2.9 million centares at the end of management has been sound and our 2011, a remarkable 8.8% higher than last year.
commitment to zero harm and safe production This level of preparedness allows us to plan our remains undiminished.
We carried out a root and future growth with confidence.
branch review of all of our safety procedures.
This Our overall milled grade was 4.40 grammes per review re-affirmed our basic safety strategy, but tonne, a reduction of 5.4% against the prior year.
we identified five key areas where we must The reduction reflects the slightly higher dilution improve: leadership development, systems resulting from the high levels of development, poor development and simplification, safety culture, ground conditions experienced at K3, an overall enabling environment and contractor safety lower UG2 in situ underground ore grade and the management.
proportionate increase in the mining of lower Im pleased to say that our safety performance grade Merensky ore from underground and following the cluster of fatalities mid year improved.
The grade however remains within our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR for 2011 acceptable range.
All Our unit costs per PGM ounce increased by employees and management were however in 11.2% reflecting the continued inflationary breach of the balanced score card disqualifier of pressures being felt by the industry in general.
four fatalities and as a result, no bonus was The unit cost was also impacted by the production allocated for this target.
In the last five months of losses arising from the safety stoppages and the year, at a time when we sought to increase our illegal strikes.
Excluding these two major factors throughput, we achieved four million fatality free unit cost was up around 8.0% on a normalised shifts across all of the Lonmin operations, an basis and in line with our original guidance, achievement which we last achieved in 2009 demonstrating prudent cost control.
during a time when production was contracting as a result of the restructuring programme.
I am We have made progress with our capital also particularly pleased to report that Rowland development with a capital spend of $268 million shafts safety record now leads in the industry during the year mainly at K4, Hossy and Saffy and having achieved twelve million fall of ground fatal at the sub-incline at K3.
This will stand us in good free shifts over a ten year period.
stead with meeting our future production profile.
The journey to zero harm will take time and require Processing the continued commitment and dedication of both The Division delivered solid results.
I am delighted management and employees.
to say the upward trend in concentrator recoveries we saw early in the year continued with high 3.
Operational Overview levels being sustained throughout 2011.
The Mining underground concentrator recoveries we achieved Our Mining Divisions performance demonstrated of 85.4%, up another 0.7% from 2010, contributed continued growth and it is unfortunate that the to the increase in the instantaneous recovery rate, excellent momentum established at the beginning which was 82.5%, up 3.4 percentage points.
We of the year was interrupted by the mid year say more about this key area in the Operational fatalities and an illegal strike at Karee operations.
Total tonnes mined were 11.7 million, up 3.7% from last year, of which 10.9 million tonnes were The modifications made to the Number One furnace from underground operations at Marikana.
during the re-build at the end of 2010 have been Management continued to place emphasis on successful, and it operated satisfactorily throughout quality of mining and improving mining discipline the year.
Smelter risk will be further reduced in and the fruits of the processes, procedures, Quarter three of 2012 when the Number Two training and work initiatives are evident in these furnace comes online.
Notably, the lost momentum on all The tailings treatment project is on schedule with operations from the disruptions at Karee was three chrome plants commissioned by Xstrataquickly restored with excellent production being Merafe Chrome Ventures and ChromTech, our recorded from June through to September.
The partners on the projects, and the Rowland tailings interruptions however had a detrimental effect on treatments plant was commissioned in August this our overall mining figures.
The tailings treatment plant at Easterns is due Hossy, our proof-of-concept mechanised mine to be commissioned in early 2012.
The projects recorded a good year.
However, machine will improve our recoveries of PGMs by 2% per reliability, availability of replacement parts and the year when fully operational at these plants.
difficulty of attracting and retaining trained artisans have continued to be major barriers to efficient production.
As a result, we are scaling back on the mechanised proof-of-concept method to introduce an element of hybrid mining to some of the mine areas to mitigate the risk to production.
com [ 08 ] Chief Executive Officers Review continued 4.
Financial capacity is the right thing to do to enable us to take advantage of the attractive long term We completed the refinancing of our bank debt facilities during the second half of the year, and fundamentals for PGM markets.
However, in light of current economic uncertainty and short term replaced $875 million bank debt facilities we had with $945 million of new facilities on superior PGM outlook, together with our objectives of delivering profitable ounces and maintaining terms.
As a result we have extended the maturity profile of our debt to support our growth and balance sheet prudence, we will retain flexibility around our capital expenditure plans and we will enhanced our ability to maintain a sound and efficient balance sheet with some flexibility.
Our moderate the pace of capacity expansion if the environment dictates.
net debt position and balance sheet were strong at year end, and position us well to manage the prevailing short term global market uncertainties.
Markets Outlook As I mentioned above, I believe the outlook for the 5.
Growth Plan PGM markets will be challenging in the short term, We will continue to focus on maximising the value influenced by the global uncertainties we have seen of the Marikana asset which has a long life high in recent months.
However, beyond this horizon quality ore body.
Our K3, K4, Saffy and Hossy the fundamentals remain sound underpinned by shafts drive our growth ambitions.
There are new the tightening emission legislation, demand sub-declines at K3 that will enable us to maintain growth in non-road emissions control, anticipated the efficiency of this shaft.
K4 is a new generation growth in diesel car market share particularly in shaft that comes online in 2012 and will ramp up the United States and India and growth in gasoline production over the next few years.
Saffy and vehicles in China.
The stationary fuel cell market is Hossy will continue to ramp up.
Combined, these real and growing, whilst jewellery is set to remain a shafts are the platform for us to reach what we price equaliser in times of slack demand.
Growth believe to be Marikanas optimal production level in supply from the South African PGM producers of around 950,000 Platinum ounces.
The world will however remain constrained.
events of the last six months demonstrate how the timetable for delivery of this capacity may be 6.
Transformation influenced by external factors.
The whole management team is clear that issues around transformation are core to the continued We now expect the platinum market in 2012 to success and growth of this business.
It is a remain broadly in balance with a bias to a small fundamental element of our licence to operate and surplus.
The recovery in demand we had we strive to do it well both because it is right, and previously anticipated may be postponed due because it is right for our investors.
to these short term difficult market conditions.
Equally, a healthy, profitable and growing Lonmin We have the capacity to produce 800,000 ounces brings benefits to all of our stakeholders, be they of Platinum in 2012.
However, given the high risk investors, our employees, the authorities or the of business disruption particularly from Section 54 communities in which we operate.
safety stoppages, our guidance for next years sales is 750,000 Platinum ounces.
This year we have spent in total, R309 million on community projects, hostel conversions, The transaction we announced with Shanduka healthcare delivery, adult learning schemes, Group Proprietary Limited Shanduka on Limpopo training and provision of bursaries to university provides a potential development roadmap whilst students.
Of the 184 students we have sponsored enabling our own management to continue to to date, 157 are HDSAs and 35 are female.
Our focus on delivering the value inherent in our management payroll excluding white women, Marikana asset.
Akanani is a longer term prospect now includes 32% HDSAs, up from 28% in 2010, and we continue to look at the options that are all of whom are merit based appointments.
available to us whilst completing additional feasibility work particularly on processing options.
We strive to achieve good working relationships with our stakeholders and during the year we Lonmin is well positioned for the future thanks to continued to build on the collaborative approach our strategy of investing in ore reserve development.
that we have successfully nurtured in the recent At the time of our interim results in May, we past particularly with the unions.
We are also announced our plan for organic growth beyond working closely with the Bapo Ba-Mogale 2013 to reach Marikana's optimal production level community in developing a roadmap that can of 950,000 Platinum ounces.
We continue to unlock the inherent value of their position for the believe that investing to grow our production benefit of the Bapo community as a whole.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 09 ] We are exploring initiatives that will enable us to We expect to improve cost control by driving productivity to mitigate the increase in our gross attain the Mining Charter Phase Two ownership target by 2014 and have shared our concepts to costs.
We expect to achieve this, even though our operations face significant inflationary pressures, achieve this with the Department of Mineral Resources DMR.
One such initiative is the by maximising our efficiencies and economies of scale as this will enable us to move down the cost Limpopo transaction as it creates the potential opportunity for Shanduka to become a Black curve.
Given this, we anticipate that unit cost will increase in line with wage increases which we Economic Empowerment BEE PGM mining and operating company, in line with the DMRs expect will be in line with those recently achieved by our two larger competitors.
Some of the industry transformation targets are Our capital spend will mostly be on further challenging, However, I believe Lonmins developing K3 and Rowland shafts, ramping up performance to be ahead of industry average in production at Hossy and Saffy and bringing K4 most areas and we have reproduced our reporting into production.
Our capex guidance for 2012 is audited scorecard performance on page 44.
This is will see our transformation initiatives accelerated slightly higher than prior guidance due to escalation, and we look forward to making announcements the devaluation of the Rand and minor scope on this progress as the year passes.
Most of this spend will be in Rands and will therefore be subject to Rand strength.
Social issues are increasingly coming to the fore in the public consciousness, in the media and 9.
Exco Changes amongst policy makers.
I expect this trend to I was delighted to welcome Natascha Viljoen continue and grow, presenting fresh challenges and Thandeka Ncube to the Executive Committee in the years ahead.
Natascha assumed the role of Executive Vice President EVP Processing The Transformation and Sustainability sections of this annual report on pages 16 and 41 provide following Theuns fide Bruyns departure and was part of the team that worked with Theuns in more details about the initiatives we have been focusing on in this area.
Thandeka has joined the Exco representing Shanduka and replacing Rowan Smith and Karishma Sewpersad.
Sustainability Theuns, Rowan and Karishma leave with our We have made some good progress in achieving thanks and good wishes.
Whilst our total energy consumption increased by 5.1% in 2011 to 6,533 Terajoules, we have made considerable progress 10.
Employee Thank You with our programmes on optimal management of The dedication, support and professionalism of water resources and atmospheric emissions.
our employees remain key to our success.
I am Notwithstanding these initiatives, the PGMs that proud of the way we have brought our operations we produce are a vital component in autocatalytic back to good health and established a platform convertors and therefore play a significant role in from which we can grow as a business in the reducing air pollution and contributing positively to years ahead.
I would like to end my report this year with a The Sustainability section of this annual report on heartfelt thank you to each and every one page 41 provides more detail.
Guidance The healthy state of our ore reserves bode well for 2012.
We anticipate sales of around 750,000 Platinum ounces in 2012 with additional ounces coming from the K3 sub-declines, Hossy and Saffy as they continue to ramp up, and the planned Ian Farmer decline of production from Newman continues.
Chief Executive Officer 11 November 2011 www.
com [ 10 ] 2011 Key Performance Indicators Lonmin is a fundamentally healthier business with clear goals.
Sales Platinum Ounces Underlying EBIT Lonmin Costs C1 Costs Free Cash Flow Sold Earnings Before Interest of Own Production and Taxation 800 1,000 8,000 400 7,534 794 380 963 6,6306,773 780 7,000 300 800 6,271 796 760 264 6,000 200 210 740 600 5,000 100 720 727 4,168 721 400 4,000 700 706 0 311 271 203 3,000 680 200 683 228 -100 2,000 660 0 -200 93 1,000 640 620 -200 0 -300 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 Financial year Financial year Financial year Financial year 721,000ounces $311million 7,534 Rand $210 million per PGM ounce Platinum ounces sold are the For any business the ultimate Cost per unit is key to allowing We believe that a key metric metal we sell either as refined aim is to grow underlying us to operate profitably for far of how successful we are ounces or recoverable ounces EBIT and deliver value to longer through any down as a business is ultimately the sold in concentrate.
C1 costs are defined as amount of cash we generate performance by looking at cash operating costs per before dividends and our EBIT from continuing PGM ounce produced.
Underlying EBIT is calculated on profit for the year and excludes the effect of one off and non-trading items.
For ten of the twelve months This significant increase in The illegal stoppage at Karee The improved free cash flow of the year our business profitability reflects improved impacted unit cost we met is due to improved operating delivered according to plan PGM and base metal prices, our revised guidance of an profits coupled with a much and we achieved our revised higher volumes partially offset 11.2% increase in unit cost improved working capital platinum sales guidance of by the stronger Rand and as momentum in production position.
results are particularly pleasing given the safety issues and illegal strike we experienced.
Comment Definition Performance Ounces 000s US$m Rand per PGM oz produced US$m Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information [ 11 ] Safety LTIFR Lost Time Development PGM Instantaneous Energy Efficiency Injury Frequency Rate Immediately Available Recovery Rate Ore Reserves 12 3.0 100 6 2.9 10.8 2.7 10 2.5 5 5.3 80 5.1 82.5 4.9 79.1 4.7 4.5 72.4 8 2.0 70.7 70.4 4 2.0 2.0 60 1.7 6 1.5 3 6.27 6.21 5.87 40 4.71 4 1.0 2 20 2 0.5 1 0 0 0 0 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 Financial year Financial year Financial year Financial year 4.71incidents 2.9million 82.5% 4.5GJ per million man hours centares recovery rate per PGM ounce As a Company we are We have placed a renewed The instantaneous recovery We continue to closely committed to Zero Harm focus on mine development, rate is the product of the monitor and measure our to our employees and using a metric of immediately recoveries achieved at each energy usage and efficiency.
We also regard available ore reserves in step of the processing cycle We are running a number of safety performance as a lead square metres or centares.
and measures the efficiencies initiatives across our indicator of the health of any In 2009 we changed our in the recovery of all metals.
operations to ensure energy business.
LTIFR is measured reporting methodology for ore efficiency levels are improved.
per million man hours worked reserve development, in line and reflects all injuries with industry best practice, to sustained by employees exclude partially developed ore which mean that the injured reserves.
We have reported party is unable to return to on this basis since then.
Our safety performance Our immediately available ore We have seen consistent This year our total energy following the cluster of reserves at our Marikana improvements in our consumption increased by fatalities mid year improved operations were a remarkable instantaneous recovery rate, 5.1% in 2011 to 6,533 and our LTIFR for 2011 8.8% higher than last year.
as the rate increased to Terajoules.
However, our showed a 19.8% annual This level of preparedness 82.5% as we continued to energy per unit of production improvement.
allows us to plan our future focus on improved has decreased by 11.1% growth with confidence.
com Per million hours worked Centares 000,000s Recovery % Gigajoules per PGM oz
