OVERVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT DETERMINATION TO LEAD BY EXAMPLE IMPRESSIVE FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE Anglo American delivered an impressive financial and operational performance in 2011, as we continued to capture the benets of operational improvements and disciplined cost management to capitalise on the attractive commodity demand and pricing environment that prevailed for much of the year.
We reported a record operating profit of $11.1 billion, a 14% increase, EBITDA of $13.3 billion, while Cynthia Carroll underlying earnings increased by 23% to $6.1 billion, also a record.
RECORD OPERATING PROFIT 2010: $9.8 bn THREE MAJOR NEW MINING OPERATIONS DELIVERED Our successful delivery of three major these challenges, we are implementing $11.1bn mining projects on or ahead of schedule various measures including acceleration during the year is a great achievement, and For more information activities within the previously announced turn to page 42 will contribute significant new volumes of 15% capital expenditure increase, to target iron ore, copper and nickel as the new first ore on ship in the second half of 2013. operations continue to ramp up during 2012.
We are maintaining momentum into our HIGH VALUE Our decision to sustain capital investment in next phase of growth, with the Board METALLURGICAL the development of these and other growth approval of six growth projects across COAL FROM OUR projects through the cycle, with highly six commodities, including our 5 Mtpa NEWLY APPROVED competitive operating costs and capital Grosvenor metallurgical coal project in GROSVENOR PROJECT intensity ratios, sets us apart as a near term Australia.
We expect to approve further volume growth leader.
new projects during 2012, including the Quellaveco copper project in Peru.
5 Mtpa The first shipment of lump iron ore from the 9Mtpa Kolomela mine in South Africa in For more information December 2011, five months ahead of BUILDING THE NEXT PHASE turn to page 63 schedule, was an important step towards our OF GROWTH goal of increasing production to 70 million Looking further out, we are focused on tonnes from our South African iron ore assets prioritising the most attractive of our this decade.
In copper, the expansion at $84 billion pipeline of unapproved projects Los Bronces in Chile, completed in October towards development and we continue to 2011, will more than double the mines replenish and increase our world class production of 221,000 tpa, on average, resource base through numerous exploration over the first three years of full production, successes.
Our discovery of copper, nickel with reserves and resources that support and platinum group elements at Sakatti in a mine life of over 30 years.
And in Brazil, northern Finland is a great example of we delivered first production at our new Anglo Americans deep-rooted greeneld BarroAlto nickel operation in March 2011. exploration expertise delivering value as Barro Alto will average 41,000 tpa of nickel well as the use of our innovative drilling over its first five years of full production and technology to reduce our environmental increase Anglo Americans nickel volumes impact as we work towards dening by 180%.
TWO FURTHER NEW MINES ON TRACK SEIZING OPPORTUNITIES TO We also made good progress during the DELIVER FURTHER VALUE year at the Minas-Rio iron ore project Beyond our organic growth programme, in Brazil, the fourth of our strategic growth we continue to deliver shareholder value projects.
We are continuing to manage a commercially.
We took the unique number of challenges in a high inationary opportunity in November to nalise the Brazilian mining environment.
To mitigate 12 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Overview 01 Pump station under construction at the 03 The Cut-8 extension will transform O ur discovery of copper, nickel Minas-Rio iron ore project in Brazil.
Jwaneng into a superpit, and extend the and platinum group elements at life of this pre-eminent diamond mine until 02 Anglo American has participated in a series at least 2025.
Sakatti in northern Finland is a of community engagement workshops with the people living close to the site of the 04 Stephanie Klatt, senior project geologist, great example of Anglo Americans Quellaveco copper project in Peru.
checking core samples at the Sakatti drill deep rooted greeneld site in northern Finland.
Cynthia Carroll Chief Executive 04 01 02 03 agreement to acquire the Oppenheimer 2011, 17 employees died while working for UK Government-led matching initiative familys shareholding in fide Beers, taking Anglo American.
We have a long way to go to for the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Anglo Americans interest in the worlds achieve our objective of zero harm, despite Immunisations, a public private partnership leading diamond company to up to 85%.
marked improvements in our safety record that is increasing access to immunisation in We will continue to pursue growth where since 2007, with a significant reduction in the the worlds poorest countries.
we see the most compelling, long term number of our people who have lost their In January 2012, I joined other world business opportunities and to deliver value from lives at work and lost time injury rates.
While leaders to launch the Business Leadership our high quality asset base.
we continue to see many examples of safety Council for a Generation Born HIV Free, a excellence across Anglo American, we are Our sale of a non-controlling interest private sector-led initiative that aims to end committed to reviewing, refocusing and in our Anglo American Sur assets to the transmission of HIV from mothers to reprioritising our safety related programmes Mitsubishi for $5.4 billion, valuing those children by the end of 2015. to address ongoing challenges.
assets at $22 billion, is a demonstration of that commitment and of the quality STRONG OUTLOOK FOR OUR our assets.
TAKING THE LEAD IN COMMODITIES SUSTAINABLE MINING Our Platinum business today is a far cry Despite short term uncertainty persisting from what it was a few years ago in terms of Managing the social, economic and in the global economy, particularly in production, productivity and safety.
We have environmental impacts of our operations Europe, the outlook for Anglo Americans seen substantial improvement in operating is essential to our success.
Our approach diversied mix of commodities remains performance and the returns are in line to sustainability is a key differentiator for strong.
We expect sustained growth in the with the industry.
However, these returns Anglo American, is fundamental to the way emerging economies, notably in China and have declined in recent years and are not we do business and is embedded in India, which will underpin robust demand acceptable to us for the medium and longer everything we do.
for commodities, supplemented by early term.
The platinum industry faces significant Together with safety, our primary recovery signs in the US.
Continuing challenges, from cost ination and safety sustainability challenges are around climate industrialisation and urbanisation cycles issues to ongoing concerns over European change, and securing access to water and and the considerable scope for the demand.
As a result, we are embarking on energy.
During 2011, we implemented new convergence of living standards, combined a review to assess the optimal conguration technical standards and management with long term supply constraints, present an of our Platinum portfolio with a focus on tools the Water efficiency Target Tool attractive proposition across our unique improving performance.
We will do this and our energy and carbon management portfolio of early, midand late development with the single purpose in mind of maximising programme, ECO MAN to help operations cycle commodities.
2 shareholder value and returns through understand their water and energy the cycle.
requirements, and identify and implement savings projects.
SAFETY We have continued our support for Cynthia Carroll community health systems during 2011, Safety remains my absolute priority and Chief Executive I have not wavered on this commitment particularly in emerging economies, at a since my appointment as chief executive local and global level.
I am deeply saddened that in pledged $3 million over three years to the Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 13
