P&O Annual Report 2002 16 Operating and financial review Cold Logistics Operating and financial review Cold Logistics Strong competitive position in chosen markets Market growth is driven by growth in The business has moved towards P&O COLD LOGISTICS demand for refrigerated food products, partnering customers via service growth in the range of refrigerated agreements that include detailed PERFORMANCE REVIEW products e. g. convenience foods and key performance indicator measures.
also the trend towards supply chain Market position increased from 6th outsourcing.
FINANCIAL REVIEW to 4th largest operator in the world.
Cold Logistics reported a reduced Key retail contracts in Australia CUSTOMERS operating profit of 12.5 million 2001 extended until 2006.
Cold Logistics services leading food 18.0 million.
Return on average net Integration of Eskimo Logistics retailers, manufacturers, primary producers operating assets was 6% 2001 10% refrigerated warehouse business and also importers exporters and provides and the operating profit margin was in New Zealand completed.
a wide range of services from traditional 8% 2001 13%.
New 12,600 pallet facility opened pallet storage and product transport to in California and supported by complex supply chain management for Capital expenditure of 67.0 million acquisition of a customs broking temperature sensitive products e. g. was concentrated in the US where we and forwarding business.
High volume carton picking, and packing acquired complementary assets from Pressure on margins, particularly in for a wide range of product lines.
ProLogis for US$70 million in October.
Inventory management including stock This has made P&O Cold Logistics the Small Argentine business performed rotation, replenishment and stock number one operator in the important profitably despite difficult economic ownership.
Customised on-line information 140,000 cubic metre facility was also MARKET REVIEW and transactions.
opened in California in June and quickly P&O Cold Logistics is the second largest Import and export services including achieved high occupancy.
operator in Australia with a very strong customs documentation and container The Australasian business achieved position in New South Wales.
In the USA packing and unpacking.
Key retail operations are focused in California and Production line facilities linked to contracts were extended for terms until Texas where it is now the number one warehouse operations.
2006, and services to customers were operator.
In New Zealand and Argentina Retail distribution and freight expanded, particularly in distribution.
P&O Cold Logistics is the largest operator.
Revenue and operating profit grew by 3 Storage capacity 5.6 million m South America 3% Australasia 26% USA 71% Operating profit m 20 18 16 14 12 10 On-line order management system 8 6 4 2 0 1999 2000 2001 2002 P&O Annual Report 2002 Operating and financial review Cold Logistics 17 approximately 5% due to the successful acquired will provide opportunities for Objectives for 2003 integration of Eskimo Logistics which significant net profit growth in 2003 after Improve performance of USA business.
With its focus Maintain strong retail position in Australasia remained high.
on the food sector the business is largely and extend relationships with food resilient to the slower economic growth manufacturers.
The results from our existing US business rate.
We therefore expect to achieve Continued innovation of services e. g. voice were not as strong as in previous years.
a better result in 2003. picking technology.
Increased competition and some inLeverage strength in export sector of South sourcing by customers resulted in margin America and increase market share as pressure.
The position was further international operators restart operations.
exacerbated by the weaker US dollar and increased insurance costs.
The existing US management has been strengthened, labour productivity and utilisation is being improved and the roll out of our warehouse IT systems is continuing.
The acquisition from ProLogis completed in October and the new facility in California performed well.
The small South American business remained profitable.
OUTLOOK Looking ahead, the Australasian business continues to do well.
In the USA, the recent acquisitions have put Cold Logistics in a strong competitive position in the key markets of California and Texas and integration of the assets Warehouse operations are linked to Cold Logistics is the 4th largest operator production line facilities in the world
