P&O Annual Report 2002 20 Operating and financial review People and community Operating and financial review People and community Embracing corporate and social responsibility Developing and nurturing the talent EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY AND within the business remains a priority.
ENVIRONMENT Our employees, and their development, The P&O house flag is recognised across are of critical importance to the future the globe.
Our brand reputation relies The P&O reputation relies and thrives success of the organisation.
In October on our employees delivering first class on employees working directly within the 2002, our ports division founded the service throughout every business communities in which we operate.
This is not a in every location where we operate.
countries the development of a port and traditional bricks and mortar entity but The commitment of our employees to the associated infrastructure can play operates on all levels globally, using their businesses is not just reflected in a major role in helping to improve living current instructional technologies financial results but also by the number standards.
In many places our involvement through partnerships with appropriate of awards that have been collected goes far beyond this.
For example, in educational institutions.
The Institute will throughout the Group.
Mumbai, India, the Nhava Sheva provide employees with the opportunity International Container Terminal is funding to develop their knowledge and skills, For example, Nhava Sheva Container the infrastructure development of a local through means of formal training, Terminal was awarded the countrys school and college.
Our container targeted development initiatives and Best Infrastructure Project by the terminals in Surabaya, Thailand, distance learning programmes.
Mozambique and Russia actively support Our Ferries business received 15 national local health and education initiatives.
As outlined in last years Annual Report and European travel awards in a highly we are rolling out a Global ShareSave competitive arena.
These ranged from As well as our businesses providing direct Plan during 2003 which will enable the Call Centre Focus award for financial donations our employees are employees worldwide to save towards European Call Centre of the Year Best involved in fundraising and donating their a purchase of deferred stock at a Culture, sponsored by BT to Excellence time to support the communities where preferential rate.
For many years a similar in Training and Development from the they live and work.
In Australia, our Cold scheme has run successfully in the UK Hotel and Catering Personnel Logistics operation supports an annual and by extending it globally we are Association.
while Cold Logistics in environmental initiative by planting trees ensuring that all of our employees can Australia was awarded New South and helping to restore natural vegetation.
benefit from the Groups performance Wales Employer of the Year at the State In America, our employees from the and achievements.
Property team at Atlanta donated Employee fund-raisers from Technology Park, Atlanta, USA Pupils at the Phunde Education Complex, Mumbai, India P&O Annual Report 2002 Operating and financial review People and community 21 over 2,900 hours of their time to biennial report and in addition will publish community projects and helped raise updates on our environmental over US$42,000 for the cancer charity performance every year on our website Relay for Life.
Our businesses are constantly striving At the beginning of 2002 we issued to improve their environmental a Social Responsibility Statement performance.
P&O Cold Logistics throughout the Group and the business achieved recognition in this associated management and reporting area when it was awarded an accolade systems to support this are now in for environmental excellence from the place globally.
Detailed and regular Australian Logistics Association.
environmental, safety and social audits of our locations remain the foundation Our Larne Harbour ferry port was of these systems.
also presented with an environmental award by Business in the Community for achieving the upper quintile in the annual environmental survey of Northern Ireland companies.
We have reported publicly on our businesses and the environment since 1996.
In May 2002 we published our biennial Environment and Community Report which details our environmental and safety performance, future targets and some of the work we are doing with local communities around the world.
We will continue to issue our separate Tree planting by P&O Cold Logistics Training session P&O Ferrymasters, UK employees and families in Australia
