P&O Annual Report 2002 12 Operating and financial review Ferries Customer Service at Reservation and Travel Services, Dover, UK P&O Annual Report 2002 Operating and financial review Ferries 13 Operating and financial review Ferries A household name in the UK the Anglo-Continental freight market has with the latter having a slightly P&O FERRIES grown at approximately 7% per annum for larger share.
The tourist market has Irish Sea P&O concentrates on PERFORMANCE REVIEW declined by 2-3% over the last 5 years.
Our main competitors Short Sea route became wholly are Stena Line, Norse Merchant and Irish owned on 13 August 2002 followed Continental Group ICG.
The tourist by re-branding of P&O Ferries and Considering specific ro-ro markets: market comprises a number of commencement of business Short Sea this is the major Anglooperators with P&O Irish Sea having reorganisation.
Continental route, centred around Dover a relatively small market share.
Earnings improvement achieved in 2002 and comprising over 60% of the total across all sectors except Irish Sea.
tourist market and approximately 40% of Unprofitable Felixstowe and Doverthe total freight market.
Eurotunnel is the Zeebrugge services closed.
P&O Ferries is the leading Charters for 3 vessels renegotiated at ferry operator.
The main ferry competitor Portsmouth at reduced rates.
is Sea France, followed by the smaller On-board spend per head on the operators Norfolk Line and Hoverspeed.
Short Sea reached record levels, North Sea this route services the well in excess of duty-free period European gateways of Holland and which ended in 1999, and 11% Belgium.
Main competitors to P&O up on last year.
include DFDS and Stena Line.
There are several competitors in the freight market.
MARKET REVIEW Western Channel this is principally P&O is one of the leading operators in a tourist route focused on France and all the sectors around the UK in which it northern Spain.
According to industry estimates, Ferries carry the vast majority of traffic, Operating profit m 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 The Pride of Bilbao in new livery Customers surfing the web on the Pride of Rotterdam -10 1999 2000 2001 2002 excludes 16.5m reorganisation costs in 2002 Includes Ferrymasters Volume 000s Short sea tourist vehicles Short sea freight units Other routes tourist vehicles Other routes freight units 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 1999 2000 2001 2002 P&O Annual Report 2002 14 Operating and financial review Ferries Operating and financial review Ferries Driving improved customer service CUSTOMERS better tourist result following the adverse are being refurbished and converted into P&O Ferries is committed to delivering impact of foot and mouth disease in 2001, modern multi-purpose vessels to replace a consistently high quality service to its with increases in market share and rates.
two older vessels on the Dover-Calais customers.
Driven by a commitment to On the North Sea, however, the high level route in 2003.
The third vessel is safety and service it is focused on the of sterling for much of the year meant continuing as a freight ferry but on premium segment of the ferry market.
that the number of incoming tourists the Dover-Calais route.
The current reorganisation of P&O Ferries was reduced.
On-board spend continued into a single brand and business will to grow strongly but freight remained The total net operating assets of the create a consistent product quality competitive.
business increased by 161.6 million across sectors.
to 585.3 million 2001 423.7 million, P&O acquired Stena Lines 40% principally due to the P&O Stena Tourist customers will benefit from the shareholding in P&O Stena Line for Line transaction.
Excluding one-off current roll-out of relationship marketing approximately 152 million in August.
reorganisation costs, the return on and reservation systems and freight This has enabled our Short Sea, Western average net operating assets was customers will benefit from centralised Channel and North Sea operations to be 6% 2001 0.2 %.
pre-booking, driver authorisation, load brought together under the common P&O tracking, billing and payment systems.
Ferries brand with annual savings of at On the Short Sea, we consolidated least 15 million.
Implementation of these 33.1 million operating profit.
The return FINANCIAL REVIEW changes has been quicker than originally on average net operating assets before The Ferries division, which now includes anticipated with the result that the total reorganisation costs was 15%, once again Ferrymasters previously reported within one-off cost of 16.5 million has been comfortably exceeding the cost of capital.
Logistics, achieved a much improved incurred in 2002.
The total freight market grew 4%.
operating profit of 13.7 million compared However, P&O Ferries volumes declined to a loss of 1.2 million in the previous In July, we closed our non-profitable 7% due to increases in capacity by other year.
The main part of this result relates to Felixstowe routes and in September operators and a firm rate stance adopted the Ferries business itself which reported P&O Scottish Ferries ceased operations by P&O which resulted in our average an operating profit of 14.5 million after following expiry of the contract with the rates increasing by 4%.
The total tourist one-off reorganisation costs of 16.5 Scottish Executive.
In December, the vehicle market declined 3% and the total million compared to a loss of 1.0 million Dover-Zeebrugge freight route was closed.
The improvement reflected a Two of the vessels previously on that route tourist vehicle carryings were 2% up and Naming of the European Highlander Restaurant on board the Pride of Le Havre P&O Annual Report 2002 Operating and financial review Ferries 15 rates improved.
On-board spend per head improved rates and increased on-board Objectives for 2003 grew strongly to over 20, 11% higher spend.
On the Irish Sea we have increased Launch the P&O Ferries brand, than in 2001. both freight and tourist carryings.
On all delivering a stronger marketing routes, forward bookings are similar to last message at a lower cost.
On the North Sea our tourist vehicle year.
A number of vessel charters have Further enhance on-board product quality carryings declined, principally due to a been renegotiated at significantly reduced to provide consistency across all sectors.
slow-down in Continental traffic entering rates.
The most important point, however, Streamline administrative functions to the UK, but rates increased.
Excluding the is that the reorganisation and re-branding deliver 15m of annualised cost savings.
closed Felixstowe routes, freight volumes of P&O Ferries is proceeding ahead Cover cost of capital.
The Western Channel of schedule.
Target further areas of business made further progress, with increased improvement, including port operating tourist vehicle volumes and increased FERRYMASTERS costs, procurement and supply chain rates.
Two older vessels were sold and Following the successful sale of Contract initiatives, which will benefit 2004 replaced by one modern chartered vessel.
Logistics at the end of 2002, the unit loads and beyond.
On the Irish Sea, where our business is business, Ferrymasters, has strengthened primarily freight, there was pressure due its relationship with Ferries.
During the year to excess capacity combined with a it went through further restructuring.
resulted in lower turnover but higher operating margins, and an operating loss OUTLOOK of 0.8 million 2001 0.2 million loss after We have seen a steady start to the year restructure costs of 2.7 million.
The tourist vehicle on Continental routes improved in the market is slightly down and we have lost second half of the year, particularly in the some market share but rates are firm.
fourth quarter, due to the stronger euro Conversely, the freight market has grown and increased market share.
However, and our market share has increased for the full year, volumes were down 6%.
although again rates are firm.
Trading In Ireland, a continued focus on higher conditions on the North Sea remain yielding traffic resulted in 12% lower competitive.
Lower tourist carryings on volumes.
Net operating assets reduced to the Western Channel have been offset by 41.8 million from 49.5 million in 2001.
Tourist vehicle carryings were 2% up on the Ferrymasters has strengthened its Short Sea relationship with Ferries
