P&O Annual Report 2002 08 Operating and financial review Ports Nhava Sheva International Container Terminal, Mumbai, India.
P&O Annual Report 2002 Operating and financial review Ports 09 Operating and financial review Ports Leading in key worldwide markets CUSTOMERS FINANCIAL REVIEW P&O PORTS From IT to security we are active in P&O Ports generated an operating profit finding solutions for customers and of 116.8 million 2001 115.1 million.
PERFORMANCE REVIEW ensuring we deliver best practice.
P&O A good performance by our container Challenging business environment Ports operates common user facilities terminals business was partly offset by in 2002, particularly in Argentina.
and, consequently, our customers a reduced result for general stevedoring.
P&O share of volume of containers include all the major container shipping handled increased by 23% to 8.9 lines as well as a number of specialised Operating profit for container terminals million teus, 14% organic growth.
companies in the maritime sector such increased by 16% to 98.5 million 2001 Total investment of 90 million as car carriers and bulk and general 84.9 million.
Throughput increased by announced for new container facilities cargo carriers.
We also perform logistics 23% 2001 21% of which organic in China, Philippines, Canada activities dealing directly with transport growth was 14% 2001 9%.
companies and the ultimate cargo growth in throughput would have Terminal developments ongoing at owners such as manufacturers, traders increased earnings by approximately New York, Chennai in India, Colombo and importers.
Variable costs rose by 5.1 in Sri Lanka and Tilbury in the UK.
million due to wage and other increases On specific new ventures our customers offset by savings from our value MARKET REVIEW can be shareholders and we are coimprovement programme.
Depreciation The container terminal industry remains operating with a number of carriers in and amortisation grew by 5.2 million.
fragmented and P&O accounts for projects around the world.
One example One-off items and the economic turmoil approximately 5% of total world of this is the proposed acquisition of affecting our Buenos Aires terminal in throughput.
In 2002 throughputs at EGIS Ports SA, a terminal operator in Argentina cost a further 9.3 million.
container terminals worldwide grew by Le Havre and Marseille, in joint venture The weak US dollar and other currency 9% based on initial industry estimates.
with the French CMA-CGM Group.
movements cost approximately 5.0 The largest growth rates were recorded million.
Excluding one-off costs and the in China, where Shanghai recorded a We aim to provide excellent value to position in Buenos Aires, operating profit 30% increase, and in Shenzhen where our customers, with a commitment to would have increased by 27%, ports indicated increases of up to delivering industry leading levels of in line with growth in throughput.
This was reflected in strong service in all our locations.
container volume growth on intra-Asian trades and on the transpacific trade lanes.
Operating profit m P&O equity share of container volumes teu 10,000 Asia America 9,000 Europe 8,000 140 ANZ 7,000 120 6,000 100 5,000 80 4,000 60 3,000 40 2,000 CASCO Container Terminal, Vancouver, Canada 20 1,000 0 0 1999 2000 2001 2002 1999 2000 2001 2002 P&O Annual Report 2002 10 Operating and financial review Ports Operating and financial review Ports Applying best practice across all facilities For our established container terminals, as trade with Argentina contracted during container shipping line CMA-CGM to i. e. those that are over five years old, the the economic crisis.
The terminal remains acquire 80% of Egis Ports SA, Frances return on average capital employed in profitable, however, and an improving leading container terminal operator.
For the total trend on exports was evident in the We recently announced the acquisition Ports business, including new terminals second half of 2002.
Ongoing of an existing container terminal and which have yet to reach full operational development work impacted the operation cargo stevedore in Vancouver.
efficiency, return on average capital of Port Newark in New York.
Southampton handled higher throughputs Apart from container terminals, we have but suffered from congestion in the peak a smaller general ports business that In Asia, where over half of our port assets period for imports in October.
Our handles more cyclical cargoes such are located, we achieved a good Antwerp terminal is now demonstrating as cars, steel, bulk commodities, and performance.
Our container terminal in improved performance.
Our terminals in agricultural products as well as ferry and Mumbai has established itself as the Australia had a good year, reporting cruise passengers.
Operating profit for leading facility on the Indian subcontinent improved earnings due to a buoyant this business was 5.0 million 2001 and now handles in excess of 100,000 teu economy and a strong growth of imports.
In the US, passenger per month at industry leading service traffic through our New York cruise levels.
In China, the transfer of all During 2002 we invested approximately terminal recovered well following the international services from the old port in 75 million in developing existing 11 September 2001 tragedy.
However, Qingdao to the QQCT facility operated by terminals, primarily in Australia and at USA tariffs, which have since been lifted, P&O Ports was completed in November New York and Southampton.
Further reduced steel imports handled in our 2002.
Monthly throughput increased from development also took place at Manila in port operations in the Gulf of Mexico just 28,000 teu at the start of the year to the Philippines, Chennai in India, Colombo and there was an increase in workers approximately 100,000 in December.
in Sri Lanka and Qingdao in China.
The drought in Volumes at Shekou in the Shenzhen We also expect to invest US$40 million, Australia impacted both imports and region of Southern China grew by nearly representing our 20% share, in the 0.9 exports of bulk cargo.
In Antwerp the 50% during the year.
million teu expansion of the existing total market for breakbulk tonnage container terminal at Shekou, China.
reduced sharply during 2002 In the Americas, our terminal in Buenos New investments included formation of but is currently showing some signs Aires reported volumes down almost 20% a 50:50 joint venture with the French of recovery.
Cranes arriving at Chennai Container Terminal, India Volumes at Shekou, Southern China, grew by nearly 50% P&O Annual Report 2002 Operating and financial review Ports 11 In 2002 we achieved most of the 15 Our Maritime Services business reported Objectives for 2003 million value improvement targeted at another successful year with operating Grow the business organically and the beginning of the year.
However, profit of 13.2 million 2001 13.9 million.
the effect of this was masked by the Integrate new and acquired impact of the weak US dollar and The offshore supply fleet again operated operations in China, Canada and France.
other currencies and was offset by at close to full capacity and business from Increase efficiency of operations restructuring costs.
The restructuring in the Australian government and other and operating returns via best practice 2002 will deliver overhead cost savings contracts contributed to another strong and commence development of new of a further 5 million in 2003. result albeit that some off season work enterprise software systems.
obtained for our specialised vessels in Expand the service offering to provide We are continuing to achieve synergy 2001 was not repeated in 2002. added value services to existing port customers.
benefits from our portfolio of container terminals.
This is particularly true in OUTLOOK Ensure that all facilities comply with regard to IT systems.
We have Despite the uncertain outlook for growth increasingly demanding port security requirements.
commenced a project to replace core in the worlds major economies, container operating systems with one enhanced volumes moving through our terminals IT system during 2003 4 which will continue to grow rapidly.
This trend is integrate all aspects of the business from starting to have a favourable impact on operations to customers to finance.
tariffs, particularly in ports where supply This will support the corporate goals of continues to lag demand.
However, streamlining the business and applying currency weakness, particularly with the best practice across all our facilities.
US dollar and the Indian rupee, and The new management structure that was increased insurance costs could have a introduced last year has resulted in a negative impact.
New capacity at strategic clearer separation at corporate level high growth locations in China and India between operations and development.
will come on stream in 2003, and a This has further improved the spreading number of development and investment of best practice whilst supporting the opportunities are being pursued vigorously growth of global customer relationships.
in various locations around the globe.
