P&O Annual Report 2002 06 Operating and financial review Strategic review Operating and financial review Strategic review The Group has continued to evolve FERRIES In my report last year I indicated P&O Ports has specific advantages The P&O Stena Line business was formed that we completed strategic reviews due to: in April 1998 in response to the significant of our Ports, Ferries and Logistics Our focus on ports servicing origin and capacity introduced into the Dover-Calais businesses and highlighted a destination cargos means that the ferry market when the Channel Tunnel was sharpened investment strategy.
local hinterland and economy opened.
The venture performed well but underpins continual volume growth the requirement to segregate the business The shape of the current Group is through our container terminals, so from the rest of our ferry operations shown below and these businesses there is limited risk that the cargo can led to duplication.
Our objectives of are summarised on pages 2 and 3 of be relocated to another port.
delivering yield improvements and this report.
We have common user terminals.
operational efficiencies and meeting our P&O Ports services a wide range of cost of capital meant that a significant The current status of our Group Strategy customers and does not have capacity restructuring of the business was required.
and achievements made in 2002 are dedicated to any particular customer.
Acquisition of Stena Lines 40% of P&O outlined in the Chairmans report.
The Stena Line in 2002 was a step in this key features behind that strategy are Consequently, the focus of our process and now enables P&O Ferries to explained in more detail here: investment will continue to be through target significant cost savings of 15 million exercising options to increase our on an annualised basis in 2003 and further STRATEGIC REVIEW capacity at existing locations or through improvements through consolidating and PORTS further investment in new concessions.
We continue to believe that Ports remains a highly attractive business.
Given the long term customarily 30 year LOGISTICS The industry benefits from: nature of port concessions, new Our strategic review demonstrated that World container volumes continuing to investments take time to reach an the third and fourth party logistics market grow at a multiple of growth in GDP.
optimum utilisation and may dilute continues to become more global and Attractive industry structure: P&Os returns in the short term.
However, our that P&O would have required significant global brand, scale, financial capability established container terminals over 5 investment to compete with the market and operational expertise create a years old reported a return on average leaders.
It was also clear that greater strong competitive advantage.
capital employed of 19% in 2002, returns could be achieved in our other significantly above the Group cost of businesses.
This demonstrates why we Logistics business was sold in 2002. believe this business remains attractive.
Group net operating assets 3.4bn at December 2002 Property 25% Ports 29% Cargo Shipping 21% Ferries Sir Bruce MacPhail Cold Logistics 19% 6% P&O Annual Report 2002 Operating and financial review Strategic review 07 Our Cold Logistics business operates shareholding in future so as to exert Objectives for 2003 within a niche sector of the logistics influence over a major container shipping Achieve progress in reducing our interest industry and requires specialist skills company.
Our passive investment in in P&O Nedlloyd.
to operate supply chains within a tightly Associated Bulk Carriers continues to be Further investment and operational controlled temperature environment.
In 2002 the fleet was reduced efficiency in P&O Ports.
The industry remains relatively from 22 to 14 vessels through disposals Complete the reorganisation and fragmented, comprising a number of for a total consideration of US$107 million.
regional competitors in the key markets Integrate US acquisition into in which P&O operates.
Consequently, PROPERTY P&O Cold Logistics and extract scale further capital was committed to that We have a significant development benefits and synergies.
business in 2002 to enable it to gain portfolio located in attractive locations market leadership in its most important in the USA, Europe and the UK.
The US markets, California and Texas.
Property portfolio will continue to be sold down over the medium term.
CARGO SHIPPING Its contribution to earnings will be P&O Nedlloyd operates within a dependent on the timing of development fragmented industry that suffers from completions and disposals.
significant pricing pressure when world trade demand is out of balance with container ship supply.
Consequently, the earnings are cyclical.
Given the relative size of P&O Nedlloyd within the P&O Group, this creates cyclicality within the overall P&O Group results, hence our commitment to reduce our exposure to this business.
This remains a key strategic objective for the Group.
At the same time, however, there are strong synergies with our container ports business.
We would therefore like to retain some, albeit much reduced, Shekou Container Terminal, China P&O Cold Logistics, USA
