P&O Annual Report 2002 22 Operating and financial review Group financial review Operating and financial review Group financial review Strong cash flow the adverse impact of currency on our into a joint venture agreement for the GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW businesses in Argentina and the weak development of a new container terminal US dollar.
The write back of 47.2 million at Shekou Industrial Zone in Shenzhen, EARNINGS PER SHARE of goodwill as a result of the Contract China.
P&Os interest was 20% and its Before reorganisation costs, exceptional Logistics sale has no net impact on share of the required investment is US$40 items and goodwill amortisation, the loss stockholders funds.
Ports is finalising a 50:50 joint per share was 1.6p 2001 earnings venture with a French container shipping 17.3p.
The basic loss per share was Year end gearing was 103% 2001 67%.
line CMA-CGM to acquire 80% of Egis 27.1p 2001 earnings 17.0p.
As we continue to sell down our property Ports SA, the leading container terminal CASH FLOW AND FINANCIAL POSITION portfolio, the timing of disposals may lead operator in France.
Cold Logistics The net cash inflow from operating to temporary increases in gearing as we acquired refrigerated logistics assets from activities and dividends from joint seek to maximise value.
This was inherent ProLogis in the USA for US$70 million ventures and associates was 310.9 in our capital structure at the time of the cash consideration.
This reflects demerger when we left P&O Princess the strong cash flow of our businesses Cruises with the long term debt and low TAX CHARGE and the fact that P&O Nedlloyd does not gearing, in view of is substantial capital The tax charge was 35.5 million 2001 impact the Groups cash flow.
The net commitments, and P&O, which had 44.8 million, reflecting an effective tax capital expenditure was 229.6 million substantial disposable assets, with rate of 30% on the pre-exceptional profit 2001 119.4 million due to significant relatively high gearing.
of the Group before the Group share of the investment in Ports, Ferries and Cold P&O Nedlloyd result.
We generally benefit Logistics offset by the disposal of ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS from tonnage tax but when our shipping Contract Logistics.
There have been several acquisitions and businesses report losses we are not able disposals during the year.
The Contract to claim tax relief.
Net borrowings increased to 1,346.8 Logistics business of P&O Trans million 2001 1,096.7 million.
This European was sold for 152.5 million CAPITAL included an increase of 236.0 million cash to Wincanton plc.
P&O also The Company issued 0.2 million nominal following the acquisition of the remaining retained some property assets with a of new deferred stock during the year, all 40% of P&O Stena Line during the year.
P&O of which was pursuant to options granted Stockholders funds decreased to acquired Stena Lines 40% shareholding under stock option schemes.
1,304.1 million 2001 1,642.4 million in P&O Stena Line for a consideration of due to the loss for the year and also approximately 152 million.
Ports entered P&O Cold Logistics warehouse P&O Ferries, captain and crew member P&O Annual Report 2002 Operating and financial review Group financial review 23 PENSIONS FINANCIAL RISK Under FRS 17, the deficit on our main The financial instruments held by the UK pension scheme is currently Group to fund its operations include cash, assessed at 252 million and on our overdrafts, loans, a limited amount of other schemes at 21 million.
If FRS 17 interest bearing and non-interest bearing were to have been adopted, the post-tax investments and non-equity stockholders impact on the Balance Sheet would have funds.
Derivative financial instruments are been a liability of 205 million.
The next used to manage the interest rate and actuarial valuation of the main scheme currency risks arising from its operations will take place later this year.
As part of and its sources of finance.
The derivatives the valuation, the liabilities will be valued used for this purpose are principally at a discount rate that reflects the interest rate swaps and forward foreign expected return on the assets in the currency contracts.
fund rather than using the more general valuation requirement of FRS 17.
It is The purpose of treasury policies is to therefore likely to lead to a lower deficit.
ensure that adequate cost-effective funding is available to the Group at all The annual service cost is not likely to times, and that exposure to financial risk increase substantially over the present is minimised.
The saving from members leaving the scheme following the Contract The main financial risks to which the Logistics disposal will offset the cost of Group is exposed are foreign currency closing the scheme to new entrants at risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk as the beginning of 2002.
The deficit would, summarised below.
No transactions of a however, need to be addressed by speculative nature are undertaken.
This could take The Board reviews and agrees policies for place over the average service life of the managing these risks.
None of these active members.
policies has been altered during the year.
Port of Miami Terminal, USA P&O Annual Report 2002 24 Operating and financial review Group financial review Operating and financial review Group financial review Managing risk positions FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK In addition, 76% of the Groups When the Groups businesses enter The Group has extensive overseas and operating profit in 2002 was generated into capital expenditure or lease international business operations and by businesses with functional currencies commitments in currencies other than operates in a number of foreign other than sterling.
The results of these their main functional currency, these currencies.
The most important foreign businesses are translated into sterling at commitments are hedged in most currency to the Group is the US dollar, average exchange rates for the purposes instances using forward contracts and followed by the Australian dollar and the of consolidation.
The impact of currency currency swaps in order to fix the cost Indian rupee.
In general, the Groups movements on operating profit is when converted to the functional profits and stockholders funds benefit mitigated partially by interest costs being currency.
The main exposure of the if these currencies are strong against incurred in foreign currencies.
Groups foreign currency commitments sterling.
The year end rate for the US of this nature is in respect of ferry dollar was $1.610 1 2001 $1.455 1, A portion of the Groups businesses operating lease commitments.
Forward for the Australian dollar it was $2.859 1 generate part of their revenue and incur contracts match the expected cash 2001 $2.843 1 and for the Indian some costs outside their main functional flows of capital and lease commitments.
In particular, P&O Nedlloyd, INR70.179 1. in common with other operators in the As well as the direct effect on cash container shipping industry, has US flows, exchange rates also affect the The proportion of the Groups net dollar based revenues with costs Groups businesses because of their operating assets denominated in foreign incurred in a range of currencies overall economic influence.
In particular, currencies is 73% with the result that the including US dollars, sterling, euros exchange rates affect international trade Groups sterling consolidated balance and Japanese yen.
Some hedging, flows which impact on the activities sheet, and in particular stockholders generally up to 12 months using of the Group.
funds, can be significantly affected by forward contracts, is undertaken to currency movements.
The Group reduce the short term effect of currency INTEREST RATE RISK significantly mitigates the effect of such movements.
Also P&O Ferries has US A small proportion of the Groups movements by borrowing in the same dollar based fuel costs which naturally underlying borrowings are at fixed rates currencies as those in which the assets offset some of the Groups US of interest.
In addition, the Group uses are denominated.
interest rate swaps and other Aerial view outline of the Regent Quarter Development, Kings Cross, London, UK P&O Annual Report 2002 Operating and financial review Group financial review 25 instruments to fix the interest cost on its cash balances and undrawn committed floating rate borrowings in order to limit facilities, to provide additional liquidity the impact of increases in interest rates.
It remains the objective of the In the medium term, the Groups policy Group to put in place long term debt to is to maintain between 50 and 75% of finance its long term assets.
borrowings at a fixed rate of interest.
In the short term, the level of fixed rate FUEL HEDGING borrowings may move out of the 50 to Fuel price swaps and options were 75% range, in which case a plan is put transacted in relation to 2002, which in place to move back within this range.
hedged 60% of the Groups and its Interest rate swaps have been taken out principal joint ventures annual fuel for periods of between two and 14 years consumption.
This was undertaken in with an average life of 4.6 years at 31 accordance with the Groups and its December 2002.
790.3 million of principal joint ventures fuel hedging borrowings were at fixed rates of interest policies.
As at 31 December 2002, 51% as at 31 December 2002, either directly of their expected 2003 fuel consumption or indirectly through swap arrangements.
has been hedged by fuel price swaps This represents 59% of net borrowings, and options.
with 55% at rates fixed for more than one year.
LIQUIDITY RISK The Group is currently funded mainly through bilateral bank borrowings which Sir Bruce MacPhail are largely repayable within five years, Managing Director together with ship related finance which 6 March 2003 increases the average term of the Groups borrowings.
The Group has Aurora Australis, P&O Maritime Services Buyers meeting, P&O Ferries
