Financial review ARM continues to be profitable and cash generative despite the prolonged downturn in the semiconductor industry which resulted in a slowdown in licensing activity during the second half of 2002.
We will continue to exercise stringent management of our cost base during 2003 to enable us to mitigate the impact of lower revenues on profitability.
Results Operating expenses Total revenues for the year ended 31 December 2002 In line with our strategy of continuous innovation, our were up 3% at 150.9 million against 146.3 million investment in research and development increased in 2002 in the year ended 31 December 2001.
The effective to 48.7 million, 32% of revenues, from 38.9 million, US dollar-to-sterling rate, at $1.50 to the pound in 27% of revenues, in the previous year.
Sales and 2002 against $1.45 the previous year, had the effect marketing costs also increased, to 24.5 million, 16% of reducing total reported revenues by approximately of revenues, from 21.4 million, 15% of revenues, 5.8 million.
As a result of a reduction in legal costs, administrative expenses reduced to 21.5 million, Product revenues, which include licence fees, royalties 14% of revenues, from 22.8 million, 16% of revenues and the sale of Development Systems products, were in 2001.
132.9 million and represented 88% of the years total revenues, compared with 128.0 million and 87% Restructuring costs of 2.0 million were incurred in the in 2001.
Royalty revenues, at 26.8 million compared year as a result of a reduction in the total workforce by with 27.9 million in the previous year.
There are now approximately 12%, to 721 at year end, giving rise to 37 multi-use and six single-use licensees shipping silicon projected annual savings in employee costs of chips based on our architecture.
increased by 8% to 83.0 million in 2002, compared with 76.8 million in 2001.
Sales of Development Operating margin Systems products, however, decreased slightly from Operating margin decreased to 27% in 2002, from 31% 23.3 million in 2001 to 23.1 million in 2002. in 2001, as a result of the reduced revenues reported in the second half of 2002.
Service revenues, which include consulting services and revenues from support, maintenance and training, Interest were also slightly down in 2002 at 18.0 million, 12% The benefit of higher cash balances was offset by of total revenues, compared with 18.3 million, 13% lower interest rates in 2002, resulting in interest for the of revenues, in 2001.
Consulting revenues declined to 12 months of 4.4 million, compared with 4.5 million 4.4 million from 7.4 million in the previous year in the previous year.
as resources were reallocated from consulting projects to research and development activities.
Revenues from Earnings and taxation support, maintenance and training increased by 24% Profit before taxation was 45.5 million, 30.1% of to 13.6 million, from 10.9 million in 2001. revenues, compared with 50.6 million, 34.6% of revenues, in the previous year.
The groups taxation rate Gross margin decreased to 29% in 2002, from 31% in 2001, partly as Gross margin for 2002 improved to 91% against 88% a result of research and development tax credits which for the previous 12 months as a result of the reallocation have been available in the UK since April 2002. of resources from consulting projects to research and development activities, and decreased sales of Fully diluted earnings for the year were 3.2 pence Development Systems resulting in lower cost of a share compared with 3.4 pence for the previous year.
16 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 Balance sheet and cash flow cash resources.
In the light of the current challenging Net cash inflow of 52.1 million was generated in the trading conditions and the prospects of the Company 12 months to 31 December 2002: capital expenditure in the longer term, the board believes it is appropriate was 15.6 million and cash and short-term investments to retain enough cash to give the Company the flexibility increased by 25.8 million to 130.3 million, from to continue to invest in product development in the 104.5 million at the end of 2001. event of the industry downturn being sustained.
It does not, therefore, recommend payment of a final dividend Trade debtors decreased to 20.5 million, from for the 12 months ended 31 December 2002.
The provision for doubtful debts increased to 2.2 million from 0.8 million in 2001, which was a reflection of the number of smaller Partners which were generated by the success of our Foundry Programme.
Deferred income was 14.4 million at the end of December, compared Tim Score Chief Financial Officer with 19.4 million at the end of December 2001.
The board of directors reviews the structure of the balance sheet and of free cash generation regularly with particular reference to the potential uses of the groups Selected financial data UK GAAP 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 000 000 000 000 000 Turnover 150,922 146,274 100,730 62,120 42,268 Cost of sales 13,185 17,289 11,647 9,803 8,316 Gross profit 137,737 128,985 89,083 52,317 33,952 Total operating expenses 96,608 83,203 57,927 35,794 25,638 Group operating profit 41,129 45,782 31,156 16,523 8,314 Share of loss of associated undertaking 85 71 Total operating profit 41,129 45,782 31,071 16,523 8,243 Net gain on disposals of trade investments 314 Gain on part disposal of associated undertaking 512 Interest receivable, net 4,373 4,470 3,912 2,266 1,911 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 45,502 50,566 35,495 18,789 10,154 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 13,031 15,874 6,007 261 3,371 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 32,471 34,692 29,488 18,528 6,783 Equity minority interest 232 303 192 64 8 Profit attributable to shareholders 32,239 34,389 29,296 18,464 6,775 Dividends 4,000 Retained profit for the financial year 32,239 34,389 29,296 18,464 2,775 Capital expenditure 15,616 17,349 11,842 5,900 6,402 Cash and short-term investments 130,304 104,467 75,266 51,804 39,591 Shareholders funds 174,306 138,111 102,150 69,510 49,718 Employees at end of year number 721 722 619 443 354 The prior years figures have been restated solely as a result of the adoption of Financial Reporting Standard FRS 19, Deferred taxation see note 18.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 17 Corporate governance UK GAAP Compliance with the Combined Code The group complies, and complied throughout 2002, with the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Composition and operation of the board The board comprises six executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
The executive directors are the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Technology Officer and Executive Vice President of Marketing.
The four independent non-executive directors provide a blend of experience to enable them to bring strong independent judgement and considerable knowledge and experience to the boards deliberations.
Peter Cawdron has extensive knowledge of UK public group issues.
Doug Dunn has experience of running large companies in the semiconductor and electronics industry.
Lawrence Tesler and John Scarisbrick both have a broad understanding of the groups technology and the practices of major US-based technology companies.
The board has six regularly scheduled meetings a year with additional meetings on any pertinent issues, organised as necessary during the year.
The board is responsible for the development of business and commercial strategy, monitoring progress, the approval of major business matters, policies, operating and capital expenditure budgets, ensuring high standards of corporate governance are maintained, final approval of senior executive remuneration and succession planning for top management.
The board is also responsible for sanctioning unusual commercial arrangements such as atypical licence agreements and investments.
Before each meeting, the board is furnished with information in a form and quality appropriate for it to discharge its duties concerning the state of the business and its performance.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual report and accounts and the quarterly reports, and for ensuring that they present a balanced assessment of the groups position, lies with the board.
The board delegates the day-to-day responsibility of managing the group to its executive committee and has a number of sub-committees, details of which are set out below.
Executive committee The executive committee is responsible for the implementation of the strategy set by the board.
Among other things, this committee is responsible for approval of standard licence agreements, ensuring the groups budget and forecasts are properly prepared, ensuring targets are met, and generally managing and developing the business within the overall budget.
Variations from the budget and changes in strategy require approval from the main board of the group.
The executive committee, which meets monthly, comprises the executive directors, the directors of ARM Limited, and other senior operational personnel as appropriate.
Audit committee The audit committee has responsibility for, among other things, keeping under review the scope and results of the external audit, the review of the annual report and accounts and half-year interim report, the involvement of the external auditors in those processes, considering compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and for advising the board on the requirement to maintain an effective system of internal controls.
The current audit committee comprises Peter Cawdron Chairman, Doug Dunn and John Scarisbrick.
In addition to considering and making recommendations to the board in respect of the appointment, remuneration and resignation or dismissal of the groups auditors, the committee also keeps under review the independence and objectivity of the groups external auditors, value for money of the audit and the nature, extent and cost-effectiveness of the non-audit services provided by the auditors.
The committee has discussed with the external auditors their independence, and has received and reviewed written disclosures from the external auditors, as required by the Auditing Standards Boards Statement of Auditing Standard No.
610: Communication of matters to those charged with governance, as well as those required by the US Independence Standards Boards Standard No.
1: Independence discussions with audit committees.
In order to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity and independence could be compromised, the groups tax consulting work is only carried out by the auditors in cases where they are best suited to perform the work, for example, tax compliance and advisory work relating to the audit.
In most cases, the group has engaged another independent firm of accountants to perform tax consulting work.
The group does not normally award general consulting work to the auditors.
However, from time to time, the group will engage the auditors to perform advisory work on matters relating to human resources and royalty audits.
In these circumstances, the group will also seek professional advice from another firm of independent consultants or the groups legal advisers.
The committee meets three times a year, once to review the half-year interim results, once before the year end to discuss the annual accounts and the approach to the audit, and once before the release of the preliminary announcement of the annual results to review the previous years results and audit findings.
The external auditors, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer attend all meetings in order to ensure that all of the information required by the audit committee is available for it to operate effectively.
The representatives of the groups auditors meet with the audit committee at least once a year without any executive directors being present.
Remuneration committee A description of the composition, responsibility and operation of the remuneration committee is set out in the remuneration report on page 23.
18 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 Nominations committee The nominations committee has responsibility for proposing to the board any new appointments of both executive and non-executive directors and makes recommendations to the board on board composition and balance.
It is chaired by the Chairman, and is attended by the four independent non-executive directors, Peter Cawdron, Doug Dunn, John Scarisbrick and Lawrence Tesler.
The committee meets as required.
Internal control The board of directors has overall responsibility for ensuring that the group maintains an adequate system of risk management and internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks inherent in a fast-moving, high-technology business and can, therefore, only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
At the beginning of 2002, a risk review team was set up comprising members from different disciplines across the group.
It includes members from the board and the executive committee as well as Business Unit Managers and Functional Managers.
The team meets four times a year and reports to the board once a year.
The team is responsible for identifying and evaluating risks which may impact the groups strategic and business objectives and monitoring progress of actions designed to mitigate the risks.
In addition, there is a series of interconnected meetings that span the group from a detailed weekly meeting chaired by the Chief Operating Officer to the main board meetings of the group.
Each week a business review meeting is held, the purpose of which is to monitor and control all main business activities, sales forecasts and other matters requiring approval that have arisen within the week.
Each month an operations meeting, chaired by the Chief Operating Officer and attended by managers representing different functions across the group, is held to review key performance indicators such as revenues, orders booked, costs, product and project delivery dates and levels of defects found in products in development.
Once a quarter, the annual operational plans for the different disciplines across the group are reviewed at the operations meeting.
The outputs of the weekly business review meeting and the monthly operations meeting are reviewed by the executive committee which, in turn, raises relevant issues with the main board of the group.
These processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant business, operational, financial, compliance and other risks facing the group have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
They accord with the guidance on internal control issued in September 1999 by the Internal Control Working Party of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Given the groups relatively small size of a little over 700 employees, and the high degree of centralisation in the way the business is run, the board does not consider that it would be practicable to have its own financial internal audit function for the present.
It does, however, have an operational internal audit function that audits the groups business and product project management processes, which are documented, maintained and continuously improved, for both effectiveness and efficiency.
In addition, these processes are audited externally by independent auditors for compliance with ISO 9001:2000.
Corporate social and ethical policies While the group is accountable to its shareholders, it also endeavours to take into account the interests of all its stakeholders, including its employees, customers and suppliers, and the local communities and environments in which it operates.
The Chief Financial Officer takes responsibility for matters relating to corporate social and ethical policies and these matters are considered at board level.
A more comprehensive corporate social responsibility report is available on the groups website.
In 2003, there are plans for the groups website to include a section dedicated to corporate social, ethical and environmental issues.
The group joined the Institute of Business Ethics in 2000 and, following a process of independent verification, the group received confirmation of its admittance to the Good Corporation Network in August 2001.
This qualification assures that the group has been independently verified against a 21-point charter covering the fair treatment and protection of its employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders, the community and the environment.
Each year, the group must pass an annual assessment conducted by an independent verifier that looks at the existence and effectiveness of management practices covered by the 21-point charter.
During 2002, the group successfully retained its membership of the Good Corporation Network.
As a company whose primary business is the licensing of intellectual property, employees are highly valued and their rights and dignity are respected.
The group strives for equal opportunities for all its employees and does not tolerate any harassment of or discrimination against its staff.
The group also endeavours to be honest and fair in its relationships with its customers and suppliers and to be a good corporate citizen respecting the laws of the countries in which it operates.
Environmental policies The groups premises are composed entirely of offices since it has no manufacturing activities.
The groups staff makes use of computer-aided design tools to generate intellectual property.
This involves neither hazardous substances nor complex waste emissions.
The Ethical Investment Research Service, EIRIS, grades the group as a low impact business in environmental terms.
With the exception of Development Systems products, the majority of products sold by the group comprise microprocessor core designs that are delivered electronically to customers.
However, the group does recognise the increasing importance of environmental issues and these are discussed at board level where the Chief Financial Officer takes responsibility for these issues.
A number of initiatives in this area were started during 2001 and have continued in 2002.
The groups environmental policy is published on the groups website.
An environmental action plan is being implemented through various initiatives.
These include improving our understanding of resource consumption and waste creation so that targets can be set for improvement, ensuring existing controls continue to operate satisfactorily, and working with our suppliers to enhance environmental management along the supply chain.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 19 Corporate governance UK GAAP continued The group has continued to compile baseline data on energy use, including estimates for both international business travel and transport to, and from, work.
The data for 2002 is published in the groups corporate social responsibility report on the groups website.
The group does not encourage the provision of company cars, which number fewer than 20 in total.
Additionally, the provision of cycle sheds, showers and changing facilities at the groups UK offices facilitates greener commuting, and the extensive provision of conference telephone and video conferencing equipment offers an alternative to international travel, where appropriate.
A document output study has been established to examine paper consumption within the group and to consider how an extension of the groups electronic document management systems might reduce the need for paper documents.
In 2002, the group decided not to send traditional Christmas cards to its customers, suppliers and business associates.
Instead, the group has sent Christmas cards via electronic mail and has made donations to several charities.
The group has a rolling programme of environmental improvements to its offices which include the introduction of an aluminium can recycling scheme in the groups offices in Cambridge in 2002, the use of less  refrigerants in the air conditioning systems, and the avoidance of ozone-depleting fire suppressants in the computer centre.
Relationships with shareholders The board makes considerable efforts to establish relationships with institutional shareholders.
The group has a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders throughout the year other than during close periods.
The board also encourages communication with private investors throughout the year and part of the groups website is dedicated to providing investor relations information.
At present, around 20 analysts write research reports on the group.
The group publishes telephone numbers on its website enabling shareholders to listen to earnings presentations and audio conference calls with analysts.
All shareholders may register to receive the groups press releases via the internet, and internet links to recordings of earnings presentations and audio conference calls are available at the appropriate time on the groups website.
The board actively encourages participation at the Annual General Meeting, scheduled for 15 April 2003, which is the principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders.
A presentation will be made outlining recent developments in the business and an open question-and-answer session will follow to enable shareholders to ask questions about the business in general.
By order of the board Tim Score Company Secretary 20 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 Directors report UK GAAP The directors present their annual report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Principal activities and review of business The principal activities of the group and its subsidiaries are the licensing, marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors and systems.
The nature of the global semiconductor industry is such that most of its business is conducted overseas and, to serve its customers better, the group has sales offices around the world.
These include six offices in the US and offices in Shanghai, PR China: Tokyo, Japan: Seoul, South Korea: Taipei, Taiwan: Tel Aviv, Israel: Paris, France: and Munich, Germany.
Design offices are based in Cambridge, UK: Maidenhead, UK: Sheffield, UK: Blackburn, UK: Sophia Antipolis, France: and Austin, Texas in the US.
A review of business is set out in the Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5, the Chief Executive Officers review on pages 6 and 7, the review of operations on pages 8 to 13, and the financial review on pages 16 and 17.
Future developments The groups stated objective is to establish a new global RISC architecture standard for the embedded microprocessor market.
The directors believe that to achieve this goal it is important to expand the number and range of potential customers for its technology.
To this end, the group intends to sign further licence agreements with new customers and to establish relationships with more third-party tools and software vendors to ensure that their products will operate on the ARM architecture.
The group also plans to develop new technology to license to existing customers.
As a result of its position as an emerging standard in its industry, the group is presented with opportunities from time to time to acquire complementary technology or resources.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Dividends With the exception of the dividend paid at the time of its initial public offering in April 1998, the group has never paid nor declared any dividends on its shares in line with a number of its peer companies in the high technology sector in the US.
Although the policy will be kept under review, the directors envisage making use of the groups cash resources to make strategic investments in the future in situations where the group can broaden its product portfolio and the potential for furthering ARM core-based design wins is improved significantly.
No interim dividend was declared during the year and the directors do not recommend the payment of any final dividend for the year.
Research and development Research and development is of major importance and while the group does not undertake any pure research, it does collaborate closely with universities worldwide.
Key areas of product development for 2003 include the development of additional versions of the ARM11 core and platform, first implementations of ARMs intelligent energy management technology, additions to the PrimeXsys range of system IP platforms, research into future microprocessor architectures, multi-processing solutions and enhanced application software and development tool products.
The group incurred research and development costs of 48.7 million in 2002, compared with 38.9 million in 2001, which have been charged to the profit and loss account.
Donations The group made charitable donations of 27,939 2001: 71,027 during the year.
Priorities are given to organisations that are local to the groups offices, promote education and support the wider understanding of science, mathematics and information technology.
The group does not make any political donations.
Directors in the year The following served as directors of the group during the year ended 31 December 2002.
Sir Robin Saxby KBE Chairman Warren East Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Brooks Chief Financial Officer resigned 28 March 2002 Tim Score Chief Financial Officer appointed 1 March 2002 Tudor Brown Chief Operating Officer Peter Magowan Executive Vice President, Business Development resigned 16 August 2002 Michael Muller Chief Technology Officer Mike Inglis Executive Vice President, Marketing appointed 14 August 2002 Peter Cawdron independent non-executive Doug Dunn OBE independent non-executive John Scarisbrick independent non-executive Lawrence Tesler independent non-executive During 2002 Doug Dunn was the senior independent non-executive director.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 21 Directors report UK GAAP continued Election of directors In accordance with the groups articles of association, Peter Cawdron will retire by rotation at the groups Annual General Meeting and will seek re-election at that meeting.
See page 14 for his biography.
6.2 of the Combined Code, which requires the election of directors by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment, Mike Inglis, who was appointed during the year, will submit himself for election at the groups Annual General Meeting.
Directors shareholdings in the group The interests of the directors in the groups ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, all of which were beneficially held, are disclosed in the report of the board on remuneration on page 26.
Substantial shareholdings The directors are aware of the following substantial interests in the issued share capital of the group as at 17 February 2003: Percentage of issued ordinary share capital Capital Group Companies 16.0% Morgan Stanley Securities 6.3% Legal and General Investment Management 3.7% Fidelity Investment Management 3.6% Deutsche Asset Management 3.2% Save for the above, the group has not been notified, as at 17 February 2003, of any material interest of 3% or more or any non-material interest exceeding 10% of the issued share capital of the group.
Disabled persons The group has a strong demand for highly qualified staff and, as such, disability is not seen to be an inhibitor to employment or career development within the group.
In the event of any staff becoming disabled while with the group, their needs and abilities would be assessed and the group would, where possible, seek to offer alternative employment to them if they were no longer able to continue in their current role.
Employee involvement As the group is an intellectual property enterprise, it is vital that all levels of staff are consulted and involved in the decision-making processes of the group.
To this end, internal conferences and meetings are held regularly which involve employees from all parts of the group in discussions on future strategy and developments.
An ARM consultation forum was set up in the groups UK offices, which consists of over 400 employees, during 2002 to provide a forum for employees and management to consult and communicate on issues and ideas.
Furthermore, employee share ownership is encouraged and all staff are able to participate in one of the groups schemes to encourage share ownership.
The group has a very informal and delegated organisational structure.
It does not presently operate any collective agreements with any trades unions.
Policy on payment of creditors The groups policy is to pay suppliers within 30 days of the date of receipt of the invoice, unless terms have been specifically agreed in advance.
This policy and any specific terms agreed with suppliers are made known to the appropriate staff and to suppliers on request.
The average number of creditor days for the year ended 31 December 2002 was 19 days for the group 2001: 11 days and nil days for the Company in both years.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the groups offices in Cambridge, UK, on 15 April 2003 at 2pm.
A presentation will be made at this meeting outlining recent developments in the business.
The group will convey the results of proxy votes cast at the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders are invited to submit written questions in advance of the meeting.
Questions should be sent to the Secretary, ARM Holdings plc, 110 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge CB1 9NJ.
Following the conversion of our auditors  to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003,  resigned on 24 January 2003 and the directors appointed its successor,  LLP, as auditors to fill the casual vacancy.
A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the group will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is set out in the circular to shareholders accompanying this annual report.
By order of the board Tim Score Company Secretary 22 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 Remuneration report UK GAAP Remuneration committee The remuneration committee has responsibility for determining and agreeing with the board, within agreed terms of reference, the groups policy for the remuneration of the executive directors and the individual remuneration packages for the executive directors including basic salary and annual bonuses, the level and terms of grant of options and awards, and the terms of any performance conditions to apply to the exercise of such rights, pension rights and any compensation payments.
Where the remuneration committee considers it appropriate the committee will also make recommendations in relation to the remuneration of senior management.
The committee also liaises with the board in relation to the preparation of the boards annual report to shareholders on the groups policy on the remuneration of executive directors and in particular the directors remuneration report, as required by the Companies Act 1985 as amended, the Combined Code and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
It is chaired by Doug Dunn.
Peter Cawdron, John Scarisbrick and Lawrence Tesler are also members of this committee which meets at least twice a year.
Given their diverse experience, the four independent non-executive directors are able to offer a balanced view with respect to remuneration issues for the group.
The committee has access to professional advice from outside advisers, generally appointed by the Executive Vice President Human Resources, in the furtherance of its duties and makes use of this.
During 2002, Linklaters, Watson Wyatt,  and the Executive Vice President Human Resources have provided advice or services to the committee.
 also provided services as the groups auditors.
Linklaters provided other legal services to the group.
Watson Wyatt did not provide any other services to the group during this period.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President Human Resources will normally attend these meetings.
No director is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
Remuneration policy The remuneration committee in its deliberations on the remuneration policy for the groups directors seeks to give full consideration to the Combined Code including the provisions set out in Schedule A to that code.
The committee also monitors developments in the accounting for equity-based remuneration on an ongoing basis.
The group operates a remuneration policy for executive directors designed to ensure that it attracts and retains the management skills necessary for it to remain a leader in its field.
This policy seeks to provide rewards and incentives for the remuneration of executive directors that reflect their performance and align with the objectives of the group and comprise a mix of performance-related and  remuneration.
The committee believes that a directors total remuneration should seek to recognise his or her worth in the external market.
The nature of the groups development has meant that there has been a good deal of focus on the attainment of short-term objectives with a high level of variable remuneration.
Currently, variable remuneration consists of two fundamental elements: annual cash bonus and discretionary share options.
Both of these incentives are performance-related and as a result more than half of each executive directors remuneration is targeted to be performance linked.
Following a review of the groups variable remuneration structure, the remuneration committee concluded that, in order to align better the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders, and to ensure that these key individuals are appropriately incentivised to remain with the group, a higher proportion of executive directors remuneration should focus on longer-term objectives.
As a result, a new policy has been adopted.
The remuneration committee intends to introduce a shareholding guideline in accordance with that set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
At the heart of the new policy is a proposal to introduce a long-term incentive plan providing for the annual grant of performance shares a right to receive shares, subject to the groups performance.
The group has consulted with its major shareholders and appropriate institutional bodies such as the Association of British Insurers regarding the proposed long-term incentive plan, which is being put to shareholders for approval at this years Annual General Meeting.
It is also proposed to establish, subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, an Inland Revenue approved share incentive plan, as a new element of the groups all employee share incentive arrangements.
Details of the proposed share incentive plan and the long-term incentive plan are set out in the circular to shareholders accompanying this annual report.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 23 Remuneration report UK GAAP continued Incentive arrangements The remuneration committee aims to ensure that individuals are fairly rewarded for their contribution to the success of the group.
There is a strong bonus element to executives remuneration of up to 50% of basic pay.
The group operates an annual cash bonus scheme.
Bonuses are principally tied to the achievement of the groups financial results, with 50% bonus being awarded if all targets are met.
There are three main targets, namely sales, profit growth and forward orders generated for future periods, representing bonus opportunities of 15%, 20% and 15% of base salary respectively.
A range of possible outcomes for sales, profit and forward orders generated for future periods is agreed at the beginning of each financial year.
If the groups results exceed the minimum levels of each of the agreed targets, bonuses will be payable on a linear basis between the minimum and the maximum of the agreed range.
No bonuses are payable in respect of 2002 whilst bonuses of 32% were paid to executive directors for 2001.
A deferred bonus scheme was introduced for executive directors in 2001.
This enables executive directors to defer up to 100% of their annual bonus for a period of up to three years during which time the amount of bonus deferred is increased by 33% per annum.
It is intended to discontinue this scheme.
Existing deferrals will, however, be unaffected.
The group operates a number of share option plans and employees excluding executive directors can generally receive a number of share options according to their grade, past performance and length of service in the group.
Typically, share options are allocated to employees on an annual basis.
Discretionary options under the Approved, Unapproved and Incentive Stock Option Schemes are always issued at market value, while options issued under the Save As You Earn and Employee Stock Purchase Plans are issued at a 15% discount to market value.
In line with practice among the groups peers in the technology sector, there are currently no performance conditions attached to the issue or exercise of discretionary options except for those issued to executive directors.
Share options issued to executive directors prior to their appointment to the board of the group do not have performance conditions attached to them.
However, discretionary options issued to executive directors after their appointment to the board of the group will have performance conditions attached to them.
The executive directors do not currently receive options under the Approved Scheme and Incentive Stock Option Scheme.
Under the Unapproved Scheme, share options with a value of up to five times base salary may be issued on the executive director joining the group.
In addition, discretionary options with a value of up to two times base salary may be issued each year.
These discretionary options will vest after seven years, but may vest after three years from grant if the performance condition is satisfied.
For options granted before January 2003 the performance condition is that the group must achieve an average real EPS growth of at least 33.1% ie.
33.1% greater than the percentage increase if any in the Retail Price Index over a performance period of three years commencing from the start of the financial year in which the options are granted the performance period.
The remuneration committee, as part of its review of the groups variable remuneration structure, reviewed the performance condition for discretionary options to ensure that it remained an effective tool for attracting, motivating and retaining executives, and was in keeping with the guidelines of the Association of British Insurers.
As a result of this review, it was decided to change the performance condition from a cliff-edge to a sliding-scale target for new option grants from January 2003.
Under the performance condition, 50% of the shares under option will vest after three years if the group achieves an average real EPS growth of 9.3% over the performance period.
If an average real EPS growth of at least 33.1% is achieved over the performance period, 100% of the shares under option will vest after three years.
Where the average real EPS growth over the performance period is between 9.3% and 33.1%, the number of shares which vest after three years increases on a straight-line basis.
Although the performance targets are amongst the most demanding of those set by companies included in the FTSE 350 index, the remuneration committee considers this to be appropriate as the group is operating in the technology market which is still expected to grow significantly in the long term.
Pensions The group does not operate its own pension scheme but makes payments into a money purchase scheme operated by third-party pension providers.
The rate of group contribution is 10% of the executives basic salary 25% in the case of the Chairman subject to the Inland Revenue salary capping limits.
24 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 Service agreements Executive directors have rolling service contracts that are terminable by either party on one years notice.
The service contracts also terminate when executive directors reach age 65.
These agreements provide for each of the directors to provide services to the group on a full-time basis.
The agreements contain restrictive covenants for periods of three to six months following termination of employment relating to non-competition, non-solicitation of the groups customers, non-dealing with customers and non-solicitation of the groups suppliers and employees.
In addition, each service agreement contains an express obligation of confidentiality in respect of the groups trade secrets and confidential information and provides for the group to own any intellectual property rights created by the directors in the course of their employment.
The dates of the service contracts of each person who served as a director during the financial year are as follows: Director Date Sir Robin Saxby 31 January 1996 Warren East 29 January 2001 Tim Score 1 March 2002 Tudor Brown 3 April 1996 Michael Muller 31 January 1996 Mike Inglis 17 July 2002 Jonathan Brooks 2 February 1996 Peter Magowan 29 January 2001 Where notice is served to terminate the appointment, whether by the group or the executive director, the group in its absolute discretion shall be entitled to terminate the appointment by paying to the executive director his salary in lieu of any required period of notice.
Non-executive directors During 2002, each non-executive director received a total fee of 24,000 per annum.
This fee was arrived at by reference to fees paid by other companies of similar size and complexity, and reflected the amount of time non-executive directors were expected to devote to the groups activities during the year, which is around 10 to 15 working days a year.
The group believes that Peter Cawdron, an independent non-executive director, who currently holds more than five directorships, is able to devote the agreed amount of time to the groups activities.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is set by the board of the group and their term of appointment is three years.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in bonus or share incentive arrangements and their service does not qualify for pension purposes or other benefits.
No element of their fees is performance-related.
Performance graphs A performance graph showing the groups total shareholder return TSR together with the TSR for the FTSE Global Technology Index of 50 companies from 17 April 1998, the date when the groups shares first commenced trading on the London Stock Exchange and Nasdaq, is shown below.
The TSR is being calculated in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The TSR for the groups shares was 67% over this period compared with -30% for the FTSE Global Technology Index for the same period.
TSR on 100 of ARM shares vs FTSE Global Technology Index sterling 4,000 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 17 April 1998 31 December 1998 31 December 1999 31 December 2000 31 December 2001 31 December 2002 ARM share price since flotation FTSE Global Technology Index The directors consider the FTSE Global Technology Index to be an appropriate choice as the Index contains companies from the US, Asia and Europe, which reflects the global environment in which the group operates.
In addition, the Index includes many companies that are currently the groups customers as well as companies which utilise ARM technology in their end products.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 25 Remuneration report UK GAAP continued Directors shareholdings in the group The directors beneficial interests in the groups ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, which excludes interests under the groups share option schemes, are set out below.
In addition to the interests disclosed above, all of the executive directors together with all of the employees of the group are potential beneficiaries of both the ARM Holdings plc Employee Share Ownership Trust and the ARM Holdings plc Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust.
They are, therefore, treated as interested in all the shares held by these trusts, being 5,000,000 ordinary shares and 1,796,754 ordinary shares respectively at 31 December 2002 and 5,000,000 and 2,017,599 shares respectively at 31 December 2001.
There have been no changes in directors interests in the groups shares to the date of approval of the remuneration report.
Denotes share options issued under the groups unapproved share option scheme.
Denotes share options issued under the groups unapproved share option scheme with performance conditions attached.
Denotes share options issued under the groups unapproved share option scheme which are exercisable as follows: 25% maximum from first anniversary, 50% maximum from second anniversary, 75% maximum from third anniversary, 100% maximum on fourth anniversary.
Denotes number of share options held by T Score and M Inglis on their date of appointment.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 27 Remuneration report UK GAAP continued Share options with performance conditions attached normally vest after seven years.
If, however, the group achieves an average EPS growth of at least 33.1% greater than the percentage increase if any in the Retail Price Index over a period of three years commencing from the start of the financial year in which the options are granted, then the options will be exercisable after three years from grant.
EPS is defined as the Groups fully diluted earnings per ordinary share.
The method of calculating EPS will be adjusted if necessary so that the calculation of the EPS for each relevant financial period of the Group is broadly comparable with that for any other financial period of the Group taken for the purposes of the performance condition.
On 30 January 2003, discretionary share options were granted to the following executive directors: Warren East 914,285: Tim Score 777,142: Tudor Brown 731,428: Michael Muller 731,428: and Mike Inglis 731,428.
The exercise price is 43.75 pence.
These options vest after seven years, but may vest after three years if the following performance condition is satisfied.
Where the Group achieves an average EPS growth of at least 9.3% greater than the percentage increase if any in the Retail Prices Index over a performance period of three years commencing from the start of the financial year in which options are granted, then 50% of the shares under option will vest three years from grant.
For an average EPS growth of at least 33.1% greater than the percentage increase if any in the Retail Prices Index over the performance period, 100% of the shares under option will vest after three years from grant.
Where the average EPS growth is between 9.3% and 33.1% greater than the percentage increase if any in the Retail Prices Index over the performance period, vesting increases on a straight-line basis.
Details of options held by directors under the Groups Save As You Earn option schemes are set out below: As at As at 1 January 31 December Exercise 2002 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2002 price Earliest date Expiry Director Number Number Number Number Number of exercise date R Saxby 3,157 3,157 3.0685 01 07 04 31 12 04 W East 3,157 3,157 3.0685 01 07 04 31 12 04 T Brown 3,157 3,157 3.0685 01 07 04 31 12 04 M Inglis 3,626 3,626 1.8254 01 07 07 31 12 07 P Magowan 3,157 3,157 3.0685 01 07 04 31 12 04 Denotes number of share options held by M Inglis on the date of appointment as director.
The gains made by Peter Magowan on the exercise of share options were 58,240 2001: 1,988,400.
The share price on the date of exercise was 1.64.
Except as described above, there have been no changes in directors interests under the Groups share option schemes since the end of the 2002 financial year up to the date of approval of the remuneration report.
The Groups register of directors interests contains full details of directors shareholdings and options to subscribe.
Share prices The market value of the shares of the Group as at 31 December 2002 was 48 pence.
The closing mid-price ranged from 40.5 pence to 385.75 pence during the year.
Deferred bonus scheme Warren East elected to participate in the deferred bonus scheme in 2001 and deferred 12,680, being one-third of his bonus, for three years.
Provided Warren East remains with the Group until 31 December 2004, the bonus payable on that date will be 25,360 representing an increase of 100% plus 6% interest per annum on the deferred amount.
For J Brooks and P Magowan, salaries shown are up to their date of resignation from the board.
For J Urquhart, the comparative figure shows the salary up to the date of his resignation from the board on 12 October 2001.
All the executive directors receive family BUPA and annual travel insurance as part of their benefits in kind.
In addition, T Score has the use of a company car and R Saxby, W East, T Brown, M Muller and M Inglis receive a car allowance.
Jamie Urquhart, a former director of the Group who resigned from the board on 12 October 2001 but remained an employee of the group, took part in a group-wide redundancy programme and received redundancy payments amounting to 69,675 on leaving the group during 2002.
All the executive directors are accruing benefits under a money purchase pension scheme as a result of their services to the group, contributions for which were all paid during the year.
Doug Dunn OBE Chairman of the Remuneration Committee ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 29
