Operating and Financial Review The key drivers for the business are related to the investment in oil and gas, water and waste water and power generation facilities around the world.
Overview we recorded a loss at our Venezuelan subsidiary and two of our We were encouraged by a strong order intake at the start of Gears operations registered reduced profits.
There were also a the year and by a healthy level of project work in our forecasts.
number of operations including the UK, Spain and Korea where This was not however sustained, as an increased level of project activity was less than originally anticipated.
Higher caution towards energy and infrastructure investment in many pension costs resulting partly from the funding rate increase in of our markets became evident.
Despite this background we are the UK from April increased overheads by 1.1m.
pleased to report a robust performance illustrated by an increase in sales and profits.
Important steps were taken in developing our worldwide leadership position in all aspects of valve automation.
A Total Group sales, including a full year contribution from Jordan Malaysian manufacturing plant has been set up and has Controls and Rotork Control & Safety up to the point of commenced assembling actuators for certain less demanding disposal, increased by 8% to 133.5m.
Sales from continuing applications in the water and power markets.
This operation operations increased 2% to 122.2m.
This improvement would commenced production in December but will not reach its initial have been 7% had it not been for exchange rate fluctuations.
During the year under review it therefore added overhead cost to the Group without any Operating profit before goodwill of 27.0m represents a 7% appreciable sales contribution.
Operating profits from continuing operations increased 6% to 26.1m.
The operating profit margins of the The important IQT, a quarter turn variant of the very successful continuing operations have increased from 20.7% in 2001 to IQII actuator, will be introduced in the second half of 2003.
As in the prior year output was oriented toward the This will also incorporate Malaysian sourced components, second half with 51% of sales being in H2 2001: 53%.
although it will be assembled in the UK.
A great deal of work has been undertaken to successfully integrate The highlights included the continued strong turnaround and Jordan Controls, acquired in January development of Rotork Fluid System, our fluid power actuator 2002, into the Rotork division, which increased sales by 28% and pre-tax profits from worldwide network.
It also exceeded the targeted 10% return on sales which had been set for this operation in 2002.
In addition, both the US and Canadian operations grew strongly despite a less than encouraging economic background.
We also had good results from a number of our European and Far Eastern subsidiaries.
Against these positive results 04 Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Comprehensive Support Daldowie, Waste Water Treatment, UK Mark Neilson Rotork Sales engineer carrying out final commissioning checks on some of the IQ valve actuators installed at Daldowie near Glasgow.
Nearly 100 actuators, the majority of which are IQ have been installed by West of Scotland Water at Daldowie, providing greater Glasgow with the most up to date waste water treatment.
Bill Whiteley Chief Executive The Rotork Control & Safety business, the only remaining Geographical Turnover by Destination non-actuator related activity, was disposed of in November.
continuing operations The key drivers for the business are related to the investment in oil and gas, water and waste water and power generation facilities around the world with demand generated by new and 2001 expanded facilities, upgrades to existing facilities and 2002 replacements.
This is often linked to projects which are aimed Europe at improving the efficiency, safety and the environmental 42% Europe performance of plants.
Valve actuators are critical components 41% and their long term reliability and performance is of importance Americas to users.
They also act as an important interface between plant 34% Americas control systems and related hardware.
Rotorks reputation for 37% Rest of World quality, worldwide support and technical innovation is crucial to 24% its leadership position in its field.
The broad geographic spread Rest of World of our operations and applications means that we have a large 22% number of repeat customers around the world and no one customer accounts for more than 5% of our turnover in any year.
Extreme Environments Druzhba, Crude Oil Storage, Odessa, Ukraine Operation in the harshest of environments is essential for the crude oil storage plant at Odessa, a main oil export port for Russian oil.
The site owned by Druzhba, is operated and controlled using a Modbus network, comprising 120 Intelligent IQ actuators, with Modbus connectivity.
06 Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Operating and Financial Review The investment and restructuring exercise undertaken in Rotork Fluid System over the past two years began to pay off in 2002.
Electric Actuators reductions, but to mitigate currency swings between our input UK Operations costs and output revenues.
Progress was made in this area The majority of our UK business derives from the water which enabled us to achieve further reductions in the costs of companies.
Most suppliers were disappointed at the levels of our important IQ range of actuators.
Ongoing activities should business emanating from this sector under the AMP3 guidelines see further progress on this front in the current year.
Although general levels of business were disappointing, our UK retrofit department was busy and had a Europe successful year.
The Bath plant, which is our main electric Our European subsidiaries on the whole traded successfully.
actuator assembly plant, coped well with inconsistent order Frances results were up 42% on the prior year due to a number intake patterns and did not suffer from any of the constraints of profitable contracts.
Our Dutch subsidiary suffered a fire in which were present in 2001.
We adhere to an assembly only March and it subsequently moved to a philosophy of manufacture where we rely on high quality vendors for all of our components.
One of the main initiatives is to develop more of our components from overseas sources not only to achieve important cost Turnover by Business Segment continuing operations 2001 2002 Electric 77% Electric 77% Gears 12% Fluid system 11% Gears 11% Fluid system 12% Highest Quality Glenmore, Water Treatment Plant, Canada Twenty two IQ intelligent actuators with Foundation Fieldbus connectivity installed on the clear well plant and pump station at Glenmore water treatment plant serving Calgary, Western Canada.
Operating and Financial Review new facility nearer to its customer base in the Europoort area of but the second half saw a much improved order intake with the Rotterdam - insurance payments compensated for the resultant company ending the year with a substantial increase in orders.
loss of property and business.
The results from our important The sales of $11.4m and profits of $0.6m would have been Spanish operation were lower than anticipated due to project greater had not the PDVSA strike in Venezuela prevented deferrals in that country.
Our German subsidiary continued its shipments just prior to the year-end.
The main emphases of the long history of growth and our Italian subsidiary made progress business are to increase its international sales through the in a very competitive environment.
Rotork outlets, continue the introduction of its new modulating product line, and improve its internal operating performance.
It The Americas is our intention to invest in the expansion and updating of its Rotork Controls Inc. based in Rochester, NY, with the benefit product range.
of a strong second half, recorded an excellent result with 21% growth over the prior years impressive result.
Encouraged by The Far East and Rest of the World the success of our Californian service and support facility we The results for this region were generally good with excellent have opened a similar operation in Houston, Texas, which business levels being achieved in China and Malaysia.
will allow us to expand our business in the important Gulf Singapore, Thailand, Japan, Australia and Africa all showed Coast market.
Korea suffered from project deferrals while our manufacturing operations in India suffered from the The Canadian company had an outstanding year across its lack of oil and gas business in the country.
The West benefited from oil and gas projects while the East experienced good general The new actuator production facility in Malaysia started business levels.
operations on target in December.
Small quantities of product will be shipped in the first quarter of 2003 but it will be some After having had a successful year in 2001 our Venezuelan time before we achieve critical mass there.
Total investment in subsidiary suffered from a deteriorating situation throughout this business is in the order of 1m.
the year which culminated in the PDVSA strike at the end of the year.
This created a very difficult trading environment which, Rotork Fluid System when combined with a fall in value of the Venezuelan bolivar, Rotork Fluid System design, manufacture and market fluid resulted in the subsidiary recording a loss in the year.
Compared power valve actuators which are powered either pneumatically with the profit in 2001 this represented a reduction in profit to or hydraulically.
The investment and restructuring exercise the Group of about 1.3m.
Although there is a substantial undertaken over the past two years began to pay off in 2002. demand for our equipment in Venezuela the near term future is Sales were up 28% and profits were up over 250% and very uncertain and we have put in place measures to limit our exceeded the 10% return on sales target we set for ourselves exposure in this country until the situation improves.
This division now contributes 12% to the Groups turnover and has targets for further growth in the coming year.
In January 2002 we acquired Jordan Controls Inc. based in Milwaukee, to broaden our product range and, in The manufacturing locations at Lucca in Italy and Rochester NY particular, to provide us with a comprehensive both exceeded their budgets, with the Rochester operation range of positioning duty actuators for recovering from a loss in 2001 and first half of 2002.
The main process control applications.
The stocking and packaging centres in Leeds, Calgary, Toronto, markets for its products were California and Singapore all performed well.
A number of the subdued in the early other Rotork sales subsidiaries are gearing up their efforts in part of the year this field to broaden our marketing effort in 2003.
In addition to these, new stocking and packaging facilities are being set up in Aberdeen and Houston.
Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2002 09 Operating and Financial Review Following the rationalisation of the Italian and US product Readers who wish to have a more comprehensive view of our ranges the priority was to design an effective new range of products and services should visit our updated web site at small quarter-turn pneumatic actuators.
The CP was launched in www.
the latter part of the year and will enhance our product offering.
A gas over oil product range aimed at the gas Research and Development Rotorks growth strategy is dependent upon it continuing to be transmission pipeline market was also launched during the year, and has received initial orders.
The production capacity at the the technical leader in its industry.
Accordingly Rotork continues Lucca facility was reaching capacity and therefore a lease on a to undertake R&D to introduce innovative ranges of products much larger plant was taken on.
Following refurbishment of which it can competitively offer to its customers.
In the year this plant the business was relocated in the first quarter of under review R&D expenditure was 2.4m representing an 2003 and has enhanced our ability to take on larger and more increase of 15%.
Electric actuator R&D expenditure in 2002 was primarily focused Rotork Gears on the technological development of the IQT and the AWT By extending its range of products and its markets the main actuator ranges.
Extensive R&D will result in the new IQT range which will bring IQII features and technology to quarter turn gearbox operation at Leeds expanded both its sales and profits despite poor market conditions.
The division as a whole actuators.
This range will be launched in the third quarter of suffered from disappointing results from Gears BV in the 2003.
The AWT is a new non-hazardous area actuator Netherlands and from Valvekits.
Gears BV sales were similar to which is being built in our new Malaysian facility.
the prior year, but material and overhead costs increased.
In addition to these two ranges A new management structure has been introduced which will considerable research has co-ordinate activities much more closely with those of Leeds.
advanced the breadth Purchasing initiatives put in place in 2002 should also have a beneficial effect on margins in the current year.
Valvekits business continued to suffer from a depressed domestic market although considerable improvements in its operations were achieved.
10 Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Complete Solutions Mahkesis, Cold Lake, Alberta, Canada Installation work at Cold Lake in Alberta on the Imperial Oil Processes Ltd. Mahkesis project, one of the largest in-situ oil sands operations in the world.
There are 161 actuators comprising IQ electric actuators together with P, SP, GP, LP and rack and pinion actuators, supplied from Rotork Fluid System.
All units have been installed on valves and tested at the Rotork Calgary centre of excellence.
Rotork Calgary also designed and built the pneumatic control packages.
Operating and Financial Review Rotork has subsidiaries in more than 20 countries around the world, and over 60% of our earnings are made outside the UK.
and capability of our remote actuator control system offerings, customer and business critical success factors and translates solar powered applications, communication network interfaces them into key performance indicators and objectives for each and safety enhancements.
R&D expenditure also included the department.
work within Rotork Fluid System aimed at extending the range of pneumatic and hydraulic actuators.
An all new web-based quality performance monitoring system was developed during the year and went live on 1 January Initiatives are in place to ensure that adequate time and 2003.
This system has already proved to be a major asset with resources continue to be set aside for research into very positive feedback regarding its capability and ease of use.
groundbreaking technologies and their application to the field of valve actuation.
Taxation Rotork has subsidiary companies in more than 20 countries Rotork Control and Safety around the world, and over 60% of our earnings are made This business was sold to a subsidiary of Serck Controls Ltd. in outside the UK.
In addition, a significant amount of our November 2002.
The sale excluded Pakscan the actuator earnings come from the Americas and Canada, high tax control system, production of which had earlier in the year been jurisdictions.
The effect of this on the tax payable is explained transferred to Rotorks Bath plant.
It was considered that this in note 5 to the accounts.
The effective tax rate for the year on mission critical control and safety systems division was no profits before non deductible goodwill amortisation, was 32.3% longer core to Rotorks actuator business and would fit better in 2001: 33.0%.
a group dedicated to developing its systems capabilities.
Treasury The disposal gave Rotork a net cash inflow of 1.3m and a The Group treasury function operates as a largely centralised marginal gain on disposal.
The sale was of the trade and assets service managing cash and interest rate and foreign exchange of the business excluding the building that the Company risk across all of our businesses.
We operate a treasury policy, occupied in Luton which we anticipate disposing of during which provides a prudent approach to hedging currency 2003 at more than its carrying value.
The results for the period exposure using forward exchange contracts.
We hedge against prior to disposal for 2002 taken into the Group accounts were movements on known income streams between our companies sales and profits of 3.8m and 0.5m respectively.
and do not engage in any speculative dealings for which there is no underlying exposure.
We have natural currency hedging Quality on part of our dollar cash flows through overseas sourcing and Rotork is committed to providing its customers with products dollar income.
The most significant transactional exposures are and services which meet or exceed their expectations.
Quality with the US dollar, 33% of income streams, and the euro, 22% initiatives and achievements were prominent in the year under of income streams.
The weighted average exchange rates for review.
The main Bath plant and Rotork Controls India were in translation of Group results the vanguard of those achieving registration to the new international Management System ISO 9001:2000, which places increased emphasis on customer focus and continual improvement.
Within operations we have developed an improved, more visual means of indicating business performance The Business Score Card.
This is formulated from the Companys strategy and considers 12 Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2002 during the year for dollar and euro were: US dollar 2002 $1.52 2001: $1.43 Euro 2002 1.58 2001: 1.62 Net interest received decreased in the year as a result of the Jordan Controls acquisition in January.
Pensions As with many companies, the cost of providing a defined benefit promise to employees has increased significantly in the last few years.
The effects of increased longevity, loss of ACT relief, LPI and of course the fall in equity valuations recently, have led to us re-evaluating our present scheme offerings.
We have consequently decided not to offer membership of the defined benefit scheme to new employees from January 2003, and will introduce a new Intelligent occupational contribution based scheme in addition to the stakeholder plan that has been in place for some time.
Control Recent stock market volatility has led to a deterioration in the value of the UK schemes assets since the last annual report.
The post tax pension scheme deficit when assessed as required under FRS 17 has increased during the year from 4.1m last year to 11.6m at 31 December 2002.
This represents a relatively small proportion of Rotorks current market capitalisation.
BP Borealis North Slope, Alaska, USA Mike Joslin Rotork Service and Commissioning Engineer demonstrates the user friendliness of non-intrusive IQ actuator setting in the freezing conditions of Alaska on BP Borealis.
A total of 200 IQ actuators virtually all fitted with Rotork Gears gearboxes, together with a number of Rotork Fluid System P Range pneumatic actuators.
The IQs make use of Rotorks Pakscan two wire control and supervisory system, enabling remote monitoring and diagnostics.
Technical Innovation Glevering Mill, Flood defences, UK Ivan Nichols, Environment Agency Flood Defence Engineer, demonstrates a DC powered actuator installation at Glevering Mill.
Automatic river level management for Norfolk & Suffolk, has been provided using IQ intelligent actuators, linked to a network of sensors and controlled via a Programmable Logic Controller.
14 Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Operating and Financial Review Working capital Setting of detailed objectives, key performance indicators and Following the 7.8m acquisition of Jordan Controls, net cash targets will be an early priority during the implementation of an funds have only reduced by 1.9m during the year to 20.0m.
Cash generated from operating activities was 25.8m compared with 25.5m last year.
Of this cash inflow, 44% is spent on Improvements in recording environmental data have identified dividends and a further 35% on tax.
The value of stock held areas for development and during 2003 new systems are has reduced in the year despite our broadening product range.
planned for the reduction of waste.
External consultants have This year has also seen a reduction in component stock both in been asked to help us achieve a planned programme for absolute terms and as a proportion of total stock.
Trade debtors recycling on the basis of best practice.
In addition, our have reduced by 1.5m compared with the previous year and investment in an energy monitoring system continues to pay debtor days have decreased by five to 70 days at the year-end.
Since it was installed at the Bath assembly plant, a 41% reduction in natural gas consumption has been realised Environmental Issues since 1998.
Saving energy leads to less depletion of fossil fuels, Actively pursuing global expansion by organic growth and lower emission of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide and acquisition, Rotork is committed to caring for the environment a cleaner environment.
We will continue, where practicable, to and to ethical employment and trading practices.
The Rotork improve energy efficiency and reduce emissions of greenhouse Corporate Social Responsibility infrastructure includes a board gases in our global operations.
level CSR Committee where policy decisions are made and toplevel objectives agreed.
The Environmental and Social The 2002 review confirmed Rotorks compliance with all Responsibility Committees report to CSR Committee and are relevant regulations.
All acquisitions are subject to systematic each overseen by a board director.
due diligence and will be included in the global reporting infrastructure.
Rotork products are extensively used around the world in projects that greatly enhance or protect the environment.
We Employees also recognise and acknowledge our responsibility to minimise In dynamic and demanding markets around the world our our impact on the environment in our day to day activities and performance continues to be dependent upon the quality and global operations.
As a FTSE250 company listed in the commitment of our employees and their dedication to serving FTSE4Good Index with a medium impact rating, Rotork is our customers.
We are committed to train our people and to committed to the principles laid down for inclusion.
A Group provide support and the necessary tools to help develop our environmental policy has been developed and is included in the business and implement our strategies.
The Group also Companys 2002 Environmental Report.
Work on an recognises the importance of investing time and resources to Environmental Management System EMS modelled on developing future leaders at all levels of the organisation.
A gap analysis, identifying our compliance status against the requirements of the standard, will be managed with a view to formal registration at our Bath plant.
In addition, a feasibility study to extend the EMS to all manufacturing sites, with associated time scales, will be undertaken Bill Whiteley during 2003.
Chief Executive Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2002 15
