Finance Function Turnover The finance function continues to be proactively Group turnover rose by 5% to 529m.
UK grew by involved in all aspects of the business focusing on a modest 5%, including the effect of 1 per tonne financial control, operating performance and business hike in landll tax, where a decline in Chemical development opportunities.
Services activity partially offset the increase at Waste Services.
All operating divisions are controlled against their headline profit and cash ow budgets.
Headline profit Netherlands increased by 9%, mainly due to the full is pre-tax profit before exceptional items and goodwill year effect of prior year acquisitions but Belgium amortisation.
Management of financial resources, remained unchanged as reduced landll volumes particularly cash, working capital and capital offset growth elsewhere.
expenditure, is key to the success of the Groups strategy.
All investment decisions are rigorously Trading Results appraised.
The headline profit for the year grew by 0.2m to 45.3m from 45.1m.
UK trading profit increased Accounting Policies by 1.4m reecting a good performance in Waste The Groups accounting policies and estimation Services but an escalated loss of 4m in Chemical techniques have been reviewed, as required by FRS Services.
Trading profits in the Netherlands rose by 18 Accounting Policies, against comparable waste 0.9m but in Belgium they fell by 1.6m.
No change has been made costs were unchanged at 3.8m.
The Group incurred a non-operating exceptional loss FRS 17 Retirement Benets disclosures have been of 8.4m due to the cessation of operations at the made for the first time.
These show that based on a Pontypool hazardous waste incinerator.
Further snapshot valuation at 31 March 2002, the Groups exceptional costs may arise in the next financial year dened benefit schemes have a net pension liability and, as previously announced, the total is not of 4m reecting the recent weak performance of expected to exceed 10m.
However, at the time of the last actuarial valuation in April 2000, the schemes were Interest costs increased marginally to 18.8m in surplus by 10m.
2001: 18.6m reecting the prole of debt during the year.
Other finance charges comprise discount FRS 19 Deferred Tax has been adopted resulting in unwind on long term landll liabilities of 1.8m and an increase in the prior year tax charge of 0.4m and amortisation of bank fees of 0.5m.
Goodwill amortisation rose by 0.6m to 10.0m The Group continues to defer the expensing of costs mainly due to the full year effect of tuck-in relating to the acquisition of long term municipal acquisitions in the Netherlands completed in the waste contracts where it has reasonable certainty of past two years.
At the year end, this deferral amounted to 1.6m and related only to those contracts where the Taxation Group has gained preferred bidder status.
The average tax rate on headline profit is 32% 2001: 34%.
The underlying rates of tax in which the Accounting for the long term liabilities of landll sites Group operates are UK: 30%, Belgium: 40% and the is governed by FRS 12 Provisions and Contingencies.
The Group suffers a higher UK A real discount factor of 2% has been used to assess charge as landll void expenditure does not attract the present value of the long term liabilities on a tax credit.
landll sites, which are expected to be incurred between now and circa 2050.
The annual unwinding of this discount of 1.8m is shown in other finance charges see notes 7 and 22 to the financial statements for details.
2002 Cash Flows in other debtors and an increase in the goodwill Year end net debt reduced by 12m to 290m written off to reserves.
2001: 302m as analysed in the table below.
Treasury and Risk Management Policy 2002 2001 Change The high level of predictable inward cash ow leaves the Group well placed to service its debts.
The net Operating profit 66 65 1 debt to EBITDA ratio of 2.57 to 1 at 31 March 2002 Depreciation and may rise slightly with the Groups capital expenditure landll provisions 47 45 2 programme in the coming year but is expected to EBITDA 113 110 3 remain below 2.75 to 1.
Working capital movement 2 7 5 Interest, tax and dividends 45 44 1 The Groups treasury policy is to use financial Net capital expenditure 53 50 3 instruments with a spread of maturity dates and Acquisitions including debt 3 30 27 sources in order to reduce funding risk.
Borrowings Currency translation other 2 8 10 are drawn in the same currencies as the underlying investment to reduce cash and translation exposure Movement in borrowings 12 29 41 on exchange rate movements.
No other currency before goodwill amortisation hedging mechanisms are used.
The Group maintains a significant proportion of its debt on xed rates of Strong underlying cash generation, tight working interest in order to protect interest cover.
Where capital control, less corporate activity and favourable underlying interest rates are oating, swaps are used exchange rates are the major reasons for the to achieve the desired level of xed rates.
The reduction in the level of debt.
Earnings before tax, counterparties to these instruments are all AA rated interest, depreciation, amortisation EBITDA improved banks and the contracts last between one and four to 113m 2001: 110m.
The net debt to EBITDA years.
Details of the Groups borrowings are shown in ratio was comfortably below three times and interest note 20 to the financial statements.
cover at 3.6x, before exceptional items, remained at a satisfactory level.
During the year under review, the Group repaid part of its 300m oating rate credit facility with a syndicate Capital Expenditure and Acquisitions of banks led by ABN AMRO and Royal Bank of The Group spent 58m gross on capital expenditure Scotland.
This facility has now been reduced to a 2001: 53m.
Sales of xed assets, including 346m multicurrency revolving credit facility expiring surplus property raised 6m.
The major capital items in March 2005.
The Group also has 46m of working were the Wester Hatton landll site, power generation capital facilities with various banks.
equipment, the Fawley uidised bed plant and replacement of operating assets, eg landll cells, The $145m multicurrency private placement facility vehicles and containers.
The Group is continuing its from Prudential Insurance Company of America capital programme and had 18m of contracted PRICOA has various maturity dates and interest capital commitments at the end of the year.
During the year, 80m was drawn down in Euros for periods of between 8 and 12 years at an Three small tuck-in acquisitions at a total cost of average xed interest rate of 6.9%.
3m were also completed in the Netherlands.
The Argyll and Bute acquisition for no cash consideration The Group has been successful in bidding for resulted in the Group taking responsibility for 5m municipal contracts under the Private Finance of restoration liabilities on existing landll sites.
The borrowings of subsidiary PFI companies, created to finance the investment Following the approval of the extension to the required to service these contracts, are carved out principal landll site in Belgium, 5m was released from the Groups principal banking facilities, details from an escrow account.
This resulted in a reduction of which are shown in note 20 to the financial shanks.
Typically the Group will invest Going Concern approximately 10-20% of the capital requirement The Directors have reviewed the Groups 2002 03 from its core borrowings in the form of equity or budget and medium term plans thereafter in the light subordinated debt and the remainder, secured on the of its financial position at 31 March 2002.
The project with limited recourse to the Group, will be Directors are satisfied that the Group has sufficient provided by a financial institution.
resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going The policy on insurance cover is to secure the concern basis in preparing the Groups financial maximum amount of cover available in the market at statements.
The Group therefore carries catastrophe insurance, including pollution cover but self-insures up to a maximum aggregate level of 2m.
The current difficult insurance market conditions will result in considerably higher costs for the Groups risk management programme.
Increased mechanisation of operations, particularly at our MRFs, is an ongoing trend.
Steps are taken to reduce the environmental impacts of necessary road transport, as detailed in the annual Shanks Environmental Report.
Composting in the UK increased and a composting operation in the Netherlands was one of this years acquisitions.
2002 the environment, the community and the Group.
The Group strives to be a good corporate citizen wherever it external members, all of whom are environmental and conducts its business.
The principles and ethics guiding the technical specialists of high standing, plus two company approach have long been highlighted within the Corporate members.
It provides an independent assessment of the Environmental Policy, Annual Report and Accounts, Health Groups environmental management and performance and and Safety Annual Review, and numerous policy documents encourages further development of environmental standards.
These principles have now, for the first time, been consolidated into one summary document The thirteenth annual EAB report, charting its activities Statement of Business Principles and Corporate Ethics during 2001 has recently been published and highlights the and made available, alongside all other corporate issues which dominated its discussions.
The report, which publications, on the expanded Shanks website at is not a company publication, includes frank and impartial www.
comment on the Groups environmental management practices and performance and is widely distributed as The Statement provides a charter for all personnel giving well as being accessible via the Shanks website.
guidance on conduct involving shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, and the wider community, as well as Environmental Management expressing a continuing commitment to high standards of During the year, the Group published its own second Annual health, safety and environmental protection.
Environmental Report, including results from operations in Belgium and The Netherlands for the first time.
This report Environmental Advisory Board now more fully reects the environmental activities and The independent Environmental Advisory Board EAB impacts of all Group activities.
continues to play a valuable role in the environmental risk management programme at corporate and site levels.
The The target date of 31 March 2002 to have all appropriate EAB is chaired by Lord Cranbrook and currently comprises six operational sites certied to an externally recognised Receiving this waste by rail removes the need for around 13,000 lorry trips each year.
Five trains a week arrive at the Calvert landll site railhead under the contract with Bristol City Council and Bath & North East Somerset Council alone.
In total, each year, the Group transports around one million tonnes of waste by rail instead of road.
2002 13 the environment, the community and the Group.
continued environmental management system was met.
Non-certied New and yet more challenging safety performance targets equivalent systems continue to be implemented at other, have been set for all operating companies and these will usually smaller sites.
continue to be reported upon in the annual Group Health and Safety Review which is available on request and on-line.
Health and Safety Overall, the Groups safety performance improved during Employees 2001 02.
Total accidents fell by some three per cent, Employees are regarded as the Groups most important and more sites and operations achieved national safety quality valuable asset.
Great efforts are made to ensure that they awards than at any other time and the companys safety feel respected, well managed and able to full their management systems improved signicantly.
A commitment to equal opportunities is applied reported in a wide range of subjects including training, to all recruitment and employment practices.
As a minimum incident reporting, risk assessment and safety awareness the Group is committed to meeting the core labour rights and legislative requirements in each of the countries in Waste management is a hazardous business and in which it operates.
recent years Shanks fatal accident record was exemplary.
Indeed it had been twelve years since an employee A culture of two-way communication between employer suffered a fatal workplace accident.
However, in January and employee is promoted and Trade Unions, Works 2002, Shanks recorded two unrelated fatalities, one in the Councils and other employee groups are involved wherever UK and one in Belgium.
Investigations into these accidents appropriate.
Briengs, bulletins and other publications, are still in progress, both internally and by the safety including an award winning quarterly Group newspaper, regulators.
The Group, whilst offering assistance to the are also regularly produced to keep employees appraised bereaved, will ensure any appropriate lessons are learnt of activities and developments.
The Group is committed from the final reports.
Specialist facilities and resources are provided for visiting school parties.
Education centres, such as this one pictured right at the Shanks Materials Recycling Facility in Peterborough, employ facts and activities to provide curriculum-linked environmental information and to promote the recycling message.
2002 to the Investors in People scheme within the UK, and an publications and reports, together with a wide range of equivalent approach in international operations.
other information, is accessible via the Shanks website.
More recent developments include additional educational The Wider Community material and an investor relations section offering an e-mail There is a strong conviction that business goals are best news alert service.
achieved by acting with honesty, integrity, openness and fairness in all dealings with stakeholders.
Much effort is Since the introduction of the Landll Tax Credit Scheme, channelled into effective communications and good relations a total of some 50m has been channelled into approved with neighbours of operational sites.
A wide variety of means environmental projects, of which more than 12m came are applied, including informal discussions and meetings, from commitments made during the year under review.
newsletters and other publications, exhibitions, site visits The ShanksFirst family of Environmental Bodies EBs and, where appropriate, formal Liaison Groups.
describes much of this support, together with details of receiving EBs and individual projects, in its published All sites operate an open door policy for pre-arranged reports.
visits and, at several locations, specialist facilities and resources are provided for visiting school parties to The Group continues to participate and score well in the examine the subject of waste management and, more annual Business in the Environment BiE Index of corporate generally, the environment.
environmental engagement, which tracks how the UKs top 350 quoted companies make environmental issues an Relevant information about the Groups operations and integral part of business strategy.
Since September 2001, performance is also made available to the public.
To the Group has been included in the FTSE4Good UK Index, supplement data held on various public registers a measurement of corporate social responsibility launched maintained by regulatory agencies, a suite of corporate by the Financial Times.
The award-winning Shanks newspaper provides information about the Group to a wide external readership as well as to employees.
Shanks devised and registered the MuRFy character to help deliver the recycling message to children.
Attendees at the 5 biennial conference organised by the EAB in April 2001.
