Group performance adjusted profit before tax and compares to 30.0% in 2001.
Group sales increased by 3% to 4,545 million, and operating FRS 19 Deferred Taxation has been adopted in these accounts for profit, before exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill, the first time.
This has had the effect of increasing the underlying increased by 13% to 395 million.
tax charge by 11 million in the current year and by 12 million, an additional 3 percentage points on the tax rate, last year.
Operating profit included the benefit of the release of a 7 million provision established by British Sugar some years ago for a Accumulated tax losses in the US have been recognised this year potential fine which is no longer needed following a favourable in a deferred tax credit of 23 million.
The acquisition of Mazola judgement by the European Court of Justice.
In the light of and the improved performance of our US businesses now provides the poor performance by the meat & dairy business in George the necessary assurance that these losses will be utilised.
In Weston Foods, a xed asset impairment provision of 6 million addition, the tax charge for the year benefited from a 4 million has been made in arriving at the results of the Australian business.
credit for tax relief on the amortisation of goodwill arising on asset acquisitions in the US.
Both of these credits have been excluded On 2 July 2002, ACH completed the acquisition of Unilevers from the calculation of adjusted earnings per share.
branded corn oil and corn products business in the US, Canada and Puerto Rico.
We also acquired two ingredients businesses, the Earnings and dividends Crusha milk shake syrup business and the Wuxuan cane sugar mill Earnings increased by 79 million to 322 million and the in China.
The total acquisition spend in the year was 268 million.
weighted average number of shares in issue remained constant at 789 million.
Earnings per ordinary share increased from 30.8p Proceeds from the disposal of businesses were 34 million to 40.8p.
A more consistent measure of performance is provided which related to the completion of the sale of Nelsons of Aintree by adjusting earnings per share to exclude exceptional items, and the ACH rice processing business at Greenville, Mississippi, profits on the sale of xed assets and amortisation of goodwill both of which were accounted for last year, and 16 million for net of the tax benefit.
Adjusted earnings per share on this basis the sale of the Australian starch business in March 2002. increased by 14% from 33.8p to 38.7p.
We continued to dispose of properties that are no longer required The first interim dividend was maintained at 4.25p and a second by the group, although not at the same rate as last year, resulting interim dividend has been declared at 9.00p representing an in a reduction in the profit on disposal of fixed assets from overall increase of 12% for the year.
Dividends will cost a total of 20 million to 8 million.
Dividend cover, on an adjusted basis, is 2.9 times 2001 2.9 times.
217 million will be transferred to reserves.
Investment income fell from 66 million to 57 million this year mainly reecting lower interest rates.
Interest payable reduced from Accounting for pension costs 24 million to 22 million as a result of lower average overseas The charge for pension costs in the accounts has been calculated borrowings and the repayment of the unsecured loan stock.
in accordance with SSAP 24 based on the most recent actuarial valuations.
In the case of the groups main UK scheme, the last Profit before tax increased from 369 million to 420 million.
formal valuation was undertaken at April 1999 since when the Adjusted to exclude exceptional items, profits on the sale of market value of investments has deteriorated.
A new valuation fixed assets and the amortisation of goodwill, profit before tax was undertaken as at April 2002 but has yet to be nalised.
The increased 9% from 393 million to 430 million.
draft report indicates that the scheme remains in surplus and there would have been no change to the SSAP 24 charge were Taxation this valuation to have been adopted for the preparation of these The tax charge of 95 million included an underlying charge accounts.
However, in light of the changes in market conditions of 122 million, which is an effective tax rate of 28.4% on the since April 2002, an informal valuation was conducted as at Annual Report and Accounts 2002 31 Finance Directors report continued September 2002 by the schemes actuaries.
Although the informal increase in profit before depreciation and amortisation of goodwill September valuation revealed a further reduction in the surplus, and a lower increase in working capital, compared to last year.
there still remains a modest surplus.
If current financial market conditions prevail, the company will recommence some level Capital expenditure during the year was 186 million of which of contribution to the main UK scheme.
51 million was spent on the acquisition or retting of Primark stores and the balance was used principally to upgrade, modernise Balance sheet and expand existing manufacturing facilities.
Fixed assets increased by 228 million to 1,804 million principally due to the additional goodwill arising on acquisitions The net expenditure on acquisitions less proceeds from disposals in the year.
Net cash funds, being current asset investments amounted to 234 million.
and cash at bank less short-term borrowings and loans, were virtually level with last year at 1,050 million with the cash Treasury policy and controls generated by the group in the year being almost sufficient The groups cash and current asset investments totalled to fund an acquisition spend, net of disposals, of 234 million 1,501 million at the year end including some 942 million and capital expenditure of 186 million.
The acquisition of placed with professional investment managers who have full Mazola was nanced by a medium term US dollar oating rate discretion to act within closely monitored and agreed guidelines.
bank facility which accounts for the increase in loans falling due after one year.
The investment objective is to preserve the underlying assets, whilst achieving a satisfactory return.
The investment guidelines Working capital, including tax and dividend accruals, reduced are kept under constant review with the objective of monitoring by 34 million mainly as a result of higher tax and trade and controlling risk levels.
The guidelines require that investments accruals.
The groups net assets increased by 201 million must carry a minimum credit rating of AAand also set down to 3,066 million.
conditions relating to sovereign risk, length of maturity, exchange rate exposure and type of investment instrument.
Aggregate A currency loss of 16 million, net of tax relief, arose on the limits for each category of investment and risk exposure are set translation into sterling of the groups non-sterling net assets for each manager.
The groups UK cash balances are managed by a central treasury Return on capital employed, dened as the operating profit department operating under strictly controlled guidelines, which before exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill expressed also arranges term bank finance, as and when necessary, to as a percentage of year end capital employed, improved from finance short-term working capital requirements particularly 18.8% to 21.0% for the continuing businesses of the group.
for the sugar beet and wheat harvests.
Strong profit and margin improvements were made in primary food & agriculture, ingredients & oils and grocery.
Although Futures contracts used as hedges in commodity trading operations margins declined at Primark, the return on capital employed are tightly controlled within set limits and transactions of a improved as a full year profit was realised on the large number speculative nature are not undertaken.
of stores opened towards the end of the last financial year.
The difficulties at George Weston Foods were reected in declines Foreign currency in profit and return on capital employed.
The businesses operate mainly in their local currency and as a result the groups transaction exposure to exchange rate Cash ow movements is minimal.
significant cross-border transactions are Net cash flow from operating activities was 523 million, covered by forward purchases and sales of foreign currency, 96 million higher than last year, as a result of the strong or foreign currency options as appropriate.
32 Associated British Foods plc Return on capital employed... improved from 18.8% to 21.0% for the continuing businesses of the group.
The group does not hedge the translation effect of exchange rate movements on the profit and loss account.
Although the Mazola acquisition was financed by a five year US dollar loan, generally the group regards its interest in its overseas subsidiary undertakings as long-term investments and does not hedge the translation effect of exchange rate movements on them.
Post balance sheet events On 20 September 2002, the minority shareholdings in George Weston Foods in Australia were acquired at a cost of 58 million.
The company was subsequently delisted from the Australian Stock Exchange on 27 September 2002.
On 8 October 2002, we announced the acquisition of the food and beverage business, comprising Ovaltine and associated brands, from Novartis for 171 million.
Net tangible assets are estimated to be 45 million at completion.
Completion will follow the grant of appropriate regulatory approvals.
Financial reporting standards and accounting policies No new financial reporting standards have been issued during the year.
FRS 17 Retirement Benets, requires additional disclosures to be made this year and these have been included in the notes to the accounts.
The Accounting Standards Board is currently reviewing the date for full adoption of the standard.
FRS 19 Deferred Taxation, has been adopted in the accounts for the year ended 14 September 2002.
With the exception of the adoption of FRS 19, there have been no changes to the groups accounting policies from the previous year.
John Bason Finance Director Annual Report and Accounts 2002 33 Board of directors 13 2 4 Executive directors 1 Harold W Bailey age 66 A director since 1979, he was appointed Chairman in May 2000.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and is a director of Wittington Investments Limited.
2 George G Weston age 38 Appointed to the board on 19 April 1999, he was appointed Deputy Chairman in May 2000.
He first joined the company in 1988 as manager of the groups our milling operations in Melbourne, Australia.
He is Chief Executive of Allied Bakeries and is a director of Wittington Investments Limited.
3 Peter J Jackson age 55 A director since 1992, he was appointed Chief Executive on 1 June 1999.
He was previously Chief Executive of British Sugar plc.
4 John G Bason age 45 Appointed Finance Director in May 1999, he was previously the finance director of Bunzl plc and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
