Financial review Transactions and presentation EPS and taxation During the year the group completed the final steps in its Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and restructuring programme by disposing of the Rehabilitation exceptional items were 16.02p an increase on 2001 of 15%.
1 business on 27th March for 71m and taking a 21 2% The underlying tax charge of 62m was 29%.
A tax charge interest in AbilityOne Corporation AbilityOne the acquiring of 4m arises on the net exceptional loss, because non-tax company.
deductible goodwill is included in the Rehabilitation gain.
On 28th March ORATEC Interventions Inc. ORATEC Adjusting for the dilutive effects of the disposals of this and was acquired for 191m net.
ORATEC is engaged in the last year, and the formation of the BSN Medical joint venture application of radiofrequency energy to medical devices the increase in earnings per share before goodwill and is being integrated with the Endoscopy business.
amortisation and exceptional items rises to 19%.
Group turnover and operating profit include the results Dividend and shareholders funds of Rehabilitation up to the date of disposal as discontinued The recommended final dividend of 3.0p per share together operations.
The groups interest in AbilityOne has been with the interim dividend of 1.8p makes a total for the year accounted for under the net equity method.
The cost of the dividends will be 45m compared to of ORATEC, following acquisition, are included in ongoing earnings before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items operations.
of 148m a dividend cover of 3.3 times.
Retained profit of 68m has been taken to reserves, and shareholders funds Trading results have also been augmented by 6m of new shares issued Group sales for the full year amounted to 1,110m, for share options, 30m of acquisition goodwill on the a 3% increase reflecting the divestment referred to above.
Rehabilitation business previously written off and 9m Before this, the sales of ongoing operations grew 15% of exchange translation movements.
The net movement of which 14% was underlying sales growth, 4% from in shareholders funds was an increase of 113m.
businesses acquired this and last year and 3% of adverse currency translation.
Selling price increases accounted Investment for approximately 1% of underlying sales growth.
Capital expenditure of 85m on tangible and intangible fixed assets amounted to 8% of sales.
The principal areas Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items of investment were manufacturing capacity expansions amounted to 210m.
Of this 196m was operating profit of at all of our major sites, instrument sets and equipment, ongoing operations, 2m profit of divested operations, 25m orthopaedic implants and endoscopy and information our share of operating profit of the BSN Medical joint venture technology.
and AbilityOne, less 13m of interest costs.
As well as acquiring ORATEC, the group also acquired from The operating margin of ongoing operations before goodwill ATS its 50% interest in the Dermagraft joint arrangements amortisation and exceptional items was 18%, the same for 8m.
1 as in 2001 and was after absorbing over 2% of divestment 1 dissynergies.
The R&D investment for the ongoing businesses was 5 2% of sales and the Dermagraft programme involved further BSN Medical had a successful second trading period, revenue investment of 8m.
We continue to invest in sales 1 achieving operating margins of 12 2%, a 2% improvement, and marketing worldwide with our direct and independent from integration and rationalisation benefits, and AbilityOne sales forces now totalling 2,496 a 12% increase during started to see the benefits of integrating and rationalising the year.
Employees Exceptional items The average number of employees during the year declined Exceptional items comprise an 18m gain on the disposal 5% to 7,500 as a consequence of the restructuring of Rehabilitation, less 15m of rationalisation and acquisition programme.
The result is that sales per employee improved integration costs of which 3m was our share of rationalisation a further 9% to 148,000. costs of BSN Medical and 17m of write off of the whole of our holding of Advanced Tissues Sciences, Inc. ATS Cash flow and net debt shares following its filing for bankruptcy.
The net exceptional Operating cash flow before outgoings on rationalisation, loss was therefore 14m.
divestment and acquisition integration was 142m, a 72% conversion of pre-goodwill amortisation and exceptionals operating profit.
The proceeds of divestment of Rehabilitation and other capital receipts comprise 78m, which partly offsets the total cost of acquisitions of 206m.
12 Smith & Nephew 2002 Financial review Net cash flow and movements in net debt during the year The group trades in over 90 countries and as a were: consequence manages 270m of foreign currency transactions, by using forward foreign exchange contracts, m of which the major transaction flow is euros into dollars.
Our policy is for firm commitments to be fully covered and Operating cash flow 142 forecasts to be covered between 50% and 90% for up to Rationalisation, divestment and integration 19 one year.
It is group policy for operating units not to hold Joint venture 10 unhedged monetary assets or liabilities other than in their Interest, tax and dividends 106 functional operating currencies.
Acquisitions 206 Divestments 72 The falls in the stock market values of the last three years Issues of share capital 6 have adversely affected the funding levels of both our Net cash flow 101 major defined benefit plans.
These plans continue to be Exchange movements 68 accounted for under SSAP24 and their combined deficits Opening net debt 244 are estimated as 80m.
This is less than the combined deficits under FRS17 of 111m, which is due to the non Closing net debt 277 investment return discount rate required to be applied Closing net debt of 277m compares to group capital to liabilities under FRS17.
The SSAP 24 deficit is to be and reserves of 517m.
Interest cost of 13m was covered funded over future working lives.
17 times by operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items.
It is company policy to ensure that suppliers are paid within agreed terms.
At the year-end the companys Capital structure, treasury policy and pension funding trade creditors amounted to 3m, the equivalent of The directors have established a set of policies to manage 30 days credit.
funding, currency and interest rate risks.
The group only uses financial instruments to manage the financial risk Peter Hooley associated with underlying business activities and their Finance Director financing.
Our policy is to ensure that there are sufficient funding and facilities in place to meet foreseeable borrowing requirements.
Unused bank facilities amounted to 432m of which 199m were committed facilities.
In order to provide additional financing capability we will be requesting shareholders to increase the groups borrowing powers by adding back to capital and reserves for borrowing multiple purposes, goodwill previously set off on acquisitions.
Shareholders funds are protected by matching foreign currency assets, including acquisition goodwill, with foreign currency liabilities where practicable.
These liabilities take the form of either borrowings or currency swaps.
At the year-end group borrowings were 316m, mainly in foreign currency.
Cash and bank balances were 22m and a net 17m was receivable on currency swaps.
Gross currency swaps amounted to 563m, of which 73% were to re-denominate internal borrowings into US dollars.
Group borrowings take advantage of short-term interest rates.
We use interest rate swaps to protect borrowing costs and the differentials between borrowing and deposit rates, fixing interest rates on major exposures for the coming year by the beginning of the financial year.
The majority of interest costs and differentials have been protected through to December 2003 with some protection carrying over into 2004.
