ABBOT GROUP plc Annual Report Accounts 2002 ABBOT GROUP plc Annual Report Accounts 2002 Directors Remuneration Report Introduction at the executive level is participation in both annual and long term annual salary paid for that bonus year.
The amount of such bonus pensions and the payment of a lump sum in the event of death in service.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors incentive plans, so as to reward them for enhancing shareholder value.
will be at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee but will To the extent that a directors benefits from the Company scheme Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 which introduced new statutory The performance measurement of the executive directors and key be determined by reference to the attainment of financial targets are restricted by Inland Revenue limits, top up cash payments are made requirements for the disclosure of directors remuneration in respect members of senior management and the determination of their annual set at the beginning of that bonus year, as detailed above: to the individual.
These payments are included in the table of directors of periods ending on or after 31 December 2002.
The report also remuneration packages are undertaken by the Committee.
There are no unfunded pension promises or similar meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial The four main elements of the remuneration package for executive The executive may elect to take the whole or any part of such bonus arrangements for directors.
Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the directors and senior management are: in the form of shares in the Company Annual Award Shares Alasdair Locke does not participate in the Company pension scheme Principles of Good Governance relating to directors remuneration.
which, if the executive continues to be employed by the Group and and the Company has agreed instead to make a contribution equivalent As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve the report basic annual salary: hold the shares for a period of three years the Holding Period, of the maximum allowed per Inland Revenue limits into his private will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company at annual bonus payments: will be matched up to 1 for 1 by an award of additional shares pension scheme.
which the financial statements will be approved.
long term incentive arrangements: and at the end of the Holding Period a Matching Share Award : and The Regulations require the auditors to report to the Companys pension arrangements.
Performance Graph members on the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Proposals for the introduction of new long term incentive arrangeThe following graph shows the Companys performance, measured Report and to state whether in their opinion that part of the report Executive directors are entitled to accept appointments outside ments are being put to shareholders at the 2003 Annual General by total shareholder return, compared with the performance of the has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act the Company providing that the Chairmans permission is obtained.
Meeting, which if approved would reduce the award of additional FTSE All Share Index also measured by total shareholder return.
1985 as amended by the Regulations.
The report has therefore been The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by shares for those directors and executives included therein to 1 divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Matching Share for each 2 Annual Award Shares.
Abbot Group plc vs FTSE All Share 1998 - 2002 150 Abbot Group plc Unaudited Information Basic Annual Salary Long Term Incentive Arrangements 140 FTSE All Share An executive directors basic salary is determined by the Committee The following proposals are being put to shareholders for their 130 Remuneration Committee at the beginning of each year.
In deciding appropriate levels, the approval at the 2003 Annual General Meeting to be held in May 2003.
120 The Company has established a Remuneration Committee which is Committee considers the group as a whole and relies on objective A new long term incentive plan, known as The Abbot Group 110 constituted in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined external research which gives up-to-date information on a comparator Long-Term Incentive Plan 2003, will be introduced under which 100 Code.
The members of the Committee, who are all independent group of companies based upon, for example, market capitalisation, executive directors of the Company and a restricted number of 90 non-executive directors, are Geoffrey Philipps Chairman, John Hollis, turnover, number of employees and level of international business.
other senior executives may receive performance-related share 80 and George Watkins who was appointed on 17 December 2002 to Basic salaries were reviewed in January 2003 and increased by 2.5% awards on an annual basis L-TIP Award Shares.
The awards will 70 replace Guy Lafferty who resigned as a director on 9 December 2002. from 1 January 2003. normally take the form of nil-cost options granted by the trustee of 60 None of the Committee has any personal financial interest other than In addition to basic salary, the executive directors receive certain the Abbot Group Employees Share Trust.
The initial market value of 50 Jan 98 Jul 98 Jan 99 Jul 99 Jan 00 Jul 00 Jan 01 Jul 01 Jan 02 Jul 02 Dec 02 as shareholders, conflicts of interests arising from cross-directorships benefits-in-kind, principally a car car allowance and fuel for private the shares over which any such award is made may not in any event or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
except in the case of Alasdair Locke where the initial market value makes recommendations to the Board.
No director plays a part in may not exceed 150% of basic annual salary exceed the amount of As one of only three oil service companies currently quoted in the any discussion about his own remuneration.
Annual Bonus Payments the executives basic annual salary.
The number or proportion of UK, and with therefore no direct comparator group against which In determining the directors remuneration for the year, the The Committee establishes the common financial objectives for all such L-TIP Award Shares which vest will be determined by the to measure the Companys performance, it is considered that the most Committee consulted Alasdair Locke Executive Chairman about its directors that must be met for each year if a bonus is to be paid.
The attainment of pre-set targets relating to the performance of the appropriate index for comparison purposes is the FTSE All Share Index.
The Committee also appointed David Pett of Pinsent Curtis Committee believes that any incentive compensation awarded should Group over a fixed period of three years beginning with that in The Board believes that the under-performance of the Abbot share Biddle to provide advice on structuring the bonus and incentive be tied to the interests of the Companys shareholders and that the which the award is made.
price relative to the FTSE All Share Index during 1999, 2000 and to a elements of directors remuneration packages.
In addition Monks Partprincipal measure of those interests on an annual basis is pre-tax profits, For awards made in 2003, the Committee has determined that lesser extent 2001, resulted from the decline in profitability of Abbot nership provided relevant market survey information in respect of excluding goodwill amortisation, extraordinary and exceptional items.
the target to be set in relation to such awards will be that growth between 1998 and 1999 as a result of reduced activity due to the remuneration packages of executive directors of UK quoted companies.
Account is also taken of the relative success of the different parts of in adjusted earnings per share, adjusted to exclude such items as sharp fall in oil prices.
This led to a change in market perception of the business for which the executive directors are responsible and the goodwill amortisation, extraordinary and exceptional items, must the Companys growth prospects, occurring at a time of an Remuneration Policy extent to which the strategic objectives set by the Board are being met.
exceed growth in RPI excluding mortgage interest over such threeexuberant equity valuation in the market as a whole.
Abbots The Company has complied throughout the year with Schedule 7A of Annual bonus payments are normally awarded under the terms of year period plus at least 10%.
At this level, 25% of the L-TIP Award continuing and accelerating growth since 1999 has reversed this the Companies Act 1985 and Schedule B of the Code of Best Practice The Abbot Group Annual Share Bonus Plan formerly known as The Shares would vest.
Such shares would vest in full only if such growth trend, and the Board is confident that the Companys growth in respect of the directors remuneration.
Abbot Group 1999 Executive Incentive Plan.
is equal to or exceeds 40% plus RPI.
If such growth falls between prospects will continue for the foreseeable future.
The Companys policy is to ensure that executive remuneration those threshold target levels, the percentage of L-TIP Award Shares packages are structured to attract, motivate and retain executives of the The principal terms of the Plan are as follows: which vest will vary on a straight-line basis between 25% and 100%.
Directors Contracts calibre required, and also reflect the size, performance and complexity It is the Companys policy that executive directors should have contracts of the Groups business, the contribution of the individual job-holders, Under the Plan, executive directors and other selected senior Pension Arrangements with an indefinite term providing for a period of one years notice.
and are in line with the market place.
executives may, after the announcement of results of a bonus year, Three of the executive directors are members of the Companys final Non-executive directors contracts include notice periods of three The directors believe that an important element of remuneration be awarded a bonus of up to 75 per cent of the amount of basic salary pension scheme.
Their dependents are eligible for dependents months.
