Financial review Review of 2002 results Financial and operating The Group recorded net profit of 5.5 million on turnover of 26.0 million.
This compares to a net profit from ordinary activities of 9.3 million the previous year after excluding the profit of 8.5 million on the sale of its Russia operations.
Further excluding the net profit contribution from the disposed Russia operations 2.3 million yields a previous year direct comparison of a net profit of 7.0 million on turnover of 22.8 million.
Daily average production net to the Companys working interest was 6,203 barrels Roger Cagle, Executive Vice President, of oil per day BOPD increasing slightly over last years output of 5,964 BOPD Deputy CEO and CFO left and Robert excluding that from disposed Russia operations 2,853 BOPD.
The increase Cathery, Non-Executive Director.
in turnover primarily reflects the rebound in average crude oil prices for the year.
The average price received per barrel of crude oil sold during the year by the Company increased by approximately US$2.50 to approximately US$24.00 as compared to US$21.50 reported in 2001.
Operating profit on continuing operations increased to 10.4 million before exceptional items, from 9.5 million in 2001.
Tax on profit on ordinary activities also increased to 5.3 million from 5.1 million in 2001.
A 0.6 million exceptional write off of exploration expenditures related to the Groups decision not to extend its North Korea licence was recognised in the period.
Operating costs on continuing operations, excluding depletion and decommissioning provisions DD&A, rose to 7.4 million from 5.8 million in 2001.
On a per barrel basis, these operating costs increased to US$5.15 from approximately US$4.00 in 2001 excluding Russia, primarily reflecting the effect of pilot programme production costs in Mongolia, which are recorded to reflect nil gross margin, and the increased contribution from Tunisia.
Due primarily to current capital expenditures, including cost overruns on the appraisal well in Tunisia, the DD&A provisions on continuing operations also increased from 5.5 million approximately US$3.50 per barrel excluding Russia in 2001 to 6.0 million approximately US$4.25 per barrel in 2002.
At year end the Group was debt free with a net cash position of 51.5 million, with balances held primarily in US dollars.
Ignoring exchange rate differences primarily related to the strengthening of the pound sterling GBP against the US dollar, the balance declined 1.9 million from the prior year end.
Exchange rate differences also resulted in an unrealised currency translation loss of 14.2 million arising on retranslation of the balance sheets of overseas operations at rates ruling as of year end.
Due to the continuing programme in Vietnam where the Company will fund its working interest share plus carry its pro rata portion of the Vietnamese Governments share through further exploratory and appraisal drilling, and due to the uncertainty of project awards and thus the capital requirements of the Libya joint venture, the Board of Directors are not recommending the payment of a dividend.
Primarily as the result of the farm-out in Vietnam where its funding requirements for the four well initial exploration programme were carried, Group capital expenditures associated with fixed assets for the year decreased significantly to 15.9 million from 26.7 million in 2001.
Although successful drilling programmes were conducted in Vietnam and Mongolia, any addition to net proved and probable crude oil reserve entitlements is pending appraisal drilling and or long term production testing.
Overall net proven and probable reserves, on an entitlement basis, were reduced from 59.3 million barrels at year end 2001 to 58.1 million barrels at year end 2002.
24 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002 In July, the Trustees of the SOCO Employee Benefit Trust, established in 2001 to administer the Long Term Incentive Plan approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in May 2001, acquired on the open market 325,000 ordinary shares in the Company 0.456% at an average purchase price of 1.86.
Following this transaction, the Trust holds 2,125,000 ordinary shares representing 2.98% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Significant events In January 2002, SOCO executed a Share Exchange Agreement with the minority shareholders of SOCO Vietnam Ltd SOCO Vietnam.
Per the agreement, SOCO acquired an additional 10% of the shares of SOCO Vietnam thus increasing its interest in the majority owned subsidiary from 70% to 80%.
The consideration for the exchange was 926,124 ordinary shares of 0.20 each valuing each share at 1.893 in the share capital of SOCO, representing approximately 1.3% of the enlarged issued and outstanding share capital.
The shares were admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority on 18 February 2002.
SOCO Vietnam executed a Farm-out Agreement in February 2002 with PTT Exploration and Production Public Company Limited of Thailand PTTEP, the partially privatised upstream branch of the Thailand national oil company.
Per the agreement, PTTEP agreed to fund both its own share and SOCO Vietnams share of the cost of drilling the four initial exploration wells on Blocks 9-2 and 16-1 in the Cuu Long Basin offshore Vietnam or to spend the maximum of US$50 million, whichever was less, to earn 50% of SOCO Vietnams interest in the Blocks.
In August, SOCO Vietnam entered into an agreement with Amerada Hess Vietnam Limited Hess whereby it acquired one-half, 13.5%, of the Hess total working interest in Block 16-1 in the Cuu Long Basin offshore Vietnam see Note 27 to the accounts.
The remaining one-half interest was acquired by PTTEP Hoang Long Company Limited PTTEP-HL, an affiliate of PTTEP.
With this transaction, SOCO Vietnams participating interest in Block 16-1 rose to 28.5%.
The transaction was completed in February 2003.
The terms of the two transactions, with 1 May 2002 effective dates, resulted in Hess meeting all of its partner funding obligations through July 2002.
SOCO Vietnam and PTTEP-HL assumed the remainder of the financial obligations and all of the rights associated with the Hess interest.
Post the farm-out and acquisition of the Hess interest, SOCO Vietnam retains a 25% interest in Block 9-2 and a 28.5% interest in Block 16-1.
The additional interest in Block 16-1 was not covered by the farm-out with PTTEP.
PTTEP-HL and SOCO were responsible for funding their respective higher participating interests in the Voi Trang-1X discovery, the second well drilled on Block 16-1.
During the summer of 2002, the Groups prior independent auditing firm ceased trading in the UK.
After a rigorous review of proposals from a majority of the leading international accounting firms, the Audit Committee recommended to the full Board of Directors the appointment of Deloitte & Touche to fill the vacancy.
The Board approved the Audit Committees recommendation.
Shareholders will have an opportunity to vote on Deloitte & Touches reappointment at the upcoming Annual General Meeting.
25 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002 Financial review continued Subsequent events and 2003 outlook The Group was carried through its major capital exposure as a result of the initial exploration programme in Vietnam.
Going forward into this year, when an additional four or five exploratory or appraisal wells are to be drilled, the Group is responsible for funding its working interest as well as carrying its pro rata share of the Vietnamese Governments interest.
As a consequence, the Groups cash balance is expected to be drawn down more than in previous periods.
Rationalisation of the Groups asset portfolio is an ongoing process and may take a variety of forms.
Although at this time, no additional transaction has reached the binding stage, the Company continues to be involved in a number of substantive discussions with various companies concerning potential transactions.
Risk management Financial The Board of Directors has designated the Chief Financial Officer as the executive responsible for SOCOs risk management decisions.
Oversight is provided by the Audit Committee and ultimate approval authority is retained by the full Board.
Transactions in the oil and gas industry are predominantly in US dollars.
The Company reports financial results in GBP.
As a result, there may be significant potential for financial statements to be impacted by differences arising from movements in foreign exchange rates.
These differences may distort results achieved from actual operations.
Generally, it is the Companys policy to conduct and manage its business in US dollars.
Cash balances in Group subsidiaries are primarily held in US dollars or GBP.
Balances may be held in local currencies to meet immediate operating or administrative expenses or to comply with local currency regulations.
At times, short term hedging positions have been taken to protect the dollar value of the Groups cash balances held in currencies other than US dollars.
Although the Group is currently debt free, future capital requirements to fund operations may be partially satisfied through debt financing.
The Company will seek to minimise balance sheet impacts of such financing by negotiating borrowings in matching currencies, primarily expected to be in US dollar denominations.
Free Company funds are invested in short term, non-equity instruments, not exceeding six months forward.
Investments are generally limited to money market or fixed term deposits in major financial institutions.
Operational Conditions which have sharply elevated tensions in the Middle East and other parts of particularly the Arab world continue as of the date of this report.
The direct and indirect results have significantly impacted, and will likely continue to impact, risk management, particularly in this industry which has operations in many of the affected regions.
The costs of available insurance cover continue to rise while some types of cover cease to be available at any, or prohibitive cost.
26 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002 Notwithstanding the Companys decision to self insure for war and terrorism risk, SOCO has in place a comprehensive insurance programme that includes property and casualty as well as liability coverages.
Placed via an independent risk management brokerage group, the policies conform to industry best practice and provide substantial protection against typical industry operational risks.
However, it is neither practical nor cost effective to obtain coverage for 100% of the potential consequences of adverse circumstances.
The Company believes that an appropriate balance between exposure and coverage has been struck.
The Company has not entered into any long term marketing contracts with fixed prices.
As a consequence production is sold on spot or near term contracts, with prices fixed at the time of a crude oil lifting or on the basis of a monthly average marker price.
Oil prices may fluctuate widely during any particular reporting period.
Generally the Directors of the Company believe that investors in this sector are willing to accept commodity price risk.
It is the Companys policy not to hedge crude oil sales unless such hedging is required to mitigate financial risk associated with debt financing of its assets or to meet the Companys commitments.
Accordingly, no price hedging mechanisms were in place during the year.
Over time, during periods when the Company sees an opportunity to lock-in attractive oil prices, it may engage in limited price hedging.
Many of the Groups projects are in developing countries or countries with emerging free market systems.
There is generally a greater risk of political, economic or social instability in these environments than would be found in more established, developed economies.
Some of the Groups interests are in regions that have been identified as being potentially more susceptible to business interruptions due to subversive activity or the possible consequences thereof.
The Company has assessed such risks before beginning operations in any particular area and has deemed them commercially acceptable.
The Company does not carry political risk nor associated business interruption cover to mitigate such risks, but periodically assesses the cost and benefit of both.
Future circumstances may lead to the Company acquiring such cover.
27 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002
