26 TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 FINANCIAL REVIEW Overview Tullow recorded significant increases in turnover, profitability and cash flow during 2002, driven principally by continued strong production from the UK SNS assets and supplemented by the commencement of production from the Espoir Field, offshore Cte dIvoire.
Turnover Turnover for the year increased by 47% to 112.6 million.
The UK SNS Assets accounted for over 80% of this, contributing 81.9 million in gas sales based on production of 37.2 bcf of gas 102 mmscfd and 9.7 million of tariff income.
Contracted gas accounted for 60% of gas sales at an average price of 23.6p therm while uncontracted gas realised an average price of 20.1p therm.
Realised gas prices during 2002 were negatively impacted by a combination of relatively warm weather, most notably in the final quarter, somewhat offset by the Groups active hedging strategy.
The Espoir Field commenced production in February 2002 and accounted for turnover of 14.5 million based on an average rate of production of approximately 2,000 bopd net to Tullow during 2002.
The average price received of $26.6 barrel reflected the strong oil price environment experienced during 2002.
We look forward to further increases in Espoir turnover during 2003 as full production is attained.
Elsewhere, production continued from the Sara and Suri Fields in Pakistan at an average rate net to Tullow of 10 mmscfd 2000-12.2 mmscfd.
Production from the fields was somewhat below expectations due both to a workover programme that temporarily limited deliverability and to seasonal demand fluctuations.
Operating Profit Operating Profit Before Exploration Costs of 33.3 million 2001 - 26.3 million was slightly lower than anticipated, driven mainly by the factors outlined above, plus substantially fixed Cte dIvoire Operating Costs and Thames compressor downtime in the fourth quarter.
SNS Operating Costs, including tariff costs, totalled 28.6 million 0.79 mcf, while Depreciation, Depletion and Amortisation charges associated with the SNS Assets totalled 36.0 million 0.97 mcf.
In recent months, encouraging advances have been made following a review of decommissioning obligations by the joint venture partners, most notably in relation to Hewett and Thames, which has led to reductions in decommissioning estimates for these fields.
Cte dIvoire Operating Costs principally reflect the FPSO lease obligations, which are substantially fixed.
The current production enhancement initiative in Cte dIvoire should consequently be reflected in lower unit operating costs during 2003 as full production is achieved.
Tullow employs the successful efforts basis of accounting and under FRS 3, is also obliged to show costs associated with unsuccessful exploration or New Ventures work as an operating cost.
During 2002 these costs totalled 3.3 million 2001 - 3.9 million, net of farm-out of 0.9 million, principally reflecting the costs associated with UK and International New Ventures and the unsuccessful North Abu Rudeis well in Egypt.
Interest Charge The net interest charge for the period was 7.6 million, of which 43% represented non-cash costs associated with the amortisation of financing charges 0.7m and unwinding of discount associated with decommissioning cost estimates 2.6m.
Interest capitalised during the period amounted to 0.9 million and was principally associated with the Cte dIvoire and CMS III Development projects.
Taxation The tax charge of 9.7 million comprises 7.0 million in respect of current and deferred corporation tax and 2.7 million of current and deferred Petroleum Revenue Tax PRT on the Murdoch Assets.
TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 27 On 1st January 2002 the Group implemented FRS 19 Deferred Taxation.
Adoption of the new standard had no effect on amounts reported in the current or in previous years.
A full provision of 1.3m has been made in relation to timing differences associated with accelerated claims of capital allowances on UK SNS assets, which are expected to reverse in future periods.
FRS 19 also requires the recognition of deferred tax assets where it is more likely than not that future taxes will be materially reduced.
Tullow has therefore recognised a deferred tax asset of 0.9 million in relation to that portion of its accumulated exploration costs in Pakistan which was certified by the authorities as available to shelter future profits during 2002.
A tax charge of 2 million, reflecting tax levied on Espoir profits, has also been included.
During 2002, the Chancellor of the Exchequer imposed an additional 10% Supplementary Corporation Tax charge on taxable profits arising from Oil and Gas activities in the North Sea.
Tullows cash exposure to this supplementary tax has been mitigated by the high level of exploration and development activities undertaken during 2002, which we anticipate will continue into 2003.
Profit After Tax The profit after tax for 2002 was 12.8 million, representing a 37% increase on 2001s figure of 9.3 million.
Cash Flow During 2002, Tullow generated a total of 69.8 million in operating cash flow 2001 - 48.4 million before working capital related movements and farmouts.
This cashflow was principally reinvested in the Companys development activities, which included Espoir and CMS III 28.8 million, in making final payments to BP in connection with the SNS acquisition 12.6 million and in advancing exploration and development projects in both the UK and internationally 16.6 million.
The Group also set aside approximately 11.9 million pursuant to decommissioning funding obligations.
The outlook for 2003 is for a slightly lower level of development expenditures, reflecting the completion of both CMS III and the current phase of the Espoir Project.
However, this will be offset by a significantly higher level of exploration activity both in the UK and internationally.
At 31 December 2002 the Group had total cash balances of 45 million, of which 25.1 million was held as security for decommissioning.
Balance Sheet Tullow employs the successful efforts accounting policy in relation to oil and gas exploration and development activities.
The Group fully applies the requirements of the Statement of Recommended Practice Accounting for Oil & Gas Exploration, Development, Production and Decommissioning Activities.
Under this policy, exploration and related costs associated with projects where commerciality has not yet been determined are initially capitalised as Intangible Fixed Assets.
Additions to Intangible Fixed Assets during 2002 reflect the Groups ongoing exploration activities in the SNS, Algeria, Bangladesh, Cte dIvoire, Cameroon and Romania.
Tangible fixed assets represent the accumulated value of the Groups existing commercial production and development assets.
Reductions in tangible fixed assets during the period reflect the adoption of lower decommissioning cost estimates in respect of the Hewett and Thames Assets: these are offset by a corresponding adjustment to the provision for decommissioning costs.
28 TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 FINANCIAL REVIEW continued Debt Management Net Debt increased during 2002, as spending on new development projects reached a peak during the year.
At 31st December Tullow had a total of 80.6 million outstanding under its SNS Borrowing Base facility.
Repayments under the UK banking facility are determined bi-annually based on the net present values of the included assets.
During 2002, total repayments of c. 5 million were made under this facility while approximately 4 million has also been repaid since year-end.
Wherever possible, Tullow seeks to protect banking availability through its gas hedging strategy.
International facilities principally comprise a $15 million project finance facility covering the Espoir project and a revolving corporate facility.
The Espoir Project facility is covered by political risk insurance and, upon the satisfaction of certain production conditions will become fully non-recourse.
Financial Risk Tullows core strategy is to maximise the value of the Group through the discovery and commercial development of oil and gas reserves.
This activity may be supplemented from time to time by acquisitions, however in each case Tullow seeks to manage its exposure to resource price fluctuations.
All hedging and forward sales activity is undertaken to satisfy this objective.
It is not Group policy to maintain open-ended or speculative derivative exposures.
2002 was a year of significant resource price volatility, particularly in UK gas where prices varied from 5p therm to over 35p therm.
During 2002, approximately 60% of Tullows UK gas was sold under long-term contracts and thus substantially protected from near term price movements.
Tullow operates an active gas marketing strategy in respect of the remaining uncontracted portion of its production: this was particularly successful during 2002, resulting in an average realised price of 20.1p therm against an average spot price of approx 15.2p therm during the year.
During the fourth quarter of 2002, the gas sales contracts in relation to both the Murdoch and Boulton fields were terminated, while Tullows uncontracted gas production was also increased by the commencement of production from the CMS III project.
In recognition of this, Tullow has intensified its forward sales and hedging activities and at 31 March 2003 had approximately 80% of 2003 uncontracted gas production covered at a minimum price of c. 20p therm.
Due to the restricted production to date from the Espoir project, no hedging has been undertaken.
Upon completion of the current production enhancement initiatives it is Tullows intention to seek to protect revenues through hedging wherever possible.
Tullow has hedged approximately 50% of its total Sterling net interest exposure through a mixture of swaps, collars and interest rate caps.
T. Hickey Finance Director 9th May 2003
