Corporate governance The Group complies with the Combined Code provisions on Corporate Governance.
During the past year it has operated the procedures necessary to follow the 1999 internal control guidelines and has maintained a reporting process in accordance with them.
The Board, which currently comprises three independent non-executive Directors and five executive Directors, normally meets monthly throughout the year.
It deals with the important aspects of the Groups affairs including setting and monitoring strategy, reviewing performance, ensuring that the Group has adequate financial resources and reporting to shareholders.
It has overall responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls throughout the Group.
The Board has an Audit Committee, comprising the non-executive Directors and is chaired by Peter Macfarlane, which considers the adequacy of the Groups internal financial controls and procedures.
The Committee reviews the scope of work and the findings of the Groups external and internal auditors and commissions any additional investigations that may be needed.
The Board Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration of executive Directors.
It consists of the non-executive Directors and is chaired by Sir Frank Holroyd.
A Directors remuneration table is included in the Remuneration report, together with details of the Directors pension entitlements, long-term incentive share awards and shareholdings.
These disclosures are consistent with the latest Department of Trade and Industry regulations.
The Board also has a Nominations Committee which comprises the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
The Committee, which is chaired by Peter Macfarlane, reviews all senior appointments.
Internal controls The Combined Code states that Directors should review the effectiveness of the Groups entire system of internal controls, covering business risks associated with strategic, operational, financial and information technology matters.
Ultras internal controls are designed to meet the companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
In this context the controls can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
The key features of the internal control system that operated during the year are described below.
Control environment Ultras organisational structure has clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegated authorities, which have been reviewed by the Board during the year to ensure that they are still relevant given the current size and structure of the Group.
Ethical values and control consciousness are communicated to managers and staff via performance appraisal and development and training programmes.
All businesses are required to maintain written financial procedure manuals.
Acquisitions, major capital investments and very large bids require Board approval.
Risk management Management has a responsibility for identifying the risks facing Ultras businesses and for putting in place procedures to monitor and mitigate such risks.
Strategic risks are formally assessed by the Board during the annual strategic planning process and steps are taken following this process to ensure that all such risks are minimised throughout the year.
Operational risks are monitored as part of the Groups monthly business performance review process.
Business units are required to report on all key areas of risk, indicating situations that are not compliant with normal controls.
Remedial actions must be indicated and such situations are then monitored until a satisfactory conclusion is reached.
All significant deviations are reported to the Board by the responsible Director twice annually.
26 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Risk management continued The Board has established an Internal Audit function with responsibility to review financial and information systems control procedures throughout the Group, following a two-year cycle.
Major businesses and those judged to represent a higher risk are reviewed annually, with the remaining businesses being visited at least once every two years.
Internal Audit reports to the Chief Executive and presents its findings to the Audit Committee.
Follow-up actions to deal with any control weaknesses are reported to the Committee every six months and Internal Audit confirms that satisfactory progress has been made during its next visit to the business concerned.
Financial reporting systems The Group has a comprehensive system of financial reporting covering key performance indicators such as sales, profits and cash flow.
The annual budget and five year strategic plan for each business are approved by the executive Directors and the Board approves the Groups budget and plan.
The actual results for each business are reported monthly to the Board and variances against budget are monitored by the executive Directors.
Revised forecasts for the year are prepared each month and presented to the Board.
Effectiveness of controls The Board accepts overall responsibility for reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the Groups internal control framework on a regular basis: internal procedures are reviewed and updated where necessary.
The Board has performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report, including the work of Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
Going concern After making enquiries the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Statement of responsibilities United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those accounts the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
