Financial Review Accounting Policies Financing The Group has adopted FRS 19 this year in relation to The Group had net borrowings at 31 December 2002 deferred tax.
No adjustments arose as a result of the of 214 million net of Escrow account balances of adoption of the standard and there was no significant 1,742,000, which represents 39% of the Groups capital impact on the current or prior year reported results.
Committed facilities totalling 283 million were in place at the balance sheet date.
However, the majority Acquisitions of our facilities now have only three years to expiry and Following a period of major acquisitions, the Group plans are being made to restructure the finances of the has had a year of consolidation.
However, two small Group to reflect the strong contracted income stream it acquisitions were made in the year.
1.7 million was paid enjoys and to provide for the ever increasing needs for to buy out a minority interest in an electricity generating capital in the waste industry.
scheme and 0.8 million for a small waste operation and land adjacent to one of our landfill sites.
Exceptional Items Accounting Systems The Group incurred exceptional items of During the year, a new centralised accounting 15.4 million before tax in the year.
centre was established to take over all the 12.5 million related to impairment of assets, accounting functions of the Group, which 2.0 million related to historic accounting were previously managed by five autonomous adjustments in prior years and 0.9 million regional accounting centres.
Four of the five related to costs associated with the approach regional accounting centres have been to buy the Group.
transferred, with the remaining one due to move in May 2003.
This will enable the Group Interest to operate more efficiently, consistently and The Groups exposure to interest rate at a lower cost.
The interest on 60 million has been fixed until January 2006 Information Technology at 5.83% excluding margin, and interest on As part of the centralisation of the accounting 110 million is subject to a maximum rate system, the Group has standardised all its of 6.5% and a minimum rate of 5.44% accounting systems, including weighbridge both excluding margin.
During the year, and purchasing systems.
The Groups the minimum rate was changed to a floating information technology network has been rate until January 2003, in exchange for an improved to meet the everincreasing extension to the fixed rate instrument until needs of wide area communication.
This instrument will developments will, as well as improving the be used to protect the interest cost on accounting function, deliver benefits to our long-term projects being contemplated customers.
Foreign Currency The Group has minimal exposure to foreign Hugh Etheridge currencies.
Finance Director England recycles 12% of its 28 March 2003 municipal waste stream, and Taxation deals with 9% of it through During the year, the Group was successful thermal treatment in obtaining the Inland Revenues agreement technologies including on a number of open tax issues relating to incineration.
This has given rise to a release of contrast to the waste 8.7 million of the prior years corporation tax provision partly offset by a prior year management methods of charge to the deferred tax provision of most of the UKs European 4.0 million.
For example, Switzerland recycles or composts 45%, incinerates 48% and landfills just 7%.
Government Strategy Unit study, Waste Not, Want Not, 2002 Waste Recycling Group plc - Annual Report 2002 11
