Operating and Financial Review William Hill cashiers are always on hand to give help and advice Interactive betting, comprising profitable The business, its objectives William Hill is a market and fast growing online sportsbook and strategy www.
co. uk and online casino leader in all major betting The Group delivers its betting products to www.
customers through three principal channels: channels in the UK with The Group accepted its first bet on the Internet in 1998 and since then its LBOs comprising a nationwide network of an established sportsbook and casino have experienced 1,579 outlets, making William Hill the second significant growth in the UK and largest operator of LBOs in the UK.
The LBO international presence internationally, attracting customers from estate is of high quality reflecting sustained over 150 countries.
As at 31 December 2002, investment and approximately 45% of units through its interactive the sportsbook had over 425,000 registered are located in London and the South-East.
The scale of the LBO network gives William including over 130,000 active customers Hill a significant competitive advantage in 1 January 2002 100,000, and the casino terms of brand recognition and allows central had over 180,000 registered accounts costs to be spread across a large estate.
1 January 2002 110,000, including over Telephone betting, in which the directors 43,000 active customers 1 January 2002 believe William Hill is the UK market 35,000. leader with an estimated market share of approximately 40% by turnover.
The Group has approximately 640 telephone bet capture positions at call centres in Leeds and Sheffield.
As at 31 December 2002, the business had approximately 453,000 registered customers 1 January 2002 400,000 and over 164,000 active customers 1 January 2002 150,000.
6 The Group continues to pursue a strategy GPT, duty, levy, VAT and other costs of sales The continuing successful development of the aimed at delivering sustainable earnings excluding pay-outs to customers reduced 19% online casino has also resulted in increased growth and value for shareholders.
The key to 111.7m and includes gross profit tax paid payments to Cryptologic notwithstanding a elements of this strategy are to: to Customs & Excise, levies paid to the horse reduction in the percentage of gross win paid racing and greyhound racing industries, VAT as a royalty with effect from July 2001.
Continue to enhance traditional earnings incurred in respect of AWPs, and various Gross profit, representing gross win less GPT, and maximise organic growth opportunities: royalty payments to suppliers of FOBTs and duty, levy, VAT and other costs of sales, to Cryptologic, a provider of certain services Profitably exploit new platforms: amounted to 416m, a 14% increase over the in respect of the online casino.
Capitalise on opportunities from regulatory, The total amount of gross profit tax paid was fiscal and technological change: and Net operating expenses before exceptional substantially lower than the amount of duty items increased to 277m, an increase of 7% Selectively pursue value-enhancing and gross profit tax paid in the corresponding over the corresponding period.
period due to the introduction of the new gross half these costs relate to staff costs that profit tax regime in October 2001 with increased 11% primarily due to the additional The directors believe that the Group has made significant savings in relation to the LBOs being employees recruited as a result of increased good progress since flotation in pursuing its only partially offset by additional costs in the bet volumes following the introduction of the stated strategy.
telephone and online sportsbook businesses.
new gross profit tax regime and to cope with extended trading hours in the estate, and an The cost of the levy paid to the horse racing Performance in the period inflation related pay award.
Other material industry increased following the introduction of The directors consider that the key metric costs include property costs that increased the 41st Levy Scheme with effect from 1 April for business activity is gross win rather than 5%: depreciation that increased 1%: 2002 that moved the basis of calculation to turnover as this figure reflects the amount communications costs that increased 13% due 10% of gross win derived from bets on UK and won from customers.
The Groups gross win to the agreement between the betting industry overseas horse racing.
was 527.7m, representing an increase and racecourses on a new contract for the rights of 5% over the corresponding period.
The cost of VAT payments in respect of AWPs to screen pictures and receive audio: advertising has remained relatively unchanged from the and sponsorship that increased 21% including Growth in gross win reflected a number of corresponding period as there has been no an amount allocated across all three channels in factors including the effect on customers material change in the number of machines in relation to the promotion of business on the betting behaviour of changes to the betting the estate.
The introduction of FOBTs into the World Cup 2002: and an increase in AWP and duty regime made in October 2001, sporting estate since mid-2002 and the rapid roll-out of FOBT rentals of 21% as the number of results, the occurrence of the football World terminals has resulted in additional gross profit terminals increased through the second half Cup 2002, and the inclusion of 53 weeks tax and royalties payable to Customs & Excise of the year.
and suppliers, respectively, in respect of this new product offering.
7 Associate income represents the Groups The directors are seeking to build an Dynamics of the business 19% share of the profits of its associate increasingly profitable business by exploiting The strengths of the business today are no company, SIS.
these strengths and, at the same time, carefully different to those outlined by the directors managing the risks to the operation.
Such risks in the flotation prospectus and include the Net interest payable before exceptional items include: the potential impact of legislative following: fell to 60.6m, a decrease of 31% on the changes both in the UK and overseas on the corresponding period, as a result of the A market leader in all major betting Groups ability to accept bets: the potential re-financing of the Group on flotation that channels in the UK with an established impact of changes to the UK fiscal environment: led to a reduction in net indebtedness and international presence: the ability of the Group to manage its secured cheaper debt financing.
bookmaking risk: the relationship with key A long established and widely recognised suppliers most notably the horse and Tax on profit on ordinary activities relates brand, with a strong reputation for quality: greyhound racing industries: the potential primarily to the current year and as the threat represented by competitors based in the Group earns its profits principally in the UK is An extensive and high quality estate of UK and overseas: the risk that key technology calculated at 30% of taxable profits being the betting shops, which benefits from or information systems could fail: the impact current standard rate of UK corporation tax.
significant past investment and ongoing of the weather or other factors on the sporting refurbishment and improvement: The Group declared an interim dividend of 2.9 programme: the risk of loss of key personnel: pence per share and the directors propose a An effective risk management system the risk of a prolonged economic downturn final dividend of 5.8 pence per share resulting and significant bookmaking experience: or other geo-political events that may result in a total dividend of 8.7 pence per share.
This in a reduction in betting activity: the risk that A focus on sustainable and profitable equates to a 3.9% yield on the issue price of intermediaries such as banks refuse to accept growth and tight management of costs: 2.25 per share at flotation.
No dividends were credit and debit card transactions connected paid in respect of the corresponding period.
Strong cash flow generation: with gambling: and the risk resulting from any inability of the Group to service its Exceptional items relate to costs incurred in A track record of innovation and debt obligations.
respect of the flotation and re-financing of profitably exploiting regulatory, the Group and are explained in more detail fiscal and technological change: and in note 3 to the financial statements.
8 The Board routinely monitors all the above risks The amortisation profile and covenants Capital structure and treasury and ensures that appropriate actions are taken attaching to the new bank facilities have In June 2002, the Company floated on the to mitigate the risks or their potential adverse been determined with regard to the Groups London Stock Exchange and took the consequences.
The Chief Executives Review anticipated trading performance in the coming opportunity to raise gross proceeds of 340m.
further expands on a number of issues that fall years and its capacity to service its debt The issue of shares was made to institutional into the above description of risk factors.
Furthermore, the Group has and other professional investors in the UK and entered into a series of amortising interest elsewhere, to employees and to retail investors rate swaps to fix the interest rate payable on a Investment through intermediaries.
At the same time the substantial proportion of its floating rate debt.
Company arranged new bank facilities The Group spent a net 20.4m 53 weeks ended The amortising nature of the swaps results in amounting to 660m comprising a five year 1 January, 2002 28m on capital investment approximately 75% of interest costs on the term loan of 210m and a revolving credit in the period.
The Group invests substantial projected outstanding debt being hedged over facility of 450m available until 28 May 2007. amounts each year in the development of its the next 12 months reducing to 35% by 2006.
The new bank facilities are denominated in estate to open new shops and to extend, re-site The directors periodically review the borrowing sterling as the Groups operations are largely and refurbish existing units.
Such investments and hedging arrangements to ensure that they based in the UK.
are evaluated against strict criteria including a remain appropriate to the needs of the Group return on investment target of between 10% The Group used the proceeds of the flotation, and take account of changes in market and 20%, depending on the type of project.
draw down under the new bank facility and conditions.
cash resources to repay its existing borrowings The telephone channel has received recent including the previous bank loans, the investment with the opening of a new 270 unsecured loan notes 2009, and the majority capacity 400 seat call centre in Sheffield in of its high yield bonds, as described in the January 2002 in anticipation of the closure of a financial statements.
The Group is obliged under The above text has been prepared with reference to the facility in Athlone, Ireland in April 2002. the terms of its new bank facility to redeem the guidance issued by the Accounting Standards Board in Further investment has also been made in outstanding high yield bonds in April 2003.
January 2003 entitled Operating and Financial Review.
developing the online sportsbook and casino These transactions were undertaken principally offering to allow customers to bet in up to to establish an appropriate capital structure for 8 languages and to improve the speed and the next phase of the Groups development and usability of the sites.
to enhance its strategic flexibility.
The directors The Group normally seeks a return of 15% believe that a number of recent developments on its capital investments.
in the UK gambling market could result in increased opportunities, in particular in relation to consolidation amongst LBO operators and, Dividends in due course, across gambling platforms.
The Company expects its interim and final Following the flotation, William Hill is able dividends to represent approximately one third to use listed shares for acquisitions and has and two thirds of the total annual dividend, access to cheaper sources of debt financing.
