18 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Operating and financial review Another record year Wolseley is committed to providing long-term value for its shareholders by pursuing a strategy of competing internationally in the plumbing, heating and building materials markets.
Wolseley pursues this strategy by fostering organic growth in existing territories by opening new branches and distribution centres, broadening the product range, developing enhanced IT systems, promoting e-business programmes and expanding through selective acquisitions.
19 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Wolseley plc is the holding company, Organisation structure Competitive position based in Theale, England, of an international The group is organised into three Wolseley is the worlds largest specialist group of companies.
It is listed on the business segments: trade distributor of heating and plumbing London Stock Exchange and is a constituent products with operations in 12 countries.
European Distribution of the FTSE 100 Index.
It has American It is the market leading distributor of Depository Receipts ADRs listed on the North American Plumbing and plumbing and heating products and New York Stock Exchange.
Heating Distribution building materials in the USA.
It has market leading positions in the plumbing and US Building Materials Distribution Group activities heating business in the UK, France, Austria The Wolseley group is focussed on the The performance of each of these three and Luxembourg.
It is the number two distribution of plumbing and heating divisions during the last financial year is distributor of plumbing and heating products and building materials to the reviewed on pages 20 to 23. products in Canada.
It has interests in construction sector, industry and government plumbing and heating distribution in in Europe and North America.
The primary Dynamics of the business Ireland, Italy, Denmark, The Netherlands, customer base is shown below: The principal business drivers relating Hungary and the Czech Republic.
to each of the three business segments are shown below: Strategy Customer mix Aspects of the groups strategy are discussed in the Group Chief Executives Business drivers % of group sales review on pages 4 to 15.
100 12% 10% 6 90 1 7% 80 49% 70 60 45% 3% 50 5 2 90% 16% 40 3 4 30 1 Plumbing installers 35% 20 32% 36% 2 Utilities 6% 10 3 HVAC 7% 0 4 Industrial 6% Euro Dist NA P&H US Bldg Mat 5 Mechanical contractors 16% 6 Building contractors 30% New residential RMI Industrial housing Industrial and RMI Residential commercial 20 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Operating and financial review continued REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Financial targets The groups overall financial objective is to increase shareholder value by achieving, European Distribution on average, double digit growth in sales, profits and earnings per share each year whilst The division produced 31.6% 2001: producing a return on gross capital comfortably in excess of the weighted average 33.0% of the groups turnover and 36.9% cost of capital.
The groups recent growth and return on capital over the last five years 2001: 38.2% of the groups trading profit.
is set out below: Sales for the division increased by 6.2% Group 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 from 2,371.4 million to 2,517.5 million Growth in sales 10.7% 12.4% 16.3% 15.7% 3.4% including an organic increase of 2.7%, driven by strong growth in the UK Growth in trading profit 12.0% 7.4% 21.1% 14.9% 4.9% businesses and an incremental contribution Growth in earnings per share 15.1% 13.5% 9.7% 16.5% 5.2% of 69.9 million from acquisitions, mainly Return on gross capital employed 16.7% 16.5% 16.9% 17.0% 17.5% in the UK.
Trading profits increased by 8.3% from 158.2 million to 171.4 The growth in earnings per share is shown before exceptional items and million.
The divisional net margin increased goodwill amortisation.
Trading profit is dened as operating profit before exceptional items and The UK was the strongest market in which goodwill amortisation.
the group operated during the financial year.
The principal driver was the RMI Return on gross capital employed is as defined in note 2 on page 78. repairs, maintenance and improvement market which was buoyed by strong Key performance indicators consumer demand against the background The key performance indicators for each of the three business segments are set out below: of lower interest rates, low unemployment and house price inflation.
Conversely, the 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 groups Continental European markets were generally flat.
European Distribution Sales growth 6.2% 8.0% 12.5% 18.9% 1.7% UK including Ireland Net margin percentage 6.8% 6.7% 6.6% 5.6% 6.6% Wolseley Centers took full advantage of Return on gross capital employed 17.6% 17.4% 17.4% 16.2% 18.8% a strong UK market and increased sales by 8.7% to 1.7 billion, including an organic increase of 4.5%.
Trading profit was 11.3% North American Plumbing and Heating Distribution higher at 128.7 million.
Each of the four trading divisions increased its gross margin Sales growth 19.7% 17.6% 19.1% 12.8% 8.0% percentages compared to the prior year.
Net margin percentage 5.6% 5.2% 5.3% 5.3% 4.6% The overall net margin percentage was Return on gross capital employed 18.0% 17.4% 18.5% 20.6% 19.5% up from 7.6% to 7.8% of sales, despite increased costs relating to the move into US Building Materials Distribution two new distribution centres.
Sales growth 5.0% 29.9% 31.2% 29.5% 8.4% Net margin percentage 4.9% 5.5% 6.3% 6.2% 5.9% Return on gross capital employed 12.6% 13.8% 16.4% 17.2% 16.6% 21 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 The UK lightside division opened an its distribution network.
Although the The market for CFM in Luxembourg was additional 51 branches to further increase introduction of the 35 hour week in adversely affected by increased competition market share and better service customer France has impaired productivity, such from German companies seeking business needs.
Organic growth in lightside was just infrastructure changes will result in elsewhere to escape their own depressed under 7% and the net margin percentage synergies and cost savings in future years.
However, CFM produced sales was unchanged on the prior year.
Heavyside Brossettes net margin percentage was growth of just over 2% and an increase in focussed on margin enhancement and down on the previous year.
trading profit of nearly 20%, assisted by cost containment.
It also benefited from certain one-off credits.
acquisitions, adding to its timber product Rest of Europe offering.
The net margin percentage in Despite one of the worst construction Wasco in The Netherlands, which was heavyside has risen substantially over the markets in the last decade, OAG in Austria acquired in early July 2002, produced a last four years, due to improved purchasing achieved a 5% increase in sales and an result in line with expectations for the first flowing from increased scale, operational improvement in trading profit of 29%.
The months trading within the group.
efficiency and a more favourable product new management team has increased the mix.
The margin is now close to 8% of focus on cost savings, product expansion North American Plumbing and sales.
Demand was weakest in the Industrial and margin enhancement.
The resulting net Heating Distribution and Commercial division, although the margin percentage was ahead of last year.
The division produced 45.1% 2001: market trends improved in the second half OAGs subsidiaries in the Czech Republic 41.7% of the groups turnover and 43.3% and trading profit was up on the previous and Hungary now account for nearly 14% 2001: 37.5% of the groups trading profit.
The warmer weather did not help of OAG group sales.
Particularly good the spares division, where sales demand is progress was made in Hungary where both Sales for the division increased by 19.7% higher in colder periods and trading profits sales and profitability increased whereas from 3,000.5 million to 3,592.4 million.
ended marginally down on last year.
conditions in the Czech Republic were Acquisitions generated 629.9 million of more difficult.
After taking into account France the effect of closed locations, principally the Whilst the trends were better in the second Manzardo, in Italy, focussed on expansion duplicated Westburne locations in the USA half, Brossette reported lower sales and of its branch network and other organic and adjusting for a small amount of price profits than in the previous year, despite growth in the absence of suitably priced deflation, organic sales volumes in the USA achieving a higher gross profit percentage.
acquisitions to increase critical mass more were flat, year-on-year, in a market that There were a number of factors which quickly.
At 31 July 2002, the branch declined by an estimated 5%.
This adversely affected Brossettes performance.
network comprised 17 locations, including demonstrates a clear market The heating market, which traditionally 11 express stores, which have been outperformance.
accounts for approximately 40% of developed using the tried and tested French Brossettes product range, was weak business model.
Manzardo now operates in Trading profit for the division increased by throughout the year reflecting a move away more than double the number of locations 45.2 million 29.1% from 155.5 million from gas and oil fuelled boilers to electricity.
than at the time of acquisition.
The incremental Brossette outperformed in a period of increased by 6% but trading profits contribution from acquisitions made in overall market decline and has expanded expanded at a lower rate due to the costs 2001 and 2002 was 31.3 million.
The its product offering to include electrical associated with new branch openings.
contribution from Westburne, which was heating products.
It is also in the process of centralising certain functions and refining 22 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Operating and financial review continued purchased in July 2001, exceeded average working capital to sales ratio Sales for the division increased by 5.0% expectations.
The net margin percentage of showed a good improvement on last year.
the division improved from 5.2% to 5.6% A more selective approach to acquisitions of sales, reflecting continued benets of The integration of Westburnes US business in this division resulted in fewer transactions scale and operational efficiency from and Familian Northwest into Ferguson is than recent years but acquisitions still distribution centres in the USA, increased on schedule and will bring synergies and contributed the majority of the increase labour productivity and the contribution additional opportunities for sales and profit in sales.
from the higher margin Canadian business.
growth over the coming years.
In particular, an increase in Westburnes US net margin Sales volumes were marginally up on the USA percentage, which is currently around prior year.
Average lumber prices were Trading patterns in the USA remained 3.5%, of at least 150 basis points should virtually unchanged, although they remain mixed throughout the year, both by be achievable.
at levels significantly below historical norms business segment and geography.
The due to excess global supply of the Industrial and Commercial sector has not Canada commodity.
As at 31 July 2002 the price yet shown any signs of recovery, whereas The market in Canada held up better than for framing lumber was $309 per thousand activity levels relating to housing, the USA throughout the financial year.
board feet, compared to $324 at the remodelling and infrastructure spending Sales for the month of July were a record same time last year.
were satisfactory despite uncertainty as to for Westburne in Canada, boosted by the general direction of the US economy.
strong sales of HVAC equipment in Whilst the overall housing market remained a prolonged spell of hot weather.
The resilient throughout the financial year at US plumbing, under the overall guidance of Canadian management concluded that around 1.6 million starts, there were the Ferguson management team, produced more favourable brand recognition would pockets of weakness.
Regional markets an excellent result with sales increasing be achieved in the marketplace if the in Denver, Detroit, Atlanta, Austin and Salt by 9.6% and trading profit by 13.5%.
name Westburne ceased to be used.
Lake City were all down on the prior year, Acquisitions accounted for 320.9 million The Canadian business, now trading whilst Los Angeles, Raleigh and Tampa of incremental sales and 12.8 million as Wolseley Canada, increased its net showed good gains.
Competitive tensions, of additional profits.
Wolseley Canada exhibits many particularly in the weaker markets, created 6.7 million were incurred, relating to the of the characteristics of other strong pressure on margins and the overall gross integration of Westburne and Clayton into businesses within the Wolseley group, margin percentage nished below the prior Ferguson.
One-off profits of 3.3 million on including tight cost control and a positive year.
Some of the weaker markets have property disposals were realised.
The net approach to achieving growth through recently shown more encouraging signs.
margin percentage for US plumbing was a combination of organic expansion and slightly higher, primarily due to an increase bolt-on acquisitions.
Action was taken early in the financial year in the gross profit percentage arising from to reduce headcount and other costs which further benets of the distribution centre US Building Materials Distribution helped to mitigate the effect of the gross network.
Cash flow from US plumbing The division produced 23.3% 2001: margin erosion.
This improved the trend in operations signicantly improved on the 24.6% of the groups turnover and 19.8% the net margin percentage in the second prior year as inventory reductions were 2001: 23.4% of the groups trading profit.
half although trading profit nished achieved from the increased throughput at marginally down for the full year.
Accordingly, the 23 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 The process of harmonising the various receivable on construction loan lending calendar year but prospects for the housing different trading names within the division amounted to 9.1 million compared to market, remodelling and infrastructure to Stock Building Supply STOCK is well 6.7 million in the prior year.
STOCK will spending are currently more encouraging.
in hand and is expected to be fully continue to adopt a cautious approach with The mixed regional variations are likely to completed by the end of the calendar year.
the loan portfolio which turned 1.63 times continue since local economies in the USA Implementation of the Nx Trend computer compared to 1.47 times in the prior year.
are driven by different influencing factors.
system has now been achieved in 51% of The diversity and market positioning of locations and all existing locations should STOCK and Ferguson are working together the groups US businesses will enable them be converted by July 2003.
These to achieve synergies in administration and to continue to outperform overall improvements to the support systems and operations.
In addition, the two Wolseley market trends.
the stronger brand identity are expected US companies are collaborating on to deliver increasing benets to further marketing a collectively wider range The outlook for Wolseley in Canada is enhance STOCKs position as the number of products to major housebuilders.
positive, although, once again, regional one distributor of building materials to the The Whole House Project is underway variations are likely.
professional contractor in the USA.
STOCK with the first pilot being launched in now operates in 24 states and continues Tampa, Florida.
The group should continue to benefit over to expand its value added capability in the next financial year from the additional response to customer demand.
Value added organic growth opportunities created by products achieve higher margins than GROUP OUTLOOK recent acquisitions, and from cost savings framing lumber and enjoy more stable and synergies relating to the integration of pricing characteristics.
They account for The outlook for the group remains positive business units.
The clear strategic focus 47% of the product range 2001: 43%.
in the UK where the RMI market is of the group, together with the increasing expected to maintain its good momentum scale and market strength of its businesses, STOCK produced a significant improvement and higher levels of public sector spending should enable further progress to be in its operating cash flow through should create further opportunities achieved over the coming year.
The a reduction in inventory levels and a for growth.
increasing diversity in the product range partnership programme with suppliers and the customer base of group companies, to extend payment terms.
Suppliers Prospects in Continental Europe are less coupled with the ability to cut costs where increasingly recognise the benefits of favourable and little change is expected necessary, will continue to stand the group dealing with the centralised purchasing from the flat markets seen by the group in good stead in these challenging times.
over the last financial year.
In view of the weakness in certain regional The key to activity levels in the USA lies in GROUP PERFORMANCE markets, STOCK has reduced the level of consumer and business confidence holding construction loan lending and increased the up.
The market conditions which our US Overall results percentage of loans on pre-sold as opposed companies are currently experiencing create The trading results for the year ended to speculative homes.
Construction loan opportunities for further profitable growth.
31 July 2002 are a record for the group for receivables at 31 July 2002 amounted to It is unlikely that the Industrial and the sixth consecutive year.
These results 171.4 million compared to 215.5 million Commercial market in the USA will show reflect particularly strong performances in at the previous year-end.
Net interest signs of any upturn before the end of the the UK and North American Plumbing and 24 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Operating and financial review continued Heating Distribution and demonstrate the Tax Acquisitions by segment million resilience of the groups businesses against The effective tax rate is unchanged from 450 the background of uncertain business the previous year at 28%.
They also reflect the that this rate will apply for the next 400 achievement of the groups key financial financial year providing there are no 350 targets of double digit growth in sales significant changes in legislation and 300 and earnings.
provided the geographical contribution to group results stays broadly the same.
250 Turnover 200 Group sales increased by 10.7% from Earnings per share 150 7,195 million to 7,968 million.
Before exceptionals and goodwill amortisation, earnings per share increased 100 Trading profit by 15.1% from 47.43 pence to 54.58 50 Operating profit increased by 10.3% from pence.
Total basic earnings per share 0 396.4 million to 437.2 million, after increased by 55.3% reflecting the 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 charging one off acquisition integration exceptional loss on disposal of the costs of 7.1 million and after crediting remaining manufacturing operations in European US Building Distribution Materials Distribution net property profits of 4.3 million.
The average number of North American Manufacturing increase in profit before tax before shares in issue during the year was Plumbing & Heating exceptionals and goodwill amortisation 577.1 million 2001: 575.3 million.
Dividends The group continues to seek acquisitions to The proposed final dividend is 13.90 pence expand all areas of its activities.
A total of Results of continuing activities 2001: 12.35 pence per share, an increase 14 acquisitions was completed during the Sales and operating profits before goodwill of 12.6%.
This increase reflects the strong year for a combined consideration of 160.3 amortisation and exceptionals trading performance of the group during million including net debt acquired.
All of profit on continuing activities excluding this financial year and the boards this amount was funded with debt.
The the groups manufacturing activities, the confidence in the prospects for future acquisitions within each division, together last of which was disposed of in February growth in shareholder value.
With the with their likely contribution to turnover in 2001 increased by 11.6% and 13.0%, interim dividend of 5.00 pence already a full year, may be summarised as follows: respectively.
paid, total dividends for the year will Full year amount to 18.90 pence per share, an contribution to Currency translation increase of 11.8% over the dividends Consideration turnover Division m m The effect of currency translation on the declared in respect of last year.
European Distribution 60 124 results for the year was not significant but the effect on each divisions results is shown The cost of dividends paid and proposed North American Plumbing in note 1 to the accounts.
in respect of the financial year is 109.2 and Heating Distribution 86 185 million 2001: 97.4 million.
The dividend US Building Materials Interest cover is unchanged from the previous Distribution 14 52 The interest charge reduced from 35.2 year at 2.6 times.
160 361 million to 26.5 million, reflecting lower interest rates on the groups borrowings Acquisitions Since 31 July 2002 the group has completed and a lower working capital to sales ratio The level of acquisition spend in each further acquisitions for an aggregate of 16.0% compared to 16.1% in the prior division will vary each year as opportunities consideration including debt acquired year.
The interest cover is over 16 times arise.
Following is a chart which shows the of 16.5 million.
These acquisitions are 2001: 11 times, before exceptionals.
acquisition spend in each division expected to contribute a further 34 million over the last 5 years: to group turnover in a full year.
25 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Financial position Cash flow Shareholders funds increased by 103.5 The cash flow performance of the group over the last five years is summarised below.
million from 1,496.4 million to 1,599.9 Cash flow generation million.
The net increase comprised the 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 m m m m m following elements: m Cash flow from operating activities 584 518 390 339 313 Retained profits 179.0 Maintenance Capex 93 85 74 62 55 New share capital subscribed Tax 120 91 113 130 92 exercise of share options 7.6 Dividends 100 91 81 73 60 Goodwill written back on disposals 1.2 Interest 23 37 24 2 2 Exchange translation 84.3 Increase in shareholders funds 103.5 Free cash flow 248 214 98 76 104 Acquisitions less disposals 162 388 163 290 56 The movement of sterling against overseas Expansion Capex 7 28 49 48 24 currencies, particularly the US dollar, Other 69 37 31 5 resulted in a translation difference of 59.7 Movement in debt 148 239 145 267 24 million which reduced borrowings on the balance sheet.
Net borrowings, excluding construction loan borrowings, reduced by This demonstrates the inherently strong cash flow characteristics of the group.
The free 148.1 million to 545.6 million, despite cash flow of around 200 million is sufficient to fund the groups targeted acquisition the acquisition spend of 160.3 million, spend each year.
Other in the above table principally relates to currency translation and is not a cash flow item.
Construction loan borrowings Particular focus on the control of working capital contributed to a strong cash flow relating to the groups US Building Materials performance.
Cash flow from operating activities increased by 12.8% from 518.0 million Distribution activities amounted to 171.4 to 584.1 million.
The average working capital to sales ratio reduced from 16.1% last year million 2001: 215.2 million are used to to 16.0%.
The net capital expenditure of 96.8 million 2001: 108.8 million and new fund secured construction loans receivable finance lease assets of 2.6 million 2001: 4.8 million demonstrates continued of 171.4 million 2001: 215.5 million.
investment in the groups operations as a platform for future growth.
Against the background of recent comment concerning asbestos litigation, Wolseley Treasury risk management directly from its operations.
The group also confirms that such litigation is not material The group is exposed to market risks arising enters into derivative transactions principally to the groups financial statements.
The group interest rate swaps and forward foreign For a number of years, Wolseleys North has well defined and consistently applied currency contracts.
The purpose of such American Plumbing and Heating Distribution policies for the management of foreign transactions is to hedge certain interest rate division has received claims relating to exchange and interest rate exposures.
There and currency risks arising from the groups asbestos.
All settled claims, including the has been no change since the year-end in operations and its sources of finance.
associated legal costs, have been met by the major financial risks faced by the group.
Insurance cover signicantly The main risks arising from the groups Details of financial instruments are shown exceeds the estimated liabilities.
There has financial instruments are interest rate risk, in note 32 to the accounts.
been no profit and loss account charge in liquidity risk and foreign currency risk.
The this, or any prior financial year and no such treasury committee of the board reviews Derivatives are also used to a limited extent charge is expected to arise in the future.
and agrees policies for managing each of to hedge movements in the future prices of these risks and they are summarised below.
These options and futures hedging These policies are regularly reviewed.
The contracts mature within one year and all groups financial instruments, other than are with organised exchanges.
The number derivatives, comprise borrowings, cash and and monetary value of outstanding contracts liquid resources and various items, such as at the year-end were not significant.
trade debtors and trade creditors that arise 26 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Operating and financial review continued Facility The groups policy is to control credit risk The groups strong cash flow and low m by only entering into financial instruments gearing are such that the ratio of net debt to Less than 1 year 200 with authorised counterparties after taking EBITDA for the year was only 0.98.
During 1-2 years 48 account of their credit rating.
the year, the group made an early repayment of US$185 million of term loans.
In the 2-3 years 249 It is, and has been throughout the period absence of significant acquisitions, the group 3-4 years under review, the groups policy that no would anticipate having surplus funds within 4-5 years 397 trading in financial instruments or the medium-term.
Given these circumstances 5-6 years speculative transactions be undertaken.
it has been concluded that funding sources 6-7 years 43 with a maturity of more than seven years are Total 937 Interest rate risk inappropriate at the present time.
The group nances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank and The principal source of funds to the group As at the year-end undrawn committed other borrowings.
The group borrows in the is committed bank debt.
A mix of term loans facilities are as follows: m desired currencies principally at floating rates and revolving credit facilities are used to of interest and then uses interest rate swaps obtain the desired currency and maturity Less than 1 year 184 to generate the desired interest rate prole profile.
Historically, the group has entered 1-2 years nil and to manage the groups exposure to into large syndicated loan facilities: no Over 2 years 76 interest rate fluctuations.
The groups current syndications were launched during the policy is to convert floating to xed interest financial year.
Over the last two years a Foreign currency risk rates, by the use of interest rate swaps and number of smaller bilateral facilities have The group has significant overseas businesses forward rate agreements, to hedge the been agreed.
This approach has enabled the whose revenues are mainly denominated in interest rate risk on borrowings with group to adjust its funding profile more the currencies of the countries in which the a maturity of one year or more.
At the yearprecisely to match its investment profile and operations are located.
Approximately 64% end approximately one third of the groups strengthen its relationships with its core banks.
of the groups sales are in US Dollars.
The net borrowings were at xed rates for one group does not have significant foreign year or more after taking account of swaps.
During the year, the group entered into currency cash flows arising from transactions.
The refinancing of However, those that do arise are generally The group reviews deposits and borrowings the Westburne acquisition was successfully hedged with either forward contracts or by currency at treasury committee and board completed with a seven year amortising currency options.
The group does not normally meetings.
The treasury committee gives prior facility which raised 43 million in Canadian hedge profit translation exposure since such approval to any variations from floating rate Dollars.
Two other bilateral facilities raised hedges have only temporary effect.
54 million in a combination of US Dollars the foreign currency earnings generated by and Euros.
Both facilities had a maturity the groups overseas operations are reinvested Liquidity risk of three years.
in the business to fund growth in those The group seeks a balance between certainty territories.
The groups policy is to maintain of funding and a flexible, cost-effective Wolseley exercised its option to convert the the majority of its debt in the currencies of borrowings structure.
The groups policy is to US$305 million revolving credit into a term its operating companies as this hedges both ensure that, as a minimum, all projected net loan with a maturity in financial year 2004. the net assets and cash flows of the group.
borrowing needs are covered by committed facilities arranged and provided by the In addition the group has a 200 million Details of average exchange rates used in the corporate office, supplemented where bank overdraft facility and a number of translation of overseas earnings, and of yearappropriate by local overdraft facilities.
other uncommitted facilities which enable end exchange rates used in the translation the group to maintain short-term flexibility.
of overseas balance sheets, for the principal currencies used by the group are shown in The year-end maturity profile of the groups note 30 to the accounts.
The net effect of centrally managed facilities was currency translation was to decrease as follows: turnover by 18.6 million 0.3% and to reduce trading profit by 2.2 million 0.5%.
27 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 These currency effects reflect a movement throughout the group, as one of the key It is hoped that it will give shareholders of the average sterling exchange rate measures of business performance.
Return an improved understanding of the groups against each of the major currencies with on gross capital employed as dened on performance, the dynamics of the business which the group is involved as follows: page 78 increased from 16.5% last year to and its future potential.
16.7%, well ahead of the groups weighted Strengthening Weakening of sterling % average cost of capital, thereby generated Insurance US Dollar 0.7 additional shareholder value.
The insurance arrangements of the group are reviewed annually by the audit committee.
Euro 1.3 At the close of business on the date of the The group has a captive insurance company Directors Report, the value of an ordinary which is registered and operational in the Fair value of financial instruments share as quoted in the Financial Times was Isle of Man.
No policies are written for third As set out in note 32 to the accounts, there 458.0 pence per share 2001: 378 pence, parties.
The administration is undertaken is no significant difference between the an increase of 21.2%.
The market by a specialist management company.
book value and fair value of financial capitalisation of the group at that date was instruments as at 31 July 2002.
The Going concern total dividend of 18.9 pence per share in The directors are confident, on the basis Market price risk respect of the 2002 financial year gives a of current financial projections and facilities The group regularly monitors its interest rate yield of 4.1%, based on the above market available, that the company and the group and currency risk by reviewing the effect on value of the shares.
have adequate resources to continue profit before tax over various periods of a in operation for the foreseeable future.
range of possible changes in interest rates Financial reporting Accordingly, the directors continue to and exchange rates.
On the basis of the The groups accounting policies fully reflect adopt the going concern basis in preparing groups analysis it is estimated that the the requirements of the Accounting the accounts.
maximum effect of a rise of one percentage Standards Board ASB.
point in the principal interest rates on the Cautionary Statement groups continuing businesses would result There have been no new Financial Reporting The OFR and other sections of this report in an increase in the interest charge of Standards issued in the period and no changes contain forward looking statements that are approximately 4.5 million.
Similarly, it is to the groups selected accounting policies.
subject to risk factors associated with the estimated that a strengthening of sterling by building materials and construction sectors.
10% against all the currencies in which the The group adopted FRS 19 Deferred It is believed that the expectations reflected group does business would reduce profit Taxation one year earlier than necessary in these statements are reasonable, but they before tax for 2002 by approximately 30.6 which resulted in a change in the may be affected by a wide range of variables million 7.5% due to currency translation.
accounting policy for deferred taxation which could cause actual results or trends in last years financial statements.
to differ materially, including but not limited Shareholder return to, risks associated with changes in economic The group monitors relative Total Under the transitional arrangements contained conditions, the strength of the plumbing Shareholder Return TSR for incentive within FRS 17, Retirement Benets, the and heating and building materials markets purposes as set out on page 41 and for group has continued to adopt the rules set in North America and Europe, risks assessing relative financial performance.
out in SSAP 24 for pensions accounting associated with Wolseleys growth strategy during the financial year.
Note 33 to the including the ability to identify suitably For the year ended 31 July 2002, Wolseley accounts includes the additional disclosures priced acquisitions, fluctuations in product achieved a 21% increase in TSR which put it required by FRS 17.
The ASB announced pricing and changes in exchange and in 7th position against a monitored peer group during the year that mandatory adoption of interest rates.
of 63 companies drawn from the FTSE 100 FRS 17 has been deferred and will not apply and the Building Materials and Construction until periods ending on or after 22 June 2005. sectors.
The principal exclusions from the FTSE 100 in deriving the peer group are This Operating and financial review OFR financial services, telecommunications and has been developed taking into account Steve Webster utility companies.
We continue to monitor Group Finance Director emerging best practice in this area and return on capital including goodwill, the ASBs recent exposure draft on OFRs.
