Operating & financial review Sector performance continued Branding & identity, Healthcare and Review of operations Specialist communications In constant currencies the Groups Branding & identity, As a result of the worldwide recession, which started Healthcare and Specialist communications revenues in the US in the fourth quarter of 2000 and the impact were flat compared with 2001. of the tragedy of September 11, the worldwide advertising Several of our companies in this sector performed industry shrank by approximately 5% in 2001, with particularly well: marketing services also down a similar amount.
nIn promotion and direct marketing Wunderman The recession continued into 2002, when advertising in New York, Chicago and San Francisco in the and marketing services expenditure was probably down US, Canada, UK, France, Germany, Italy, again in the low single digits and the downturn has The Netherlands, Spain and Chile: OgilvyOne now continued for over two years.
The tragic events in Belgium, France, Germany, Spain, India, Japan, of September 11 had a material negative impact on the Singapore, Thailand and Mexico: second half of 2001 and many people ourselves nIn Branding & identity Landor Associates in included felt that the second half of 2002 might see New York and Cincinnati in the US: Walker Group a relative improvement, particularly given easier and MJM Creative Services in the US: Lambie-Nairn comparative figures.
However, further stock market in the UK and icon brand navigation in Germany: nervousness in the third quarter of 2002 raised nIn Healthcare CommonHealth in the US, Sudler & additional concerns about corporate profitability, Hennessey in the US, MarketForce Communications consumer confidence and a possible economic in Canada, Italy and Melbourne, Australia: double-dip, producing a dead-cat bounce.
nOther specialist marketing resources The Geppetto While the Group has seen a reduction in the rate of Group, Management Ventures, Savatar and VML decline in each quarter of 2002, with the US exhibiting in the US and The Forward Group, Glendinning revenue growth in the fourth quarter of 2002 for the and EWA in the UK.
first time in almost two years, uncertainty remains.
As a result, 2003 is likely to be another difficult year, Manufacturing with hopes for a more significant recovery being pinned Gross profit was down significantly with operating on 2004 and the positive impact of quadrennial factors profit and margins similarly impacted at the Groups such as the US Presidential election, political advertising manufacturing division.
in the US pushing up media rates, the Athens Olympics and the European football championships.
Network television price inflation and declining audiences, fragmentation of traditional media and rapid development of new technologies continued to drive experimentation by our clients in new media and non-traditional alternatives.
1998 was really the first year when WPPs marketing services activities represented over 50% of Group revenue.
In 2002 these activities represented over 53% of Group revenue, a little less than 2001, as Advertising and Media investment management revenues were more robust than anticipated.
In addition, in 2002, our narrowly defined internet-related revenue was over $300 million or over 2% of our worldwide reported revenue.
This compares with approximately 5% for online medias share of total advertising spend in the US and approximately 3% share worldwide.
The new media continue to build their share of client spending.
Group financial performance Reportable revenue was down almost 3% to 3.908 billion.
Revenues including associates are estimated to total 4.644 billion.
Profit pre-goodwill amortisation and impairment, interest, tax, fixed asset gains and write-downs was 96 WPP 2002
