Balfour Beatty plc Financial review Annual report and accounts 2002 26 Operations Results in 2002 reflect further progress in the Group objectives of earnings growth and increasing financial strength.
Turnover increased by 12%, of which 8% was attributable to acquisitions made in 2001 and 2002.
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items increased by 10%.
Profits in our rail businesses benefited from our UK maintenance business achieving a number of settlements in relation to prior years contracts and the acquisition of ABB Dacom at the end of 2001.
The UK Anthony Rabin Finance Director building and support services businesses continued to grow modestly, as did our PFI portfolio of investments where two completed hospital contracts started to generate service revenues during the year.
The civil and specialist engineering sector benefited from the recovery of our Power Strong cash flow Networks business and the acquisition of Kenton, the water and gas pipeline contractor acquired in March 2002.
However, substantial unplanned costs continued to be incurred from the Groups in civil engineering projects on the East Coast of the US, more than offsetting profit advances elsewhere in this segment.
Looking forward, we believe that operations provided prospects for growth of our contracting and services businesses are excellent and that margins can be sustained.
A more detailed analysis of these businesses is contained in the further capacity for Operating Review.
We anticipate continued positive contributions to growth from our acquisitions and our PFI PPP investment portfolio continues to offer a growing acquisitions long-term stable contribution to earnings.
Acquisitions and goodwill 2001 3,071m 2001 102m In total, acquisitions in the year and deferred consideration accounted for 68m net cash 2002 3,441m 2002 118m outflow.
These included Kenton 25m, Turnover Pre-tax profits Walgrave 7m and a 49% interest in 12% 16% Romec 10m.
Goodwill arising in 2002 from acquisitions amounts to 47m.
2001 14.1p 2001 63m Operating profits were after charging 21m in respect of goodwill amortisation 2002 16.1p 2002 67m arising from acquisitions.
This charge was Earnings per share Net cash adversely affected by 5m impairments in relation to the Balfour Beatty Rail Systems Inc 14% 4m Before amortisation of goodwill 21m 2001: 12m and exceptional items 9m charge 2001: 13m credit.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 27 In the light of events in the equity markets in 2002, the actuaries have updated these valuations and Garanti Balfour Beatty businesses.
to review the ongoing funding levels of these 4m of this charge arises from the inability schemes.
Both funds remain in surplus, but at to recover US$6.7m of the adjustment to the significantly reduced levels.
As a result, the Group consideration due for the Balfour Beatty Rail will be reviewing the level of its contributions to Interest rate risk Systems Inc business from the vendor as a these schemes in 2003.
The Group introduced The US$ fixed rate loan notes were swapped result of its insolvency and a dispute with the a new defined contribution section to its pension into floating rate obligations to match the administrator in relation to the Groups right scheme for UK employees joining the Group floating rate nature of the cash held by to offset contract receivables.
The impact of interest rate risk The way in which pension arrangements Taxation management has been to reduce fixed are reflected in the Groups earnings and net The Groups effective tax rate in 2002 was rate borrowings to 11% of total borrowings assets will change radically when the requirements 30% 2001: 26% of profit before goodwill 2001: 14%.
of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits are fully amortisation and exceptional items.
Note 22 details the funding Currency risk this charge benefited from adjustments in position and the cost of providing pensions in The Group hedges a proportion of its known respect of prior years and the use of brought accordance with FRS 17 principles.
The difference foreign currency transactional exposures by forward tax losses in Germany, trading losses between the deficits reported in accordance taking out forward foreign exchange contracts.
suffered in the US during 2002 prevented us with FRS 17 and the surpluses calculated on Balfour Beatty also faces currency from utilising any of the US brought forward an ongoing actuarial funding basis of the exposures on the translation into sterling of tax losses.
We expect a lower effective tax rate two principal funds is due entirely to the the profits and net assets of overseas subsidiaries in 2003 as our US businesses return to profit different discount rates applied in the two and associates, primarily in the US and Europe, although proposed legislative changes in valuation methods.
and on its overseas trading transactions.
Germany, if implemented, would limit the rate Balfour Beatty does not hedge these at which we can utilise our German tax losses.
Treasury profit translation exposures as these are The Groups policy remains to carry no Pre-tax profits and earnings an accounting rather than cash exposure.
The borrowings of the As a result of these factors, pre-tax profits However, the effect of volatile short-term PFI and PPP concessions, shown in Note 10, increased by 16% and earnings per share currency movements on profits is reduced are non-recourse to the Group.
because the Group accounts for currency The Groups financial instruments, other profits using average exchange rates.
Cash and interest than derivatives, comprise borrowings, cash Balfour Beattys balance sheet translation The continued strong cash flow from the and liquid resources.
The Group enters into exposure is managed by matching significant Groups operations provided further capacity derivatives transactions principally interest rate net assets denominated in currencies other for acquisitions to grow the Groups core swaps and forward foreign currency contracts than sterling by way of currency borrowings activities while retaining a significant level to manage the interest rate and currency risks and forward foreign exchange contracts.
of net cash which, at the end of 2002 stood arising from the Groups operations and its Details of the position and fair values at at 67m 2001: 63m.
the year end are shown in Note 14.
The Groups cash position varies It is, and has been throughout the significantly throughout the year and the period under review, the Groups policy that Accounting standards average position has tended to be somewhat no speculative trading in financial instruments This year, the Group has adopted FRS 19 lower than the year end position.
Group net shall be undertaken.
Compliance with policy Deferred Tax which has not resulted in interest payable of nil included 4m 2001: is monitored through regular reporting and any significant change to the reported results.
3m of interest receivable from subordinated independent internal and external audits.
The Urgent Issues Task Force UITF loans to our PFI concession investments.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for Abstract 34 Pre-contract costs, which managing each of these risks and they are requires all bid costs to be expensed as Pensions summarised below.
incurred until it is virtually certain that a Pension charges to the P&L account of 19m contract will be awarded, has been adopted.
2001: 12m have been made, including 9m Finance and liquidity risk The effect of this change on the 2001 and for the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund and 4m Balfour Beatty finances itself using fixed rate 2002 results is set out in paragraph 1 of the for the Balfour Beatty section of the Railways and floating rate debt with instruments with a Principal accounting policies on page 43.
These charges include the range of maturities.
The Group has a series of benefit of amortising actuarial surpluses over bilateral facilities which total 210m maturing Going concern the average remaining service lives of scheme between 2005 and 2006 and has in issue The Directors, having made appropriate members in accordance with SSAP 24.
US$120m of fixed rate loan notes maturing enquiries, consider it reasonable to assume These surpluses derive from formal actuarial in 2008.
The purpose of the facilities is that the Group and the Company have valuations of the two schemes at 31 March to provide liquidity from a group of core adequate resources to continue for the 2001 and 31 December 2001 respectively, relationship banks and other institutions foreseeable future and, for this reason, which at time of valuation showed funding to support Balfour Beatty in its current and have continued to adopt the going concern surpluses of 9% and 4% respectively.
basis in preparing the accounts.
