Performance review comparing 2002 with 2001 Turnover Group Results for 2002 are stated after fully adopting the UK accounting standards FRS17 Retirement million benefits and FRS19 Deferred tax.
Comparative figures of a year ago are restated accordingly.
5,000 Turnover including the Group share of joint ventures and associates was 4,017.9 million in 2002, down three per cent compared with 4,159.2 million in 2001.
After charging exceptional 4,000 items of 94.7 million, profit before interest and tax for the year was 405.4 million, profit before 3,000 tax was 335.3 million and earnings per share were 41.36p.
Excluding these exceptional items, profit before interest and tax for the year was 500.1 million, profit before tax was 430.0 million 2,000 and earnings per share were 55.94p.
Exceptional items for the year include restructuring charges of 47.2 million and a 21.3 million 1,000 charge relating to the closure of facilities in connection with the combination of BOC Process Plants with Linde Engineering in the US.
An exceptional charge of 21.2 million was made to write 00001 02 down the value of OSK, BOCs gases business in Japan, in advance of the proposed merger of OSK with Air Liquide Japan.
Profit before tax Year ago comparisons are adversely affected by exchange rate movements, mainly for the million South African rand and, in the closing months of the year, for the US dollar.
If the results of a year 500 ago had been translated at the rates applied to this year, turnover would have been reduced by 214.1 million.
Excluding exceptional items, the corresponding reduction in operating profit would 400 have been 27.6 million, while profit before tax would have been 22.7 million less.
Earnings per share would have been reduced by 1.7p.
300 Results are quoted at actual exchange rates but percentage changes are shown below on the 200 basis of constant exchange rates to eliminate the effect of exchange translation.
Comparisons are made with the same period a year ago unless otherwise stated.
Profits are shown excluding 100 exceptional items.
All business segments, apart from BOC Edwards, achieved improved turnover and profits in 00001 02 2002.
In aggregate, the businesses other than BOC Edwards achieved a 12 per cent increase in turnover and an 11 per cent increase in operating profit before exceptional items.
Net cash requirement The turnover of the Process Gas Solutions line of business was up four per cent in 2002 and million operating profit before exceptional items was up 22 per cent.
Better performance was the result 0 of new plants coming on stream, business efficiency programmes and cost savings realised from the closure of BOCs Process Plants facilities prior to combination with Linde Engineering in the US.
-25 For the Industrial and Special Products line of business, turnover was up seven per cent in 2002 and operating profit before exceptional items was up five per cent.
Demand in the industrial sector -50 remained weak in the key markets of the UK and the US but there was growth in parts of the Pacific region and Africa.
Sales of medical gases and hospitality products and services increased -75 worldwide.
Operating margins improved mainly as a result of increased productivity following -100 restructuring.
BOC Edwards turnover was down 19 per cent for 2002 and operating profit before -125 00 01 02 exceptional items was down 66 per cent.
Lower turnover and profit reflected the continuation of the severe reduction in capital spending by semiconductor manufacturers that began in the latter half of 2001.
Although there was some revival of demand for semiconductor equipment in the second half of 2002, the rate of order intake declined at the end of the year.
Turnover and operating profit before exceptional items of the Afrox hospitals segment were down in sterling but up 23 per cent and 25 per cent respectively on a constant currency basis.
Acquisitions of hospitals in the first half of 2002 added to turnover and more significantly to operating profit as integration benefits were realised.
Despite competitive conditions in the logistics market, Gist achieved strong results with improved margins and a contribution from new business.
Turnover was up 14 per cent and operating profit before exceptional items was up 20 per cent.
Group return on capital for the year to 30 September 2002 was 12.3 per cent, or 13.8 per cent excluding BOC Edwards, after six successive quarters of improvement.
Free cash flow after interest, tax, dividends and capital spending but before acquisitions remained strong and reached 166.5 million in 2002.
A first interim dividend for 2002 of 15.5p per share was paid in February 2002 and a second interim dividend of 22.5p per share was paid in August 2002.
In aggregate this was a 2.7 per cent increase over the annual dividend of the previous year.
A first interim dividend for 2003 of 15.5p per share has been declared for payment in February 2003.
Capital expenditure by subsidiaries including interest capitalised was 354.3 million in 2002, compared with 352.6 million in 2001.
Capital expenditure by joint ventures and associates was 74.2 million in 2002, of which the BOC share was 34.5 million.
Equivalent expenditure in 2001 was 109.7 million, of which the BOC share was 53.3 million.
The Group also made acquisitions of businesses of 207.3 million in 2002 and proceeds from disposals were 10.6 million.
Equivalent items in 2001 were 145.9 million and 2.7 million respectively.
31 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Performance review comparing 2002 with 2001 Process Gas Solutions PGS Turnover increased by four per cent to 1,200.6 million in 2002 and operating profit increased by 22 per cent to 185.2 million.
Return on capital increased from 7.7 per cent in 2001 to 9.2 per cent in 2002.
New plants were commissioned for OneSteel at Whyalla in South Australia in November 2001, a hydrogen plant for Huntsman on Teesside in the UK during January 2002, an air separation unit for WCI Steel in Ohio in May 2002 and another at Midland, North Carolina in June 2002.
These further strengthen BOCs established base in the metals sector and highlight a growing commitment to the chemicals and oil sectors.
In addition to the revenues added by new plants coming into production and firm pricing trends, operational efficiency gains were a key factor behind the profit increase.
Towards the end of 2002, cost savings were realised from the closure of facilities in connection with the combination of BOCs Process Plants business with Linde Engineering in the US.
Costs were also reduced as a result of better delivery scheduling and remote plant operation.
Operational service centres are already established in the UK, the US and Australia.
Management believes that a further 70 plants can benefit from remote operation during the next 18 months and new links are being established to bring Asian plants into the network.
Economic uncertainties reduced the number of investment projects receiving authorisation from customers in 2002.
However, despite the somewhat dull market conditions BOC Process Systems was able to win new business by offering integrated solutions that added value for process industry customers.
Europe Turnover increased in the UK but operating profit was marginally lower despite success in reducing overhead costs.
The increase in turnover was due to additional sales from the plant commissioned in January 2002 to supply hydrogen to Huntsmans chemical plant on Teesside but this was offset by the effect of weak manufacturing output in the UK.
This affected sales volumes and prices in most sectors as some customers closed plants in the UK and moved production to lower cost areas.
Operating profit was also depressed by a temporary shutdown of a customers steel furnace, leading to less efficient operation of BOCs air separation plant in south Wales.
Another steel customer went into receivership towards the end of 2002 and a provision of 3.6 million has been made for a bad debt and to write down the value of BOCs plant supplying a facility that has been closed.
In July BOC acquired pipeline assets serving customers on the Teesside chemical complex.
This gives BOC more direct contact with its customers in this important area.
Although turnover in Ireland was similar to the previous year, operating profit increased as a result of success in reducing costs.
Profit also increased in Poland for the same reason and because a bad debt provision depressed profit in 2001.
North America Overall turnover increased slightly but growth was restrained by generally weak economic conditions in the US and by lower power and fuel costs leading to the reduction or elimination of surcharges.
Some increases in tonnage volumes arising from the recovery of steel output in the US and increased sales of carbon dioxide to the food and beverage sector were offset by generally lower demand for liquefied gases in the merchant market.
Operating profit grew faster than sales as a result of firmer prices and cost savings, which more than made up for some bad debt provisions for customers in liquidation.
New plant and acquisitions that affected the comparison with a year ago included a replacement plant commissioned in May 2002 to supply WCI Steel in Ohio, a plant commissioned in September 2002 at Midland, North Carolina, and a plant supplying Vitrotex in Texas that started up in July 2002.
Assets purchased from Messer increased BOCs capacity to supply the growing market for carbon dioxide in the US.
Latin America Despite continuing political uncertainty, BOCs business in Venezuela achieved significantly better results in 2002.
Demand from the glass industry was strong and sales of both nitrogen and carbon dioxide to the food and beverage sector also increased.
More efficient plant operation coupled with control of overhead costs made an important contribution to profit growth in 2002.
Results in Colombia were also better as a result of improved operating efficiency coupled with better activity in the steel industry.
Indura, BOCs associate based in Chile, also achieved a better profit as a result of new business in both Chile and in Argentina.
Selling price increases that exceeded inflation also made an important contribution to profit growth in Chile.
BOCs associated company in Mexico supplying a Pemex company with high-pressure nitrogen continued to demonstrate the value of re-pressurisation to enhance oil recovery.
A number of equipment problems that emerged after commissioning were investigated and corrective action was taken in 2002.
This had no significant impact on the results for the year.
BOC increased its share of the company from 30 per cent to 35 per cent in early 2002.
32 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Africa Buoyant conditions in the South African manufacturing economy made it possible to achieve a significant increase in turnover.
Together with strict cost controls, this drove a still greater increase in operating profit.
Demand from steel industry customers was high and sales to other sectors were expanded.
New business was obtained in the pulp and paper sector and an oxygen plant was commissioned to satisfy a supply scheme contract.
Price increases were sufficient to offset inflation in 2002.
Japan Turnover and operating profit were lower in 2002, reflecting continued weakness in the Japanese economy, which affected both gas equipment sales and demand for liquefied gases.
The impact on operating profit was limited by operational cost savings.
During 2002 BOCs under-utilised air separation unit at Himeji was closed and BOC began to supply its customers by purchasing products from another gas producer.
Despite the weak economic conditions, three new on-site generators were commissioned in 2002 and a further one is due to be completed in 2003.
The agreement to merge the industrial and medical gases businesses of BOC in Japan with those of Air Liquide Japan is covered within the Group profile section on pages 14 and 17.
North Asia Growth of sales revenues in Korea was limited by weak economic conditions but operating profit was significantly better as a result of operational and overhead cost savings and improved plant efficiency.
Rapid economic growth attracted exceptionally high levels of foreign direct investment into China during 2002.
A number of manufacturers began to expand in China at the expense of existing production in other parts of the world.
This was accompanied by heavy expenditure on local infrastructure and these factors combined to create a particularly favourable environment for BOCs business in China.
Turnover increased significantly and operating profit nearly doubled.
Existing joint ventures performed strongly partly in response to rising steel production, which boosted the performance of BOCs venture supplying the Taiyuan Iron and Steel Company in north China.
At the same time BOC took the opportunity to withdraw from underperforming joint ventures and succeeded in improving the performance of others.
New liquefaction capacity was added to supply the growing merchant market in south China.
In April 2002, BOC established a joint venture in Nanjing with Yangtze Petrochemical Corporation YPC, which is a subsidiary of Sinopec, Chinas leading petrochemical company.
BOC purchased existing air separation assets with effect from May 2002 and is committed to installing a new air separation plant.
This gives BOC a strategic position as a key supplier in the Nanjing area, which is being developed through foreign investment as a leading centre for chemical production in China.
BOCs joint venture will be a supplier of industrial gases to a new BASF and YPC joint venture plant now under construction and scheduled to begin production in 2004.
In order to take advantage of the new business opportunities presented by the rapid growth of investment in China, BOC Process Systems designated China as a new and separate marketing zone during 2002.
Taiwan was one of the main regions to be affected by the diversion of investment into mainland China during 2002.
Manufacturing growth was weak, leading to a more competitive environment in the gases business and some pressure on prices.
In response to these structural changes in the Taiwanese economy, a cost reduction programme was initiated during 2002.
Activity related to the electronics industry increased somewhat during the second half of 2002. Business conditions in Hong Kong remained weak in 2002 as some customers also prepared to relocate production to lower cost areas.
South East Asia Economic growth in the region was led by Thailand, supported by somewhat slower growth in Malaysia.
Singapore suffered from the slowdown in the electronics sector during 2002.
Economic conditions in the Philippines and Indonesia remained difficult.
There was some improvement in demand from the steel sector and petrochemical activity remained stable.
Direct foreign investment, which had supported growth previously, was diminished as more new investment was directed towards north Asia.
Improved turnover and profit were driven mainly by increased merchant sales in Thailand particularly in the food sector.
During 2002 BOC was able to supply its customers with food freezing equipment constructed to BOC standards by a manufacturer in Thailand.
A new hydrogen and carbon monoxide HyCO plant is under construction at Map Ta Phut in Thailand.
When completed in May 2003 this will supply the Thai Polycarbonate Company for the manufacture of plastic resins.
BOCs associated company in Malaysia acquired Nissan Industrial Oxygen Inc NIOI during 2002.
The acquisition began with the purchase of 35.6 per cent of the company in March 2002.
Following a tender offer, 100 per cent ownership was achieved in September 2002.
NIOI has significant business in the glass sector.
BOCs associated company in Singapore acquired part of Messers merchant industrial gases business there in late September 2002.
South Asia BOCs line of business structure will be fully implemented in this region during 2003.
The following commentary therefore applies to both the Process Gas Solutions business and to the smaller element of Industrial and Special Products business in the region.
33 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Performance review comparing 2002 with 2001 During 2002, concerns about security and political stability continued to limit foreign direct investment.
Business opportunities were therefore limited to those generated by the local economies.
In India, asset disposals contributed towards a sharp increase in operating profit but there was also a significant improvement in underlying sales and operating profit.
A new supply scheme to provide industrial gases to Tata Iron and Steel was won and the new plant will be constructed in 2003.
Sales and operating profits also increased in Bangladesh and Pakistan.
New carbon dioxide capacity will be added in 2003 to satisfy growing demand from the beverage industry in Pakistan.
South Pacific Recent investments in new plants were reflected in higher sales.
The plant commissioned to supply BP at Brisbane came into production during 2001 and contributed for a full year in 2002.
A plant to supply OneSteel at Whyalla in South Australia began production early in 2002.
Increased customer demand following a process change resulted in increased sales from the plant at Port Kembla that came into production during 1999.
Demand for carbon dioxide used in the food and beverage industries grew and increased awareness of food safety issues placed additional emphasis on product quality.
Plant investments made during 2001 provided additional product supply security in 2002.
Operating profit increased significantly faster than sales as a result of improved operating efficiency and control of overhead costs.
Plant reliability has been increased and 12 of the key production plants in Australia are now controlled from a central operations centre.
In South Australia, production from the new plant at Whyalla commissioned in November 2001 allowed savings to be achieved through the closure of an older and less efficient plant at Adelaide.
Price increases in the merchant markets for liquefied gases were generally slightly below inflation but the shortfall was more than offset by operational efficiencies and overhead cost reductions.
Process Plants In March 2002, BOC reached a master agreement to combine its Process Plants business with Linde Engineering in the US to form a new company, Linde BOC Process Plants LLC, based in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
The transaction was completed at the end of September 2002 and makes Linde Engineering the principal supplier of BOCs industrial gas plants worldwide with access to Lindes global technical capabilities in air separation, hydrogen production and other gas technologies.
Spending on new air separation plants remained generally depressed in 2002 but the new arrangement with Linde allowed a significant reduction of unrecovered costs in the second half of the year as the agreement was implemented.
Costs were also reduced by the closure of BOC Process Plants UK manufacturing facility at Edmonton in north London.
BOCs Cryostar turbine and compressor business based in France produced significantly better results in 2002 following diversification to reduce its former dependence on investments in new air separation projects.
Sales of equipment to process liquefied natural gas LNG on board tankers were significantly increased.
Industrial and Special Products ISP Turnover increased by seven per cent to 1,605.3 million and operating profit increased by five per cent to 248.0 million.
Weak manufacturing activity in the key markets of the US and the UK affected sales of industrial products but there was growth in both South Africa and in the south Pacific region.
Sales of special products, medical gases as well as hospitality products and services increased in all markets.
Operating margins improved mainly as a result of increased productivity following restructuring.
Europe A modest improvement in UK turnover was matched by a similar increase in operating profit.
Sales of industrial products declined in line with falling manufacturing output but this was offset by increased sales of special and medical gases and the growth of BOCs Sureflow hospitality gases and cellar service business.
A lightweight medical oxygen cylinder with integral regulator has proved popular for portable applications such as in the emergency services.
A new arrangement has been made with an equipment wholesaler to improve sales of refrigerant gases to the contractor market and a refrigerant filling plant in the UK is being extended to include additional production and storage capacity.
Sales and operating profit also increased in Ireland and BOCs commercial systems accommodated the change to the new euro currency without problems.
Although Industrial and Special Products was a minor part of BOCs business in Poland during 2002, there was a significant improvement in sales and operating profit.
In September BOC announced that it had agreed to acquire Praxairs industrial gases business in Poland.
This transaction remains subject to approval by the competition authority in Poland.
When completed it will give BOC a more significant presence than before in the Polish industrial and special products sector.
North America Turnover increased only slightly as the trend in overall sales volumes was essentially flat and price increases for most products were modest.
Weakness in the manufacturing sector was reflected in lower sales of welding and cutting equipment and consumable products in 34 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 particular.
In such conditions and with the initial financial impact of installing a new enterprise resource and planning system during the year, operating profit in north America decreased despite successful cost reduction programmes.
Helium prices were an exception to the generally slow trend and continued to rise more rapidly as higher input costs were recovered in selling prices.
BOC invested in new purification and liquefaction capacity in the US during 2002 to support its worldwide helium business.
During the year a new plant was opened to supply special gases to customers on the Gulf coast and a range of gas apparatus was launched under the Airco brand name.
These products will be sold through distributors during 2003.
During 2002, BOC continued its roll-out of a medical gas cylinder with an integrated regulator.
Although economic conditions in Canada were similar to those in the US, there was a greater increase in sales.
Two acquisitions, Technogas and Matheson Gas Products Canada Inc, were successfully integrated with the existing business in Canada in 2002.
The Matheson acquisition adds an important special products capability to BOCs product range in Canada.
Latin America Turnover and operating profit increased significantly in each of the key markets.
While export-related heavy industry prospered, general manufacturing remained weak in Venezuela but growth was driven by increased sales of special products and carbon dioxide.
While sales of special products, including refrigerants and ammonia, also increased in Colombia, the main source of growth was the medical gas and home health care markets in an otherwise difficult industrial economy.
Indura, BOCs associated company based in Chile, benefited from a stable political environment that served to insulate the Chilean economy from heavy devaluations in neighbouring Argentina and Brazil.
This led to a firm pricing environment that allowed the benefits of cost controls to be realised.
Africa Turnover and operating profit increased significantly in 2002 on the constant currency basis used for performance comparisons as a result of a sustained resurgence in South African manufacturing.
This was reflected in the growth of sales volumes in the core cutting and welding business for the first time in five years.
New business in packaged chemicals and other special gases further increased the growth of turnover as new propellants and refrigerants were added to the product range.
Operating profit also increased significantly despite making additional provisions for bad debts.
Sales volumes of liquefied petroleum gas grew slowly but higher input costs were successfully recovered in selling prices.
Hospitality products and services, and medical gases were also less important sources of sales growth in 2002.
However, a recently introduced rescue pack providing a portable oxygen supply for mineworkers continued to generate strong demand, which exceeded production capacity.
Exports of cutting and welding equipment and consumables from South Africa both to other African countries and to elsewhere increased strongly in 2002.
Japan During 2002 difficult economic conditions were reflected in essentially unchanged turnover and a decline in operating profit.
This was despite good growth in gases for applications in lasers, medical gases and measurement equipment.
East Asia Turnover and operating profit both increased but mainly as a result of acquisitions.
Economic growth in Taiwan and Singapore was curtailed by their dependence on various aspects of electronics manufacturing, which remained depressed in 2002, particularly during the first half.
Weak demand also restrained price increases, which were generally below the level of inflation.
The chief source of turnover and profit growth in the region during 2002 was the acquisition of Unique Gas and Petrochemicals Public Company Limited UGP in Thailand in May.
UGP is a leading supplier of liquefied petroleum gas and packaged ammonia.
BOCs associated company in Malaysia acquired 35.6 per cent of the gases company Nissan Industrial Oxygen Inc in March 2002 and, following a tender offer, the holding was increased to 100 per cent in September 2002 providing a wider platform for growth in 2003.
South Pacific Strong economic and manufacturing growth supported increased sales and operating profit in the key markets of Australia and New Zealand.
The underlying growth of operating profit was ahead of the sales increase.
Civil turmoil and political uncertainty curtailed growth in the Pacific islands.
Increased manufacturing activity particularly in Australia but also in New Zealand supported growth in every part of BOCs business.
Mining, manufacturing for export and infrastructure projects were particularly strong sectors.
There was strong sales growth for BOCs branded welding and safety products.
At the same time prices remained firm and overhead cost reduction, coupled with rationalisation of the supply chain for welding and safety products, helped to widen margins.
The sales and operating profit of BOCs associated company, Elgas, which supplies liquefied petroleum gas LPG in south-eastern Australia, increased sharply.
Imported LPG prices remained stable and a relatively cold winter encouraged sales in the home energy sector.
The use of LPG as a vehicle fuel declined.
35 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Performance review comparing 2002 with 2001 BOC Edwards Turnover decreased by 19 per cent to 688.2 million and, although operating profit reduced by 66 per cent to 26.1 million for the year, BOC Edwards remained profitable in each quarter and was strongly cash generative during the year.
The severe reduction in capital expenditure by semiconductor manufacturers that began in the second half of 2001 continued into 2002.
Those Asian markets that were the basis of the mid-year revival did not sustain the earlier investment trends but opportunities were presented by a number of customers investing in China.
In August 2002 BOC formed a joint venture with Lienhwa Corporation of Taiwan to help to take advantage of new business opportunities presented by Taiwanese electronics companies investing in China.
The venture combines the marketing capabilities of Lienhwa with BOCs existing resources in China.
It has already delivered three new gas supply contracts to supply semiconductor fabrication plants, including those under construction by Belling and HJT in the Shanghai area.
BOC Edwards also won an order to supply a new plant in Singapore.
Apart from the semiconductor industry, some other vacuum equipment markets such as aerospace and chemicals also became more difficult in 2002.
The pharmaceutical and biotechnology markets remained buoyant and BOC Edwards was notably successful in increasing sales of pharmaceutical drying and packaging systems.
Gases sales were also affected by weak conditions in the semiconductor industry worldwide, which led to reduced plant utilisation and closures by some customers.
The overall profit impact of lost revenue on operating profit was offset by increased productivity.
In 2002 a programme to rationalise production facilities for electronic materials was completed.
This involved the closure of electronic gases facilities at some sites, including Immingham in the UK and part of the facility at Research Triangle Park in North Carolina, in order to concentrate global production into fewer locations.
The capacity to produce nitrogen trifluoride at BOCs plant in South Africa was increased during 2002 to reach 50 tonnes a year.
This product, which is used for cleaning semiconductor process tool chambers, is undergoing qualification trials with major customers.
It will be possible to raise output further if it is justified by demand.
BOCs alternative technology for chamber cleaning, involving the generation of fluorine in situ, is also being evaluated by customers.
The pause in semiconductor capacity expansion has not prevented a drive by manufacturers to invest in projects designed to reduce unit costs.
Typically this includes outsourcing of major sub-systems, materials and services.
BOC Edwards participated in this movement through the development of several important new products, through its close relationships with original equipment manufacturers and by acquisitions in new business areas.
During 2002 the Kachina process tool component cleaning business was expanded by opening new facilities to service customers in the US Oregon, France and China.
In 2002 BOC Edwards acquired the industrial vacuum and pressure businesses of the Smiths Group.
This acquisition expanded BOC Edwards existing general vacuum product range into new markets and added new high volume pumping technology to the portfolio.
Typical customers are in the metallurgy, water treatment, food, power and chemical industries.
The integration of the business was completed smoothly and it was operating profitably by the end of the year.
The most significant acquisition was of Seiko Instruments turbomolecular pumps business based in Japan, which was completed in March 2002.
Management believes that the addition of Seiko turbomolecular pumps to the BOC Edwards range of products will enhance the opportunity to develop vacuum sub-systems to satisfy the growing trend towards on-tool pumping.
The acquisitions of Hydromatix and Semco were also completed in January and April 2002 respectively with the intention of positioning BOC Edwards in those market segments that are expected to grow most rapidly.
These companies now form part of BOC Edwards Chemical Management Division.
Hydromatix is based in the US and helps companies in the surface finishing industry to recycle rinse waters with a minimum amount of waste, allowing them to cut discharges.
Customers are involved in plating, printed circuit boards and galvanising, as well as higher-technology fields such as disc and semiconductor production.
Semco designs and manufactures high efficiency, process-critical, liquid chemical blend, delivery and collection systems used in rapidly growing wet deposition processes, such as copper plating, a common application in the semiconductor manufacturing industry.
36 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Afrox hospitals On the constant currency basis used for performance comparisons, turnover was up 23 per cent in 2002 to 259.0 million and operating profit increased by 25 per cent to 29.7 million.
These improvements were insufficient to offset the sharp decline in the value of the South African rand between 2001 and 2002.
Taking into account this decline, turnover decreased from 287.8 million in 2001 to 259.0 million in 2002.
On a similar basis, operating profit decreased from 32.3 million in 2001 to 29.7 million in 2002.
The acquisitions of the Amahosp and Wilgers hospital groups in the first half of 2002 added to turnover and more significantly to operating profit as integration benefits were realised.
The acquisitions added approximately 1,000 acute care beds to Afrox hospitals existing capacity.
Existing hospital facilities were also enhanced during 2002 through investment in new services such as renal dialysis, physical and mental rehabilitation, pathology and radiography.
Acute care hospitals accounted for the majority of both turnover and operating profit.
The remainder was made up of health care services including chronic care, occupational health and pharmacy services.
During 2002 there was a downturn in the Afrox direct medicines business that facilitates the supply of chronic medication to patients by post.
This followed increased competition as health care funding organisations set up their own supply mechanisms at the same time as limiting reimbursement for patients.
Turnover of nursing staff continues to be a problem in South Africa as trained nurses are lured overseas by higher pay.
Afrox has responded by increasing spending on training activities to ensure that sufficient well-qualified staff are available.
Gist Despite competitive conditions in the logistics market, Gist achieved strong results with improved margins and some notable business wins.
Turnover increased by 14 per cent to 264.8 million and operating profit rose 20 per cent to 25.5 million.
Operating supply chains for customers remains at the core of the business and improved results reflect both new contracts and increased volume with existing customers.
Gist now handles all of Marks & Spencers chilled and ambient food distribution and services as well as the entire warehouse and distribution operations for Budgens, another major UK retailer.
New business in 2002 included a contract to manage a new supply chain operation for the John Lewis Partnership, a leading high street department store chain.
E-business continued to grow steadily and offered a number of opportunities with commercial promise to order on-line products and services.
Gist provides e-fulfilment warehousing operations for Ocado, an on-line grocery shopping and home delivery company established in partnership with the Waitrose supermarket chain, for Marks & Spencers Lunch to Go operation and for Blueheath, the on-line wholesaler.
With increasing emphasis on global supply chains, Gists experience, skills and systems capabilities are already being used to manage complex international supply chains, such as managing supplies for BOC Edwards global manufacturing operations.
Gist also provides stand-alone consulting services to a range of customers.
37 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Performance review comparing 2001 with 2000 Performance comparisons between 2001 and 2000 were originally made on the basis of accounting then in force before the adoption of the new standards FRS17 Retirement benefits and FRS19 Deferred tax.
Results for both 2001 and 2000 have been restated.
Group Turnover including the Group share of joint ventures and associates was 4,159.2 million in 2001, up seven per cent compared with 3,878.8 million in 2000.
Profit before interest and tax was 425.9 million, after deducting exceptional items of 104.7 million in 2001, compared with 504.5 million after adding exceptional items of 8.1 million in 2000.
Excluding exceptional items, operating profit was up seven per cent.
Exchange rate movements had a negligible impact on the translation of total Group turnover and operating profit excluding exceptional items for the year.
The comparisons of turnover and operating profit by business segment within the remainder of this performance review are shown on the basis of constant exchange rates and, unless stated otherwise, are made against the corresponding period a year ago.
Operating profits are shown excluding exceptional items.
The turnover of the Process Gas Solutions line of business was up 11 per cent in 2001 and operating profit before exceptional items was up 19 per cent.
The improved performance reflects new plants coming on stream and the benefits of business efficiency programmes.
For the Industrial and Special Products line of business, turnover was up five per cent in 2001 and operating profit before exceptional items was similar to the previous year.
This was achieved despite difficult trading conditions in the industrial segment through restructuring programmes and through growth in the medical and special products segments.
BOC Edwards turnover was up five per cent for 2001 and operating profit before exceptional items was up eight per cent.
Both turnover and operating profit were sharply lower in the second half of the year than in the first, as a result of weakening demand and prices for semiconductor devices leading to production cut-backs and less investment by most semiconductor manufacturers.
Turnover of the Afrox hospitals segment was up ten per cent and operating profit before exceptional items increased 33 per cent, reflecting business efficiency gains.
The turnover and operating profit before exceptional items of Gist formerly Distribution Services were up two per cent and 15 per cent respectively in 2001.
This was due to the additional benefits of business realignment, productivity gains and new contracts.
The interest on net debt in 2001 was 123.4 million, up 11.9 million.
Profit on ordinary activities before tax of 362.2 million in 2001 includes 3.6 million profit on the sale of fixed assets offset by exceptional charges totalling 108.3 million relating mainly to restructuring costs and a review of underperforming assets.
The effective tax rate in 2001, excluding exceptional items, was 32.5 per cent, compared with 33.4 per cent the year before.
Undiluted earnings per share were 46.03p as reported, but would have been 57.51p excluding exceptional items.
This represents an increase of seven per cent compared with 2000.
A first interim dividend for 2001 of 15.5p per share was paid in February 2001 and a second interim dividend of 21.5p per share was paid in August 2001.
In aggregate this was a 5.7 per cent increase over the annual dividend of the previous year.
Cash inflow from operating activities before interest, tax, dividends and investing activities was 787.8 million, compared with 705.0 million in 2000.
Cash inflow as a percentage of sales was 21 per cent in 2001 compared with 20 per cent in 2000.
Capital expenditure by subsidiaries including interest capitalised was 352.6 million, compared with 413.7 million in 2000.
Capital expenditure by joint ventures and associates was 109.7 million, of which the BOC share was 53.3 million.
Equivalent spending in 2000 was 217.3 million of which the BOC share was 83.5 million.
The Group also made acquisitions of businesses of 145.9 million in 2001, and proceeds from disposals were 2.7 million.
38 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Process Gas Solutions PGS Turnover in 2001 was 1,193.0 million, up 11 per cent and operating profit excluding exceptional items was 156.5 million, up 19 per cent.
Turnover came from Europe 240.2 million, the Americas 529.7 million, Africa 25.6 million and Asia Pacific 397.5 million.
The increases in turnover and profit resulted mainly from bringing new production facilities on stream to supply specific customers on the basis of long-term contracts.
Most of these units were constructed to supply customers in the oil and chemicals industries rather than for iron and steel production.
Investments in hydrogen supply schemes for oil and chemical industry customers increased in 2001 while the volume of demand from the steel industry remained depressed through the year.
The trading environment for liquefied gases remained generally stable for most of the year and higher input costs, including those arising from raised energy and fuel charges, were typically recoverable through surcharges and in selling price increases in key markets.
The food and beverage sector was an important source of increased sales of both nitrogen and carbon dioxide in 2001.
BOC continued to secure additional carbon dioxide business with major beverage manufacturers through promotion of quality assurance.
UK Manufacturing industry was in recession during 2001, leading to static demand for liquefied gases overall and lower consumption by heavy industries supplied by on-site plants and pipelines.
Carbon dioxide sales increased as a result of increased demand from the food and beverage sectors.
Operating profit increased significantly as a result of improved productivity coupled with effiencies in distribution and power utilisation.
Restructuring of plant operations during 2001 allowed plants to be operated from a single control centre, while outsourcing of some less critical engineering functions also helped to reduce costs.
At the same time, selling prices remained firm.
Increased Government taxation in the form of the UK Climate Change Levy was passed on to long-term contract customers from April onwards.
New business contributing to sales in 2001 included the supply of clean dry air to BP at Grangemouth and pipeline supplies of industrial gases to BASF on Teesside and to ASW near Cardiff.
New hydrogen plants began to supply Roche in Scotland and Dow Corning in Wales during the year.
Continental Europe and Ireland In Ireland, continued growth of demand across a number of sectors more than offset the negative sales and profit impact of a steel plant closure.
Increased sales of liquid nitrogen were driven by growth of pharmaceutical and electronics applications.
Business in Poland continued to grow during 2001 with increased sales from major tonnage supply schemes.
However, conditions in the steel sector were difficult leading to financial problems for some customers.
Results were stated after making a provision of some 1.4 million for bad and doubtful debts.
North America In generally weak economic conditions, turnover was up slightly but this reflected price increases and surcharges sufficient to recover higher costs, rather than increased volumes.
Growing demand for carbon dioxide provided a notable exception to the weak volume trend.
Overall operating profit was higher than a year ago.
New plants coming on stream in 2001 and the full year benefit of plants commissioned in 2000 contributed to sales volume.
Additional business was offset by weaker demand from some existing customers, particularly in the steel industry.
New business development continues to be focused on applications in the food and beverage industries and for environmental improvements.
BOCs focus on quality assurance continued to generate increasing demand for beverage grade carbon dioxide from the major companies.
Prices remained firm partly as a result of reduced product availability from chemical manufacturers.
Latin America BOCs business in Latin America enjoyed a strong year.
The Caribbean businesses gained from buoyant activity at the local refineries and so did Venezuela, where new customers in the food industry boosted demand for nitrogen and carbon dioxide.
During 2001, BOC assumed full ownership of two fully operational hydrogen supply schemes.
These supply oil refineries in Venezuela and Chile and had previously been joint ventures with Foster Wheeler.
The complex supplying Pemex with nitrogen for injection into its Cantarell offshore oilfield satisfied all the performance requirements in terms of product purity and delivery.
39 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Performance review comparing 2001 with 2000 North Pacific The economic climate in Japan deteriorated during the year in response to the downturn in the electronics industry.
A sharp focus on cost reduction and revenues from new business helped to sustain operating profit.
The most significant source of increased sales was an oxygen plant built at Onahama to supply Mitsubishi Materials but environmental applications such as oxy-fuel burners for the glass industry also contributed.
Elsewhere in the north Pacific region, growth continued at a more rapid pace although in most markets the trends were less favourable in the second half of the year than in the first.
This was particularly so in Hong Kong and south China but profits were significantly better in the rest of China, which continued to attract investment.
Restructuring and cost reduction measures helped towards an overall profit improvement.
Turnover and profit growth continued in Korea despite a gradual deterioration of the economy.
South East Asia Many of the economies of the region that depend heavily on the export of electronics declined significantly in the second half of 2001.
Thailand, which has a broader-based economy, was not so adversely affected and sales for food freezing applications continued to grow.
In Singapore a large new plant to supply Exxons petrochemical complex on Jurong Island was successfully commissioned by BOCs associated company.
A new contract was signed with NEG to increase the supply of oxygen to its glass production facilities in Malaysia.
The beneficial impact of this new business was offset by a reduction of activity in the steel sector.
BOCs new plants in the Philippines supplying the ethylene industry were successfully commissioned although take-off was below expectations due to softening of demand in end user markets.
South Pacific Turnover and operating profit grew strongly in Australia, principally as a result of new and more efficient plants coming into production and an increase in average prices for liquefied gases in the merchant market.
The year began slowly, probably as a result of the short-term impact of the introduction of a new tax structure and the disruption to business trends caused by the Olympic games.
Weakness of the Australian dollar then led to growth of mineral and food exports and some economic recovery in the second half of the year.
A new plant complex to supply utilities and a range of gases and services, including hydrogen, to BPs refinery near Brisbane was commissioned in 2001 and met all its financial and operational performance targets.
This efficient complex also replaced BOCs older production facilities near Brisbane and provides additional local supplies of argon and carbon dioxide for sale in the merchant market.
This follows the replacement of older air separation plant at Port Kembla by a more efficient on-site plant the previous year.
The economy of New Zealand remained steady in 2001 and sales improved as a result of firm selling prices and previous investment in tonnage capacity.
South Asia The trend of profit improvement continued in India helped by better volumes and substantial increases in productivity during 2001.
In Pakistan, BOCs plant supplying the ICI facility near Karachi continued to achieve a satisfactory performance.
Africa Sales and operating profit increased as a result of modest volume improvements coupled with careful control of costs.
Revenues from on-site schemes held up well and there was increasing demand for industrial gases for effluent treatment in the paper industry and for carbon dioxide from the beverage industry.
The political climate in the region affected exchange rates and investment confidence.
No major new supply schemes were won and new business was confined to small on-site generators for a number of existing customers.
Process Plants In conditions of declining demand for new air separation plant, the financial performance of BOC Process Plants deteriorated in 2001.
Operational performance was sustained at a high level with those plants that were provided being constructed on time and below budgeted costs.
However, activity was at a low ebb throughout the year and steps were taken in October 2001 to restructure manufacturing capacity with the closure of a plant at Edmonton in the UK.
This also recognises that demand for new gases plants is likely to be focused on hydrogen production in the near future.
This technology is provided to BOC by alliance partners rather than manufactured in-house.
40 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Industrial and Special Products ISP Turnover was 1,573.9 million, up five per cent and operating profit excluding exceptional items was 248.8 million, similar to the previous year.
Trading conditions were difficult in most of the major industrial markets during 2001 as a result of weak growth or declining trends in manufacturing industry.
BOC faced this challenge by improving customer service at the same time as controlling costs and by ensuring that service offerings were well aligned with customer needs.
This customer segmentation work was pursued in major markets and led to some major changes in merchandising.
There was a shift in emphasis towards making information available to customers on demand through customer service centres and over the Internet.
In the absence of growth in the fabrication sector, BOC was notably successful in developing new markets with both products and services.
Growth in 2001 came from the development of sales to the hospitality sector by providing not only beverage dispensing gases but also a full cellar gas management service in the UK.
UK An adverse trend in manufacturing output during 2001 created a difficult environment for industrial product sales.
Car production was depressed while activity in the shipbuilding and offshore platform fabrication sectors was at a low ebb.
Overall sales volumes were lower but growth in non-industrial sectors coupled with modest price increases enabled some growth in revenues as well as operating profit.
Sales of medical gases and of special gases, including refrigerants, increased in 2001.
Growth of the Sureflow hospitality gas business was modest in 2001 but, towards the end of the year, BOC reached a novel service partnership agreement with Scottish Courage, the leading brewing group.
Continental Europe and Ireland Increased sales and profit in Ireland were driven by the growth in the economy and expansion of BOCs Sureflow dispensing gas business serving pubs and clubs.
The hospitality sector also developed in Poland and BOC won a contract with a major global soft drinks company to supply cylinder gas for beverage dispensing.
Business performance in Turkey improved locally but was constrained by economic problems leading to a sharp devaluation of the local currency.
Despite this, both sales and operating profit increased for continental Europe and Ireland as a whole.
North America Weaker trends in manufacturing led to a disappointing year in both the US and Canada.
This was particularly evident in the Mid-West and south of the US, which are the traditional centres of the automobile and heavy construction industries.
The downturn in manufacturing was also more noticeable in sales of equipment and consumables than in compressed gases.
This reflects the smaller number of investment projects underway.
Despite generally firm selling prices, an overall decline in sales volume resulted in static sales and a lower operating profit.
Reduced demand from BOCs existing customers was partly offset by new business, which picked up strongly as the year progressed.
While sales of industrial products were weak in 2001, sales of special products grew in response to increased marketing effort.
Expanding applications for helium, including optical fibre production, caused a tighter balance between supply and demand during 2001 and this led to higher prices.
Latin America Turnover and profits from the region were substantially better in 2001.
Good volume growth in Venezuela was driven by increased sales of industrial, medical and scientific gases.
At the same time, savings in production and distribution costs led to better margins.
The medical and home health care sectors led growth in Colombia but there were also increased sales of packaged chemicals, scientific and industrial gases.
BOCs associated company based in Chile enjoyed continued growth in all its markets while cost management supported profit growth.
North Pacific Turnover in Japan was broadly similar in 2001 to the previous year but there was some improvement in operating profit as a result of a sharp focus on cost reduction.
New business included special gases used in the manufacture of lasers.
In a collaboration with its gas distributors, BOCs Japanese subsidiary opened the countrys largest cylinder filling facility during April 2001.
Declining manufacturing activity in Hong Kong was the leading factor in a small reduction in turnover and operating profit for the rest of the region excluding Japan.
South East Asia Sales and operating profit for the region as a whole were higher in 2001.
A new business activity supplying refrigerants in Thailand, Malaysia and the Philippines was launched in the second quarter and experienced continual sales growth through to the end of the year.
Similarly, a major programme to increase sales of special gases to the scientific market generated good growth across the region.
The lack of major infrastructure projects, particularly in Malaysia and Thailand, restricted growth in the industrial products business.
Competition remained a significant challenge throughout the Malay peninsula.
41 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Performance review comparing 2001 with 2000 South Pacific Better results were delivered in New Zealand in 2001 but weaker manufacturing in Australia over the year resulted in a modest decline in operating profit for the region as a whole.
The industrial downturn in Australia began early in the year as infrastructure projects were delayed and it was exacerbated by a gradual movement of fabrication and manufacturing industries to offshore locations.
BOC began to restructure its business early in the year to reflect the changes in the market.
Overhead costs were trimmed and some facilities were closed.
The resulting savings limited the impact of weaker sales volume on profit during the first half of 2001 and there was some recovery of demand in the second half.
Modest selling price increases were obtained during the year, particularly for special products.
The financial performance of BOCs associated company, Elgas, supplying liquefied petroleum gas LPG in south eastern Australia was significantly better in 2001.
Increased product costs were recovered in higher selling prices and margins improved.
At the same time, 2001 was the first full year of operation for the underground storage cavern, which enables economies of scale in purchasing LPG on the world market.
South Asia Slack demand for industrial gases in India and a reduction in shipbreaking activity in both Pakistan and Bangladesh curtailed, but did not reverse, the trend of sales growth across the region.
Operating profit was well up, although the comparison was distorted by a non-recurring charge in the previous year.
Africa Turnover and operating profit increased in 2001.
Strict cost controls and new business initiatives offset the effects of rather slow economic growth.
Business confidence was weak in South Africa, partly as a result of the political situation in neighbouring Zimbabwe.
At the same time the privatisation of the mining sector in Zambia increased business opportunities.
Much of the increase in turnover was a consequence of the increasing price of liquefied petroleum gas LPG and sales volumes were broadly similar to a year ago.
Increased LPG raw material costs were recovered in higher selling prices as the year progressed.
Prices of other products also remained generally firm.
Further growth was provided by additional LPG business within South Africa as well as from new markets in Madagascar and Mozambique.
New business was also obtained in the hospitality sector for dispensing gases.
Increased marketing efforts generated additional sales of packaged chemicals including ammonia, refrigerant gases and propellants.
In the medical sector, the home health business supplying oxygen cylinders and concentrators was expanded and a new emergency breathing pack was widely adopted by the mining industry.
BOC Edwards Turnover was 873.1 million, up five per cent and operating profit excluding exceptional items was 78.8 million, up eight per cent.
Turnover came from Europe 157.4 million, the Americas 393.3 million and Asia Pacific 322.4 million.
The overall growth masks a sharp difference in performance between the first and second halves of the year.
BOC Edwards enjoyed a particularly strong first six months as semiconductor manufacturers continued to invest in new production facilities.
During the second fiscal quarter demand for semiconductor devices began to falter and order intake for capital equipment fell sharply as manufacturers delayed or cancelled expansion plans.
Approximately half of BOC Edwards turnover at the time was related to semiconductor capital investment.
The most affected products were semiconductor pumping systems, gas equipment, chemical management systems and exhaust management systems.
BOC Edwards production capacity for these cyclical products is made intentionally flexible by using a proportion of outsourced manufacturing and temporary staff.
Vigorous cost cutting and adjustment of production capacity to match reduced demand enabled BOC Edwards to remain profitable in the exceptionally difficult circumstances of the last quarter.
While investment in production for microprocessors held up relatively well, the demand for computer memory slumped and prices fell to a level that discouraged new investment.
Capital spending by semiconductor foundry companies that had held up well through the last investment cycle in the industry fell sharply in 2001.
In addition to curtailed investment in new facilities, several manufacturers were forced to cut production rates in order to reduce overstocking and to cut losses.
This had some adverse impact on sales of electronic materials and revenues from process tool parts cleaning in the newly acquired BOC Edwards Kachina service business.
Revenues from the bulk gases segment were less badly affected as the gas consumption is not as directly related to production rates and a proportion of the income is typically derived from facility charges for on-site plants.
42 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 The general vacuum business supplying pumping systems to a wide variety of industrial and laboratory customers outside the semiconductor industry continued to grow.
New turbomolecular and scroll pumps were introduced to expand the range of applications and increased marketing effort also helped to stimulate increased sales in all geographies.
Although lower prices for semiconductor devices discouraged manufacturers from expanding capacity, they also led to a sharper focus on production costs.
Several manufacturers therefore persisted with investments in new technologies that are expected to lead to lower unit costs.
BOC Edwards continued product development work with these companies so that it could be in the strongest possible position to gain maximum benefit from the next investment cycle.
BOC Edwards worked with the leading investors in 300mm wafer technology and introduced a range of methylsilane materials for low-k dielectrics that are needed in the transition to ever narrower line widths.
New proximity pumping systems were developed including the iPX pump that provides on-tool high vacuum to atmospheric pumping in a single unit.
In chemical management, work continued to expand the range of products for copper technology including new electrolyte bath maintenance iPURE and planarisation slurry dispensing systems as well as new products for post-process cleaning.
Wet cleaning products were added to the range of exhaust management technology.
Nitrogen trifluoride NF production was increased in 2001.
Other developments during 2001 3 included the introduction of SemiServe, an Internet-based health and safety training system for the semiconductor industry.
The Coating Technology business had a difficult year in 2001 because orders for architectural glass coating systems were at a low level.
This was partly offset by increased sales of Temescal coaters for the compound semiconductor industry.
Pharmaceutical Systems introduced new products in 2001 and achieved an excellent performance as several pharmaceutical manufacturers stepped up their investment in automated freeze-drying and filling systems.
Afrox hospitals Turnover was 287.8 million in 2001 and arose only in Africa.
The decline in sterling revenues compared with 2000 was wholly attributable to exchange rate movements.
On the constant currency basis used for all the comparisons in the performance review, turnover increased ten per cent.
Operating profit excluding exceptional items was 32.3 million, up 33 per cent.
Occupancy rates in the South African private hospital sector as a whole were lower in 2001 but Afrox hospitals benefited from a marginal increase in admissions and an increase in revenue per patient day in hospital.
Lower costs were largely responsible for the improvement in margins.
Further benefits were obtained from the integration of the PresMed facilities and from more efficient working practices.
Health care services, including Direct Medicines, which facilitates a prescription medicines service providing essential chronic care, and Hospital Medical Systems, a pathology management company, performed well during 2001.
Gist formerly Distribution Services Turnover was 231.4 million, up two per cent and came from Europe 229.6 million and Asia Pacific 1.8 million.
Operating profit excluding exceptional items was 21.3 million, up 15 per cent.
The comparative operating profit for the previous year included a non-recurring compensation payment.
The improvement reflects the additional benefits of business re-alignment, productivity gains and new contracts.
In 2001, Gist secured a five year contract to service all warehousing and distribution operations for Budgens, the UK convenience food retailer, and a five year contract to supply warehousing operations for an electronic food-retailing venture.
BOC agreed to construct a purpose-built warehouse to support fulfilment operations for Ocado, a company established to provide home delivery services on behalf of Waitrose, a major UK food supermarket chain forming part of the John Lewis Partnership.
43 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002
