18 03 03 26 29 tp 25 3 03 5:02 pm Page 26 26 26 FINANCIAL REVIEW The additional capital improves our financial strength and has supported growth and diversification in thefaceoftesting market conditions.
MARTIN JACKSON GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR 2.6 billion group embedded value enabled us to manage our financial strength The additional capital improves our financial Financial reporting and ensure that statutory solvency requirements strength, increases the Free Asset Ratio FAR Modied statutory solvency MSS is the were met at all times.
of FPLP, and has supported growth and basis required under legislation for reporting diversication in both core businesses long-term insurance business results.
It is In December 2002, Friends Provident plc through acquisitions in the face of testing an extension of the statutory requirement successfully raised 290 million before expenses market conditions.
via an issue of convertible bonds due 2007, The achieved profit basis has been developed by The impact of falls in equity markets have been with a conversion price of 171 pence per share partly mitigated by cuts in policy bonuses and the Association of British Insurers and is a more and a coupon of 5.25%.
The capital was raised realistic method of accounting for long-term other reductions in liabilities.
The FAR, which to renance previous acquisitions, strategic business that fully recognises the shareholders represents the ratio of assets less liabilities investments and for general corporate purposes.
including actuarial reserves but before the interest in the in-force portfolio.
The achieved The net proceeds of 284 million formed part profit results are shown in the supplementary required minimum solvency margin expressed of a net injection of 294 million into Friends financial statements on pages 92 to 98. as a percentage of actuarial reserves for FPLP Provident Life and Pensions Limited FPLP, is estimated to have been 8.4% at the year end.
the main life and pensions company.
After Financial strength allowing for the injection, at the end of 2002 2002 saw a continuation of volatile equity The statutory solvency calculation includes corporate assets held outside the Life & Pensions markets and a third successive year of falling an implicit item representing future profits business were some 280 million, offset market values, with the FTSE 100 index falling of 600 million and a stop loss reinsurance by a 290 million liability in respect 24.5% in 2002 and 43.1% over the last agreement to the value of 530 million with 3 years.
However, our financial exibility has of the convertible debt.
third party re-insurers, which has the effect FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 18 03 03 26 29 tp 25 3 03 5:02 pm Page 27 27 of reducing FPLPs statutory liabilities At the end of 2002, the With profits Fund primarily a result of the injection of some by this same amount.
was invested 45% in equities and property 1.2 billion at the time of demutualisation which occurred mid-way through 2001. and the balance in xed interest and cash.
The FPLP solvency calculation excludes At the end of 2002, these net assets were still The level of equity investment was reduced the value of future profits from other life 1.2 billion, with falls in values as a result of over the year through a combination of equity insurance subsidiaries and the value of an the weak equity markets and the purchase of market movements and active investment inadmissible item held by the With profits Royal & SunAlliance International Financial decisions taken in the interest of prudent Fund of FPLP comprising 40% of the future Services being offset by surplus arising from management of the With profits Fund.
profits from certain business in force at the the in-force Life & Pensions business and the date of the demutualisation, which was Achieved profit results injection of holding company assets.
valued at 329 million at 31 December 2002.
Operating profit before amortisation of The effect of changes in operating assumptions goodwill, operating exceptional items and The With profits Fund showed a deficit at the has reduced profit by 30 million.
The decrease year end of 350 million on a statutory basis.
includes changes in assumptions to allow from 321 million in 2001 is mainly due to This deficit was well covered by statutory for increased longevity, which has a negative the effect of an adverse change in operating surplus in the Non profit Fund.
On a realistic effect in relation to annuities 56 million assumptions, as explained more fully below.
basis, and after providing for the cost of but a positive effect for term assurance.
Within the overall result, Life & Pensions guaranteed benets calculated on a stochastic Allowance for increased lapses, primarily achieved operating profit before operating basis, the With profits Fund is able to meet its mortgage endowment business, was offset exceptional items and tax was 247 million obligations to policyholders in accordance by the release of a provision for the impact 249 million in 2001.
The components of with the Principles of Financial Management of additional lapses following demutualisation.
established when the company was formed.
The allowance for increased lapses more The With profits Fund is run on mutual lines The contribution from new business was closely reects recent lapse patterns.
and there is no orphan estate.
The Groups 66 million 54 million in 2001 on Development costs were 27 million, down balance sheet on a realistic basis shows a a comparable basis, before allowing for from 30 million in 2001.
This is mainly significant surplus of assets over liabilities.
the cost of solvency capital and the pension expenditure on the development of advanced service charge on an FRS17 basis.
The The financial strength credit rating of FPLP electronic trading systems, e-commerce related increase is primarily a result of growth from Standard & Poors was maintained at activities and enhancement of customer service in investment bond and pensions new AAvery strong throughout the year albeit through our Friends Achieving Customer business volumes and improved margins on with a change in outlook to negative against Excellence programme.
The new business margin the background of a negative outlook for the increased to 17.5%, from 15.7% in 2001.
The Asset Management profit was 23 million UK Life industry.
The Moodys rating was for 2002 27 million for 2001.
During The expected return on shareholders downgraded from Aa3 to A2 stable outlook 2002, the Asset Management business was as part of Moodys review of the life insurance net assets within the life and pensions industry and a number of our UK competitors companies was 98 million.
This compares with 50 million in 2001.
The increase is experienced similar downgrades.
18 03 03 26 29 tp 25 3 03 5:02 pm Page 28 28 FINANCIAL REVIEW New business margins increased to 17.5%.
expanded by the acquisition of the down from 3.5 billion at the end of 2001.
The adverse effect of economic This is represented by the group embedded Royal & SunAlliance asset management assumption changes was 161 million before business.
Although assets under management value and comprises 1.2 billion of shareholders tax, or 113 million after tax and is mainly the have increased as a result of the acquisition invested net assets, 1.2 billion value of inimpact of lower long-term rates used in the force Life & Pensions business and 0.2 billion of Royal & SunAlliance Investments, increased valuation of pension annuities.
Embedded value revenue has been offset by interest payments market value of the Asset Management business.
per share at the end of 2002 was 150 pence.
At 31 December 2002, the shareholders on a loan from FPLP to fund the purchase.
Pension schemes invested net assets were invested broadly in Additionally, declining equity markets have The Group operates one principal dened a mix of equities 65%, and xed income depressed revenues.
benefit scheme, and two smaller schemes.
securities and cash 35%, the mix having Modified statutory solvency The market value of the assets at 31 December moved in line with markets over the year.
result and dividend 2002 was over 500 million.
The principal The group embedded value was adversely Operating profit before amortisation of dened benefit scheme moved into a deficit affected by 727 million in 2002 arising from goodwill, operating exceptional items and of 14 million, which is less than 3% relative the variation from the longer-term investment tax for the year to 31 December 2002 was to the market value of the assets.
As the deficit return and the effect of economic assumption 355 million.
This compares with 140 million is relatively small, it is anticipated that no changes.
These items are shown separately in for the half year to 31 December 2001.
The contributions will be made to the principal the profit and loss account on an achieved profit comparative difference in profits was mainly due scheme in 2003. basis.
The adverse variation from the longerto a weakening of the liability valuation basis term investment return was 848 million Funds under management in the light of investment market conditions in before tax, and 614 million after tax.
The Funds managed by ISIS were 60.1 billion at 2002, which has had the effect of accelerating reduction in embedded value of 614 million 31 December 2002.
These include 25.8 billion the recognition of profits which would includes the difference between the actual and relating to the Friends Provident Life & Pensions otherwise have emerged in later years.
Under expected return on the shareholders invested business.
During the year, the Life & Pensions the demutualisation scheme, surpluses arising net assets 340 million, the effect on the for shareholders from certain business in-force business had a cash inow from policyholders of value of in-force Life & Pensions business of 3.0 billion offset by 3.0 billion of claims paid.
at the date of demutualisation are calculated lower equity market levels 150 million and on an unmodied statutory solvency basis and Operating expenses additional changes to With profit assumptions are therefore subject to some additional Operating expenses for our Life & Pensions 150 million.
As well as the impact of volatility.
The total dividend for 2002 of 7.25 business in 2002 excluding the change in reductions in bonuses, the latter includes pence per share including the proposed final deferred acquisition costs were 412 million, 40 million to reect the cost of temporary dividend of 4.8 pence per share represents a notional support to the With profits Fund.
This compared with 364 million in 2001.
The comparative increase of 3.6% over the annualised increase resulted primarily from additional arises from the use of lower future investment dividend of 7 pence per share for 2001. endowment compensation and related return assumptions than the risk discount rate.
Shareholders funds There was a positive contribution from higher expenses 26 million, higher commission paid 6 million and expenses in relation The shareholders funds on an achieved profit than expected returns from xed income basis at 31 December 2002 were 2.6 billion securities on assets backing pension annuities to the acquired international business FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 18 03 03 26 29 tp 25 3 03 5:02 pm Page 29 29 The total dividend is 7.25 pence per share.
6 million for the 5 months since acquisition.
In particular, there is regular monitoring stages.
Product pricing is based on assumptions, Underlying operating expenses have therefore of the sensitivity to equity market falls and for example relating to expenses, mortality and been kept under tight control.
appropriate active management of the capital persistency, that reect past experience and position and statutory solvency of the main life anticipated trends.
Underwriting exposures are Borrowings and pensions company.
This includes separate also limited through careful selection of risk Following the issue of 290 million consideration of the Long Term Fund, and and reinsurance.
of convertible debt in December 2002, the With profits Fund realistic balance sheet.
Transaction risk the Groups long-term borrowings were With profit policyholders of FPLP share in Financial transactions, including those 556 million at the end of the year.
the investment profits and losses of the With relating to day-to-day liquidity management, profits Fund of FPLP.
The fund is run on a Management of financial risks investment pricing, payments to suppliers and mutual basis and is managed so that on a The Group has an established process for policyholders and collection of premiums are realistic basis the assets and liabilities identifying and managing risks.
These include controlled using laid down procedures that are in balance, with the liabilities including financial risks, the main ones are as follows: seek to minimise the risk of error and fraud.
an allowance for the stochastic costs of guaranteed benets.
Therefore, if policyholder Investment risk Business risk investment values reduce, discretionary This is reviewed regularly by the Investment The overall financial position of the Groups policyholder payouts will also be reduced Committee and senior management with businesses is monitored through regular and if they rise the increase will be paid out particular attention paid to overall investment reports to the Group Board from the Group as additional final bonuses.
This is consistent strategy and asset and liability management, Finance Director.
This includes reviewing with the principles of Financial Management including the monitoring of counterparty the Groups embedded value and balance established when FPLP was formed.
There is a comprehensive credit risk, interest rate risk and investment performance.
Counterparty risk is covered by business planning and monitoring process The assets backing the With profit liabilities collateral, where appropriate.
Investment for measuring progress against budget.
are reviewed regularly and appropriate actions performance is measured by comparison with The Appointed Actuary reports on specic such as changing the proportion of equity actuarial matters relating to the long term appropriate benchmarks for individual funds.
investments and amount of policyholder insurance business, including reports on Derivative instruments are used to facilitate payouts are taken.
Where policy guarantees are statutory valuations, bonus recommendations, efficient portfolio management and to reduce worth more than the underlying investment realistic balance sheet and financial condition.
investment and interest rate risk including that values, this cost is met by the With profits arising from guaranteed annuity options.
Payouts are now targeted at 100% of derivative transactions are covered by cash or the underlying investment values after allowing corresponding assets and liabilities.
Derivative for the anticipated cost of guarantees.
Insurance risk MARTIN JACKSON Asset and liability management for all This is controlled using delegated authorities insurance subsidiaries is especially important GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR through product pricing and underwriting when equity market levels are low.
procedures at both the new business and claims
