22 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Highlights Profits 231m 2001 169m ROE 21.3% 2001 15.9% HBOS Treasury Services plc launched Increased customer sales contribute to strong profit growth High quality investment portfolio Gordon McQueen, Mark J Smith, Head of Institutional Sales, USA.
Treasury HBOS Treasury Services plc launched as profits grow by 37% to 231m 23 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Banking on Treasury The business is now managed on an Securitisation For Treasury, 2002 was a year of major integrated basis both within the various Securitisation is an important technique achievement.
Financial performance was operating functions and also from a risk which enables the Group to diversify funding very strong, with profit before tax and management and reporting standpoint.
sources and manage its capital resources and exceptionals up 37% on last year to 231m, in June, Treasury arranged an issue of 3.5bn Until May we continued to trade in and, in a complex integration project, of mortgage backed securities denominated both the Halifax and Bank of Scotland substantially all of the Halifax and Bank in US dollars, euros and sterling.
The mortgages Treasury Services plc names.
However, of Scotland treasury businesses were were originated by Halifax plc in the UK.
at the end of May substantially all of the successfully combined into a single At the time this was the largest global UK two businesses were successfully combined entity, HBOS Treasury Services plc.
Mortgage Backed Securities transaction and in Bank of Scotland Treasury Services plc it achieved a finer blended average spread Our Performance using the banking business transfer provisions over LIBOR than any previous comparable of part VII of the Financial Services and Business Overview issue.
This securitisation has since been Markets Act 2000.
The transfer of the Halifax Treasury provides wholesale multi-currency awarded European Deal of the Year treasury business represented one of the first funding and manages prudential and regulatory by International Securitisation Report.
transfers under this new legislation.
In mid liquidity for the HBOS Group.
It is also Customer Service June the opportunity was taken to re-brand responsible for arranging the Groups debt Combining the two treasury businesses into the combined UK treasury business as HBOS capital issuance and asset securitisation HBOS Treasury Services plc and operating as Treasury Services plc reflecting Treasurys programmes.
Additionally, a range of central role as a provider of treasury services a fully integrated team with one name in the treasury services is provided to SMEs both to other parts of the HBOS Group market place achieves a number of merger and large corporate customers of the Business and Corporate Banking Divisions.
This has achieved economies of The sales function within Treasury works scale and enables us to redirect more of This transfer of assets together with the directly with customers to build risk our energies towards improved customer re-branding as HBOS Treasury Services plc management solutions tailored to their services, increased product coverage and involved a significant communications specific requirements.
Similarly, a range maximising opportunities arising from programme to our customers and of treasury services and product solutions the business growth in other divisions.
Both the transfer and is available to intra-group customers.
efficient way of doing this is the continuous the re-branding were highly successful development of our e-business capabilities Treasury seeks to maximise opportunities and have been positively received by both through our website, which has been refrom the underlying flows generated by the wholesale markets and our customers.
com, where the Groups operations but trades on its HBOS Treasury Services plc is a single our customers can now place deposits own account in the worlds foreign exchange, integrated business which blends together and deal in foreign exchange online.
money markets, derivatives, debt and capital the strengths of both the Bank of Scotland markets.
The Treasury Division also maintains Throughout the year we have seen an increase and Halifax treasury businesses.
Within the a high quality investment portfolio of asset in the flow of business from other divisions HBOS Group it sits as a wholly owned and backed securities.
in the Group and their customers to whom fully guaranteed subsidiary of Bank of Scotland.
we have provided a wide range of product The Divisions overriding focus is on high Since the transfer of business and re-branding offerings such as interest rate derivatives quality business generated primarily from we have been concentrating on further and foreign exchange.
customer flows, both internal and external, integrating processes and systems and also and on achieving the Groups targeted return Expansion of Funding expanding our product range for both our on equity.
Treasury provides wholesale funding internal and external customers.
and liquidity for the Group.
In order Business Integration Systems Integration to meet the continuing growth in Group Further excellent progress on integration The final internal stage of the Treasury wholesale funding, the opportunity was has been made during the year.
Since the taken to rationalise the Groups Medium Term merger of Bank of Scotland and Halifax to integration involves a phased approach to form HBOS in September 2001 our focus consolidate fully and develop further our Note MTN and Commercial Paper CP has been on successfully integrating the systems.
Considerable progress has been Programmes.
The combined size of the US Bank of Scotland and Halifax treasury made during the last 12 months and we and Euro MTN Programmes was increased operations and infrastructure.
We have expect to achieve this by the end of the from US$25bn to US$40bn.
In addition consolidated our operations from four to second quarter 2003.
Implementing the the US CP Programme was increased two sites, the main one at 33 Old Broad remaining systems changes is key to ensuring from US$1bn to US$15bn.
The Euro CP Street, London and the other in Glasgow.
that we achieve our targeted synergy savings.
and Certificate of Deposit Programme 3.5bn successful UK Mortgage Backed Securitisation transaction 24 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 was increased to 15bn and the C$1bn Our Financial Performance Quality of Earnings Halifax plc CP programme was cancelled and The intra-group arrangements that drive Interest Income re-launched in the new name and increased almost half of Treasurys total profits also Net interest income was 200m 2001 to C$2bn.
All three CP programmes are now ensure that these earnings are of particularly 206m.
After adjusting for non recurring established in the name of HBOS Treasury high quality in the HBOS Group.
profits from the sale of fixed income Services plc.
securities earned in the prior year and Around 19% of the Divisions total revenues In support of the Groups growth other adjustments, underlying growth arose from the provision of wholesale funding a number of major senior funding issues was strong.
The strong volume growth to the Groups banking divisions and the were undertaken by Treasury under the MTN in providing funding to our businesses management of liquidity on behalf of the programmes.
Transactions included a US$2bn through our money market activities Group.
The quality of earnings from funding issue into the US, a 1bn issue into Europe was the principal driver in the revenue is high as the growth in revenues matches the and a three tranche issue totalling US$1.75bn growth, with margins enhanced through growth in the aggregate of the three banking which was targeted primarily at the Asian successful positioning in the favourable divisions net funding requirements, driven market.
This last deal won the International interest rate environment also contributing by their respective asset growth.
The quality Financing Reviews Financial Bond Senior Debt to the underlying year on year growth.
of earnings from liquidity management is also of the Year award.
These issues reflect Overall margins remained stable after very high because the quantum of liquidity our commitment to diversify further adjusting for non recurring profits from grows in direct proportion to overall Group our investor base.
the sale of fixed income securities balance sheet growth.
the credit quality of Treasurys liquid asset Treasury is also responsible for co-ordinating portfolio is so high, the volatility of Treasurys and executing the issue of subordinated debt Non-Interest Income earnings arising from credit risk is inherently low.
by HBOS plc, Bank of Scotland and Halifax plc.
Non-interest income for the year During the year HBOS plc issued Upper more than doubled to 125m 2001 Around another 29% of the Divisions total Tier 2 capital of 500m of 5.75 per cent 55m.
As foreshadowed in the interim revenues in 2002 arose from the provision Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes and report, dealing profits in the second of treasury products to other divisions or Bank of Scotland issued Lower Tier 2 capital of half of the year, though still strong, to their customers.
Again, this represents 750m of Subordinated Fixed Rate Notes due were lower than the outstanding first an extremely high quality stream of earnings October 2012 and US$450m of Subordinated half performance.
The large year on year because revenues will either match the Floating Rate Notes due November 2012. increase benefited from volume growth natural growth of the other divisions and and favourable positioning in interest their customer business or exceed this growth In Euroweeks Review of the Year 2002 rate related products.
rate, particularly where Treasury division, in survey of wholesale borrowers, voted for line with its core strategy, increases its sales by top houses in the International Markets, Customer sales remained strong and penetration of the captive external customer HBOS was voted the most impressive continued to grow throughout the year, bases and adds to its product portfolio.
with the business leveraging the enhanced Furthermore, the counterparty credit risk in customer potential which has arisen as a respect of treasury product sales to external result of the merger.
Development of the non-bank customers is borne by the banking divisions customer flow income remains a division with the customer relationship.
key strategic priority and progress has been Consequently, in this growing strand of made in the year through increased penetration Treasurys business, the Groups policy of the Corporate customer base, extending framework insulates its earnings from the product range and leveraging the enhanced volatility arising from external non-bank potential which has arisen as a result of the counterparty credit risk.
Indeed some 62% of the dealing profits arose from activity related to Asset Quality customer sales.
As a matter of policy, we continue to avoid sub-investment grade investments.
This is Costs demonstrated by the high credit quality of Overall operating expenses were 89m the investment portfolio whose assets total 2001 83m.
Of these, 87.9% are rated AAA and from higher performance related bonus payments resulting from strong trading 99.7% are rated single A or above.
Excluding this, underlying investment write off of 1m 2001 9m expenses showed a small decrease.
against a single portfolio investment was Tony Main, Head of Funding & Liquidity, Stephanie Hassell, Senior Dealer Euro Money Markets and Stephen Lorimer, Director Debt Capital Markets.
Treasury continued 99.7% of investment portfolio assets are credit rated single A or above 25 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Financial Performance Year Year ended ended 31.12.02 31.12.01 Profit and Loss Account m m Net interest income 200 206 Non-interest income 125 55 Dealing Profits 145 77 Fees Payable 21 22 Other income 1 Operating income 325 261 Philip Duncombe, Senior Foreign Exchange Trader.
Operating expenses 89 83 Staff 47 41 taken during the second half of the year.
Accommodation, repairs A specific provision of 4m 2001 nil was and maintenance 6 9 also recognised in respect of a discontinued Technology 6 7 strategic investment.
Depreciation Prospects Tangible fixed assets 1 1 Building upon the progress made last year we Other 12 16 have continued to integrate the business and Subtotal 72 74 the launch of HBOS Treasury Services plc in Recharges: June as the single integrated treasury for the Technology 11 11 HBOS Group underlines the progress we have Accommodation 1 made.
Throughout the merger process we Other Shared Services 6 3 continue to focus strongly on ensuring that we meet the needs and expectations of Operating profit our customers.
before provisions 236 178 Provisions for bad & doubtful debts Treasurys key goals remain unchanged.
These Specific 4 are to become the preferred or sole provider Amounts written off fixed of treasury services to the other divisions of asset investments 1 9 HBOS and the predominant provider of treasury services to Business and Corporate Banking Profit before tax 231 169 customers.
We also aim to generate at least Net interest margin bp 17 21 75% of our revenues from flow business Cost:income ratio 27.5% 32.9% generated by our customers thus establishing Post tax return on equity 21.3% 15.9% a high quality and sustainable profit stream.
As at As at This predominantly internal focus 31.12.02 31.12.01 generates high quality earnings for Treasury.
Furthermore our structural and strategic Total Risk Weighted Assets 11.0bn 11.8bn linkage to the rest of the Group will enable Excluding exceptional items.
Treasury to continue to benefit from the Net interest margin has been calculated as net interest growth potential of each of the Groups income divided by average interest earning assets excluding securities classified as trading assets.
banking divisions in 2003 and beyond.
Cost:income ratio has been calculated excluding exceptional items and after netting amounts written off fixed asset investments against operating income.
26 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Highlights Profits A$213m 2001 A$226m ROE 13.8% 2001 16.2% 22.8% growth in mortgage balances 16.9% growth in deposit balances 20 Neighbourhood Banks opened Terry Budge, Business Development Officer Mirella Addison in Group Managing Director, BankWest.
BankWests Whitford Customer Service Centre.
BankWest Strong growth in housing lending 27 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 BankWest Foundations for Growth Financial Performance BankWest is an Australian bank, The Bank has continued to generate Year Year revenue through existing lines of business ended ended headquartered in Perth which offers a full and this year introduced an important new 31.12.02 31.12.01 range of banking products and services in Profit and Loss Account A$m A$m source of future revenues with the nationwide both the domestic and business markets.
rollout of its small business initiative Business HBOS plc held 56.8% of BankWests share Net interest income 416 419 Express with encouraging early results.
capital as at 31 December 2002, and is one Non-interest income 239 218 Also during the year the Bank expanded its of 69,000 shareholders.
BankWests shares national agribusiness operations by opening Operating income 655 637 are listed on the Australian stock exchange.
new locations in rural New South Wales and Operating expenses 404 393 Queensland.
Business lending growth which The bank is strategically organised into was constrained by a low level of business Staff 198 183 two line-of-business operating divisions: investment early in the year was marginal.
BankWest Business Solutions, which aims to Accommodation, repairs establish a national niche business bank and and maintenance 26 26 In addition to a continued programme BankWest Consumer Solutions, which aims Technology 5 6 to upgrade existing branches to improve to add value to the existing dominant customer facing services, 20 Neighbourhood Marketing & communication 31 28 Western Australia consumer franchise.
Banks were opened in Western Australia, Depreciation Tangible increasing the level of face-to-face banking fixed assets 24 23 Our Performance in direct response to customer demand for Fees and commissions payable 11 11 Operating income has grown by 2.8% from this type of service.
These banking centres Other 109 116 A$637m to A$655m driven by growth of 9.6% are located within existing shops and provide in non-interest income.
This was a result of a cost effective way of servicing customers.
Operating profit before a significant increase in customer fees and provisions 251 244 The buoyant housing market contributed to commissions in Customer Solutions, offset Provisions for bad & doubtful debts the success of consumer banking where the to a degree by a reduction in software Specific 33 11 mortgage book continued to grow strongly, consulting and maintenance income from General 5 7 up, 22.8% to A$11.5bn before securitisation HBOS.
In a year of significant investment in from this time last year.
both infrastructure and recruitment of sales Profit before tax 213 226 Developments in online lending are also personnel to support future growth plans, Net interest margin 2.13% 2.20% underway to further support mortgage operating expenses experienced growth Cost:income ratio 60.7% 60.6% lending growth as the bank continues of 2.8% increasing from A$393m to A$404m Post tax return on equity 13.8% 16.2% to offer a range of direct channels that and the cost income:ratio increased to 60.7%, include internet and telephone banking.
marginally above the 2002 level of 60.6%.
Balance Sheet and As at As at Total customer deposit balances have also Success in the buoyant low margin housing and Asset Quality 31.12.02 31.12.01 increased, up 16.9% to A$10.4bn and form lending environment has exerted downward an integral part of our funding mix.
The retail Total Lending pressure on the net interest margin, but is deposit ratio of 46.8% has strengthened from to Customers A$20.4bn A$18.8bn partially offset by higher margins in the 44.1% a year earlier.
business banking sector resulting in a net Bad Debt Provisions A$m A$m During the past twelve months the Bank made interest margin of 2.13% at 31 December Specific 53 39 progress with its strategy to expand nationally 2002 compared to 2.20% in 2001.
Interstate markets now account Provisions for bad and doubtful debts for 45.8% 31 December 2001 42.2% of the Total 146 128 increased from A$18m to A$38m, reflecting Banks lending.
National market share totalled 3.6% at November 2002. the impact of a difficult business lending Total Customer Deposits A$10.4bn A$8.9bn environment.
The increase in the charge for Total Risk Weighted Assets A$15.7bn A$14.9bn Improving Returns specific provisions was marginally offset by The Bank now enters a period of capitalising After securitisation.
a lower general provisioning charge, resulting on the investments made in infrastructure Including income representing the fully tax equivalent partly from an A$1bn securitisation of and people, improving efficiency in terms gross up of A$11m 2001 A$12m.
housing loans in July 2002. of controlled growth in expenses whilst striving for growth in key markets in both The above tables have been prepared under Profit before tax was A$213m.
Although the consumer and business divisions.
Australian GAAP, as reported by BankWest.
less than last year, it reflects a year of consolidation following restructuring In addition, the Bank will look to benefit The figures reported in the Financial Review and investment in expansion into new from HBOSs successes in the UK and adapt and Risk Management section on page 33 markets in order to sustain future growth.
them to the Australian market.
reflect the sterling equivalent under UK GAAP.
A$20.4bn total lending to customers 28 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 HBOSs investment in energy saving measures has been recognised by the Carbon Trust Energy Efficiency Accreditation Scheme.
Corporate Corporate Responsibility is an integral part of the way we do business Responsibility 29 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Our Responsibilities We are determined to treat all current and of sign language interpreters.
Induction loops The creation of HBOS gave us an important potential colleagues and customers fairly and are already installed in over 800 locations new opportunity to build on the strong with respect.
We aim to recruit, develop and as part of a continuous programme.
record of social responsibility which retain the best people through the use of Ethnicity is a widely recognised characteristic leading edge policies and practices.
We will Our Retail Division has increased its ethnic of both Halifax and Bank of Scotland.
ensure that each customer and colleague is minority representation from 4% in 1998 treated as an individual and we will value Our aim is to add shareholder value to over 7% in 2002.
There have also been them for their contribution to the business.
within a responsibility agenda, covering some significant local increases within critical issues like governance, equality To drive our equality vision a Diversity Halifax branch, for example, we have seen and diversity, community relations, Leadership Group has been set up, led by ethnic minority representation increase environmental protection, business James Crosby, Chief Executive, with a Diversity from nearly 7% to over 30%.
Taskforce in each of the HBOS divisions.
Environment HBOS adopted a new corporate responsibility Our commitment to equality and diversity We support the principles of sustainable CR policy in April 2002, when the Board has been recognised and verified through development our environmental established a CR Forum under the leadership high profile awards such as Queen Elizabeths management programmes aim to create of Phil Hodkinson, Chief Executive of the Foundation EASE award, Opportunity Now, long-term shareholder value by carefully Insurance & Investment Division.
The Forum Personnel Today and New Impacts British managing the environmental impact of draws together senior managers from across Diversity awards.
the Group to co-ordinate our activities, share We were awarded the Gold Standard in best practice, and learn about this rapidly As part of our policy, environmental Business in the Communitys Opportunity growing topic.
It is supported by a small stewardship is considered in all areas of Now Benchmarking Survey 2002, and HBOS team of specialists in HBOS Group our business.
One recent example is Insight has been confirmed as one of the top ten Communications.
Investments Global Business Principles, private sector companies in BitCs Race for which signalled the launch of the HBOS Phil Hodkinson also chairs the Business Impact Opportunity Benchmarking Survey 2002. responsible investment approach.
Task Force for Business in the Community, and is an acknowledged leader in the corporate Work-life Balance We work with a number of organisations, responsibility field.
Our range of equality and diversity policies including Forum for the Future, the Carbon form an important part of our inclusive and Trust, Global Action Plan and the British A second key event in 2002 was the formation supportive culture.
We want our colleagues Bankers Association, to ensure that we of a Responsible Investment team, and the to achieve the work-life balance that is right incorporate environmental issues into launch of the Global Business Principles for them.
initiative, by Insight Investment, the asset management business within HBOS Group.
Options include part-time or term-time work Our environment policy demonstrates Insight has acknowledged its responsibility and other flexible work patterns, as well as our commitment to the environment, to engage with the companies in which it homeworking, job share and career breaks.
and sets out the positive steps we are invests in support of good governance practice.
Our policies offer enhanced maternity, taking to reduce our environmental impact.
paternity and adoption provisions, plus A new Investor Responsibility Service makes it We have spent 1.2m on energy-saving supportive options such as parental, easier for pension funds and other institutional equipment in the past four years, saving compassionate and emergency leave.
investors to demonstrate a commitment to over 2.2m and 17,000 tonnes of carbon addressing corporate responsibility issues, dioxide CO emissions.
There is a clear link between equality 2 without compromising their financial objectives.
and diversity, and business excellence.
Halifax corporate and retail sites were Engaging in the wider community The HBOS corporate responsibility strategy ahead of target in achieving a 10% reduction increases loyalty from colleagues and is developing rapidly, and good progress has in energy consumption per square metre.
customers and enhances our reputation.
been made in three key areas of diversity, In 2002, a two-year renewal of our energy It can also open up new markets through environment and community.
contract included the supply of 10GWh a better understanding of our diverse of green energy to Halifax corporate sites.
This complements the existing supply The diversity of our people, products and We have also made significant improvements of new renewable electricity to Bank services is at the heart of our mission to be to access provisions for customers who have of Scotland sites, and is equivalent to the new force in banking.
We are committed a disability, including use of large print and a reduction in HBOS CO emissions to equality of opportunity in all areas 2 Braille, textphones and Typetalk, and a network of around 8,500 tonnes per annum.
20m 2.2m commitment to voluntary savings in energy costs over and community groups over four years five years 30 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Initiatives are in place to minimise employee commuting by car.
These include successful car-sharing schemes in Copley and Leeds.
Redundant Bank of Scotland banknotes are composted, and we have introduced new waste management procedures at our Birmingham Midshires and HECM subsidiaries.
We have been working with the environmental charity Global Action Plan since 1999 to raise colleague and customer awareness of environmental issues both at work and at home.
In 2002, waste awareness campaigns were run in Birmingham Midshires, Halifax Direct, and HECM.
As a lender, we are committed to assisting our customers by adopting an open and constructive approach to highprofile issues.
Through this, we can achieve a better environment both for business and for the whole community.
In 2002, Bank of Scotland sponsored the Scottish Team to enable them to take part We aim to lend responsibly and apply in the Commonwealth Games and promoted the event in Manchester.
the highest principles of business, and to deal with customers who share that aim.
We appreciate that there is often a of renewable energy, enough to power the award for Most Impressive Community wider social and environmental interest 1.1m households and save 4.25m tonnes Banking Service at the Institute of Financial in our financial relationships.
2 deal with organisations that we know HBOS Business Banking Division is working We have signed Europes first Community are engaged in illegal operations.
with the Carbon Trust in a project to raise Banking Agreement CBA in March 2001 Credit decisions are based on a thorough awareness of the commercial and other longwith the community of Wester Hailes in understanding of the customers business, term benefits of managing environmental Edinburgh.
Its aim is to improve access to management and sector.
Our comprehensive impact in smaller companies, and in large market finance in a disadvantaged community, lending and leasing policies, and our training businesses like HBOS.
It focuses, in particular, enabling individuals to access finance and and awareness initiatives, ensure that lending on energy efficiency and waste minimisation.
We expect to terms for business customers are up to date roll out the project to new areas soon.
Community Relations with potential risk and opportunities.
We are keen to strengthen and invigorate We also agreed an 800,000 four-year We maintain a detailed internal guide to the local communities that drive our committed overdraft with One Plus, a environmental risks associated with lending business success.
charity that provides services for lone and leasing to help our lenders identify parents in the West of Scotland.
This will Over the last five years, Halifax and Bank relevant environmental issues, address help ease cashflow problems as the group of Scotland have invested nearly 40m the risks with customers and, where waits for European Social Funds to arrive.
to benefit thousands of local community appropriate, direct customers to sources initiatives and charitable organisations.
We made bank accounts available to Big of specialist assistance.
Through our charity Visa cards, more than Issue vendors in Glasgow.
In the first nine Bank of Scotland has joined a pan-European 15m has been directed to British Heart months of operation, 190 accounts were consortium Aeolus, contributing to a 1bn Foundation, Imperial Cancer Research, opened, representing 90% of the potential fund for large renewable energy projects, Mencap and many other medical charities Glasgow customer base.
In July 2002, we such as offshore wind farms, primarily in since 1988. won a Business in the Community Award for the UK and Ireland.
Excellence for our work with The Big Issue.
We are at the forefront in the financial Proposed UK projects are estimated to have services sector in tackling financial exclusion, In social banking, HBOS is market leader.
the potential to generate over 1600 MW and our Community Banking team collected Together Halifax Cardcash and Bank Corporate Responsibility continued 3m invested to encourage excellence and participation in sport 31 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 of Scotland Easycash make up over 80% winning and long-standing sponsorship of and Soccer Sight in association with the of the UKs social bank accounts market.
the Bank of Scotland Childrens Festival.
Royal National Institute for the Blind.
The HBOS Foundation Sport Future Plans We are committed to making a genuine, In 2002, we invested over 3m to encourage HBOS believes that CR is not something that tangible difference to the communities excellence and participation in sport.
As a can be pursued separately from our business in which we operate.
Thats why we have result more than 20,000 young people took goals.
It is an integral part of the way we do created the HBOS Foundation, a charitable part in sporting events made possible with business.
It is also a major factor in our drive trust that supports local and national charities our support.
to increase employee advocacy for the and voluntary organisations throughout the UK.
organisation and its products and services.
We have youth development programmes The Foundation has made a commitment which encourage participation and excellence HBOS aims to be a leader in CR, and we are of at least 20m to be made available to in sport such as our Learn to Swim and putting a new framework in place across the voluntary and community groups over Talented Young Athletes initiatives.
Group to achieve this objective.
In 2002, we sponsored the Scottish Team The focus is on two key areas: which competed at the Commonwealth Games in Manchester 2002.
Our support Providing financial advice and improving went specifically towards team preparation, financial literacy and resulted in the team more than doubling Developing and improving local communities their medal count from the previous Games.
Colleague Involvement In March 1999 Bank of Scotland became the Money and gifts are welcomed by community first title sponsor of the newly formed Bank of organisations, but for many our most valuable Scotland Premierleague.
We recently extended contribution is in giving our time and skills.
the sponsorship for a further three years and, with millions of spectators watching, it is our We encourage our colleagues to get highest-profile sports sponsorship.
involved directly and, as a further incentive, we also match the money they raise for charity.
We are also involved in many football-related Our Matched Funding Scheme, which was initiatives which benefit the community, launched in October 2002, benefits hundreds including our support for Schools Football of good causes.
Sponsorship We have been involved in sponsorship for over 50 years.
In 2002 we invested over 8m in sponsorship projects across the country, creating long-term partnerships that meet business objectives and are of real value to our partner organisations.
HBOS, through Halifax and Bank of Scotland, is one of the countrys largest sponsors of the Arts and youth sport.
Our aim is to strengthen the economic and cultural vitality of our local communities, and to encourage diversity and excellence in sport and the Arts.
In 2002 over 3m was invested to support the development of the Arts throughout the country, increasing access to the Arts, developing the potential of young people and promoting excellence.
We encourage children to recognise the importance of the Arts through our awardThe HBOS foundation sponsors the environmental area at Eureka Childrens Science Museum in Halifax.
We are committed to equality in all areas of employment and business
