ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 8 Group Finance Directors Review Double digit growth in turnover and profit resulted in a significant increase in total shareholder return.
These Financial Statements demonstrate the strong financial performance of the Group during the year.
Results The Group reported profit of Groups cost base.
A significant element of 89.1 million before taxation, goodwill this cost, however, is performance related.
amortisation and exceptional items: this represents an 18% increase over the The strong turnover performance prior year.
combined with prudent cost management has resulted in an increase in the Group Group turnover increased by 12%, with operating profit margin excluding the Groups operations benefiting from goodwill amortisation and exceptional uncertain and volatile financial markets.
items to 15% in the financial year This was achieved in spite of the events of ended 31 March 2002 14% 2001.
11 September which we estimate adversely impacted turnover by at least 10 million.
Exceptional items The Group reported a 2.9 million net exceptional pre-tax Rigorous cost management continues to gain.
Behind this net figure are a number be an objective of the Group.
Excluding of items that require further explanation.
the impact of higher performance and turnover-linked broker bonuses, and The World Trade Center disaster resulted acquisitions and disposals, underlying in exceptional costs of 28.7 million: expenses increased during the year by 10.1 million of this related to the write only 8.6 million 3%.
Following the off of fixed assets destroyed.
In addition, April 2002 UK Fiscal Budget, we anticipate significant costs have been incurred in that the higher employers National restoring the business including the Insurance rate will increase the Groups reinstatement of systems and data cost base by 1.5 million per annum together with certain incremental from April 2003. employee related costs.
During the financial year to 31 March 2002, the Broker employment costs, at 54% of Group Group has received and recognised turnover, are the major component of the 11.9 milion $17 million on account ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 9 under its insurance policy.
The balance of Cash flow and balance sheet The regular review by the Treasury Committee.
insurance proceeds, estimated to be Groups cash increased by 35.3 million The overall philosophy is one of capital $33 million, is expected to be received in the financial year to 31 March 2002. preservation, liquidity management and and recognised as exceptional income in Shareholders funds increased by then yield enhancement.
the financial year to 31 March 2003.
The Groups FRS 1 cash flow is set out on The Group disposed of its shareholdings The Group continues to place emphasis page 32 of the Financial Statements.
in The London Stock Exchange, LIFFE on the effective management of its cash However, consistent with previous years, and the Deutsche Brse during the year resources.
Regular reviews of cash retained cash flow is best understood by reference resulting in an exceptional gain of in operating subsidiaries are undertaken to the movement in net funds defined 32.1 million.
and, where it is appropriate, surplus cash as cash, current asset investments less is repatriated to the centre.
During the financial year, the Groups 7.6% expenditure is tightly controlled and investment in MoneyLine was reduced monitored by the Groups annual budgeting On this basis, net funds increased during to under 1% following a restructuring and quarterly forecasting cycles.
A policy the year by 43.4 million to 165.7 million and refinancing of MoneyLine.
As a is in place to ensure that cash balances 2001 122.3 million.
A significant consequence, an impairment review was are invested only in institutions not less proportion of the Groups net funds undertaken and a decision was made to than AA rated and for a duration of no balance is required to be held by operating write off the Groups remaining longer than two years.
The amount of subsidiaries to meet regulatory, commercial investment of 6.7 million.
funds that may be invested in any one and capital requirements.
This is subject to Recent developments in the electronic platform market place caused the Group to conduct an impairment review of its 19% shareholding in Blackbird.
Following this review it was decided to write off the Groups remaining investment of 3.5 million.
There were a number of other exceptional costs amounting to a net 2.2 million relating to the closure and disposal of various operations including those in Luxembourg.
Earnings per share EPS Higher pre-tax profit, a constant Group effective tax rate of 34% and no significant change in minority interests has resulted in a substantial increase in earnings.
With virtually no increase in shares issued, adjusted EPS, which excludes goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, for the financial year to 31 March 2002 was 58.0p, a 17% increase on the prior year.
Basic EPS was 52.8p, 31% higher than last year.
Dividend An 18p final dividend is proposed, subject to shareholder approval.
This is a second year of increase and compares to 15p in the previous year resulting in a full-year dividend of 24p 2001 20p, a 20% increase on the prior year reflecting the strong earnings performance.
The dividend continues to be more than twice covered by earnings.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 10 Group Finance Directors Review continued The movement in the net funds position is The Group has renewed its banking summarised below.
facilities and now has in place a 40 million loan facility with four commercial banking Year ended institutions maturing in November 2003.
31 March 2002 m This facility is essentially of a working Profit before tax 89.1 capital nature, although 20 million can Joint ventures and associates 4.2 be utilised for acquisitions.
Additionally, Depreciation 10.9 the Group has an 8 million revolving Net capital expenditure 16.5 364-day facility with another commercial Acquisitions investments 8.9 banking institution.
Neither of these facilities Dividends 21.8 was drawn down at the year end.
Tax 21.8 Working capital and other 8.8 Net assets as at 31 March 2002 include 18.0 42.8 million of goodwill which relates Exceptional items 25.4 mainly to the Exco Intercapital merger in Net funds inflow 43.4 1998.
Following the acquisition of First excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Brokers, announced on 30 April 2002, the level of goodwill on the balance sheet Exceptional items include 14.8 million will increase significantly.
of World Trade Center related costs, 5 million of World Trade Center capital US business recovery The numerous related expenditure and other items of financial challenges arising from the 1 million.
These items are offset by World Trade Center disaster have been insurance proceeds of 11.9 million and met satisfactorily.
net receipts from the sale of the Groups shareholdings in The London Stock The Groups global financial systems Exchange, LIFFE and the Deutsche Brse minimised the extent of the disruption to of 34.3 million.
the financial and management reporting processes.
Notwithstanding this, original In April 2002, the Group completed documentation and records were lost in the acquisition of First Brokers for an the destruction of the World Trade Center.
initial cash consideration of 25 million This required a major reinstatement exercise $35.7 million.
No further consideration that is now largely complete.
is due to be paid in the financial year to 31 March 2003.
A number of US bond markets were seriously impacted by the disaster.
In the During the financial year to 31 March 2003, immediate aftermath, clearing and it is estimated that costs of approximately settlement processes in the market 23 million $33 million will be incurred in operated well below their usual efficiency respect of the build out of the Groups new levels.
This necessitated an industry-wide North American headquarters and will be exercise to reconcile the records of open recoverable under the Groups insurance securities positions in the US markets policy.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 11 from 11 September.
As a consequence of to the Dollar: a 10 cent movement would These Financial Statements include the this disruption, the Group had a higher have a 1.0 million impact on pre-tax adoption of a number of new accounting than usual number of matched principal profit after taking account of foreign standards.
FRS 17, Retirement benefits, transactions which had not settled within currency borrowings.
only requires disclosure this year with full implementation in 2004.
The Groups normal time frames.
All these transactions Acquisitions The Group continues to exposure to defined benefits schemes is have since settled and the wider market seek business combination opportunities limited.
FRS 18, Accounting policies, settlement processes have returned to that either significantly increase its market requires directors to consider whether the normal.
share in product areas where it does not accounting policies adopted by the Group have a major presence, or enhance its are the most appropriate for the business.
Risk management The Group transacts electronic broking capability.
This in effect formalises a process which business on an agency or matched principal has been undertaken in previous years basis.
In the ordinary course of business, During the year the Group made a and, where appropriate, we have since the Group acts purely in an number of small strategic acquisitions expanded our principal accounting policy intermediary capacity matching buyers including obtaining full control of the disclosures in the notes to these Financial with sellers, its exposure to risk is limited.
Spot Foreign Exchange joint ventures with Statements.
FRS 19, Deferred tax, From a credit perspective, the Groups the Prebon Group in both the UK and US.
amends the previous method of counterparties are typically highly credit In addition, our FX Options joint venture calculating deferred taxation provisions: rated large financial institutions.
New and with TFS was combined with Volbrokers this has resulted in enhanced disclosure existing counterparties are subject to electronic broking platform.
only this year with no significant impact regular review and assessment.
On 30 April 2002 the acquisition of 100% Market risk arises on unsettled transactions of the equity of First Brokers was We continue to monitor and support the where one or both counterparties fail to completed and an initial cash payment progress that is being made by the fulfil their obligations under a matched of 25 million $35.7 million was made.
International Accounting Standards Board transaction, through trade mismatches or First Brokers is the leading New York towards the eventual implementation of other errors.
The risk in these situations is interdealer broker in the US Dollar international accounting standards.
restricted to short-term price movements in corporate debt market.
Further consideration the underlying stock held by the Group of 39 million $55 million is contingent Total shareholder return Significant and is monitored on a daily basis.
share price appreciation and dividend Procedures exist to reduce the likelihood Assuming that First Brokers continues growth were achieved in the year.
of such trade mismatches and to minimise to report profit comparable to its most their impact.
In certain limited circumstances, recent historic results, this consideration The Groups strong financial performance for example in some illiquid markets, the will be paid over three years commencing during the financial year to 31 March 2002 Group does take positions and these can April 2003, at ICAP's option, in cash or has resulted in a significant increase in give rise to market risk.
In the financial year ended total shareholder return during the year.
including limits, are imposed and hedging 31 December 2001, First Brokers turnover The market capitalisation of the Group arrangements are undertaken where was 60.6 million $86.7 million, which has increased from 474 million at appropriate.
generated underlying pre-tax profit of 31 March 2001 to 799 million at 12.4 million $17.7 million.
The Group is also subject to foreign anticipated that this transaction will exchange risk and, in line with other generate in the region of 61 million The Groups healthy financial position major multi-national businesses, seeks to $87 million of goodwill and will be means that it is well placed to take hedge its transactional foreign exchange immediately earnings enhancing to advantage of appropriate organic and exposures through the use of basic the Group.
acquisition opportunities to reinforce and hedging instruments such as forward improve on its leading market position.
The Group is New accounting standards These have principally exposed to the Dollar and the increased disclosure requirements, but Euro.
A 10 cent movement in these there was no material impact on Group currencies would have a 2.5 million Jim Pettigrew Group Finance Director results.
effect before hedging on pre-tax profit in both cases.
The impact of exchange rate movements on the Groups translational foreign exchange exposures is partially mitigated by the use of offsetting foreign currency borrowings.
The principal translational foreign exchange exposure is
