TOTAL UK NEW BUSINESS ANNUAL FIG 4.
VALUE ADDED FROM UK LIFE AND PENSIONS PREMIUM EQUIVALENT m NEW BUSINESS m Our proposition to distributors active in the into developing, managing and distributing 8 Group Chief Executives Review housing market has also been very successful.
Competition in our sector is Our Mortgage Club, now in its ninth year, intense and so some market participants is a clear market leader.
The Club enables have felt forced, on occasion, to take short intermediaries, both IFAs and Business term actions which have proved in due course Partners, to access good value mortgage and to be unaffordable and which have, in the protection products via efficient processing meantime, eroded their capital and value.
systems, which we regularly update and At Legal & General, we have endeavoured to improve.
During 2002, the Club handled avoid short-termism and, instead, have sought 13bn of completed mortgages, more than sustainable solutions to market changes.
double the volumes handled only two We have used tight control of our cost base years ago.
Like many commentators, we and prudent management of our capital position anticipate a slow-down in house price ination to equip ourselves to ride out periods of during 2003.
However, we do not foresee market turbulence.
It is, therefore, no a significant down-turn in market activity, coincidence that the cost-income ratio at since unsatisfied demand remains and the Legal & General Investment Management remortgage market is buoyant.
should have fallen in 2002 despite a 25% fall The Mortgage Club is a good example of our in the FTSE All Share Index upon which much approach to managing both our products and of its income is dependent.
With costs actually our distribution.
The Club provides falling and income rising, the cost income differentiated and value-adding benets to ratio fell from 47% in 2001 to 44% in 2002. both mortgage intermediaries and to their At this level, the ratio is likely to have been customers.
We endeavour to make our total one of the lowest in the UK fund management proposition attractive to our customers and industry in 2002. their advisers rather than competing only on In our core UK life and pensions business, we price and intermediary commission.
have continued to use technology to reduce Business Model our cost base.
Over 60% of protection business Our good value product strategy is the engine from IFAs is currently submitted online and, of Legal & Generals growth.
By delivering for such cases, the marginal cost of straight good value products in increasing volumes, through non-medical processing is now less we are able to drive down unit costs and drive than 1 per policy.
The administrative cost up profits.
By serving our customers well and savings we are achieving from our earlier offering them products on which they can rely, investments in technology are proving ever we seek to ensure that shareholders receive more valuable.
a fair return for the risks they take.
Financial Strength Firm Cost Management Legal & General has always recognised the Good value products can only be afforded if importance of financial strength for insurance companies.
It is a source of competitive rm control is kept of all the costs which go advantage and a comfort to customers.
The benets of financial strength are never FIG 5.
DISCIPLINE IN MANAGING MARGINS more apparent than when competitors are Year ended 31 December 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 constrained by shortage of capital from writing UK LIFE AND PENSIONS NEW BUSINESS APE m 608 584 442 430 342 business.
Boosted by the proceeds of the VALUE OF UK LIFE AND PENSIONS NEW BUSINESS m 211 183 118 99 72 Rights Issue, and in market conditions where VALUE NEW BUSINESS APE 35% 31% 27% 23% 21% some distributors are questioning the ability LEGAL & GENERAL ANNUAL REPORT 2002 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW FIG 6.
BALANCED DISTRIBUTION UK INDIVIDUAL NEW BUSINESS BY DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL 2002 2001 Independent Financial Advisers 46% Independent Financial Advisers 54% Business Partners 41% Business Partners 34% Direct Channel 7% Direct Channel 10% Business Partners Direct 6% Business Partners Direct 2% of their providers to support them, which are predicted for this year and next, countrys Best Life Assurer.
Infrastructure for 9 Legal & General is well placed to attract our cross-border entry to the German market indeed occur.
In particular, we believe our both new distribution and the business was completed during the year and marketing long experience of operating multi-channel it will generate.
distribution will prove to be an important competitive advantage if the depolarisation Maintaining Focus Staff Commitment proposals, on which the Financial Services Our belief in our business model is strong.
We are grateful to all of our staff for the Authority is now consulting, are introduced.
We believe organic growth to be a more support and commitment they once again dependable source of shareholder value than gave to Legal & General last year.
In the UK, The current low level of personal saving in growth through acquisition.
Our use of capital we are particularly fortunate in our relationship the UK, especially of saving for retirement, reects this business focus, as did two with our recognised trade union, Amicus.
Whilst we support many of the substantive corporate actions during 2002.
Our Partnership Agreement means that union Governments recent proposals to encourage The first of these saw the sale of representatives play a constructive and saving, we believe there is more which can Legal & General Bank to our long-standing valuable role in our information sharing and be done.
Although devising frameworks for business partner Northern Rock, for 133m.
consultation processes and we are pleased simpler, good value products will be helpful, The second transaction, our purchase of with the success of Amicuss recent these will not be sufficient to kick-start the Alliance & Leicesters small life assurance membership drive, described in more detail market.
Alongside simpler products must subsidiary ALLAC, was linked to a decision on page 18. come simpler regulation of the sales process by Alliance & Leicester to add our protection and a stable, dependable and balanced Positive Outlook products to the range of Legal & General regulatory environment.
As stated earlier, operating conditions in the investment products which they distribute.
past year were the toughest we have seen Progress Internationally We intend to transfer the administration of for a decade.
Legal & General is not immune Our good value product strategy is also ALLAC policies to Legal & Generals systems from these conditions.
If the appetite for nonpursued, though adapted where necessary, during 2003, thereby achieving valuable cash savings falls nationally, we cannot by our overseas subsidiaries.
expect to avoid the consequences.
However, The largest such subsidiary, in the USA, is The benets of focus are also apparent within our strategy is tried and tested and our market focused on selling term assurance to high our General Insurance business, where over standing and our relative financial position are net worth individuals.
Our proposition of both strong.
As we indicated at the time of 75% of our premiums relate to household good value products supported by efficient, the Rights Issue, we believe there is market insurance.
Our specialist knowledge of this top quality service has won us high regard share to be taken from weakened competitors.
market is important and has helped us to amongst brokers and has led Standard & Our intention and objective for 2003 is, grow our household premiums by over 13% Poors to note that Legal & General America therefore, to continue to grow our market in the past year.
The broadening of our has gone from being a top 50 writer of term share profitably.
I am confident of our ability General Insurance relationship with Barclays insurance in 1997 to being the second largest to do so.
should ensure that further significant brokerage channel writer.
benefiting from this premium growth is achieved in 2003. specialist focus, we intend to grow further our share of this market segment.
Strategic Positioning and Regulatory Outlook Our success in delivering levels of organic Our smaller European businesses continue growth in 2002 which were, once again, well to deliver good value products to their above the market, is attributable in large chosen markets.
In France, sales of equity measure to our simple but effective product based products were down which, together and distribution strategy.
It is a strategy which with lower group life sales, cost us market has proved resilient through much regulatory share in 2002.
In the Netherlands, our and market upheaval and we believe rmly successful growth story continued.
Our Dutch that it will continue to prove its worth if the colleagues are to be congratulated for once David Prosser further changes, especially regulatory ones, again being voted by intermediaries as that Group Chief Executive Building In the following commentary on our results subordinated debt capital invested in the 10 Operating Review we have focused on the Achieved profits UK Long Term Fund.
basis AP results for the Groups long term UK New Business Individual insurance operations combined with the Individual business including ISAs and unit Modied Statutory Solvency basis MSS trusts grew by 26% over the year to 737m results for the Groups other operations APE 2001: 583m, as the impact of new including the General Insurance and retail partnerships continued to benefit our sales investment businesses.
In the second half of the year that adopted by our major UK competitors.
demand slowed as a result of continuing The Board believes that the AP methodology weakness in equity markets and the provides a more realistic reection of the consequent fall in consumer confidence.
Groups long term insurance operations than the MSS basis.
Life Annual premium sales increased to 141m UK Life and Pensions 2001: 138m, as the strong position we have Operating profit was 501m 2001: 532m.
built in the life protection market has more than The contribution before tax from new business offset the impact of our decision to withdraw our increased by 15% to 211m 2001: 183m.
ISA mortgage repayment product in May 2001.
In a challenging market environment where capital has been scarce, we have been able Demand for single premium bonds in the to obtain a higher return on the investment in earlier part of the year benefited from our new business.
As a percentage of APE, the new distribution partnerships.
Full year sales contribution increased to 35% 2001: 31%.
Although volumes fell in the second half of The contribution from in-force business fell the year, there was a recovery in with-profits from 252m in 2001 to 134m in 2002 due bond sales in the final quarter.
primarily to the 140m charge taken to reect the changed assumptions for potential Pensions improvements in annuitant mortality and New annual premium business grew strongly related demographic factors.
The impact of in 2002, up 32% to 162m 2001: 123m development costs was much lower at 3m reecting our success in winning business 2001: 26m.
from fee-based employee benefit consultants.
In the second half new annual premium The contribution from shareholder net worth business at 69m was 5% below the was 159m 2001: 123m reecting a full corresponding period in 2001 73m.
years contribution from the intra-group Largely as a consequence of increased FIG 7.
WORLDWIDE OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE TAX compulsory purchase annuity sales and Year ended 31 December MSS MSS AP AP a higher level of Department of Work and 2002 2001 2002 2001 m m m m Pensions DWP rebates, single premium LIFE AND PENSIONS 421 414 581 633 business grew 21% to 876m 2001: 721m.
The second half new business result of 498m INSTITUTIONAL FUND MANAGEMENT 50 41 92 76 was also ahead for the same reasons, up 35% GENERAL INSURANCE 46 37 46 37 on the corresponding period in 2001 368m.
OTHER OPERATIONAL INCOME 24 1 24 1 Legal & General has not actively pursued that PROFIT FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 4 4 4 4 element of the pensions transfer market which OPERATING PROFIT 497 497 699 751 has commanded higher commission levels.
LEGAL & GENERAL ANNUAL REPORT 2002 the right products for
