Financial Review Sales Strong sales growth in 2002 Prudential has delivered strong growth in sales during 2002 with total Group insurance and investment sales reaching 27.6 billion, up 29 per cent on last year.
Total new business 600 inflows including renewal premiums reached 31.8 billion, 500 24 per cent ahead of last year.
400 Total sales of insurance and investment products from outside 300 the UK represented 74 per cent of the Group total of 27.6 billion, 200 reflecting the international diversification of the Group.
100 Total insurance sales increased 12 per cent to 12.8 billion.
0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 On the annual premium equivalent APE basis sales were up 2001 2001 2001 2001 2002 2002 2002 2002 nine per cent to 1.9 billion, reflecting an 18 per cent growth in sales in Asia and an increase of 23 per cent at Jackson National UK and Europe Life JNL.
JNL Gross investment inflows increased 47 per cent to 14.8 billion.
Asia Net investment inflows were 1.4 billion, including net mutual fund sales in Asia of 1 billion.
Achieved Profits Basis Results Value added by new business In reporting the result on the achieved profits basis Prudential New business achieved profit includes the results of the Groups long-term insurance business determined on this basis.
These results are combined with the m statutory basis results of the Groups other operations, including 800 investment and banking products and other non-insurance investment management business.
Reference to operating profit 700 relates to profit including investment returns at the expected 600 long-term rate of return but excludes amortisation of goodwill, 500 exceptional items, short term fluctuations in investment returns and the effect of changes in economic assumptions.
400 300 The achieved profits basis provides a realistic reflection of the 200 performance of the Groups long-term insurance operations.
UK and Europe An explanation of the achieved profits basis of reporting is 100 provided on pages 23 to 25.
The modified statutory basis MSB JNL 0 profit narrative follows this achieved profits basis narrative.
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 Asia The achieved profits basis results for long-term business are prepared in accordance with the ABI guidance for achieved profits reporting issued in December 2001.
This guidance requires the economic assumptions used for the projection of cash flows to be on an active basis, that is primarily based on appropriate government bond returns at each period end.
The effects of changed assumptions caused by movements in bond returns are reflected in the profit reported for the year to 31 December 2002.
The active basis is applied to the UK and the US operations, and those countries in Asia where there are well-developed government bond markets Japan, Korea and US$ denominated business in Hong Kong.
Assumptions in other Asian countries continued to be based on an assessment of long-term economic conditions as permitted by the guidance.
In the UK, the risk margin over the risk-free rate has been maintained at 2.6 per cent.
In the US the 10 year Treasury bond rate has fallen by 1.2 percentage points, and the risk margin over the 10 year Treasury bond rate has been increased from 2.6 per cent to 3.1 per cent to reflect the recent volatility in JNLs operating result.
In 2002 use of the active basis and these risk margins has resulted in a reduction in the risk discount rate applied to the UK and US operations from 7.7 per cent to 7.1 per cent and to 7.0 per cent 14 Prudential plc Annual Report 2002 APE insurance sales m respectively, and a reduction in the UK investment return like-for-like basis, using comparable economic assumptions, assumption from 7.1 per cent to 6.6 per cent.
margins increased from a restated 28 per cent to 29 per cent in 2002.
In Asia the weighted risk discount rate determined by weighting each Asian countrys economic assumptions by reference to the Prudential Europes new business achieved profit of 11 million achieved profits basis operating results for new business written is 38 per cent higher than 2001, reflecting a 12 per cent increase in 2002 has fallen from 10.1 per cent in 2001 to 9.6 per cent in in APE sales and higher margins, up from 31 per cent in 2001 to 2002.
The discount rates used vary from 4 per cent to 22 per cent.
The overall impact on the Group achieved profit result for 2002 The 40 per cent increase in Jacksons new business achieved from the use of the revised economic assumptions compared to profit to 234 million was driven by a 23 per cent increase in those used in the prior year has been to increase new business new insurance sales and an increase in new business margin achieved profit NBAP by around 20 million and to reduce from 35 per cent to 39 per cent.
The margin increase primarily the in force operating result by around 110 million.
Achieved reflects an improvement in the fixed annuity spread assumption profits basis shareholders funds are around 290 million lower for new business and the revision to the discount rate.
than they would have been under the 2001 assumptions.
For JNL, in determining the assumptions for achieved profits Total Achieved Operating Profit basis reporting the level of capital required to support the Total achieved operating profit from continuing operations was business the target surplus has been taken, as in 2001, 1,133 million, up two per cent from 1,114 million in 2001. to be 200 per cent of the Company Action Level Risk Based Capital, calculated in accordance with the National Association of Insurance Commissioners risk-based capital standards for Achieved profits basis results life insurance companies.
2002 2001 m m Prudential Corporation Asias PCA new business achieved Total long-term business 1,307 1,346 profit of 307 million is up 20 per cent on 2001 primarily due Development costs for long-term business 34 48 to strong sales growth across all regions APE insurance sales M&G 71 75 up 18 per cent.
The new business margin in Asia increased Egg UK 35 76 one per cent to 60 per cent reflecting a favourable shift in sales Egg International and other 55 12 to higher margin linked products.
NBAP by product type is now 20 88 in the ratio of 21 per cent traditional products, 43 per cent unit US broker dealer and fund management 14 16 linked products and 36 per cent accident and health products.
Other income and expenditure 189 130 The equivalent mix in 2001 was 31 per cent, 38 per cent and Underlying total operating profit 1,149 1,171 UK re-engineering costs 16 57 31 per cent.
Operating profit from continuing operations 1,133 1,114 In Force Achieved Profit The UK in force profit excluding re-engineering costs of 304 million was down 19 per cent on 2001, principally This result reflects a 15 per cent improvement in new business reflecting lower than expected returns from business in achieved profit from 673 million to 774 million offset by force after applying a lower discount rate, a strengthening of reduced in force profit down 21 per cent from 673 million to persistency assumptions and negative experience variances.
The negative experience variances include persistency variances In addition, results from other continuing operations including principally arising from pension transfers and early vestings.
development expenses and other shareholders income improved The level of surrenders has been restricted through the use of from a loss of 175 million in 2001 to a loss of 158 million, market value adjusters throughout the year, and is attributable principally due to a much-reduced operating loss at Egg and to the volatile market conditions, in particular in the second lower development expenses, partially offset by an increase half of the year.
This is offset, in part, by the benefit from in other shareholders expenses.
UK re-engineering costs of lower renewal expense assumptions as the benefits of the 16 million compare with 57 million in 2001. cost reduction programme come through.
New Business Achieved Profit No adjustment has been made to the mortality assumptions Group new business achieved profit from insurance business following the Continuous Mortality Investigation CMI bureau of 774 million was 15 per cent ahead of prior year, reflecting working paper on longevity.
Prudential assumes an average strong growth in the US and Asia, partially offset by a fall in 1.84 per cent annual mortality improvement in pricing, against profit from the UK insurance operations.
The growth in new the new CMI suggested mid-point of 1.85 per cent, and reserves business achieved profit reflects a nine per cent increase in on the basis of 2.90 per cent improvement in mortality.
insurance sales on an annual premium equivalent APE basis, together with an increase in new business achieved profit Europe in force profit of 3 million was 3 million higher than margin from 38 per cent to 40 per cent.
UK Insurance Operations new business achieved profit of The US in force profit has decreased significantly from 222 million is nine per cent lower than 2001.
This reflects a 136 million in 2001 to 17 million in 2002.
This is primarily five per cent fall in APE sales in challenging market conditions due to defaults and impairments on corporate bonds, which are and the revised economic assumptions.
The new business included within the operating result on a five-year averaged basis.
margin moved from 30 per cent in 2001 to 29 per cent in 2002 The charge to operating profit has increased from 74 million in and reflects the revised economic assumptions.
However on a Prudential plc Annual Report 2002 15 Financial Review continued 2001 to 133 million in 2002, reflecting the continued poor Direct to Prudential.
Egg International recorded a 50 million experience of 2002.
The amount charged to operating profit is loss in 2002 including 47 million relating to the investment one-fifth of the gains and losses incurred in the last five years.
in the development of Eggs French business.
Actual losses in 2002 were 289 million.
This includes a number National Planning Holdings, the US broker dealer, and PPM of one-off event risks where investment grade bonds fell to America, the US fund manager, together delivered profits of below investment grade status almost overnight, for example, 14 million, down from 16 million in 2001.
The seven largest individual bond losses accounted for 52 per cent of the total gross losses, of which WorldCom Development expenses excluding Asia regional head office was the largest at 82 million.
The difference between the full expenses were down from 48 million to 34 million, and year loss of 289 million and the charge recognised through comprised 26 million for Asia and 8 million for Europe.
operating profit of 133 million, an amount of 156 million, The Asian development costs included 20 million in relation is recorded within short-term investment fluctuations.
to the development of the Japanese business.
In recent years the US operations have invested in technology Other net expenditure increased by 59 million to 189 million.
and the development of its systems platform in order to process This included a 24 million write-down of the Groups 15.3 per efficiently higher volumes of business and this has added to cent interest in Life Assurance Holding Corporation Ltd in its fixed cost base.
With lower total policy counts attributable 2002 compared with a positive revaluation of 12 million in to higher average annuity policy sizes and lower life sales the 2001.
In addition, funding costs have increased by 12 million business is running below capacity, but as the business grows it over 2001. will be able to take advantage of lower marginal costs.
This has been recognised with a revision to the unit expense assumption Achieved Profits Result Before Tax resulting in a charge of 54 million as previously reported.
The result before tax and minority interests was a loss of 483 million compared to a loss of 455 million in 2001.
Asia in force profit before development expenses has increased significantly from 160 million in 2001 to 209 million in 2002 The loss in 2002 principally reflects the negative adjustment for and includes net favourable assumption changes and one-off short-term fluctuations in investment returns of 1,406 million, adjustments of 101 million 2001 66 million.
including 1,019 million in relation to the UK, 440 million in relation to JNL and positive 66 million in relation to Asia.
PCA actively reviews the assumptions used for achieved profits to ensure that these remain both realistic and in line with actual The UK component reflects the difference between an actual experience.
The 2002 analysis established that death claim rates investment return from the Prudential Assurances main withwere significantly and consistently lower than had previously profits fund of negative 8.1 per cent and the long-term assumed been assumed, particularly in respect of linked business in return of positive 6.6 per cent.
Singapore where there is now 10 years experience of these products.
Overall the net effect of these reviews was a favourable The US component primarily includes 156 million reflecting assumption change of 42 million.
the full charge for bond write-downs and impairments incurred in 2002 to the extent that it is not included in operating profit, During 2002 further sub-divisions of long-term funds approved a 128 million negative variance against long-term investment by the regulators allowed the value of shareholders interest in returns for equity investments, including private equity holdings, certain non-participating policies to be fully recognised for the and 145 million primarily in relation to changed expectations first time: the one-off impact to achieved profits of this exercise of future profitability on variable annuity business in force totalled 59 million.
arising from adverse current year equity returns.
This arises due to equity market returns in the year being lower than the Non-insurance Operations assumed long-term rate.
This gives rise to lower than expected M&Gs operating profit of 71 million compares to 75 million in year-end values of variable annuity assets under management 2001.
Operating profit, excluding investment income, of 52 million with a resulting effect on the level of future account values and was 2 million higher than 2001, a significant achievement in hence future profitability.
the context of depressed equity markets, where average market levels as represented by the FTSE All-Share are 17 per cent The Asia component is principally due to the appreciation in lower year on year.
This increase reflects the benefits of M&Gs the value of bonds.
diversified revenues, with fixed income and property offsetting the effect of lower equity markets, together with disciplined cost Adverse economic assumption changes of 467 million also management.
The result has also been affected by a 3 million contributed to the loss and include the effect of the changed increase in losses from M&G International, which were 15 million assumptions on the active basis mentioned earlier, together in 2002. with changes to long-term economic assumptions in Asia and the US.
In the US, this includes a revised economic assumption A performance fee of 20 million was recognised in the 2002 in respect of the variable annuity long-term return from eight result 19 million in 2001 due to the life fund beating its strategic per cent to seven per cent, including the associated guaranteed benchmark by 2.3 per cent per annum over the last three years.
minimum death benefits GMDB effect.
The Asian economic assumption change principally relates to changes in investment Eggs UK banking operations, having become profitable during return assumptions.
the fourth quarter of 2001, generated a profit of 35 million before losses on joint ventures of 5 million, excluding the Amortisation of goodwill was 98 million against 95 million in exceptional profit arising from the sale of 15 per cent of Funds 2001.
16 Prudential plc Annual Report 2002 The result also includes 355 million profit arising from the sale When calculating the DAC amortisation the long-term return of the General Insurance operations as previously reported in on variable annuity business is assumed to be 8.4 per cent, the interim statement.
gross of investment management and mortality and expense charges.
This assumption is implemented through use of a mean Achieved Profits Result After Tax reversion methodology.
If the mean reversion was eliminated as The result after tax and minority interests was a loss of of 31 December 2002, so that the long-term return on separate 145 million after reflecting a tax credit of 329 million and account business was assumed to be 8.4 per cent per annum in minority interests of 9 million.
The effective tax rate at an all future years, DAC values would be reduced by approximately operating profit level was 25 per cent, down from 31 per cent 32 million.
Should these assumptions not be met in future periods in 2001, primarily due to lower effective tax rates for JNL and a further increase in VA DAC amortisation may be required.
Asia, partially offset by tax rate movements on other non-longterm operations.
The JNL rate is lower than in 2001 due to the Prudential Asias operating profit before development expenses combined effect of operating assumption changes for expenses, was 88 million 44 million in 2001.
This includes an 8 million capital charge effects and an exceptional tax credit.
gain arising from the reorganisation of long-term funds approved by the regulators which allowed the value of the shareholders The effective tax relief rate at a total achieved profit level was interest in certain non-participating policies to be recognised for 68 per cent on a loss of 483 million, primarily due to tax payable the first time.
This result is after the significant investment that has on the profit on disposal of UK general business operations occurred in 2002, as PCA builds high-quality customer-focused being relieved against capital losses available to the Group.
distribution channels in Japan and Korea.
Further significant The effective tax rate at a total achieved profit level in 2001 investment is planned for 2003.
The Groups more established was 47 per cent.
operations in Singapore, Hong Kong and Malaysia reported further growth in statutory profits, up 43 per cent to 79 million.
Modified Statutory Basis Results Operating Profit Reference to operating profit relates to profit including investment Modified Statutory Basis Results Profit Before Tax returns at the expected long-term rate of return but excludes MSB profit before tax and minority interests was 484 million amortisation of goodwill, exceptional items and short-term in 2002, compared to 385 million in 2001.
This increase is due fluctuations in investment returns.
to an improvement in the negative adjustment for short-term fluctuations in investment returns of 275 million, together with Group operating profit from continuing operations on the 355 million of profit relating to the disposal of the UK General modified statutory basis MSB of 432 million was 118 million Insurance operations.
This was partly offset by lower operating lower than 2001. profit and the inclusion of the American General break fee of 338 million in 2001.
UK Insurance Operations operating profit before re-engineering costs in 2002 was 368 million, 67 million below 2001.
This Amortisation of goodwill was 98 million against 95 million included a reduction of 99 million in the shareholder transfer in 2001. arising from lower with-profits bonus rates, partially offset by the impact of higher claims.
Within the improvement in the negative adjustment for shortterm fluctuations the US result has improved from a loss of The US operations result, which is based on US GAAP subject 368 million in 2001 to a loss of 258 million.
The short-term to adjustments, of 153 million was 145 million worse than fluctuations in Asia principally reflect the five-year averaging prior year.
This fall principally reflects increases in both the impact of an appreciation in bond values.
In addition, the 2001 amortisation of deferred acquisition costs DAC amortisation, Group result included a 95 million loss, primarily in respect of costs in respect of the provision of guaranteed minimum death the General Insurance operations.
benefits GMDB, and a 121 million charge in relation to averaged realised gains and losses on bonds.
Spread income Modified Statutory Basis Results Profit After Tax was higher than 2001 by 29 million, and reflects the benefit MSB profit after tax and minority interests was 449 million, from reductions in crediting rates on the in force fixed annuity including a tax charge of 44 million.
The effective rate of and life book.
tax on MSB total profit in 2002 was 9.1 per cent primarily due to tax payable on the profit on disposal of the UK general With respect to the methodology for GMDB provisioning, insurance operations being relieved against capital losses JNL have implemented early the draft guidance in the US available to the Group.
prescribed by the AICPA in their 31 July 2002 draft statement of position: Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises Earnings Per Share for Certain Non-traditional Long-Duration Contracts and for Earnings per share, based on achieved basis operating profit Separate Accounts.
GMDB provisions were reviewed at the after tax and related minority interests but before amortisation year end resulting in a total charge, including payments during of goodwill, were up 0.9 pence to 42.8 pence.
Earnings per the year, of 43 million.
share, based on MSB operating profit after tax and related minority interests but before amortisation of goodwill, were The increase in DAC amortisation of 106 million includes down 7.5 pence to 15.8 pence.
an increase of 85 million in respect of variable annuity VA products and 16 million in respect of equity-linked indexed Basic earnings per share, based on achieved profits basis loss annuities.
A consequence of the review of GMDB provisions for the year after minority interests, was a loss of 7.3 pence and the resulting strengthening has been a reduction in the compared with a loss of 11.0 pence, in 2001.
Basic earnings expected future gross profits from variable annuity products, per share, based on MSB profit for the year after minority which has itself resulted in a higher level of VA DAC amortisation.
interests, was 22.6 pence, up 2.9 pence.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2002 17 Financial Review continued Dividend Per Share Financial Strength of Insurance Operations The final dividend per share is 17.1 pence, resulting in a United Kingdom full year dividend growth of 2.4 per cent to 26.0 pence.
A common measure of financial strength in the United Kingdom for long-term insurance business is the free asset ratio.
The free Cash Flow asset ratio is the ratio of assets less liabilities to liabilities, and is The table below shows the Group holding company cash flow.
expressed as a percentage of liabilities.
On a comparable basis This is a revised presentation from previous years, which was to 2001 the free asset or Form 9 ratio of the Prudential Assurance in the form of a funds flow statement.
Prudential believes that Company PAC long-term fund was approximately 8.4 per cent this format gives a clearer presentation of the use of the Groups at the end of 2002, compared with 12.2 per cent at 31 December resources than the FRS 1 statement required for the financial 2001.
The reduction during the year principally reflects the statements.
significant fall in equity markets around the world, together with lower bond yields and price earnings ratios.
At the end of 2002 2002 2001 a reorganisation of the life funds saw the transfer of the Scottish m m Amicable Life SAL linked fund into the PAC long-term fund.
Cash remitted to Group: The impact of this transfer further reduces the PAC free asset UK life fund transfer in respect of earlier ratio to 8 per cent.
bonus declarations 324 307 Cash remitted by business units 212 154 The valuation has been prepared on a conservative basis in accordance with the FSA valuation rules, and without use of 536 461 implicit items.
No allowance has been taken for the present Interest 124 103 value of future profits.
The PAC long-term fund has not entered Dividends 509 494 into any financial reinsurance contracts, with the exception 97 136 of certain treaties with a value of approximately 74 million Tax received 59 29 which were transferred from SAL under the reorganisation Equity scrip dividends and share options 40 42 mentioned above.
On the realistic basis for solvency the Corporate activities 543 283 fund is very strong.
545 160 Capital invested in business units: Solvency requirements in the UK include the establishment of a JNL 321 69 resilience reserve which makes prudent allowance for potential Other business units 354 512 future movements in investment values.
As at 31 December 2002, the overall liability was determined based on the following Holding company cash flow post dividends 130 421 resilience scenario: Financing required 130 421 a fall in equity values of 14 per cent: The Group received 536 million in cash remittances from business units in 2002 2001 461 million comprising the a fall in property values of 15 per cent: shareholders statutory UK life fund transfer relating to earlier bonus declarations, together with dividend and interest from the worst of a rise in bond values of 3 per cent and a fall in subsidiaries.
After dividends and interest paid, there was a bond values of 13 per cent.
net outflow of 97 million 2001 136 million net outflow.
The Group also received 543 million from corporate activities The long-term funds remain well capitalised and the PAC 2001 283 million including cash proceeds arising from the long-term fund is rated AA by Standard & Poors and Aa1 sale of the General Insurance business and exceptional tax by Moodys.
Together with the proceeds of equity issuance and Group relief, this gave rise to a total net surplus of 545 million The table below shows the change in the investment mix of 2001 160 million.
In September 2002 the Group provided Prudentials main with-profits fund: JNL with 321 million of capital to support high volumes of 31 Dec fixed annuity writings and to replace capital consumed by 1998 2001 2002 %% % bond losses and impairments.
This follows 69 million provided in 2001.
During 2002 the Group invested 354 million 2001 UK equities 59 39 32 512 million, primarily in its shareholder-backed business in International equities 13 14 13 the UK and in Asia, including for the development of the Bonds 12 28 33 Japanese business.
In aggregate this gave rise to a financing Cash and other asset classes 5 4 4 requirement of 130 million 2001 421 million which was Property 11 15 18 satisfied through an increase in core debt.
Total 100 100 100 Funds Under Management Insurance and investment funds under management at For the UK main with-profits fund 88 per cent of the fixed 31 December 2002 totalled 155 billion, compared to 163 billion securities investments are investment grade with 30 per cent at the end of 2001.
This reduction is mainly due to a fall in the rated AA or above.
For Prudential Annuities Limited 97 per cent market value of investments which more than offset the net of the fixed securities investments are investment grade with sales achieved during the year.
The total includes 131 billion 40 per cent rated AA or above.
For Prudential Retirement of Group investments under management and 24 billion of Income Limited 100 per cent of total assets are investment external funds under management.
grade with 59 per cent rated AA or above.
18 Prudential plc Annual Report 2002 With-profits contracts are long-term contracts with relatively low is not expected to be paid out to the current generation of guaranteed amounts, the nature of which permits Prudential to with-profits policyholders as claim values, represents the major invest primarily in equities and real estate.
However, over the part of Prudential Assurances working capital and is called the period from 1999 to mid-2001 the UK with-profits fund reduced inherited estate.
There was also a re-weighting within equities out of the UK and into overseas equities.
This change in To ensure that policyholders benefits are secure, we are required asset mix reflected our view that equity valuations were high and by regulations to hold a substantial amount of capital in our that other assets, particularly corporate bonds, were relatively long-term fund, so that we can demonstrate at all times that the attractive.
The change within equities improved diversification fund is solvent and able to meet its obligations to all policyholders.
and reduced expected fund volatility.
The change in asset mix in The inherited estate provides most of this solvency capital.
recent years has had a substantial beneficial impact on investment returns.
The broad asset mix will continue to be reviewed as In addition, we can use the inherited estate to absorb the the economic environment and market valuations change.
costs of significant events, such as fundamental strategic The fall in the proportion of investments held in equities in 2002 change in our long-term business and, to the extent that the compared to 2001 reflects the decline in value of the holdings UK regulator is content, the cost of providing redress for past during the year.
pension mis-selling, without affecting the level of distributions to policyholders and shareholders.
The costs of fundamental The investment return on the Prudential main with-profits strategic change may include investment in new technology, fund was negative 8.1 per cent in the year to 31 December redundancy and restructuring costs, cost overruns on new 2002 compared with the falls in the FTSE 100 and the FTSE business and the funding of other appropriate long-term All-Share of 24.5 per cent and 25.0 per cent respectively over insurance related activities including acquisitions.
The size of the inherited estate, by its nature as working capital, Jackson National Life fluctuates from year to year depending on investment returns, The capital adequacy position of Jackson National Life remains and the extent to which the capital is required to meet smoothing strong, with a risk-based capital ratio more than three times costs, guarantees and any other unforeseen events.
We estimate the NAIC Company Action Level Risk Based Capital.
As a core that at 31 December 2002, the inherited estate, after taking business to the Group, JNLs financial strength is rated AA by into account pension mis-selling costs and anticipated costs Standard & Poors.
of fundamental strategic change, is around 5 billion.
JNLs invested asset mix on a US regulatory basis including In the normal course of events the inherited estate is required Jackson National Life of New York and excluding policy loans to support the in force business, so neither policyholders nor and reverse repo leverage is as follows: shareholders can have any expectation that they will receive any distribution of the inherited estate, other than through 2000 2001 2002 the normal process of smoothing and meeting guarantees %% % in adverse investment conditions.
Bonds: Investment Grade Public 53 58 60 However, we believe that it would be beneficial if there were Investment Grade Private 21 22 20 to be greater clarity as to the status of the inherited estate.
Non Investment Grade Public 5 3 4 With that in mind, we have been considering the principles Non Investment Grade Private 5 3 3 that would apply to any re-attribution of the inherited estate Commercial Mortgages 11 9 8 to either policyholders or shareholders.
Discussions have been Private equities and real estate 3 3 3 held with the Financial Services Authority FSA to this end.
We Equities, cash and other assets 2 2 2 have not considered or discussed any actual distribution as our current expectation is that, for the foreseeable future, the entire Asia inherited estate will need to be retained within the long-term Solvency levels have been maintained at local regulatory levels fund to provide working capital.
However, in the light of current by the insurance operations in Asia.
Across the region less than market conditions, the amount and timing of any re-attribution 20 per cent of non-linked funds are invested in equities.
The of the estate remains very uncertain.
balance is principally invested in fixed income securities.
Conduct of Business Inherited Estate The FSA has required all UK life insurance companies to In order to support our with-profits business, we hold a substantial review their potential cases of pensions mis-selling and pay amount of working capital in PACs long-term fund.
Without such compensation to policyholders where necessary.
The Group working capital, we could not provide the benefits associated has met the FSA target for completion of Phase I and II of the with smoothing and guarantees, or have investment freedom pensions mis-selling review, within the provisions that were for the main with-profits funds assets, for the benefit of both established in the long-term fund in 2000. policyholders and shareholders.
The 2001 result included a provision of 25 million charged To meet our obligations to existing policyholders, we expect to shareholders funds in respect of the possible mis-selling to have to pay out over time assets equal to policyholders of mortgage endowments for policies sold subsequent to the accumulated asset shares plus any additional payments that acquisition of Scottish Amicable in 1997.
In March 2003 the FSA may be required, by way of smoothing or to meet guarantees.
fined Scottish Amicable 750,000 in respect of cases where The balance at any time of the main with-profits fund, which advisers did not place appropriate emphasis on identifying whether Prudential plc Annual Report 2002 19 Financial Review continued a customer was prepared to take a risk that their mortgage corporate purposes and to support the liquidity needs of the might not be repaid at the end of the term.
The costs of this parent company.
fine and policyholder redress will be met from this provision.
No further provision was required in 2002.
No provision is Other than for Egg plc, which is responsible for its own financing, required in respect of mortgage endowments sold by PAC.
the Group is financed centrally.
The Groups core debt is managed to be within a target level consistent with an AA debt rating.
At Shareholders Funds 31 December 2002, the gearing ratio, including hybrid debt, was On the achieved profits basis, which recognises the 23.6 per cent compared with 20.7 per cent at 31 December 2001. shareholders interest in long-term businesses, shareholders Excluding hybrid debt, the gearing ratio was 14.2 per cent.
funds at 31 December 2002 were 7.2 billion, a decrease of Although net core debt only increased by 93 million during 954 million from 31 December 2001.
The decrease principally 2002 after exchange movements of 37 million the achieved reflects short-term fluctuations in investment returns, together profits basis shareholders funds fell by 12 per cent driven by with dividends declared, the effect of changes in economic equity market falls and exchange movements.
assumptions and adverse foreign exchange movements, offset by operating profits of 1,133 million and profit on business Group gearing disposals of 355 million.
% Statutory basis shareholders funds, which are not affected 25 by fluctuations in the value of investments in the Prudential 20 Assurance Company PAC long-term fund, were 282 million lower at 3.7 billion.
15 10 Gearing senior debt hybrid 2002 achieved profits shareholders funds m 5 senior debt hybrid APSHF 0 Gearing senior debt 2001 2002 UK 2,918 senior debt hybrid APSHF JNL 2,657 PCA 1,407 Prudential plc enjoys strong debt ratings from both Standard & Europe and Poors and Moodys.
Prudential senior debt is rated AAand A2 other operations 214 from Standard & Poors and Moodys respectively, while shortterm ratings are A1 and P-1.
Shareholders Borrowings and Financial Flexibility Based on achieved operating profits from continuing operations As a result of the holding companys net funds outflow of and interest payable on core structural borrowings, interest 130 million and exchange translation gains of 37 million, cover is 9.7 times in 2002 compared to 10.4 times in 2001. net core borrowings at 31 December 2002 were 2,226 million, compared to 2,133 million at 31 December 2001.
Treasury Policy The Group operates a central treasury function, which has After adjusting for holding company cash and short-term overall responsibility for managing its capital funding programme investments of 226 million, core structural borrowings of as well as its central cash and liquidity positions.
shareholder financed operations at the end of 2002 totalled 2,452 million, compared with 2,152 million at the end of The aim of Prudentials capital funding programme, which includes 2001.
This increase was funded by the issue of short-term the European Medium Term Note programme together with an commercial paper.
Borrowings at the end of 2002 included unlimited commercial paper programme, is to maintain a strong 1,686 million at fixed rates of interest with maturity dates and flexible funding capacity.
ranging from 2005 to 2031, as set out in note 31 on page 80 of the consolidated financial statements.
Of these borrowings In the United Kingdom and Asia, Prudential uses derivatives to 310 million were denominated in US dollars, partially to hedge reduce equity risk, interest rate and currency exposures, and to the currency exposure arising from our investment in Jackson facilitate efficient investment management.
In the United States, National Life.
During 2002 the euro-denominated fixed rate JNL uses derivatives to reduce interest rate risk, to facilitate notes issued in 2001 were swapped into floating rate pounds efficient portfolio management and to match liabilities under sterling borrowings of 305 million net of 4 million issue equity-indexed policies.
Core borrowings also included 420 million short-term commercial paper of which 334 million was denominated It is Prudential's policy that all free-standing derivatives are used in US dollars and 41 million floating rate loan notes.
to hedge exposures or facilitate efficient portfolio management.
Amounts at risk are covered by cash or by corresponding assets.
Prudential has in place an unlimited global commercial paper programme.
At 31 December 2002 commercial paper of The Group transacts business in sterling and US dollars and 1,632 million has been issued under this programme.
In various currencies in Asia.
The currency exposure relating to addition, the holding company has access to 1,200 million the translation of reported earnings is not separately managed committed revolving credit facilities provided by 12 major although its impact is reduced by interest payments on foreign international banks.
These facilities have not been drawn on currency borrowings and by the use of average exchange rates during the year.
The commercial paper programme and the for the translation of foreign currency revenues.
committed revolving credit facilities are available for general 20 Prudential plc Annual Report 2002 Asset and Liability Management Surpluses and deficits on the Groups defined benefit Prudential manages its assets and liabilities locally, in accordance schemes are attributable to the PAC life fund and shareholders with local regulatory requirements and reflecting the differing funds depending on the activity of the personnel involved.
types of liabilities Prudential has in each business.
As a result Such attribution is necessary to properly reflect the allocation of the diversity of products Prudential offers and the different of the economic interests in and exposures to the schemes regulatory environments in which it operates, Prudential employs financial position.
At 31 December 2001 there were FRS 17 different methods of asset liability management.
Most of basis pension scheme assets attributable to the PAC life fund Prudential's methods fall into two major categories: cash flow and shareholders funds of 392 million and 101 million analysis under a range of scenarios by JNL for interest-sensitive respectively.
At 31 December 2002 there were FRS 17 basis business and stochastic modelling scenario testing for the UK pension scheme liabilities attributable to the PAC life fund long-term fund.
and shareholders funds of 380 million and 85 million respectively.
These changes are due mostly to the fall in Defined Benefit Pension Schemes equity markets throughout 2002.
Defined benefit pension schemes are generally required to be actuarially valued every three years to assess the appropriate On the achieved profits basis the shareholders interest in the level of funding for schemes having regard to their commitments.
net pension scheme liability is less than two per cent of achieved These valuations include assessment of the likely rates of return profits basis shareholders funds.
on the assets held within the separate trustee administered funds.
Accounting Policies The Groups principal defined benefit scheme is the Prudential There has been no significant change in accounting policies Staff Pension Scheme PSPS in the UK.
This was last actuarially required for the preparation of the 2002 results.
Prudential valued on 5 April 2002 and this valuation demonstrated the adopted in the 2001 accounts the requirements of FRS 19 scheme to be 110 per cent funded, with an excess of actuarially on deferred tax and with which mandatory compliance was determined assets over liabilities of 10 per cent, representing a required by 2002. fund surplus of 376 million.
As a result no change in employers contributions from the current 12.5 per cent of salaries was International Accounting Standards required.
The position is not believed to be significantly different The European Union requires that all European insurers at 31 December 2002. prepare their financial statements using standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB by 2005.
As permitted under FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, Prudential has Anticipating the likely effects of IAS presents difficulties for continued to adopt the requirements of SSAP 24 in the reported insurers.
First, because the IASBs proposed standard on profit and loss account and balance sheet of the Group.
Details Insurance Contracts will not be implemented until at least of the financial reporting effect are shown in note 19.
2007, and second because the IASBs definition of an insurance contract means that some products written by life insurers that FRS 17, Retirement Benefits, was issued in November 2000. do not transfer significant insurance risk are likely to be accounted The Accounting Standards Board has issued proposals to defer for as financial instruments.
the mandatory full adoption date of the standard until 2005.
If implemented in full, the standard would require that companies The IASB intends to issue Phase 1 interim guidance for include the whole of any pension surplus or deficit of defined accounting for insurance contracts for use in reporting from benefit schemes in their balance sheets and would change 2005.
This is expected to include guidance on accounting for the way in which pension surpluses and deficits are reported.
insurance contracts within the scope of IAS 32 and IAS 39, In particular, it would require assets of the scheme to be valued which deal with financial instruments, but which do not provide at their market value at the company's year end, while pension guidance on how to account for products written by life insurers: liabilities would be required to be discounted at a rate consistent together with interim guidance on accounting for other with the current rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond.
With the very different bases of measurement under FRS 17 the The eventual standard for insurance contracts that will be issued financial reporting effect is considerably different from that shown under Phase 2 to supersede the interim guidance is expected under the long-standing methodologies under triennial actuarial to be based on an asset and liability model with insurance valuation.
Prudential has met the disclosure requirements of liabilities likely to be measured at a fair value.
The IASB is far FRS 17 by way of note 19 on the financial statements.
For from completing the standard, with the result that it is not 2002, FRS 17 requires that Prudential disclose details of the possible to estimate its impact on Prudentials statutory results movement on the FRS 17 basis surpluses and deficits of the and balance sheet.
The standard will require substantial field defined benefit schemes.
In summary, if FRS 17 had been fully testing before it can be considered to be reliable.
In addition, implemented for 2002 a 1 million shareholder charge after the performance reporting implications have yet to be considered.
tax in the profit and loss account, and a shareholder charge of 193 million after tax in the statement of total recognised However, it is likely that the valuation of an insurance contract gains and losses would have been reported.
on the IASBs interpretation of a fair value basis is unlikely to be comparable to that calculated on the achieved profits basis In addition, for those schemes such as PSPS, which hold a which the UK industry uses for supplementary reporting, due significant proportion of their assets in equity investments, the to significant differences in methodology and the extent of difference between FRS 17 basis assets and liabilities can be inclusion of projected cash flows on the contracts.
As a result it highly volatile.
is likely that the industry will continue to publish achieved profits results, in line with the Association of British Insurers guidance, Prudential plc Annual Report 2002 21 Financial Review continued as supplementary information.
In broad terms the achieved key risks by business units.
This process is reviewed regularly profits basis applies long-standing actuarial techniques under by the Board.
Controls applicable across the Group are set out which all projected cash flows on contracts in force are valued.
Developments in Regulatory Solvency Requirements Asset and liability management is operated by business units The Integrated Prudential Sourcebook PSB will be introduced locally, reflecting the specific liabilities in each business.
The by the FSA for UK insurance companies in 2004.
This will respective responsibilities for investment strategy, compliance introduce the requirement for realistic solvency reporting, and performance are clearly defined.
Controls, incorporating through the introduction of risk-based capital approaches procedures and authority levels, are in place governing investment allowing for the use of internal capital adequacy models for dealing and settlement, including the use of derivatives.
The PSB will also pave the way towards a more realistic valuation of liabilities.
In the meantime the FSA has The Group operates a comprehensive planning process.
The announced that it will permit life companies to apply for a waiver Board receives regular reports on the performance of the Group from existing solvency requirements if they can demonstrate against plan with frequent financial projections.
that they have adequate models for realistic capital reporting.
The insurance operations of the Group all prepare a financial In addition, the EU is reviewing further solvency requirements condition report which is reported on to the Board who receive the Solvency II project, for which the intention is to ensure regular reports from the Group Finance Director on the financial policyholder protection through establishing solvency position of the Group.
requirements better matched to the true risks of the business, taking into account developments in non-traditional methods UK Products and Drivers of Profit of risk control such as alternative risk transfer products, asset In common with other UK long-term insurance companies, liability management and the use of derivatives.
A key aim is to Prudentials products are structured as either with-profits or provide transparency and comparability, thus ensuring a level participating products or non-participating products, including playing field.
As with the PSB, a risk-based capital approach unit-linked products.
Depending upon the structure, the level and the use of internal models is expected to be introduced of shareholders interest in the value of policies and the related under Solvency II.
The EU Financial Conglomerates Directive is expected to With-profits policies are supported by a with-profits fund be implemented in 2005 following the implementation of and can be single premium for example, Prudence Bond the Insurance Groups Directive in 2001.
The directives take or regular premium for example, certain corporate pension an aggregate view of the capitalisation of a financial services products.
Prudentials primary with-profits fund is part of groups shareholder-owned businesses.
The manner of Prudential Assurance Companys PAC long-term fund.
implementation of these directives may lead to Prudential being The return to shareholders on with-profits products is in the required to maintain higher levels of capital than realistically form of a statutory transfer to PAC shareholders funds which required to support some of its businesses.
An inconsistent is analogous to a dividend from PACs long-term fund and is application of these directives by regulators in different EU dependent upon the bonuses credited or declared on policies jurisdictions may place Prudential at a competitive disadvantage in that year.
Prudentials with-profits policyholders currently to other European financial services groups.
In the medium receive 90 per cent of the distribution from the main with-profits term the expected adoption of realistic reserving bases as fund as bonus additions to their policies and shareholders part of both the PSB and the Solvency II project, the principle receive 10 per cent as a statutory transfer.
of which Prudential strongly supports, should reduce these inconsistencies in application.
In 2002, profits distributed from Prudentials main with-profits fund amounted to 2.7 billion, of which 2.45 billion 90 per cent Procurement was added to policies as bonuses, and 273 million 10 per cent During the year, procurement activity focused on securing is available for distribution to shareholders.
significant cost reductions, and ensuring appropriate contractual cover for third party expenditure.
A number of initiatives were The majority of Prudential branded non-participating business undertaken to capture the synergies, on common spend areas, is written in PACs long-term fund or by subsidiaries owned by across the Group.
Prudential has also worked closely with the fund.
Prudentials principal non-participating business is 48 suppliers, as part of its Environmental Supply programme, Prudential Annuities Limited, which is wholly owned by PACs to improve their environmental impacts.
The profits from this business accrue to the long-term fund.
In 2001, Prudential started to write certain Risk Management annuity business through Prudential Retirement Income A significant part of the Groups business involves the acceptance Limited PRIL, from which the profits are attributed solely and management of risk.
The Groups risk management model to shareholders.
requires the primary responsibility for risk management at an operational level to rest with business unit chief executives.
US Retail Products and Drivers of Profit The second line of defence of risk comprises oversight functions Jackson National Lifes JNLs principal retail savings products reporting to the Group Chief Executive together with business are savings products sold as single premium fixed, variable or unit risk functions and risk management committees.
The third equity-linked indexed deferred annuities.
line of defence comprises independent assurance from Internal Audit reporting to business unit and group audit committees.
Interest-sensitive fixed annuities are products which allow for tax-deferred accumulation of funds, with flexible payout options.
The Group operates a group risk framework for the identification, They are used for retirement planning and for providing income prioritisation, management and reporting through the year of the in retirement.
The policyholder pays JNL a single premium, which 22 Prudential plc Annual Report 2002 is credited to the policyholders account.
Periodically, interest is Unit-linked products combine savings with protection and the credited to the policyholders account and administrative charges cash value of the policy depends on the value of the underlying are deducted, as appropriate.
JNL may reset the interest rate unitised funds.
Participating products provide savings with on each policy anniversary, subject to a guaranteed minimum, protection where the basic sum assured can be enhanced by a in line with state regulations.
When the annuity matures, JNL profit share or bonus from the underlying fund as determined either pays the policyholder the amount in the policyholder at the discretion of the insurer.
Non-participating products offer account or begins making payments to the policyholder in the savings with protection where the benefits are guaranteed or form of an immediate annuity product.
This latter product is determined by a set of defined market related parameters.
similar to a UK annuity in payment.
Fixed annuity policies provide Accident and Health A&H products provide mortality or for early surrender charges for the first seven to nine years of morbidity benefits and include health, disablement, critical the policy.
In addition, the policy may be subject to a market illness and accident covers.
A&H products are commonly value adjustment at the time of early surrender.
JNLs profits offered as supplements to main life policies but can also be on fixed annuities arise primarily from the spread between the sold separately.
return it earns on investments and the interest credited to the policyholders account net of any surrender charges or market The profits from participating policies are shared between the value adjustment less management expenses.
policyholder and insurer typically in a 90:10 ratio in the same way as with-profits business in the UK.
Under unit-linked products Equity-linked indexed annuities are deferred annuities that enable the profits that arise from managing the policy, its investments policyholders to obtain a portion of an equity-linked return but and the insurance risk accrue entirely to shareholders, with provide a guaranteed minimum return.
JNL guarantees an annual investment gains accruing to the policyholder within the minimum interest rate of three per cent, but actual earnings may underlying unitised fund.
The profits from non-participating be higher and are based on a participation in an equity index over products consist of any surplus remaining after paying the its indexed option period.
JNLs profit arises from the difference defined policy benefits.
All the profits from A&H products between a the premiums received plus the associated investment accrue to shareholders.
income and b the combined cost of expenses general expenses, costs of purchasing fixed interest securities and options and Unit-linked products tend to have higher profits on the achieved the policyholders account value which is subject to the profits basis of reporting than traditional non-linked products minimum guarantee.
as expenses and charges are better matched and solvency capital requirements are lower.
At the end of 2002 PCA offered Variable annuities are tax advantaged deferred annuities unit-linked products in nine of the 12 countries in Asia in which where the rate of return depends upon the performance of it operates.
the underlying portfolio, similar in principle to UK unit-linked products.
They are used for retirement planning and to provide In addition to the life products described above, Prudential income in retirement.
The policyholders premiums are held offers mutual fund investment products in India, Taiwan, Japan, apart from other assets, in a separate account, which is Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong and Korea, allowing customers analogous to a unit-linked fund.
The policyholder can allocate to participate in debt, equity and money market investments.
the premiums between a variety of variable sub-accounts with PCA earns a fee based on assets under management.
a choice of fund managers and or to guaranteed fixed-rate options.
The value of the portion of the separate account Achieved Profits Reporting allocated to variable sub-accounts fluctuates with the Prudentials results are prepared on two bases of accounting, underlying investment.
Variable annuity policies provide achieved profits basis and modified statutory basis MSB.
In most cases, variable annuities Over the life of any given product, the total profit recognised also offer various types of death benefits, some of which are will be the same under either the MSB or the achieved profits elective, guaranteeing that on death the policyholder receives basis.
However, the two methods recognise the emergence of a minimum value regardless of past market performance.
These that profit differently, with profits emerging earlier under the guaranteed death benefits might be expressed as the return achieved profits basis than under MSB.
This section explains of original premium, the highest past anniversary value of the how the two bases are calculated and why they are used.
policy, or as the original premium accumulated at a fixed rate of interest.
JNL earns fee income on the underlying investment, Prudentials primary financial statements are prepared in earns profits from the spread between what it earns on accordance with the modified statutory basis MSB of reporting investments in fixed rate accounts and the interest credited, of long-term business.
This is in accordance with the Statement and premium income for certain additional performance of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British guarantees in the contract.
In broad terms, MSB profits for long-term business reflect the aggregate of statutory transfers Asia Retail Products and Drivers of Profit from with-profit funds and profits on a traditional deferred and The life insurance products offered by Prudential in Asia include matching approach for other long-term business.
Consequently, a range of with-profits participating and non-participating term, in addition to determining the Groups statutory profit and reserves whole life and endowment and unit-linked policies.
Prudential it informs the Board in determining the Groups dividend policy.
also offers health, disablement, critical illness and accident covers to supplement its core life products.
However, the products sold by the insurance industry are by their nature long-term, as it commits to service the products Prudential's business in Asia is focused on regular premium for many years into the future.
In some cases policies require products that provide both savings and protection benefits.
customers to continue to pay further premiums in the future.
In 2002, the new business achieved profit mix was 43 per cent Profit on such sales is generated over a significant number of years.
unit-linked, 21 per cent non-linked and 36 per cent Accident and Health products.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2002 23 Financial Review continued Since 1997 Prudential and the other major UK quoted groups Achieved profits basis shareholders funds over five years have additionally adopted the achieved profits basis, as a supplementary accounting measure in order to give a better m reflection of the value attaching to long-term insurance business 14,000 contracts.
Achieved profits basis financial statements are prepared under guidance issued by the ABI in December 2001.
12,000 10,000 Insurance companies in many countries use comparable 8,000 bases of accounting for management purposes.
We believe that the achieved profits basis provides useful information for 6,000 shareholders.
The principle of achieved profits basis accounting 4,000 is that it reports the total amount of the cash earnings, in present 2,000 value terms, that are expected to emerge over time from business already sold and still in force making full allowance for the 0 ABC D E F G risks attached to these future cash flows.
In determining these expected cash earnings Prudential takes account of recent experience in assessing likely persistency, mortality and A Closing 1997 achieved profits basis shareholders funds expenses.
Economic assumptions as to future investment B New business achieved profits returns and inflation are based on market data.
C In force profits D Other The achieved profits method provides a good indicator of E Short-term fluctuations in investment return and change the value being added by todays management in a given in economic assumptions accounting period and demonstrates whether shareholder F Dividends paid out to shareholders capital is being deployed to best effect.
In contrast, for many G Closing 2002 achieved profits basis shareholders funds types of contract, the MSB result does not reflect the long-term benefit that will arise in the future from current management initiatives and capital expenditure in the year under review, focusing instead on the amounts accruing to shareholders in the current year only, from business already in force.
Achieved profits basis methodology Internal The achieved profits basis is a value based method of reporting reporting in that it reflects the change in value of the business.
The results on the achieved profits basis can be used to demonstrate the underlying development of the business.
Set Project Net present Analysis assumptions cash flows of change value Shareholders funds on an achieved profits basis at a given point in time represent, in present value terms, the value of future cash flows expected to arise from the current book of long-term External insurance business plus the net worth of the company.
The reporting results can be presented in a way that provides details to management and shareholders of the change in value during the reporting period.
The change in this value can be analysed as shown in the achieved profits basis shareholders funds chart.
This takes account of: the value added from new business sold during the year: the change in value from existing business already in place in force at the start of the year: short-term fluctuations in investment returns and economic assumption changes: other items for example, profit from other Group operations, tax, foreign exchange, exceptional items : and dividends.
The value added from new business being the present value of the cash flows arising from new business written in the year is a key metric used in the management of the business.
The change in value of business in force in the year demonstrates how the existing book is being managed.
Achieved profits basis results are prepared by first making assumptions about a number of factors including levels of 24 Prudential plc Annual Report 2002 future investment return, expenses, surrender levels and Illustration mortality.
These best estimate assumptions are used to project Modified statutory basis and achieved profits basis future cash flows.
The present value of the future cash flows profit profiles for a typical with-profits product is then calculated using a discount rate which reflects both the time value of money and the risks associated with the cash flows.
The risk discount rate is determined using the actual yield on long-term government bonds plus a risk margin.
The projected future cash flows are prepared on a single set of assumptions and the actual outcome may be different from that projected.
Where the actual outcome is different, this will be reflected in the experience variances for that year.
The total profit that emerges over time from an individual contract as calculated using the achieved profits basis is the same as that calculated under the modified statutory basis.
However, since the achieved profits basis reflects discounted future cash flows under this methodology the profit emergence 123456789 10 is advanced: thereby linking more closely to the consequences Duration years of current management actions and the risks and benefits from business sold in the year.
Modified statutory basis The assumptions used for achieved profits basis accounting are Achieved profits basis set out in the notes that accompany the supplementary achieved profits basis accounts on page 92.
An indication of the sensitivity of the result to changes in the key assumptions of discount rate and investment return is also provided on page 100.
Illustration Modified statutory basis and achieved profits basis The achieved profits basis can be illustrated by considering cumulative profit profiles for a typical with-profits product a theoretical individual contract.
Using assumptions for the drivers of future income and expenditure including levels of future investment return, expenses, surrender levels and 100% mortality a profile of future cash flows can be estimated.
These cash flows are then discounted back to the point of sale to give a new business profit.
The achieved profits basis profits emerging in a given accounting period will comprise the unwinding of the discount which arises from discounting future cash flows for one fewer period and the profit or loss arising from any difference between the 1 23 45 6 78 9 10 actual cash flow and the cash flow, which had been assumed Duration years in the accounting period under review.
Set out top right is a profit profile for a typical with-profits Cumulative modified statutory basis product, for illustration purposes only.
The pattern of the profit Cumulative achieved profits basis emergence varies by product.
The different timing of profit recognition under the two bases is also shown bottom right, which demonstrates the cumulative level of profit recognition for the yearly profits shown in the previous chart.
It shows that under the achieved profits basis profits emerge earlier, but over time, the total profit is the same under both bases.
These charts are purely illustrative of the general features of the different reporting bases.
Philip Broadley Group Finance Director Prudential plc Annual Report 2002 25 Percentage of profit Units of profit
