ROY ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPOR AL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 T & ACCOUNTS 2002 24 24 Financial Review: Group Finance Directors Report Analysis of profit before tax 2002 2001 Comprises the underwriting result on all general insurance, together with the allocated longer term investment return LTIR including that on risk General business result 89m 11 m based capital.
The LTIR is intended to recognise the total investment return arising over time while avoiding the Long term business result 227m 186m distortions of short term investment market uctuations Other activities including associated undertakings 90 m 159 m Is the profit generated on the Groups Group operating result based on LTIR 226m 16m life insurance operations on a modied statutory basis Other movements 881 m 309 m The result for other activities comprises Group operating loss based on LTIR 655 m 293 m a number of elements: The operating result from non insurance activities such as investment Short term investment uctuations 551 m 845 m management and estate agency Income from associates and a number of Group expenses profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries 184m 109 m Interest charges on debt, other than dated loan capital, and nally the surplus or deficit of longer term investment return on risk based Loss on ordinary activities before tax 1,022 m 1,247 m capital, after allocation to the general insurance business result For full details see the profit and loss account on page 58.
Other movements include the change in equalisation provisions, reorganisation costs including losses on terminated business, amortisation of purchased goodwill including goodwill in acquired claims provisions and amortisation of purchased value of long term business and dated loan capital interest 50 40 30 20 10 0 -10 -20 -30 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 Group ROC for the past 22 years % Previous Contents Next I I ROY ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPOR AL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 T & ACCOUNTS 2002 25 25 Returns to recognise the performance of our Clearly recent performance has not met operations.
This measure excludes the the target returns.
Natural and man made effects of a number of items, by far the catastrophes and inadequate rating for most significant of which is short term risks have hit our earnings and led to the investment fluctuations.
UK accounting requirement for higher loss provisions.
rules require us to reect in the profit before However, our long term goal of generating tax PBT number the full market value the target returns over the cycle, regardless movement in our investment portfolio.
The radical This introduces a substantial level of programme of actions that we outlined volatility, which distorts the reported PBT in November of 2002, together with the and can have either a strongly negative cumulative effect of disposal programmes, or strongly positive impact.
underwriting discipline and proactive claims Results management over the last few years will, The Group operating result based on LTIR we believe, produce improved performance.
of 226m, compared with 16m in 2001, Return on equity was affected by a number of prior year The return on equity can be calculated on claims developments, which are detailed an accounting basis including intangible later in this report, by continuing Group financial position assets such as goodwill or on a tangible developments in the cost of the attack 2002 was a year of unprecedented net assets basis.
on the World Trade Center, and by weather financial challenges for the Group, and incidents worldwide.
That said, we recognise for the insurance industry as a whole, as The returns for the past three years have that it is a poor result overall.
continued depressed levels of investment been below target, principally due to poor markets worldwide continued to weaken underwriting conditions in earlier years and The graph below left shows the Group ROC balance sheets.
This section of the report exceptional claims events affecting the over the last 22 years: an average annual explains our views of the key financial whole period.
The impact of investment ROC of 10.4%.
One of our major objectives indicators for the Group and the insurance market movements has also been significant, is to reduce the annual volatility of returns.
industry and will discuss our financial although the reduction in our holdings of The Group has been actively seeking to results and outlook.
equities should serve to reduce volatility reduce its exposure to investment market Group financial targets going forward.
We originally announced in 1998 The Groups main financial objective is to that we were taking action, ahead of We continue to make use of subordinated maximise the return to shareholders by many others in the industry.
Since that ensuring that our return on capital ROC is debt, or dated loan capital as it is time we have reduced our equity holdings signicantly greater than its cost.
This target described in the accounts, as an element by 11.7bn.
We have also been active return, as we have set out for a number of of the Groups capital base, to improve the in using derivative protections for our years now, is 10% net of tax and ination.
The improvement arises remaining investments.
It is a challenging target but one that we because such debt can be treated as a still believe that in the longer term we can component of the Groups capital base, An update on our equity investment position achieve and sustain.
Our ability to generate but has a lower net of tax cost than equity.
is given as part of the review of our current this return is dependent in part upon capital requirements on page 28. investment market performance and, later Volatility As I have discussed in previous years, as a During 2003, we will adjust down our in this review, I detail the changes that have Group we believe that the Group operating investment return assumptions in light been made to our operating targets to recognise the significant changes in result based on longer term investment of the continued stockmarket volatility investment conditions.
return LTIR is the most appropriate measure and lower levels of long term returns and General Business Return on Risk Based Capital Returns on Equity Restated Restated Restated % 2002 2001 2000 % 2002 2001 2000 1999 Accounting basis 33.2 17.9 3.0 UK 11.1 1.3 4.7 8.3 Tangible net assets basis 21.1 19.7 5.3 USA 21.1 15.2 8.4 16.6 Canada 12.1 5.5 4.7 8.5 Scandinavia 4.4 13.9 3.4 6.7 Australia 19.8 14.5 11.0 1.7 Other 4.4 2.0 0.9 5.6 0.5 1.8 4.8 5.4 Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 26 Our reported results also continue to show Secondly, it includes income from associates the effect of claims from the World Trade and a number of Group charges: our central Financial Center, with an additional 71m of Group expenses, any interest charges on reserving during 2002 taking our total debt, other than dated loan capital, and any estimated net loss from the event to 269m.
surplus or deficit of longer term investment Review return on RBC after allocation to the Apart from prior year claims developments general insurance business result.
there are a number of other specic factors continued that have affected the result.
Capital A primary area of interest to investors While UK commercial and US personal and throughout 2002 was the Groups capital commercial property continued to show position and our ability to ensure that we excellent results, problems were evident had sufficient capital to meet business in intermediated UK personal lines, and regulatory requirements.
Because some other US lines of business and investment markets have continued to our Canadian operation.
fall in value, this will continue to attract attention during 2003. ination.
As a result, our target combined The Operating and Financial Review, which ratio has moved to a more demanding we announced in November 2002, is The overall capital position of the Group 102% across the cycle and we will be designed in part to address these problem is assessed by aggregating the general driving for higher returns in the current areas and the Chairmans, Chief Executives business capital requirements with other strong insurance market conditions.
and Operating Review all consider the Group capital requirements and comparing action plans in some detail.
these with the available tangible capital.
FRS 18 requires a review of the Groups accounting policies and an analysis of The change of policy for our risk based The capital requirement for the life estimation techniques applied in producing capital RBC model, was discussed in detail insurance operations is set as the the results.
For an insurance company in my report to you last year and I overview total amount of capital invested in estimation techniques and uncertainty it later in this report.
This, and the decision the life business.
are particularly important and significant.
to invest a lower proportion of funds in Page 54 of these accounts seeks to set equities, led to a decline in the level of For any insurance group, capital out and explain the principal estimation investment return that was generated.
This requirements are directly related to the techniques that are adopted.
was partially offset by the reduction in the risks it faces.
The Group has developed an charge for the shortfall of capital, which is approach to determining its requirements General business result reected in the other activities line.
for its general insurance operations that The overall general insurance business provides a basis for establishing a financial result, while a substantial improvement Life business result control framework and for setting financial on 2001, was clearly not acceptable.
We The shareholders interest in life operations targets for individual businesses.
continue to see a significant drag on the decreased to 1,874m from 2,503m in results from developments in prior year 2001.
This represents the value of the The RBC approach is in addition to the claims in a number of areas and this is shareholders funds in the life operations, need to meet regulatory solvency and overshadowing the strong performance together with the net present value of the rating agency requirements.
The RBC that major parts of the Group produced profit expected to emerge from the existing approach was introduced in 1998 and has for the 2002 underwriting year, i. e. the policies in force.
This decrease reects the been applied to all of the Groups general trading result from the underwriting 25% drop in the value of UK investment business operations.
It is subject to activity in the year.
markets during 2002 together with a continuous review and development and number of disposals during 2002, notably led to an updating of our investment policy It should be emphasised that the our UK offshore life business in the Isle of at the end of 2001.
We implemented the strengthening of claims provisions Man and the UK Group Risk business, as new investment policy during 2002 and relating to prior underwriting years well as operations in Benelux and Germany.
now invest 37.5% of capital in equities, does not necessarily mean that the These have released some 400m of capital with the balance, and all the technical provisions at the end of the preceding to support the general business operations.
provisions after funding working capital, or earlier years were inaccurate or invested in less volatile fixed interest inappropriate.
If the development that Our life result for the year benefited from investments.
This position was achieved has occurred in the current year that a one off credit in Denmark.
During 2002 in 2002, and led to a significant reduction has given rise to the need for additional the Danish regulator changed the way in in equity exposure.
prior year claims provisions was which it required companies to share profit unforeseeable at the previous year between policyholders and shareholders.
We anticipate that regulatory developments As a result, Codan made a one off release in the UK will result in statutory and RBC end, then the previous year end provisions were appropriate.
of profit of 50m, which is included in our requirements converging.
We are reviewing life business result for the year.
our RBC model so that it reects these Excluding this prior year impact, the developments.
In particular, we will be 2002 combined ratio was 102.1%, Other activities breaking the risks faced by the Group into The result for other activities included in which meets our ROC target.
The prior components, for example: underwriting, the Group operating result based on LTIR year impact includes asbestos but this reserving, market, credit, operational is made up of a number of elements.
Firstly, is by no means the predominant factor.
etc, and assessing the capital required to the operating result from non insurance A major factor is the development of support each type of risk separately.
activities such as our UK estate agency liability bodily injury claims, particularly chain Sequence.
In 2001 it also included During 2002 we undertook a wide ranging in respect of motor business.
This has Royal & SunAlliance Investments, our asset review of our capital position, obtaining been a feature in the UK, Ireland, gathering and management arm, which independent actuarial and accounting Canada, Scandinavia and the US.
we sold to ISIS, formerly Friends Ivory and advice in a number of areas.
In addition to The development of these motor liability Sime, in April 2002 together with Swinton being wide ranging in scope, the review and Royal & SunAlliance Trust Company, also sought to project forward the Group claims is partly as a result of legal developments and partly poor underwriting.
both of which we sold in May 2001. capital position through 2003 into 2004.
Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 27 Risk Based Capital Prospective View The review took into account the actions In addition, the overall capital projection is that we announced last November, subject to uncertainty, which arises as a m including the various disposals and consequence of both extraneous factors Available capital tangible 4,100 reductions in exposure that are planned such as investment markets and regulatory by the end of 2004. change, and internal risks such as execution Less current life requirements 1,700 risk in respect of the planned actions.
We Less discontinued business requirements 100 It also took into account the statutory anticipate that regulatory changes, including Available for general business 2,300 requirements as well as the Groups RBC the EU Groups Directive, the Prudential approach.
From a statutory perspective Current general business requirements Source Book and the implementation of the Group continues to maintain a CP 143 and 144 by the Financial Services @40% of projected 2003 NWP 3,000 surplus over the required solvency margin Authority FSA will impact statutory solvency Indicated current shortfall 700 currently required for the regulated requirements in the future generally 2004.
Projected reduction in general business insurance company.
These factors are addressed in the following requirement projected release from sections of this report.
Summary of capital position life capital 1,500 As shown in the table, the Groups capital The FSA has recently provided further Projected capital surplus 800 position at the end of 2002, assessed guidance on how it intends monitoring the using RBC principles, shows a current capital requirements of life insurers with a shortfall of around 700m.
This is consistent move to a realistic balance sheet approach.
with the position shown at November 2002 The Group welcomes this development, taking into account the subsequent further which will be likely to have a beneficial decline in investment markets.
impact on the overall capital position, and we are planning to enter into discussion The table also shows the impact of aspects with the FSA on that basis.
of the plan announced in November, including the reduction in general business Further clarification is expected shortly exposure as a consequence of the disposal from the FSA on the principles to and closure programme of general insurance apply for general insurance business operations, and the release of capital arising solvency assessment.
from the disposal of life operations across the Group.
It must be emphasised that regulatory capital requirements are going to become It should be pointed out that the table more onerous and will be a major inuence does not include any retained profits for over the management of the insurance the period of the plan arising from the businesses.
The extent of the impact will ongoing operations.
These will improve depend on the circumstances of the Group the projected capital position.
and the objectives of the Regulator.
It is also important to recognise that as a The major change is the reduction in the consequence of increasing the regulatory general business requirement, which results targets to more realistic levels, it is more from the Group focussing on a smaller likely that insurance companies will maintain number of operations, and reducing net solvency positions much closer to the written premium by 3bn.
It also reects regulatory levels than in the past.
the reduction in net written premium that results from our quota share arrangement Overall the targeting of an RBC surplus with Munich Re.
This arrangement, which provides a margin for adverse developments, was first entered into at the end of 2001 however we will continue to actively monitor for business underwritten in 2002, has the position and take appropriate additional been renewed for 2003. actions as and when the need arises.
The essence of this agreement is that The main other areas of uncertainty over Munich Re has taken a percentage share the projected capital position relate to of the premiums written in most of our investment markets and the ability of the largest operations.
For 2002 this was 10% Group to execute the disposal and capital and in 2003 it will be 15%.
excluded those businesses that we intend to close or dispose of as well as a number The actions in respect of the life portfolio of smaller operations and it will continue were particularly significant in 2002.
The at approximately the same monetary level detail of the review is given below in the as for the previous period.
This reduces section addressing the UK Life funds the Groups net written premium by capital requirement.
around 800m and releases around On the basis of our projections we expect 300m of RBC requirement.
the Groups capital position to improve This is a one year arrangement but it is from the second quarter 2003 and into renewable by mutual consent of both 2004, as a consequence of the wide range parties and, as I indicated above, we of actions being taken.
Portfolio management Inevitably our current position is subject to At the end of 2001 we announced our the uncertainties inherent in preparing the intention to release 800m of capital from accounts for an insurance company which I a combination of a programme of have already referred to and which are set disposals, and releases from our UK Life out on pages 54 and 55 and in note 46 on company.
We successfully completed this pages 85 and 86. exercise during the fourth quarter of 2002.
Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 28 Where we are not sustaining target the xed interest portfolio.
Within the levels of performance and return on general funds, total xed interest holdings Financial capital over time now stand at approximately 11bn.
Credit quality within the portfolios remains Where the risk prole of business is extremely strong with over 75% of the Review unacceptable from a Group perspective 11bn invested in issues rated either due to the level of risk aggregation AAA or AA.
continued Where we do not have a strategic The Group makes use of derivative competitive advantage in a contracts within its investment portfolios particular sector for the removal or reduction of investment market or foreign exchange risks.
In Where there is an opportunity to unlock addition, such positions are also used to significant value for shareholders help facilitate the efficient management of significant disposals or acquisitions of This restructuring will not complete until underlying physical investment holdings.
the end of 2004 but many of the actions No trading in derivatives is undertaken In total during 2002, we sold operations are underway already.
in the Bahamas, Benelux, Germany and In a departure from our usual practice, the Isle of Man.
We also disposed of At the year end, the Group held cap Royal & SunAlliance Investments, our we identied a number of businesses and collar strategies against a part of both UK Group Risk business, the majority of that we specically intended to dispose the life and general fund equity exposures our shareholding in Global Aerospace of during 2003. in order to reduce the potential impact Underwriting Managers in the UK and on the fund of falling equity market The value of our Asia Pacic operation, our direct marketing operation in Italy.
In addition, significant forward We further announced an agreement while recognised locally, is not reected exchange contracts were in place on some that St Paul Companies would offer at a Group level and there are limited of the life funds to hedge against the 2003 renewals for our US professional synergies between it and the rest of the currency risks associated with overseas and financial risks business.
We intend to release this intrinsic bond holdings.
value through an Initial Public Offering We were able to release around 250m IPO of businesses in Australia and New Debt of capital from our Phoenix subsidiary Zealand: completion of the process is following the sale of Group Risk and The Group has 1.5bn of committed anticipated in the first half of 2003. anticipate releasing a further 100m of bank facilities, which expire in 2003. capital by way of a reinsurance of part 700m of undrawn bilateral facilities We indicated at the time of the November of the embedded value of the remaining expired in January 2003.
566m is drawn 2002 announcement that this did not UK Life funds.
The sale of Group Risk under a syndicated facility of 800m, preclude the sale of businesses within improved the capital position of our which expires in October 2003.
We are Australasia if an attractive deal became Phoenix subsidiary by both the proceeds in the process of negotiating replacement available.
Since November the disposal received and the solvency capital that it facilities for the syndicated facility, which of Guardian Trust Australia and Tyndall released.
As a result, the Phoenix non will be for a lower amount.
Investment Management have been participating fund contains surplus assets announced.
In addition to releasing capital, that were previously required for solvency At the year end we also had dated loan these disposals enhance the attractiveness purposes.
To release that surplus from capital of 773m.
This gure comprises of the IPO.
this fund we transferred the unit linked three tranches with maturities ranging businesses into the non participating from 2019 to 2030.
In the US, the sale of RSUI, our wholesale Phoenix fund so releasing the 250m surplus lines business, is expected to referred to above.
A 90m subordinated bond matures in complete during the first half of 2003.
March 2003 and other borrowings total Other wholesale businesses and some The outcome of our UK Life review was around 50m.
specialised commercial businesses in the the closure of our remaining UK Life US will be sold or exited as soon as funds to new business with effect from Goodwill possible.
We are also discontinuing our 1 September 2002, although existing FRS 10 requires that goodwill arising on World Assurance line of business there.
customers will be able to make increments acquisitions be tested for impairment to their policies.
This gives us greater whenever events or changes in In connection with our November 2002 financial exibility in the management of circumstances indicate that its carrying review we expect to incur one off these run off funds.
In February 2003, value may not be recoverable in full.
In line we announced the outsourcing of the Given market conditions during 2002, with accounting standards, these will be administration of our UK Life business an appraisal of a number of the goodwill charged as they are committed to.
The deal is for an initial term balances on the Groups balance sheet will be primarily in 2003.
There was a of 10 years and secures a competitive was made resulting in a writedown of charge of 42m in 2002. maintenance cost per policy, creating a cost 653m in relation to our operations in base that will be directly variable in line with Investment policy the US, Australia and Canada.
This signicantly reduces The significant reductions in equity the risks inherent in a run off portfolio.
This writedown was charged to Group investment exposures that the Group operating profit.
As goodwill has always has made over the last few years have Operating and Financial Review been excluded from our RBC and statutory continued in 2002 in respect of both Looking to the next couple of years, the life and general operations.
The total solvency calculations, this does not impact our Operating and Financial Review, reduction in equities since 1998 is now our risk based capital position or our announced in November 2002, set out 11.7bn.
The general funds, with equities statutory solvency.
our intention to reduce general business net written premium by 3bn.
While of around 1.2bn, are now at the target Rating agency solvency the decisions about what will be sold or level for our stated investment policy.
Rating agencies such as Standard & Poors, scaled back are business based, this will Within both the life and general funds AM Best and Moodys Investors Service also serve to reduce our overall capital much of the proceeds raised from the provide insurer financial strength ratings requirement.
We will sell or exit businesses in four main categories: equity disposals have been reinvested in for the Group and its principal subsidiaries.
Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 29 These ratings are based on the detailed provisions were within a range of reasonable The results suffered actuarial estimates.
They were, however, financial modelling of the Group and from significant prior towards the lower end of that range.
regular review of the Groups strategic direction.
The current ratings are Afrom In light of the Operating and Financial year claims development, Standard & Poors, Afrom AM Best and Review announced in November 2002, which masked the Baa1 from Moodys Investors Service.
provisions, primarily in respect of the US, underlying results were increased by a further 70m after Following the announcement of our of the current year.
discounting to take a more prudent view.
Operating and Financial Review in Discounting November 2002, AM Best affirmed For certain types of claims provision, the our Aexcellent rating and changed period until final settlement can be many the outlook from negative to stable.
For such very long tail claims it is Standard & Poors moved the Group appropriate to take account of the rating from A to Awith a developing investment return that will be earned outlook, but indicated that the plans on the provisions over the period until are expected to improve capital adequacy settlement.
A discount rate of 5% per to strong levels: they also expect them annum has been applied.
The Group is committed In 2001, the Group extended the range of to returning its rating with all of the claims provisions that it discounts in this way major agencies to A. to encompass all long term settlement claims including asbestos and environmental, where Claims provisions settlement was not anticipated to occur for A key requirement of an insurance group 6 years or more from the balance sheet is to ensure that it makes appropriate date.
Previously only restricted types of long provision for the eventual cost of claims term disability claims were discounted.
arising on policies that it has written.
In many cases these claims take years to For more information on discounting see manifest, to be notied to us and to be note 31 on page 80. settled.
Inevitably there is considerable uncertainty as to the eventual outcome Summary of these claims.
However, we adopt General business claims provisions for prior estimation techniques that are intended years were strengthened during 2002.
This to provide a best estimate of the required was in respect of asbestos, as described provision.
These techniques involve the above and also related to strengthening modelling of claims development and in respect of workers compensation in the exposure and projection of the eventual US, motor liability claims in the UK, US, outcome based on experience to date.
Canada, Ireland and Sweden and various other liability classes around the world.
New developments, such as legal decisions and patterns of notication, will impact the The 2002 results suffered from significant required provisions, often years after the prior year claims development, which policies were written.
Other internal factors masked the underlying results of the current that affect confidence in the levels of claims year.
Making the additional provisions will, provisions include changes in product range we believe, lessen the likelihood of material or underwriting and claims handling claims strengthening in the future.
processes and changes in the volume or mix of business.
All of these impact the statistics Life funds for claims development on which projections The sale of Guardian Trust Australia, are based and, as a consequence, provisions Tyndall Investment Management and are more difficult to project with the same EuroLife and the planned IPO of businesses level of confidence.
in Australia and New Zealand during the first half of 2003, following the sale of The provisions established are also subject the UK Group Risk business, Isle of Man, to annual review by independent actuaries.
Benelux and German life operations in 2002, are contributing to a significant Provisions for asbestos claims reduction in ongoing life operations.
For certain exposures that take a very long time to develop, such as asbestos, The UK operations are in run off, having in depth reviews are carried out every closed to new business in 2001 for the three years, in addition to the usual with profits funds, and 2002 for the annual reviews.
During 2001 this led remaining Phoenix and unit linked funds.
to an increase in provisions for asbestos claims of 371m before discounting.
The life capital represents the total of The main periods of exposure to asbestos shareholders funds held by life companies claims relate to the decades before it in the Group together with the present was recognised to be harmful.
Illnesses value of the profits expected to arise on resulting from exposure to asbestos the in force policies PVIF.
dust can take up to 40 years to become The capital projection, in addition to apparent and we noted when making reecting the various planned disposals of this increase that considerable uncertainty life operations, also takes into account the as to the eventual outcome remained.
consequences of a review of aspects of the The reviews that were carried out UK Life operations that was undertaken by on behalf of the Group during 2002 consulting actuaries on the Groups behalf confirmed that the Groups existing in late 2002.
Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 30 The review covered a wide range of aspects In respect of guaranteed annuity option of the UK Life operations.
The overall exposures, the Group remains fully Financial headings of the review were as follows: reserved on the statutory basis.
This requires an assumption to be made that Asset liability risk the take up rate of guaranteed annuities Review on maturity would be 95%.
The current Valuation insurance risk experience is that the take up rate is signicantly less than this, implying a continued Regulatory risk considerable margin of prudence in the reserves.
Stochastic modelling of the Sales practices risk projected outcome on guaranteed annuities indicates that there is no It is important to emphasise that, although significant exposure in excess of the each set of risks were reviewed individually, provisions already established.
an overall impact analysis was also undertaken.
This is important because Valuation insurance the interrelationship between the various This risk relates to both changes in aspects means that it is not appropriate to We have set in train a valuation principles and changes in estimate the financial impact of individual insurance experience.
This is an industry risks separately.
programme of actions wide risk.
Examples include the risk of for 2003 and 2004 which As a result of the evaluation as part of improvements in mortality, i. e. that will, we believe, leave the capital plan announced in November, annuitants live longer than expected, the Group earmarked 300m of medium which would have an adverse impact on us stronger and better term capital support to cover possible annuities and the reinvestment assumption placed for the future.
Recent FSA for future premiums and investment developments introducing the concept of income.
The review indicates that our realistic balance sheets will lead us to reassumptions for annuitant mortality are evaluate this requirement, and it is possible reasonable in the light of current market that it will be reduced, although this will practice, although mortality could develop not be confirmed for several months.
In respect of the reinvestment risk, we face an improving The solvency of the UK Life funds is sensitive position following the closure of the to changes in investment conditions and remaining funds to new business.
will therefore rise and fall.
To provide for this, arrangements have been put in place Regulatory in respect of both of the UK with profits life Regulatory risk refers to the risk of changes funds whereby the shareholders can provide in regulation increasing the solvency them with contingent loan finance that requirement of the funds.
Generally this will count towards their statutory solvency.
represents a risk of additional solvency Such loan finance, which is interest capital being required for a period as a bearing, is repayable by the with profits margin but this should not represent a funds provided their statutory solvency permanent loss to shareholders.
These exceeds the required level plus 50m risks also are generic to the industry and each.
At 31 December 2002 the contingent are not specific to the Group.
loan finance utilised by the life funds amounted to 25m.
The regulatory position is developing and changing and longer term projections are It is possible that the 300m of medium inevitably less certain.
The publication of term capital support, if the need arises, CP 143 and 144 by the FSA, followed by will be provided by way of the contingent further guidance, has helped clarify the loan arrangements, although this will in likely requirements although there remains part depend on regulatory and tax considerable uncertainty.
Following the actuarial review, we have In respect of each of the four categories adopted a best estimate of the likely of risk that were reviewed, the findings requirements in our capital projections.
were as follows: Sales practices Asset liability There are a number of potential sales The asset liability risk represents the risk of practices risks that face the life insurance asset changes, as a consequence of equity industry.
We have already made a provision market and interest rate movements, not for sales practices risks identied to date.
Capital being matched by equivalent movements Inevitably any projection for future sales in the value of liabilities.
This risk relates Restated Restated practices exposure is going to be subject primarily to mismatched investment m 2002 2001 2000 to uncertainty since in part it will be portfolios and the impact of guarantees.
dependent on regulatory action and Shareholders equity 2,918 4,566 5,911 customer response.
In respect of the sales Over the course of the last few years, Non equity shareholders 125 125 125 practices risks we have identied, the the Groups UK with profits life funds have Equity minority interests 405 399 406 actuarial review has sought to model the been actively managed so as to reduce this Dated loan capital 773 784 784 risk.
In 2002 there were significant further various outcomes, taking into account disposals of equities.
During the year the wide range of factors that impinge 4,221 5,874 7,226 1.6bn of equities were disposed of.
The review has also Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 31 Geographic Spread of Shareholders Funds considered the overall financial position making full provision for deferred tax in of the funds concerned and, in particular, its RBC analysis since that analysis was Restated the value of their realistic estates.
introduced in 1998. m 2002 2001 UK pension funds The International Accounting Standards UK 736 1,544 Note 7 to the Accounts provides more developments continue to show a EMEA 905 1,136 detail on the position of the Groups preference for Fair Value, however, it is Americas 1,638 2,493 pension funds.
In common with many as yet unclear what precise form the Fair Asia Pacic 656 687 companies, the last three years declines Value will take and it may not be the in equity values have had a major impact Fair Value that is currently known under Other 892 1,169 on the Groups pension funds, especially UK accounting.
In particular, it is probable includes borrowings minorities in the UK.
that the recognition of future investment 3,043 4,691 margins in arriving at the embedded value The introduction of FRS 17 provides a will no longer apply.
basis for setting out the surplus or shortfall in the pension funds as well Towards the end of 2002, the Association as a methodology for determining the of British Insurers issued a draft update of appropriate charge to profit and loss their Statement of Recommended Practice for the cost of the pensions benefit.
This recommended inter alia that embedded FRS 17 provides a sensible basis for value should not be recognised on the determining the charge to profit and balance sheet.
This SORP is currently loss, and the Group is applying this in a process of consultation and some in its financial projections.
The FRS 17 respondents have indicated their calculation of surplus or shortfall is also disagreement with the recommendations valid, provided it is recognised as being as to embedded value.
The SORP will not an inherently volatile comparison of come into effect until 2003 year end at market values of investments with the the earliest and, taking into account the discounted value of long term liabilities.
discussion taking place in the consultation process, no changes have been made to Any shortfall identied by the FRS 17 the Groups accounting policies for 2002. approach represents a requirement that will change with investment market A full review of our basis of accounting movements, however, it is appropriate for to ensure our compliance with the SORP, the Group to anticipate how any shortfall in whatever form it nally takes, and in will be funded.
In the case of the UK anticipation of International Accounting pension funds, the indicated shortfall, net Standards, will be made in 2003. of tax relief, is around 300m after taking account of an accrual that had been built Risk analysis up on the Group balance sheet.
This The overall Group approach to the accrual will be paid into the funds in 2003. identication, evaluation and management of risk is dealt with in the Corporate Subject to market developments, and the Governance report.
impact of the employee contributions, which, subject to employee ballot, we Summary anticipate will be introduced in 2004, 2002 has been a very eventful year for this shortfall will be funded by additional the Group and the industry, as this contributions from the Group, over and report highlights.
We have set in train a above those required by FRS 17, over programme of actions for 2003 and 2004, the next 10 years amounting to around which will, we believe, leave us stronger 30m per annum.
and better placed for the future.
Changes in accounting policies During 2002 the Accounting Standards Board issued one new standard, FRS 19, which requires full provision for deferred taxation.
For an insurance operation, the principal impact is in respect of the unrealised gains on the investment portfolio.
Julian Hance, Group Finance Director As a result, the present value of deferred tax has been recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date.
Prior to 1 January 2002, the Groups accounting policy was to provide for deferred tax that was likely to be payable or recoverable.
Prior year comparatives have been restated to comply with FRS 19.
The impact of the new policy is to reduce the loss on ordinary activities after tax for the year ending 31 December 2002 by 172m.
The Group has anticipated the introduction of FRS 19 by Previous Contents Next I I
