18 P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC 2002 Operating review GROUP STRATEGY America, Star Princess has helped On 8 January 2003, our Board recommended the proposed Carnival DLC strengthen our product offering in the transaction.
The strategy of the Combined Group after the expected completion of Alaska and Mexico trades.
the Carnival DLC transaction will be set out in the shareholder documents relating to that proposed transaction.
Coral Princess, the first of the latest 2002 OPERATING REVIEW panamax design ships from Chantiers fide NORTH AMERICA lAtlantique, was delivered to the Throughout 2002 we continued to Princess fleet in December 2002 and expand and modernise the Princess fleet.
She During the year, two newbuilds, Star is the largest of the line's ships to be able Princess and Coral Princess were delivered: to transit the Panama Canal and some two former Renaissance Cruises ships, 75% of her cabins have private balconies.
Tahitian Princess and the new Pacific Princess, were added to the fleet: In October 2002, two former Renaissance Crown Princess and Ocean Princess Cruises vessels were acquired under were transferred to our German and a lease purchase arrangement for UK fleets respectively and the 1971 built deployment in P&O Princess Cruises Pacific Princess was withdrawn.
North American and Australian fleets.
These 670 lower berth ships have a Star Princess was introduced successfully wide variety of dining alternatives and to our fleet in February 2002.
Like her have over two thirds of cabins with their sisterships, Grand Princess and Golden own balconies.
Princess, the ship has a large proportion of cabins with private balconies and features Tahitian Princess, the former R4, was multiple dining and entertainment venues, introduced into the Princess fleet in including three theatres, eight restaurants, December and will sail year round in an AOL internet caf and a nine-hole French Polynesia.
Pacific Princess, the putting course.
The wide variety of former R3, will sail for six months of the amenities and restaurants demonstrates year as part of the Princess fleet offering Princess flexible approach to the cruise itineraries throughout the Pacific Region.
For the other six months of the year she As our first mega cruise ship to be will sail as part of the P&O Cruises positioned on the West Coast of North Australian fleet.
Pacific Princess was timeline: 2002 the introduction of two riverboats A'ROSA BELLA and A'ROSA DONNA May 2002 Copper River Princess Wildnerness lodge - our fifth 2002 P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC 19 introduced to the Australian fleet in October 2002, a major fire broke out dining, which enables passengers to November 2002 and will sail under onboard one of the ships whilst under choose between true restaurant style the Princess brand from May to construction in the shipyard.
The two ships dining and the more traditional cruise November 2003. from the yard will now be delivered in experience of fixed seating, has proved February and May 2004.
The first will to be popular with our guests.
Crown Princess was transferred out of the have its inaugural season in Mexico and Princess fleet to our new destinationthe second ship will initially be based in A leader in providing cruise tours to oriented German brand, AROSA, in June Seattle for roundtrip Alaska cruises.
Alaska, Princess Cruises opened its fifth 2002 where she is now sailing as AROSA wilderness lodge in Alaska in May 2002.
Ocean Princess was transferred to Finally the 3,100 lower berth ship, Princess Cruises now owns and operates the P&O Cruises UK fleet in November Caribbean Princess, which is the fourth approximately 1,100 hotel rooms in 2002 where she is sailing as Oceana.
Grand Princess style ship being built in Alaska.
The new lodge, which is on the Additionally, after some 30 years of service, Fincantieri, is due to join the Princess Copper River, proved popular during Pacific Princess, the original Love Boat, fleet in the second quarter of 2004. the Alaska summer season and has was withdrawn from the Princess fleet, enabled us to grow our cruise tour in November 2002.
These changes to the Princess fleet will product in this important trade.
give customers a broader choice of Over the next two years, Princess will amenity-filled ships.
By December 31, be taking delivery of four newbuildings: 2003, the proportion of balconied cabins Island Princess, Diamond Princess, in the Princess fleet will be 52% and the Caribbean Princess and Sapphire weighted average berth age of the fleet Princess.
Island Princess is the second of will be under six years.
We believe these the panamax ships from Chantiers fide steps will further improve Princess cost lAtlantique and is due to enter service structure and revenue-earning potential in July 2003.
She will initially be deployed thereby improving its competitive position in Alaska.
Diamond and Sapphire Princess are the Princess has continued to differentiate two new mega ships under construction its product by introducing new ways to at Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Nagasaki give passengers greater flexibility and shipyard.
Over 70% of cabins on these more personal choice.
Personal Choice ships will be outside cabins and more than cruising has been well received by our 75% of these will have private balconies.
In particular, Personal Choice Alaskan Wilderness lodge - opens in Alaska June 2002 A'ROSA BLU introduced to our German fleet 20 P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC 2002 Operating review continued UNITED KINGDOM is the second P&O Cruises' ship to The UK is one of the largest vacation provide 24-hour dining options, giving markets in the world.
The UK cruise passengers greater choice and flexibility.
sector has been one of the fastest Of Oceana's 600 outside cabins, almost growing cruise sectors in the world with 70 per cent have private balconies.
an average annual growth of around Operating in the Caribbean during her 17% between 1995 and 2000.
During maiden season, Oceana has introduced 2002, P&O Princess has improved its several new ports of call including position in this important sector.
Cristobal in Panama, Costa Maya in Mexico and Princess Cays, the Bahamian In the summer, we launched Ocean private island operated by Princess Cruises.
Village, a new cruise brand aimed at Oceana will be deployed this summer in younger passengers looking for a Europe.
Following 24 years of service in relaxed and informal holiday in the sun.
the P&O Princess Cruises fleet, Victoria From May 2003, Ocean Village, which is was withdrawn in November 2002. currently sailing in the P&O Cruises fleet as Arcadia, will provide one and twoIn May 2003, Adonia, currently sailing as week Mediterranean cruises, together Sea Princess, will join the P&O Cruises with cruise and stay holidays based on fleet to replace Arcadia, which will be two alternating seven-night itineraries transferred to Ocean Village.
Adonia will be sailing out of Majorca.
The ship will be dedicated to adults and will be based in deployed in the Caribbean in winter.
Europe for her inaugural season.
By the end She will provide a relaxed and informal of 2003, the P&O Cruises fleet will have cruise experience with an emphasis on a weighted average berth age of less than health and well being.
six years and over a third of all cabins in the fleet will have a private balcony.
P&O Cruises is one of best-known British cruise brands.
During 2002, P&O In March 2002, we announced the expansion Princess took steps to expand and of our successful discovery cruise brand, develop the brand.
In November 2002, Swan Hellenic, through the replacement of we introduced Oceana to the fleet.
She our existing ship, Minerva, with the charter timeline: 2002 August 2002 Announcement of the acquisition of two former Renaissance Cruises ships to join our North American and Australian fleets 2002 P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC 21 of a 2001-built ship, Minerva II.
She is due AIDA is one of the best-recognised to start sailings as a Swan Hellenic ship in cruise brands in Germany.
Over two thirds of Minerva we doubled the capacity in our AIDA IIs cabins have balconies.
With its faster brand through the successful introduction service speed, the new ship will be able of our second club ship, AIDAvita.
A to offer a wider range of destinations in its third clubship, AIDAaura, is scheduled discovery itineraries than the original ship.
GERMANY AUSTRALIA Cruising represents only a small proportion In Australia, we expanded our capacity of the German vacation market, which is through the introduction of Pacific one of the largest vacation markets in the Princess in November 2002.
We believe that cruising in Germany lower berth ship will operate on a split has a significant potential for future growth.
deployment between P&O Cruises Australia and Princess Cruises.
For the During 2002, our German operations six months of the year that coincide underwent significant expansion, with the with the southern hemisphere summer, first cruises of a new destination-oriented the ship will offer premium cruises to brand, AROSA, and the expansion of French New Caledonia and elsewhere our successful clubship brand, AIDA.
in the South Pacific under the P&O Cruises Australia brand.
In July 2002, our ocean-going vessel, AROSA BLU the former Crown Princess entered With the addition of the Pacific Princess into service.
She was deployed in the Baltic in premium product to the existing Summer 2002.
In May 2002, we introduced contemporary product offered by the two river cruise vessels, AROSA BELLA Pacific Sky, P&O Cruises Australia will and AROSA DONNA and started river increase its capacity by 30% and provide cruises on the Danube.
Two new river products designed to appeal to a wide cruise vessels are on order, AROSA MIA range of Australian consumer tastes.
due for delivery in Spring 2003 and an unnamed vessel due in Spring 2004.
November 2002 Inaugural cruise of new UK superliner, Oceana Introduction of Pacific Princess to our Australian fleet, expanding continued overleaf 22 P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC 2002 Financial review 2002 RESULTS deducting transaction costs, profits were $208.8 million.
These figures compare with In 2002 operating profit before transaction costs increased by 15%.
The results reflect $286.3 million of profits originally reported the underlying strength of our business and our success in driving down unit costs for 2001, a figure that was restated to $383.1 while continuing to deliver outstanding vacations for our customers.
million following the adoption of FRS19.
The principal drivers of our profitability are Net revenue yields, including on board our capacity measured in passenger cruise revenue, were 4% lower on a like for like Adjusted earnings per share ADS, excluding days, and our net revenue yields and basis than for 2001.
This reflects the impact transaction costs in 2002 and exceptional underlying unit costs.
Definitions of these on yields of the disruption to bookings for tax items in 2001, were 47.1c $1.88, terms are provided in the Glossary of Princess in the period after the events of compared with 41.3c $1.65 in 2001 see terms on page 76.
After transaction costs, earnings were 8% lower than those in 2001. per share ADS in 2002 were 30.2c $1.21.
For the year as a whole, passenger cruise days increased by 13% over 2001.
Within Operating profit for the year, before Dividends this, Princess passenger cruise days grew transaction costs, was $415.7 million against The fourth quarter interim dividend was 3 by 9% due mainly to the introduction of $361.3 million in 2001.
The interest charge cents per share 12 cents per ADS, bringing Star Princess in February 2002 and the increased to $74.0 million due to the the dividend for the year to 12 cents per inclusion of Golden Princess delivered in increase in borrowings following the delivery share 48 cents per ADS 2001 12 cents May 2001 for the full year, offset by the of new ships, offset by lower interest rates.
transfers during 2002 of Crown Princess Profit before tax and transaction costs to AROSA and Ocean Princess to P&O increased by 13% to $342.9 million.
The annual dividend is covered 2.5 times Cruises.
Passenger cruise days in Europe by basic earnings per share of 30.2 cents.
and Australia grew by 20% due mainly to The tax rate before transaction costs the expansion in the German market with remained at 5%, reflecting the tax advantages Capital the delivery of AIDAvita in May 2002 and that the company enjoys as an international During 2002 the Company issued 829,191 the introduction of AROSA BLU formerly shipping business, including participation in ordinary shares following the exercise of Crown Princess in June 2002.
The UK and the tonnage tax regime in the U. K. The share options.
Australian businesses also grew, with most adoption of Financial Reporting Standard of that growth coming in the fourth quarter.
19 'Deferred Tax' FRS19 has resulted Capital commitments in a restatement of the 2001 comparatives As at December 31, 2002, the Group had which now include an additional one off future capital commitments in respect of its credit of $96.8 million on entry into five ocean cruise ships and two riverboats tonnage tax see note 1.
After tax and on order at that date of $1,790m million.
minority interests, but before transaction These vessels are scheduled to enter service costs, profits were $325.8 million.
Of the total commitment timeline: 2002 and broadening our presence in that sector December 2002 Introduction of Tahitian Princess to our North American fleet 2002 P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC 23 as at December 31, 2002, it is expected capital expenditure commitments in currencies our most difficult, subjective or complex that U. S. $610 million will be incurred in other than their main local currency, these judgments, often as a result of the need to 2003 and U. S. $1,180 million in 2004. commitments are normally hedged using make estimates about the effect of matters forward contracts and currency swaps in that are inherently uncertain.
We therefore Financial risk order to fix the cost when converted to highlight the following critical accounting We use derivative financial instruments to the local currency.
policies, related judgments and inherent manage financial risks associated with our uncertainties affecting the application of business.
The main risks we are exposed Interest rate risk those policies, and the likelihood that to are foreign currency and interest rate To protect the financial results against materially different amounts would be risks.
We do not undertake speculative movements in interest rates, P&O Princess reported under different conditions or transactions.
Cruises maintains a significant portion of its using different assumptions.
borrowings at a fixed rate of interest.
At Foreign currency risk December 31, 2002, approximately 35% We have discussed the application of We report our results in U. S. dollars.
In of our long term debt was at fixed rates, these critical accounting policies with our 2002 approximately 30% of our operating and 65% at floating rates of interest.
board of directors and Audit Committee.
profit was generated by P&O Cruises and Swan Hellenic in the U. K. AIDA and Liquidity risk There have been no changes to these AROSA in Germany and P&O Cruises We have a range of funding sources for Critical Accounting Policies during the year.
Their local currencies are sterling, our debt, including both bank and bond euro and the Australian dollar respectively.
At December 31, 2002, 50% of Ship Accounting Any appreciation of the U. S. dollar against the Groups loans were repayable after Our most significant assets are our ships, these currencies reduces our reported more than five years.
At that same date which represent 85% of our total assets U. S. dollar operating profit but the impact we had cash balances of $162.1 million and are subject to several critical is partially mitigated by some interest costs and committed undrawn facilities of $444 accounting policies: being incurred in these currencies.
million to provide additional liquidity if required.
In addition, we had committed 1 We depreciate our ships on a straight Approximately 40% of our net operating financing arranged of $1,210 million to line basis over their expected useful lives assets are held in sterling, euro and fund the delivery payments on four of the This requires us to estimate the useful life Australian dollars.
Currency movements five ocean cruise ships on order.
of our assets as well as their residual values, can significantly affect the U. S. dollar considering, among other things, the consolidated balance sheet with this effect Critical Accounting Policies and Judgments impact of technological change, market being mitigated by borrowings in these The Group's accounting policies are conditions and industry experience.
disclosed in Note 1 to the Financial Statements have estimated our new ships average on page 47.
Our critical accounting policies useful lives at 30 years and their residual Changes in exchange rates may also affect are those that we believe are most important values at 15% of our original ship cost.
our obligations under ship building contracts.
to the presentation of the Company's When the individual businesses enter into financial condition and results and require January 2003 Introduction of Coral Princess to our North American fleet 24 P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC 2002 Financial review continued If we had assumed useful lives of the ships cash flow techniques used in appraisals could increase, partially offset by a at 25 years, the impact on our results for require significant judgments such as decrease in depreciation expense, as less 2002 would have been to reduce operating estimated future yields and related costs, ship costs would have been capitalized.
expected fleet development and the market environment.
We believe that we We believe that the estimates and judgments If we had assumed residual values at 10% have made reasonable estimates and we have made in reviewing the carrying of our original ship cost and expected useful judgements in reviewing any potential value and determining the useful lives of lives of 30 years, the impact on our results impairment of our long-lived assets.
our fixed assets together with the treatment for 2002 would have been to reduce However, if there is a material change in of ship expenditure after it has been operating profits by approximately $8 million.
economic conditions or other circumstances brought into service are appropriate.
influencing fair value, we could be required 2 We review our long-lived assets, to recognize an impairment charge.
Contingencies particularly our ships for impairment The likely outcome of any claims brought whenever events or changes in circumstances 3 We account for subsequent expenditure against us or of which we have been notified indicate that the carrying amount of the on a ship after it has been brought into is a subjective matter.
We use our best assets may not be fully recoverable.
If such service by capitalizing only those costs judgment in determining the likelihood of an indication of impairment exists we are which we believe are an improvement of any probable expense or liability that may required to estimate the fair value of the the ship which is a judgemental area and result to the Group and provide for such asset and its remaining useful life, either by requires experience and technical information.
Note 25 to the obtaining third party appraisals or performing These capitalized costs are then depreciated Financial Statements, on page 63, discloses discounted cash flow analysis through the over their estimated useful lives.
Any remaining additional information on the Group's use of estimated future cash flows and costs are treated as either dry-docking costs contingent liabilities.
Any or repairs and maintenance.
provision for impairment in value of the Given the inherent uncertainty related to assets would be made in the profit and Given the complexities associated with the the eventual outcome of any such claims, loss account.
accounting for cruise ships all the above it is possible that these matters may be policies can result in estimates which are resolved for amounts materially different Determination of fair values by these highly subjective.
If we materially changed from any provisions that we may have methods is subject to many uncertainties: our assumptions of ship lives, residual values made.
We believe that the assessments we an active trading market for cruise ships or carrying values, our depreciation have made, and the resulting provisions, are may not exist at a particular time, discounted expense and net book value of our ships appropriate.
However, as new information would be materially different.
Also, if we becomes available, we may need to were to change our assessment of ship reassess the likely outcome and it is possible expenditure, the amounts we expense that our revised estimates could materially each year as repair and maintenance costs impact our results and financial position.
Financial and statutory information 2002 P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC 25
