Financial Review The discussion of financial results below uses The past year has illustrated the robust nature of constant exchange rate comparisons for all Celltechs business strategy.
Firstly, Celltechs self-funding sales and royalty figures, and historic financial profile enables it to pursue its substantial exchange rate comparisons for all other figures.
Discussion of overall financial investment in research and development independently performance for the year is based upon the of the conditions in financial markets.
Secondly, by operational profit and loss account, which pursuing a broad portfolio of products, both through inexcludes goodwill amortisation and restructuring items, and is derived from the house development and in collaboration with large statutory profit and loss account on page 46. pharmaceutical and biotechnology partners, Celltech Goodwill arises from the accounting actively manages its risk profile such that it is not treatment of company acquisitions, representing the difference between the dependent upon any single product to fulfil its goal of underlying fair value of the business and its becoming a global biotechnology leader.
acquisition price, and is written off over the useful economic life of those businesses.
It is Celltechs view that the operational performance is best assessed with reference to the financial results before taking account of either amortisation of goodwill or one-off restructuring items.
Celltechs business has continued to perform well in all areas, with total product sales and royalties increasing by 12% to 329.6 million 2001: 293.7 million.
In particular, significant growth was achieved in Celltechs antibody engineering royalty revenues, which increased by 49% to 53.1 million 2001: 35.5 million.
Sales of Celltechs portfolio of mature products increased by 8% to 252.9 million, with individual product performances detailed in the review of the pharmaceutical Operational profit and loss account for Celltech Group 2002 2001 change for year ending 31 December 2002 m m % Sales 329.6 303.1 9 Cost of sales 94.7 83.5 13 Gross profit 234.9 219.6 7 Research and development 95.7 90.7 6 Selling, marketing and distribution 71.5 78.6 9 Corporate and general administration 26.8 24.9 8 Total expenses 194.0 194.2 nil Operating profit before other income 40.9 25.4 61 Other income 8.1 18.8 nm Operating profit pre restructuring items and goodwill 49.0 44.2 11 Interest 1.4 3.6 61 Net profit pre restructuring items and goodwill 50.4 47.8 5 Tax 7.6 8.1 6 Net profit after tax pre restructuring items and goodwill 42.8 39.7 8 Earnings per share pre restructuring items and goodwill 15.5p 14.4p 8 22 Celltech Annual Report 2002 business.
This strong performance enabled In light of the high discount investors are medicines to market are increasing Celltech to increase its R&D expenditure by currently placing on the valuation of significantly.
6% to 95.7 million 2001: 90.7 million, in biotechnology companies, and the high share addition to showing an increase in operating price volatility in this sector, Celltech plans to Reshaping of pharmaceutical business profit before other income of 61% to 40.9 seek approval from shareholders to purchase Celltechs pharmaceutical business continues million 2001: 25.4 million.
Earnings per up to 10% of its own securities at its to perform two important roles for the Group: share pre restructuring items and goodwill was forthcoming AGM.
Since Celltechs business is firstly, to generate revenues from existing 15.5p 2001: 14.4p, which included a $10 strongly cash-generative, it believes that the marketed products to support its substantial million CDP 870 collaboration payment from ability to purchase its own securities will investment in R&D: and, secondly, to provide Pharmacia 2001: $25 million, and year end provide significant enhancement of a platform for the future specialised cash and liquid resources remained strong at shareholder value.
marketing of certain pipeline products.
The basic earnings per share, which include the impact Partnering strategy Celltechs strategy includes the future of restructuring items and goodwill, was a loss Celltech has a long-established strategy of marketing of certain pipeline products directly of 16.7p 2001: loss of 20.3p.
partnering for strength through a range of to specialist audiences.
Celltech does not alliances with large pharmaceutical and intend to promote pipeline products targeted Further details of Celltechs financial biotechnology partners, including traditional to primary care practitioners, which it believes performance during the past year, along with out-licensing deals incorporating milestone are better addressed through partnerships key elements of its business strategy, are payments and royalties on sales, enhanced with large pharmaceutical companies.
royalty options, and co-development coHowever, in-house promotion for specialistpromotion arrangements.
Celltechs recent focused products is attractive due to several Financial markets collaborations with Pharmacia, Biogen and factors, including a small target audience, The past year has been a difficult one for the Amgen reflect its ability to leverage both its leading to low salesforce and marketing costs, technology sector, with investors discounting balance sheet strength and commercialisation since these products do not usually the valuations of companies that have a capabilities, by incorporating co-promotion necessitate direct-to-consumer advertising, significant proportion of their value and profit sharing arrangements, enabling the reflecting their specialist prescribing nature.
predicated on future product developments.
company to retain greater value in its pipeline In particular, this has had a marked impact on products than possible in traditional, royaltyEstablishing an effective commercialisation the biotechnology sector, where a substantial based licensing deals.
Importantly, these capability entails a substantial investment proportion of the future value of these collaborations are also a key component in related to the necessary core background companies is contained within development managing the risk reward balance for Celltech.
infrastructure, including central marketing pipelines.
Celltech, with its profitable support, salesforce automation, managed pharmaceutical business and substantial These arrangements bring substantial benefits healthcare relationships and royalty income, has avoided some of these to Celltech, both financial, including pharmacovigilance.
Such an infrastructure can concerns but nonetheless has seen its shares milestone payments and R&D funding, and be particularly costly when put in place for a impacted in line with others.
operational, through expertise in a particular single product.
Celltech will use the existing disease area, both for development and infrastructure in its US and European It is Celltechs view that this has given rise to subsequent commercialisation of products.
operations to support additional salesforces an imbalance in valuations when comparing Celltech received milestone payments of 8.1 addressing specialist prescribing audiences.
biotechnology companies with large million during 2002, including a $10 million pharmaceutical companies.
Many 6.4 million payment from Pharmacia upon Celltechs recent acquisition of Dipentum from pharmaceutical companies currently have thin initiation of Phase III studies for CDP 870 in Pharmacia is intended to accelerate the product pipelines, which will impede their rheumatoid arthritis 2001: 18.8 million, transition to a specialist-focused marketing ability to maintain or grow revenues and including 17.5 million initial CDP 870 organisation, and is reflected by the ongoing earnings.
Celltech believes that collaboration payment from Pharmacia.
restructuring of its existing salesforces, pharmaceutical companies will increasingly Celltech also receives substantial benefit from detailed in the review of the pharmaceutical look to the biotechnology sector to address the R&D funding provided by partners, business.
In addition, marketing expenditure issues with their pipelines, which should help particularly evident in the late-stage during 2002 was lower following the highlight the latent value in the biotechnology development programmes being undertaken completion of initial heavy promotional sector.
Consequently, it is critical for by Merck and Bristol-Myers Squibb, who pay activities for Metadate CD, concluded during biotechnology companies to be able to all development costs, and through its 2001.
The net impact of these changes was a sustain a broad portfolio of products and to collaboration with Pharmacia, who are paying reduction in sales and marketing expenditure efficiently advance these through early stage the majority of costs for the development of for 2002 of 9.1% or 7.1 million which development in order to secure value from CDP 870 in rheumatoid arthritis.
This R&D reduced total expenditure to 71.5 million partnering arrangements.
Celltech believes funding is particularly important in an 2001: 78.6 million.
The impact of these that it is well placed in this regard.
environment where the costs of bringing new changes in 2003, incorporating the reductions Celltech Annual Report 2002 23 Financial Review in the general salesforce and creation of new This approach is reflected in the increased of operating such arrangements against specialist marketing capabilities, is expected to R&D expenditure during 2002 of 95.7 constructing an in-house facility and at lead to a further reduction in sales and million 2001: 90.7 million, which present does not expect to invest in bringing marketing expenditure in the range of 56%.
incorporates both modest organic growth and in-house capacity on stream before the end of increased external development expenditure, the decade.
Long-term R&D commitment reflecting the advancing product pipeline, and A core part of Celltechs strategy is its access to new technologies.
Celltech plans to Financial strength substantial commitment to R&D as the key grow R&D expenditure modestly over the next As a large, mature organisation with a strong driver to creating long-term shareholder two to three years.
financial position, Celltech is able to adopt value.
In the recent difficult financial market prudent financial management practices in a conditions, many investors are focused on Celltech also recognises the need to maintain comparable fashion to larger pharmaceutical short-term earnings growth as a key valuation financial flexibility to take advantage of companies.
Celltech is committed to maintaining opportunities as and when they arise, hence it a strong financial position, including a steady does not propose payment of a dividend, in This was evidenced during 2002 as, in line earnings profile: however, it does not intend line with international biotechnology peer with many other companies, onerous changes to sacrifice investment in developing its novel companies.
in the insurance market led to a large increase product pipeline purely to enhance short-term in insurance premiums, as detailed in the profitability.
Partnering of development Manufacturing strategy interim report.
Premiums in the insurance year products at an appropriate stage is key to Timely access to high quality manufacturing to September 2002 increased by 57% to 6.1 Celltechs ability to progress its broad portfolio facilities is key to the successful development million, and would have been considerably of products, whilst maintaining an acceptable and commercialisation of biological products.
higher had a three-year agreement not been risk profile for investors.
However, due to the substantial capital in place for certain layers of product liability expenditure required to construct such insurance.
It is estimated that this agreement An important component of Celltechs R&D facilities, it is critical to match the investment will have saved Celltech some 4 million of strategy is to maintain and expand its required for such facilities with pipeline risk, premiums for each of the years 2002 and technology base to secure its competitive such as product delays or failure.
2003. position, exemplified by recent deals with Abgenix SLAM technology, Neogenesis ultra Celltech currently operates a virtual supply As a consequence of these changes, and in high throughput screening capabilities and network for its antibody products, using anticipation of significant further increases in Seattle Genetics novel toxin and linker contract manufacturers, including BioReliance liability premiums in 2003 4, Celltech has technology.
Celltech is also focused on and Biochemie, providing substantial flexibility formed a subsidiary captive insurance accessing novel disease targets in a costin the scheduling of production of its portfolio company to underwrite certain areas of risk.
effective fashion, which is critical to of products, without carrying the investment A charge of 2.9 million has been recorded in maintaining a strong flow of pipeline and overhead burden of a dedicated facility.
the year, with a further charge likely to be products.
Celltech continuously reviews the advantages required in 2003 to reflect the risks Turnover 2002 2001 change m m % Total product sales 252.9 234.9 8 Antibody engineering 53.1 35.5 49 Asacol 7.6 9.8 22 Pertactin 11.0 8.4 31 Mylotarg 2.7 4.0 33 Other 2.3 1.1 109 Total royalties 76.7 58.8 30 Total sales 329.6 293.7 12 Effect of exchange differences 9.4 As reported 329.6 303.1 9 At constant exchange rates 24 Celltech Annual Report 2002 underwritten by this captive insurance liquid resources increased by 20.8 million Celltech also benefits from accumulated company.
It will initially cover certain product during the year before taking account of taxation losses, which enabled the Group to liability risks, but from September 2003 will exchange movements of 6.1 million, maintain a taxation rate of 15% 2001: 17% underwrite broader liability risks, thereby notwithstanding payments to Pharmacia for the year.
Celltech expects to maintain a allowing Celltech to reduce the level of relating to acquisition of rights to Dipentum taxation rate of not more than 20% for at premiums paid to external insurers.
During the year, Celltech least three years, based upon the current in 2002, predominantly included in cost of renewed its three-year revolving credit facility, fiscal environment in the US and UK.
sales, have consequently increased by 5.0 designed to provide flexibility in its future million compared to the equivalent period last funding arrangements, at the reduced amount Goodwill amortisation for the year, which year.
of 65 million 2001: 80 million, reflecting the arises from the accounting treatment of Groups solid financial position.
The Group also company acquisitions, amounted to 93.7 A further issue faced by many companies has has in issue a $50 million, 6.51% 5-year loan million 2001: 92.6 million.
The 2001 been the funding of employee pension note, repayable December 2003, and plans to financial statements included a restructuring schemes in light of the poor performance of review whether to maintain such a facility charge of 7.8 million: there have been no global equity markets.
Celltech operates a beyond this date shortly.
restructuring charges during 2002. mixture of defined benefit and money purchase schemes, with all new employees Celltech also holds 31 million in convertible Business restructuring entering the latter schemes since January loan stock issued by PowderJect Celltech continuously reviews its cost base to 2000.
Like many companies, certain of Pharmaceuticals plc, yielding 7% to maturity.
ensure that it has financial flexibility and Celltechs defined benefit pension schemes are stability to support its ongoing operations.
currently showing a funding deficit, on a FRS Capital expenditure during the year totalled Following the mergers with Chiroscience in 17 basis amounting to 26% or 20.2 million.
11.8 million, relating predominately to 1999 and Medeva in 2000, Celltech On a SSAP 24 basis the actuarial valuation upgrading laboratory and manufacturing generated total proceeds from disposals of method used to manage the pension schemes facilities and equipment and information 173.4 million, including 33.6 million in affairs, the deficit of the UK scheme is 11.1 technology enhancements.
Capital convertible loan stock and deferred million lower.
Either way, this deficit is small expenditure in 2003 is expected to be higher consideration, and cost synergies of 30 when compared to the Groups market than in 2002, relating to the expansion of million, largely in corporate and general capitalisation and on present assumptions laboratory facilities at its Slough research administrative expenditure, which remained does not necessitate any material change in facility and an upgrade to the  during 2002 at 26.8 million Celltechs funding of these schemes.
These cost savings have Celltechs financial position has continued to enabled the Group to significantly improve strengthen during the year, with year end cash Interest income for the year was lower than profitability over the past three years, ahead and cash equivalents of 105.1 million 2001: for 2001, attributable to lower interest rates of the growth in revenues, illustrated by the 90.4 million, and net cash after borrowings of applying throughout the period on cash chart below.
Cash and balances, particularly in the US.
Net pre-tax profit before Revenues m other income m 350 50 300 40 250 30 200 150 20 Other income 100 Royalties 10 50 Product sales 0 0 Net pre-tax profit before Year 1999 2000 2001 2002 other income Pre restructuring items and goodwill.
Financial information is derived from the Pro-forma condensed combined profit and loss accounts on page 77.
