Chief executives review New Media progress to date has convinced us even Communications Bill As a further step towards our exit from New more of the considerable potential to deliver Media, the Group merged Rivals with 365s significant added value from this acquisition.
As expected, the Communications Bill was included in the Queens Speech on 13th November 2002 and internet business in January 2002, to create Our TV Division has started the year well, the legislative process has now begun.
Chrysalis owns 40% with further series of our two key dramas, of the enlarged business, which remains Midsomer Murders and Ultimate Force, The main points of the Bill are as follows: on track for break-even within 12 months.
Earnings visibility in this Empowers Ofcom to act as economic We expect to extract value in the future from business has improved with over 70% of the and content regulator this business, which is the most successful current full year forecast now booked.
Within Abolishes national ownership points system of the digital sports sites to emerge over the Music, the new Feeder album has got off to a Establishes 2 BBC rule on concentrations last few years.
very encouraging start, as has the new album of local ownership with 55% of total points set as upper limit from David Gray, one of our key songwriters, which went straight in at No.
1 in the UK Cross-media ownership liberalised Current year outlook album charts on release.
Both albums should Despite the continuing economic uncertainty Liberalises ownership of digital radio services contribute towards further profit growth surrounding the wider economy, we have Allows for ownership of UK radio by from the Music Division in 2003.
The Book non-EEA companies enjoyed another good start to the current Publishing companies received a positive financial year.
Chrysalis Radio has experienced Ownership rules to be reviewed every 3 years reaction at the recent Frankfurt Book Fair a buoyant first quarter with revenues up 17%, FM licenses extended from 8 years to 12 and with some high profile current releases again strongly outperforming the industry.
Content regulation designed to protect localness and further margin growth to be extracted Recent audience figures and increased BBC to be subject to fines for breaches across the division, we expect 2003 to be a revenue yield gives us great confidence that of content rules year of further progress for Chrysalis Books.
this outperformance will continue for the Establishment of Access Radio non profit community radio foreseeable future.
We have also made very good progress at integrating the recent Government has hinted at possibility of self-regulation on advertising purchase of the LBC stations, with a number Expect Bill to reach Statute Books late of key appointments made ahead of the Summer 2003 planned relaunch in January 2003.
Our O2 Commercial Release the Pressure LBC Radio Leftfields track was used in the O2 TV campaign, A new image for January 2003 launch.
secured by the Chrysalis Music Media licensing team.
6 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 What is the strategic rationale behind investment would have a far more detrimental value gap between radio and TV, where radios the mix of businesses that make up effect on the long-term value of the business than costs per thousand CPT is still around one fifth Chrysalis Group?
the short-term boost to profits it would create.
The scope for significant long-term Chrysalis has its roots in the music business growth is further underlined when looking at the The same argument applies to the LBC acquisition, and creation of content is the thread that runs more established US market.
In the USA radio ad which will have a short-term negative impact on throughout the current mix of businesses that spend is now one-third of TV: in the UK it is still earnings, but will create significant enhanced make up the Group.
We identified radio as a one-seventh, despite the progress of commercial value for the entire Radio Division over the next growth business in the early 90s, entered the radio in the last decade.
The current pressure two to three years.
market in 1994 and have since built the UKs being felt in the TV advertising markets offers fourth largest radio group.
Similarly we have a great opportunity for radio to press its I believe Chrysalis has achieved a sensible achieved significant scale in independent effectiveness message home.
balance between short-term profits and longtelevision production and most recently in term investment.
The two are not mutually Finally, the commercial radio industry expects to book publishing.
exclusive and this is why investors often use deliver further audience growth via the take-up of a sum-of-the-parts valuation in addition to We continuously review our strategy and assess digital radio.
This is a long-term project but it will the traditional earnings multiple method, whether we are achieving our objective of happen.
Digital radio has been supported and as an important tool in trying to assess the maximising shareholder value with the current endorsed by all the existing analogue operators valuation of the company.
All the divisions have clear performance and favours the growth of commercial radio, targets but if the Board believes a business would since commercial radio gets more of the Why do you believe commercial radio generate greater value if it were independent, spectrum in the digital world 75% vs 40% on is a long-term growth business?
or managed within another company, then we FM More spectrum will enable more targeted UK commercial radio has come of age in the would consider plans to divest it.
services, which in turn will drive audiences and last few years and is now part of the advertising subsequently revenue.
mainstream with broad sector exposure.
During How do you manage the balance between the last decade, radio advertising revenue has demand for short-term profits and the need All this points to commercial radios ability to grown by an average 9.6% per annum, for long-term investment?
continue to outstrip total advertising growth compared to average growth of 4% per annum This is the challenge facing any company and over the medium to long-term.
Furthermore for all other media.
This super growth has perhaps even more so, a public company, where the high operational gearing which is a feature helped to push radios share of total advertising market valuations are often driven by short-term of the industry means further revenue growth up from 2.8% to 6.6% during that period.
However, as Hermes noted in will lead to a very significant increase in New stations both national and regional have its recent publication, The Hermes Principles, corporate profitability.
driven this expansion with commercial radios What can cause problems is if the attention share of all listening growing from 30% to 45%.
How do you define shareholder value?
given to short-term performance distracts Furthermore, the last decade has seen the As I alluded to earlier, value creation is not just company managers from the goal of creating creation of a commercial radio generation, about short-term profits, it is also about longlong-term shareholder value.
dominating listening amongst 15-44 year-olds term capital growth and this requires continuous At Chrysalis, we have worked hard to ensure and amongst children aged 4-14 years.
We believe maintaining the correct that our shareholders understand the need for balance between the two will deliver shareholder The same reasons that commercial radio has a balance between the two for example if value over the short, medium and long-term.
come of age over the last ten years will continue we were just focused on short-term profitability Ultimately we will deliver value for our to drive its growth in the future.
Radio continues we may take a very different view as to how we shareholders if we maintain our competitive to grow as a mainstream advertising medium, manage our music publishing company.
As it is, advantage and focus on those businesses with with another sharp increase in advertisers new we make a significant investment in signing new superior growth prospects and where we can to radio this year, as it succeeds in proving its songwriters each year.
We have consistently be leaders in our field.
Remember, our Chairman effectiveness against TV.
In particular the innate adopted a conservative accounting policy, is also our largest shareholder so you can be nature of radio has become increasingly whereby we write off all advances to new writers assured: shareholder value is top of our agenda important as media offerings compete for as incurred.
This inevitably has a negative impact at all times!
Research shows that unlike on profitability in the short-term.
However as all other media, radio listening has not been we have proven over a number of years, that impacted by the influx of other media e. g. investment pays dividends in terms of ensuring the Internet.
continued growth in our Net Publishers Share NPS and in turn in driving up the intrinsic value The industrys marketing body, the RAB, which of the music publishing catalogue.
Continued has been so effective in marketing commercial investment in new talent is essential in order radio as an advertising medium, is targeting Richard Huntingford to ensure we are constantly replenishing the commercial radio to take a double digit share Group Chief Executive catalogue.
The hit songs of today will hopefully of total advertising by 2010, up from its current 17th December 2002 become the classics of the future, and will level of 6.6%.
We believe this is achievable if the continue to earn income for the Group, year in, industry continues to progress along established year out.
We strongly believe, and evidence from lines.
There is a lot further to go in closing the the wider industry suggests, that a withdrawal of Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 7 Q&A Financial directors review The Operating Results for 2002 are Chrysaliss best ever as a public company, and it is particularly encouraging that we have achieved this through strong performances and growth across all four of our mainstream businesses and in the face of an adverse trading climate that has seemingly held back most of our major competitors.
Overview with the 2002 Interim Accounts, to recognise Turnover for the year increased by over the growing importance to the Group of the 49 million to 241 million representing an Chrysalis Books business.
Following these overall annual growth rate of over 25%.
This changes Lasgo Chrysalis and Air Studios are generated a significant increase in the Groups now included within the Music Division, more EBITDA to 17.2 million, nearly eight times appropriately reflecting the nature of their the comparable 2.2 million achieved in business, leaving Books as a stand-alone 2001.
Excluding the loss making New Media division.
The 2001 figures have been restated activities, EBITDA for our core businesses accordingly, with the resultant accounting of 18.8 million was 52% ahead of last year.
Nigel Butterfield The Groups EBITA, after expensing Turnover Group Finance depreciation, but not amortisation, was Overall turnover for 2002 was 241.0 million, Director 13.4 million compared to the 2001 loss of up by 25% on the previous year.
Core business activities account excluding Chrysalis share of joint ventures for 15.1 million profit in the current year, and associates, net Group turnover was against 9.2 million in 2001 an increase of 235.4 million.
The resulting Group operating profits for the year were 10.5 million nearly Each of the four core divisions showed 17 million better than the equivalent significant percentage turnover growth over result reported last year with the underlying the previous year.
At the time of the interims, operating profits of the core businesses of Radio had reported flat first half sales, however 13 million representing 60% year on year driven by buoyant audience figures and growth from 2001s 8.1 million.
improved revenue conversion, it finished the full year strongly.
Full year turnover for the Profit before Tax was 5.8 million against last division was 49.1 million, bringing its year years loss of 16.8 million, and after providing on year growth rate to 11.7%, and reflecting for tax and minority interests the Profit for nearly 25% improvement for the second half.
the year was 5.7 million a significant The other divisions also had impressive second turnaround of over 22 million from last half results.
The Music division reported years 16.7 million loss.
annual turnover of 64 million, which was 8% ahead of the comparable 2001 figure, Shareholders funds, reflecting the retained whilst Books, with the full year benefit of profits for the year, have increased from Collins & Brown, achieved 34 million 13.3 million to 18.5 million.
TV however is still the largest contributor to Segmental Analysis overall Group turnover, reporting sales of The segmental analysis set out in Note 2 to the 89 million, which was 44% up on 2001, Accounts and summarised opposite, is revised to representing a 37% share of Group turnover.
After accounting for digital Profit before tax Operating Profit costs, increasing from 0.6 million to 1.8 Exceptional losses for the current year of With minor changes to the sales mix, million, the combined operating profits grew 264,000 included 723,000 closure costs percentage gross profits margins were by 41% to 9.4 million.
TV finished the year for Rivals.
net, ahead of its 365 merger, net fractionally down at 35%, although the total strongly, recovering a first half shortfall, and of 480,000 profit from the Air-Edel disposal, gross profits of 82 million were 14.2 million reported operating profits for the full year of together with minor profits and losses arising or 21% ahead of last year.
After charging net 3.6 million, a 39% increase on last year.
The on other small corporate disposals.
The operating costs, other than depreciation and Music Division achieved 47% growth, with full comparative 2001 loss of 7.9 million had amortisation, of 65 million, the Groups year profits of 1.8 million driven by buoyant reflected the cost of closure of the greater part EBITDA for the year was 17.2 million, nearly trading at Lasgo Chrysalis, and by sharply of the Groups New Media businesses last year.
eight times the comparable 2.2 million for reduced losses from the recording side.
The core businesses contributed Publishing NPS, rose by a further 5% to an all PBIT for the year was therefore 10.3 million 18.8 million of this, representing an time high of 8.5 million, once again adding including 13.3 million derived from core annualised growth rate of 52%.
to the underlying value of the catalogue.
The comparable overall loss for 2001 of 14.2million reflected 8.2 million The equivalent EBITA of the core businesses This was the Books divisions first full year core business profits.
after expensing depreciation, but not operating with the benefit of Collins & Brown, amortisation, was 15.1 million, up by which it had acquired in April 2001.
Whilst in The Groups higher borrowing base generated 5.9 million, a 64% increase on 2001, whilst the event the reported EBITA of 3.7 million an increased net interest charge at 4.5 million the overall Group EBITA was 13.4 million fell a little short of our challenging internal 2001 2.6 million and the resultant Profit 2001 1.8 million loss.
targets, the underlying PBIT of over 3 million before tax was 5.8 million, a turnaround of was still an impressive 75% ahead of last year.
over 22 million from last year.
Amortisation of goodwill and other intangibles accounted for 1.6 million, and after charging New Media activities resulted in an operating Dividend and retained profit for this and a 1.2 million share of losses of loss of 2.5 million.
This included a the period associates and joint ventures, the operating 1.8 million loss incurred by the old Rivals.
net Prior year tax losses limited the tax charge profits for the year were 10.5 million almost business during the early part of the year, for the year to 330,000, almost all of which 17 million better than the equivalent result before its merger with 365s Internet division, related to overseas tax.
Taking account of this, reported last year.
The underlying operating to form Rivals Digital Media.
We retain and and a credit of 228,000 for losses attributable profits of the core businesses, of 13 million, account for a 40% stake in this merged to minority shareholders, the profit for the showed year on year growth of nearly 60% business, which accounted for the divisions year was 5.7 million compared with the over 2001s corresponding 8.2 million profit.
remaining 0.7 million loss for the year.
Overall therefore, including New Media, Within this all four divisions posted impressive Group EBITDA was 17.2 million, EBITA Earnings per share were therefore 3.41p against results.
13.4 million, and operating profits before a loss of 10.02p in 2001.
The dividend of 0.65 exceptional items 10.5 million.
pence per share represents an 18% increase on Radio reported a 51% increase in EBITA the 0.55 pence per share dividend for 2001, and from its analogue activities to 11.6 million, will be paid on 7th April 2003 to shareholders and a 55% increase in the resulting PBIT on the register on 14th March 2003. to 11.2 million which represented a 23% Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 9 Analysis of turnover and operating profits for 2002 for Core Businesses excluding Central Overhead Turnover Operating profits 1.7% 0.8% 14.1% 20.5% 16.8% 52.5% Radio Music 19.8% TV 26.6% Books Other 37.1% 10% Core Business relates to all of the Group's ongoing Music, Radio, TV, and Book Division businesses before New Media and Corporate Overheads Balance sheet 4.6 million, even though the book value creditors, and 11.5 million drawdown during Shareholders funds at 31st August 2002 of of the minority interests acquired exceeded the year under the Securitisation loan facility.
18.5 million have improved by 5.1 million, the consideration paid, including 0.5million proceeds from share Cash and Indebtedness options exercised.
The acquisition of further shares in South Net cash in the Balance Sheet at 31st August Pacific Pictures increased the Groups was 44.1 million, against 31.1 million Following a reclassification of 6.3 million shareholding from 33% to 60%, so that last year.
The current total however now from other reserves to profit and loss account, as a consequence the company is now includes 16.8 million of non-interest bearing which followed the acquisition of the Echo consolidated as a subsidiary rather than sale and leaseback deposits, which are not minority interests, and after reflecting the equity accounted.
available for general Group purposes.
It also retained profit for the year of 4.6 million, and includes 6.1 million held in ring-fenced, certain minor foreign exchange adjustments, Within Fixed Assets, Intangible Assets interest bearing collection accounts for the resulting negative balance on Profit and have increased by 4.4 million, reflecting the Securitisation, ahead of the half yearly Loss account was 47.6 million against the corporate acquisitions at CVI, the accounting in early September, and 4.9 58.5 million last year.
Both years are stated acquisition of the outstanding Echo minority million of earmarked production funding net of historic cumulative acquisition shareholdings, and adjustments to the fair in television production accounts.
value accounting at Collins & Brown.
There is also a 0.7 million increase in Fixed Asset Borrowings within long and short term The Balance Sheet shows net assets of Investments, arising from the formation of creditors total 70.1 million, some 9.4 18.5 million, up by 1.4 million from 2001.
Rivals Digital Media, partly offset by the million more than last year, reflecting the There are no fundamental changes within the elimination of the carried value of our additional 11.5 million drawn down under Balance Sheet, and most of the year on year interests in Air-Edel.
our 60 million Securitisation loan facility.
differences were a function of increased The cumulative drawdown to-date of 46.5 trading activity.
However other particular Higher levels of Stock, Debtors and Short Term million is disclosed net of 2.6 million issuance factors which have influenced the underlying Creditors are largely a product of increased costs, which are being amortised over the book values and presentation include: trading activity throughout the Group, period of the loan in accordance with FRS4 although some 2.0 million of the 4.9 Capital Instruments.
The 2002 indebtedness Further film financing sale and leaseback million growth in creditors results from a also includes 8.2 million of loan notes issued arrangements, entered into by the TV reclassification of LTIP provisions approaching in connection with Corporate Acquisitions and division, which under UK GAAP effectively maturity, and a further 1.1 million from earn- 2.0 million of bank loan for the Groups ESOP, grosses up both cash and long term out provisions for recent corporate acquisitions consolidated in accordance with UITF 13. creditors, by an additional 8.3 million, at Chrysalis IDTV.
With 8.3 million of the 13 bringing the outstanding total to million increase in cash balances attributable The total Group net indebtedness is therefore 16.8 million, with neither cash nor liability to new sale and leaseback deposits, the net 26.0 million, against 29.6 million for 2001, being interest bearing to the Group current assets of 29.8 million are nearly a net improvement of 3.6 million.
However, 12 million up on last year.
excluding the effect of the non interest bearing sale and leaseback deposits and the capitalised The Groups acquisition of VNUs minority securitisation costs, the underlying interest shareholding in CVI, reduces both sides of Long Term Creditors of 67.8 million have bearing indebtedness at the year end was a the balance sheet, with minority interests increased by 15.1 million, including 8.3 net 45.4 million, up by 4.6 million on the and net assets each down by some million of matching sale and leaseback comparable 40.8 million last year.
10 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 The last five years 1998-2002 Turnover including share of Associates m Radio Music TV Books Other 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 127m 135m 168m 192m 241m Cash Flow Statement In December 2001 Chrysalis increased their market: Newsdirect, which is a rolling news The consolidated Cash Flow statement and shareholding in the New Zealand based TV service, broadcasting on 97.3FM, and LBC, a supporting Note 23, provide an analysis of production company, South Pacific Pictures talk format broadcasting on 1152AM.
On the the 3.6 million reduction in net indebtedness Limited, from 33.33% to 60%, for a net same date, in a separate transaction, we also over the year.
Operating cash flows show an consideration of 300,000, as a result of which announced the disposal of the loss making overall net cash inflow of 17.8 million, the company became a Chrysalis subsidiary.
Galaxy 101 to Vibe Radio Services Limited including 8.3 million deposits from new for a cash consideration of 12.5 million.
sale and leaseback agreements, consequently This sale gives rise to a surplus on disposal of In June 2002 the Group also completed their the underlying cash inflow generated from approximately 7.8 million for the Group, after acquisition of the outstanding minority interests ordinary trading was a net 9.5 million charging 4.2 million of reinstated goodwill.
in the Echo Label, with the purchase of Pony compared to an outflow of 7.6 million in The major part of this surplus will be reflected Canyons 25% shareholding, having acquired 2001.
Principal non-operating outgoings through the Profit and Loss account in 2003. the other minority shares earlier in the year.
included 5.6 million for net corporate acquisitions, and 4.2 million of net Other Corporate activity during the year On 3rd December 2002, Chrysalis IDTV Media capital expenditure.
included the merger of our one remaining Group completed the acquisition, for a cash internet business, Rivals.
net with the internet consideration of 11.13 million 0.72 million, Corporate Acquisitions and Disposals content business of 365 Corporation plc, by of a 45% interest in Medical Multi Media During the course of the year, the Group the formation of Rivals Digital Media Group, Productions BV, MMM.
The company which made a number of corporate acquisitions in which each has retained a 40% minority is a producer of medical and health related and disposals.
The expansion of our Music Publishing television programmes, is a joint venture business into Europe also resulted in two with the Dutch broadcaster AVRO, with In November 2001 VNUs 49.9% minority new joint venture companies, both with which MMM has an ongoing production interest in our Dutch TV production business CVI the Dutch music publisher and media group output agreement.
Media Group BV was acquired for 17.2 million Strengholt Chrysalis Strengholt Music 4.5 million.
This was effected by CVI buying France and Chrysalis Music Benelux.
Further details of these Acquisitions and Post in its own shares for cancellation, with the entire Balance Sheet Events are set out in notes 24 consideration funded locally from CVIs own, Business disposals during the year included and 34 to the Accounts.
previously ring-fenced, cash and banking the sale of our 50.1% shareholding in the resources.
As a result of this transaction, the Irish TV production company Eclipse and of Going Concern company became 100% owned by Chrysalis, our minority stake in the music production The Directors consider, on the basis of current was subsequently renamed Chrysalis IDTV group Air-Edel.
The latter, which had been financial projections and available facilities, Media Group, and was responsible for three held by the Group for over 30 years, was that the Group has adequate working capital small local corporate acquisitions during the sold for a consideration realising 578,000 and other resources to enable it to continue year.
These included the purchase of the 55% as part of the overall acquisition of Air-Edel trading for the foreseeable future.
For this of TV production company Red Forest TV BV not by the Sanctuary Group.
reason, they continue to adopt the going already owned, and the acquisitions of events concern basis in preparing the Groups organiser Martsell Communicatie Projecten BV, financial statements.
On 26th September 2002, subsequent to the and TV documentary producer TV Dits BV.
year-end, Chrysalis announced the acquisition The combined total consideration amounted of LBC for 23.5 million cash.
LBC owns and to some 2.6 million including estimated earn operates two radio stations in the London out provisions.
Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 11
