OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Kingston has delivered a robust performance over the last financial year, despite the continued turbulence within the sector.
A constant focus on the Groups strategic objectives has resulted in four consecutive quarters of improvement and growth in line with market expectations.
Kingston has delivered a solid performance The full years results were characterised by strong Having completed its heavy investment over the last financial year in extremely difficult growth across most of Kingstons divisions programme during the last financial year, the conditions within the telecoms sector.
We have resulting in Group turnover on continuing Group continues to maintain rm control on made considerable progress throughout the operations increasing by 40 per cent to 316.3 costs and capital expenditure.
This focus has led Group and, as these results demonstrate, have million from 225.5 million last year.
Kingston to capital expenditure being further reduced to continued to win new business and grow our inbusiness provided much of this growth, 106.0 million for the year 2001: 162.4 million.
This performance achieving sales of 196.8 million 2001: 126.7 Combined with the operating improvement in together with our secure funding position means million, an increase of 55 per cent year on year.
the business, the Group was free cash ow we are well placed to build on these results and Group EBITDA from continuing activities positive in the last quarter.
Net debt at the year maintain our growth over the coming years.
increased by 85 per cent year on year to 29.1 end was 92.0 million.
million from 15.8 million and by 22 per cent to 10.7 million in the fourth quarter from 8.9 million in the third quarter.
Emphasis has been Group operating loss from continuing operations before accelerated write down of assets was placed on identifying 24.3 million 2001: 16.3 million.
This loss reects higher depreciation charges following key sectors and completion of our long distance network build.
The Group operating loss from continuing segments and the sales operations, after the accelerated write down on certain digital assets associated with Kingston functions are now interactive of 12.5 million, was 36.8 million.
The Challenge Leicester Tigers, rugby union champions of both Britain and Europe, wanted to improve communications with their supporters.
The Solution A single memorablynumbered 0870 orderline with menu-driven Interactive Voice Response service, and a fully outsourced Centreline switchboard.
The Benets Supporters get easy and exible access to the information, products and services they need, while the club gains an enhanced reputation and a rich source of marketing information, with controllable costs and future scalability built in.
10 Kingston Communications HULL PLC Report and accounts 2001 2002 The Challenge City of York Council wanted to bring broadband internet access to 14 libraries and 36 schools throughout the city.
The Solution A fully managed service, with network monitoring, virus checking and content monitoring integrated into a reliable 2Mbps connection for every site.
The Benets Broadband offers usable access to the ever-increasing wealth of multimedia material available, not just to pupils but also to staff and with lifelong learning initiatives in mind any user of the citys libraries.
Kingston inbusiness continues to develop its capability in the solutions market.
The integration within this division of four businesses at the beginning of the year has improved our customer focus.
Kingston inbusiness continues to develop its The number of call minutes increased 87 per cent capability in the solutions market.
The integration year on year to 5.3 billion from 2.8 billion, with the within this division of four businesses at the number of business lines connected rising by 18 beginning of the year has improved our customer per cent to 76,600 from 65,115 in the year before.
Customer wins over the last quarter include Hanson plc and Netto.
Milgo Solutions Limited, Over the last year, the division has integrated four which was acquired in March 2001, is now also separate business units into one customer facing being fully integrated into the inbusiness division division.
A strengthened senior management providing an end to end voice, data and IP team is now in place and the business is focused proposition for our customers.
on improving sales and service capabilities.
The East Yorkshire business continues to show Milgo Solutions Limited, which was acquired by steady growth concentrating on generating Kingston Communications in March 2001, is now revenue growth from its existing customer base being fully integrated into Kingston inbusiness.
through the provision of multiple services per The data integration expertise acquired at the user.
Its performance has also been enhanced time signicantly enhanced the divisions end to by the growing revenue stream from call end solutions portfolio and data revenues now centre services.
contribute 30 per cent of the divisions turnover.
Kingston inmedia has continued to be impacted Emphasis has been placed on identifying key by the downturn in the media markets and its sectors and segments and the sales functions results reect this, including one-off provisions are now targeting these areas.
Kingston against the non recovery of debts.
inbusiness has been awarded a Government Telecom Contract GTC accreditation, giving At this stage of our development, we believe we the business increased access to public sector should, in the medium term, retain and invest customers.
A new Head of Public Sector was shareholders funds to deliver future growth, in recently appointed to provide a strategic focus full confidence that the business remains on the for this market.
In line with this strategy, the Board has decided not to recommend a dividend During the last quarter, the division launched a be paid for the last financial year.
range of business DSL services in Leeds and the East Midlands.
Early indications are promising, Kingston inbusiness with the first trial customer installations underway.
Turnover in Kingston inbusiness increased by 55 per cent year on year to 196.8 million 2001: There has been continued sales success with 126.7 million and EBITDA increased six-fold to recent contract wins including: 5.9 million.
EBITDA margins were 3.0 per cent for the full year with margins in the last quarter Yorkshire and Humberside Metropolitan Area reaching 7.4 per cent.
The division has benefited Network YHMAN upgraded and provided from gradual margin improvement over the year additional resilience to YHMAN, the reecting synergies from the long distance communications network that links nine network providing a reduction in Yorkshire universities in Bradford, Hudderseld, interconnection costs.
Hull, Leeds, Lincoln, Shefeld and York in order to support collaboration in learning, teaching Kingston Communications HULL PLC Report and accounts 2001 2002 11 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW The Challenge EastEnders Revealed needed to walk into past footage to explain how the series is made.
The Solution Kingston inmedias virtual reality experts used 3D Studio Max and Avid editing suites to seamlessly combine virtual studio footage with original programme material.
The Benets The solution allowed the producers to achieve an impact they could not otherwise have achieved, in around half the time and with substantially reduced costs.
Internet connectivity has also been Kingston inmedia has continued to secure provided for all the Further Education colleges customer contracts, although the sales cycle has in Yorkshire and Humberside to allow increasing become more protracted.
Kingston inmedia is use of the Internet as an educational resource.
now delivering playout facilities for its customers via the Groups data centre, which is based at its Netto the provision of a complete data site in Gerrards Cross.
solution for Netto UK operations which links 127 stores nationwide to its HQ in Denmark.
Recent contract wins include: Hanson plc building on an existing Translucis backed by Diageo, Translucis provides maintenance contract with Kingston inbusiness, video marketing to over 1 million viewers per Hanson is now partnering the division on a week in pubs and clubs across the UK.
This includes a recent contract to integrate all mobiles, including a mobile Xerox the company has accelerated installation extension service, into an existing managed of XTV downlinks to broadcast their business network which connects 360 sites around the UK.
television service to over 600 concessionaire operations across Europe.
Facilities provided Britannia Building Society Kingston inbusiness include editing facilities, transmission, virtual has secured preferred supplier status for a studio, downlinks and web hosting.
consortium of mutual building societies.
Britannia is the first to have signed a contract BBC Choice Kingston inmedia has provided for the procurement of telecoms services its virtual reality VR studio, editing facilities and under this agreement.
technicians for the making of EastEnders Revealed, a documentary series which shows the MM Group the division has secured a contract behind the scenes making of the programme.
to supply MM Group with a variety of telecoms services to enable the customer to use a greater ITN delivering ITNs American news coverage range of interactive voice services throughout using Kingston inmedias transatlantic bre route.
its network of nationwide contact centres.
ESPN providing digital playout and terrestrial Leicester Tigers Kingston inbusiness is communication circuits for ESPN Classic Sport, supplying a range of telecoms services that a new television channel available in Europe.
help improve communications with the clubs supporters including interactive voice response BBC providing satellite links to enable BBCs and a managed switch service.
interactive coverage of the Wimbledon Tennis Championships, one of the most successful The division has also been awarded EMEA Best interactive TV programmes to date.
Innovator by Nortel Networks, an industry leader in networking and communications solutions: conrmation of the valuable skills that Milgo Solutions Limited brings to our business capability.
Kingston inmedia Kingston inmedia continues to be adversely Our call centre affected by the cyclical downturn affecting its clients, particularly those in the broadcast activities have market.
Turnover grew by 7 per cent to 32.1 million from 29.9 million last year but EBITDA performed particularly fell to 3.4 million from 5.6 million year on year.
A significant factor in this reduction was the well, becoming EBIT provision made in the fourth quarter against non-recovery of customer debts of 1.1 million positive over the due to the financial difficulties facing a number of media industry customers.
12 Kingston Communications HULL PLC Report and accounts 2001 2002 The heavy investment phase in developing our infrastructure is complete.
During the last financial year, work focused on generating cost efciences and increasing resilience.
Kingston Communications business in the UK by revenue.
The introduction and Kingston incontact of the call centre hotel product, where customers The East Yorkshire business has performed well are able to choose a variety of service level over the year with turnover of 86.0 million 2001: packages, has led to a number of short and long 75.3 million, growth of 14 per cent year on year.
term contracts being secured including central EBITDA also grew by 14 per cent year on year government helplines and seasonal call overow from 28.2 million to 32.0 million.
services for mail order companies.
The increase in calls to our contact centre continues to increase Call minutes increased by 18 per cent, with the call trafc on our network in East Yorkshire.
number of customer lines rising by 2 per cent.
Kingston information The division has maintained its focus on Turnover in our directory publishing and services increasing penetration rates and revenue per business increased by 11 per cent to 5.4 million head in its existing network footprint.
It has 2001: 4.9 million, whilst EBITDA increased by recently launched a range of high speed internet 30 per cent to 2.6 million 2001: 2.0 million.
services for its residential and business customers using DSL technology.
In the small and medium The division is committed to increasing its business sector, the division has introduced a customer reach and generating higher average telephone account management team to increase revenue per customer through the sale of value penetration in this segment of the market.
During the year, a multimedia studio was created to take advantage of the Our call centre activities have performed increasing demand for on-line and digital particularly well, becoming EBIT positive over opportunities.
New website design packages are the last half year.
According to a recent survey, now on offer to small businesses to enhance the it was the fastest growing outsourced call centre traditional classied advertising service.
The Challenge Kingston upon Hull City Council KUHCC, with 250 phone numbers and 200 websites, wanted to give citizens quick and easy access to the services department.
The Solution One of Europes most sophisticated Customer Relationship Management systems, delivered by a partnership between KUHCC, Kingston incontact and Oracle Corp.
The Benets Citizens now need to remember just one phone number 300300, calls get answered quickly and courteously, and work gets done on time.
Kingston Communications HULL PLC Report and accounts 2001 2002 13 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Our nancing is secure and a disciplined approach to investment means we are on the path to delivering sustainable returns to shareholders.
Kingston interactive the significant lowering of valuations placed on We reduced EBITDA losses at Kingston media assets an impairment review has been interactive by 50 per cent in the year to 4.7 undertaken on the carrying value of our million compared to a loss of 9.4 million in 2001. interactive assets.
As a result, a write down of Quarter on quarter, EBITDA losses reduced by 12.5 million has been made.
38 per cent from 1.2 million in the third quarter to 0.8 million in the fourth quarter.
Over the year, Kingston interactive has built relationships with a number of national brands, During the last quarter, a programme was offering a testbed for on-line promotional activity.
undertaken to disconnect inactive or non-paying Contracts secured include Kit Kat, National Car customers.
As a result, the active subscriber base Rental, Nationwide Building Society and Autotrader.
has reduced to 8,083 from 9,570 at the end of September 2001.
Average monthly revenue Infrastructure development per customer increased to 19.80 from 16.90 The heavy investment phase in developing our year on year.
During the last financial year, work focused on generating cost efficiencies The interactive business provides a local and increasing resilience across our long distance advantage in defending our East Yorkshire network.
The IP overlay was completed during franchise while at the same time offering an the third quarter and we now have 64 interconnect option on how to increase the returns on our points with other operators on the network.
However, while technical capabilities remain important to Kingston in The deployment of DSL infrastructure for business analysing and exploiting developments in the to business customers is also underway in delivery of broadband services, in order to reect exchanges in Leeds and the East Midlands.
The Challenge NHS Direct wanted to trial interactive television as a means of offering consumer health information to people in Hull and East Yorkshire.
The Solution KIT delivers an enhanced NHS Direct service, backed up by dozens of videos available through video-on-demand.
The Benets KIT customers who live in Hull and East Yorkshire can now access, from their sofas, a comprehensive and truly interactive source of health and first aid information, including a complete database of local GP surgeries, pharmacies, hospitals and blood donation sessions.
14 Kingston Communications HULL PLC Report and accounts 2001 2002 The Challenge Nationwide Building Society wanted to extend its TV banking service using other digital TV platforms.
The Solution KIT now hosts Nationwides TV banking service allowing their customers to take hands-on control of their nances.
The Benets Customers can bank from their armchair without tying up the phone, with a full range of functions available: viewing statements and the last 13 months account details, transferring money between accounts and checking credit card details, getting information on products and services and requesting brochures.
Other activities Treasury policy and controls The Group has completed the disposal of KTL, A centralised treasury function supports the its non-core testing laboratories business in the operational activities of the Group and operates UK.
This follows the disposal last year of the within a treasury policy approved by the Board.
As a result of the KTL disposals, the Group has incurred an exceptional The main functions of Group Treasury are to ensure loss of 2.1 million.
Cash proceeds received on adequate funding to meet the operational and the disposal were nominal.
investment needs of the Group, and to manage the financial risks of the Group that arise from the Loss before and after taxation nature of its funding structure and operating Reported loss before tax was 46.0 million cashows through appropriate hedging strategies.
compared to a loss of 9.6 million last year.
Net interest payable of 6.5 million compared Procedures are in place to monitor and manage to 3.5 million receivable last year reects the financial exposures, prevent unauthorised impact of the net debt position that the Group transactions, and to prevent transactions of a has been in throughout the year.
Group Treasury is subject to an annual review by Internal Audit.
The total tax credit of 12.0 million compared to 0.9 million charge last year reects the More detail on the financial risks faced by the movement in deferred tax balances combined Group and management of those risks is with one off items in the previous year due to contained in note 24 to the financial statements irrecoverable losses on disposal of our overseas Financial instruments and risk management.
Looking forward The Group will not pay tax in respect of the year We have, over the last year, delivered continued under review as all of the tax charge is deferred.
improvement from quarter to quarter in extremely difficult market conditions.
We are in a solid Cashow, liquidity and capital structure position to build on these results and deliver Net cash outow before use of liquid resources further revenue growth.
and nancing fell from 149.2 million to 91.4 million largely as a result of a reduction in capital There is increasing demand for communications expenditure from 162.4 million to 106.0 million.
services despite the difficult environment and The outow was nanced by drawing down from over capacity in the sector.
Kingstons sales, to the Groups 250 million syndicated loan facility.
both new and existing customers, are continuing As a consequence, at year end the Group had net to rise, as we increase our focus on selling value debt of 92.0 million compared to 1.2 million added solutions to generate higher margins.
During the coming year, we will maintain tight The Group is committed to maintain tight discipline on both capital expenditure and control over cashow through a combination operating costs, while continuing to grow the of improving profitability, active working capital business.
Our nancing is secure and the disciplined management and careful consideration of any approach to investment means we are on the path capital investment programmes.
The ongoing to delivering sustainable returns to shareholders.
funding requirements of the Group, currently anticipated to meet the organic investment needs of the business, can be met from the syndicated loan facility.
Kingston Communications HULL PLC Report and accounts 2001 2002 15
