Environmental Performance Report Slough Estates recognises the strong business case for good In July 2002 Slough Estates held an environmental workshop environmental management.
Benefits identified include with eight of its most significant suppliers, including conreduced risk, operational efficiency, enhanced reputation and struction and civil engineering companies.
Participants are to identify two areas for their environmental improvements innovation.
Progress will be monitored and The Groups Environmental Management Strategy is cofurther workshops with these and other suppliers are planned ordinated by a cross-departmental Environment Committee, for 2003. and environmental performance is reported directly to the Main Board of Directors by the Group Chairman.
Investment The asset management team works to ensure that all Progress in 2002 holdings are well managed and pollution free, undertaking In order to implement the Group environmental policy set regular property inspections.
Working with occupiers to out on pages 38 to 39, each part of the business is required identify potential problems and to manage risk is just one to set specific, measurable, achievable, relevant and way we can set our customer service standards apart from timebound SMART environmental targets on an annual the competition.
In 2002, the Group set itself a total of 32 targets, and The Groups Property Management System incorporates an progress was formally and independently reviewed in environmental inspection history and register for all December 2002 by external strategic advisors, Upstream.
The Group recognises that high This review was based upon scrutiny of the documented environmental standards are good for business and the low evidence produced by Slough Estates and a summary of incidence of negative reports is considered to be a reflection achievements is set out in the table below.
of the quality of our customer base and an endorsement of our occupier-focused approach.
PROGRESS ACHIEVED In addition to distributing an updated Environmental Help TOTAL 25% 50% 75% 100% Sheet to all tenants, a half-day seminar during October 2002 NO TARGETS 32 151 25 encouraged local businesses to make non-recyclable packaging % OF TOTAL 100% 3% 16% 3% 78% waste available to Fibre Fuel - our CHP plant that is fired on coal and fibre fuel cubes processed waste paper.
Over three quarters of the targets set for 2002 have been The most significant environmental impacts arising from fully achieved and progress is evident in all others.
This level property we occupy and manage are measured and monitored of progress reflects the high priority placed on achieving on an ongoing basis.
The table below summarises environenvironmental goals, as well as a strong commitment to mental impacts for the period 1.10.01 to 30.09.02.
However, continuous improvement throughout the company.
This is the data is not normalised for floor area or hours of operation reinforced by the high proportion of 2002 targets relating to 2 e. g. kWh m hr and therefore represents the companys actual environmental performance, rather than management absolute impacts only.
Normalising of data will be introduced procedures.
Slough Estates continues to perform well in the Business in TOTAL ENERGY KWH WATER WASTE the Environment BiE Index of Corporate Environmental 3 PROPERTY TYPE OF ELECTRICITY AND GAS m TONNES Engagement.
In the 6th BIE report the company was ranked SE OCCUPIED BUILDINGS 2,789,465 5,283 40 2nd amongst participating real estate companies.
A property UK MULTI-LET PROPERTIES 1,796,945 3,045 N A industry specific survey undertaken annually by Upstream UK RETAIL CENTRES 16,715,459 96,706 3,329 found that in 2002, Slough Estates had moved up one place EUROPE 60,770 229 N A since the previous year and was ranked 2nd overall out of 18 USA 1,907,581 1,253 N A of its peers.
TOTAL 23,270,220 106,516 3,369 Following a detailed review of the Groups Environmental Management Strategy against IS014001 requirements, a Using the conversion factors specified by the Government consolidated Environmental Framework Document has been www.
uk environment envrp gas 05. htm, the compiled, incorporating all of the companys reviewed and operation of properties in our portfolio was responsible for updated environmental policies and procedures.
This the emission of 8,552 tonnes of carbon dioxide in 2002.
Document is available to all staff, and Divisional Managers When comparing those properties held in both 2001 and have been trained on its use including implementation and 2002, Slough Estates reduced its aggregated energy review of the procedures.
40 SLOUGH ESTATES Annual Report 2002 consumption by 8 per cent and reduced its aggregated water the redevelopment process.
At Farnborough Business Park consumption by 2 per cent.
Waste data was not collected for key performance indicators have been adopted for both retail centres in 2001, so a comparison cannot be made.
design and construction, in order to track and assess the environmental performance of the project.
For our retail centre investments and the offices we occupy, the 2003 target for both energy and water consumption is a Slough Estates believes that exceeding the minimum statutory further reduction of 1 per cent.
For the rest of the portfolio requirements for air-tightness and energy efficiency will help of multi-let properties, the target for 2003 will be to avoid extend the economic life of buildings.
For the coming year, a any increase in either energy or water consumption in respect milepost target for air-tightness has been set with a longer of those common areas over which we have some control.
term aspiration to achieve standards twice as stringent as Revised clauses have been included in the companys the Building Regulation minimum.
standard landscape maintenance specification with the aim of reducing the use of chemicals and other substances with Administration adverse environmental impacts.
While the Groups most significant environmental impacts do not arise from its own property occupation, it recognises Development and Construction the need to lead by example.
One important aspect is raising In keeping with national policy to renew and revitalise awareness amongst employees and embedding green previously developed and disused sites, 100 per cent of the housekeeping in the organisational culture.
Groups development projects undertaken in the UK during The head office 2002 electricity reduction target of 1 per cent 2002 were on brownfield land, and a total of 1.5 million was achievable until the end of the year, when a chiller fault was spent on remediating contamination.
This approach resulted in an overall increase of 3.5 per cent.
However, water helps regenerate and revitalise local communities by attracting consumption was reduced by 11.6 per cent during the year.
occupiers and further inward investment.
With regards to transport-related impacts, one of our targets The replacement of dereliction with high quality workspace for the coming year is that 20 per cent of company car drivers continues to be fundamental to the Groups long-term participate in the econo-drive training programme.
This is strategy and in 2002 this included some 46 refurbishment expected to help improve fuel efficiency and reduce emissions.
schemes extending the life of existing buildings.
With consultant support the process of assessing the need Slough Heat & Power SHP for non statutory Environmental Impact Assessments EIA SHP operate a facility at Slough providing electricity, heat has been formalised.
During 2002, 9 EIAs were commissioned and water to Trading Estate occupiers as well as waste on a voluntary basis.
management services for non recyclable packaging and papers High quality design standards are a feature of all new and plastic.
Emission monitoring and maintenance systems developments, with environmental efficiency and landscape have been audited by the Environmental Agency and were enhancements being key elements.
During the year, 2 new scored in the top quartile for the Region.
buildings were formally assessed under BREEAM Building Fourteen key performance indicators for measuring on site Research Establishments Environmental Assessment use of energy, chemicals, water and paper recycling show Methodology and, in compliance with our corporate objectives, significant improvements In 2002 compared to 2001: one achieved Very Good ratings and the other Excellent.
A 50 per cent reduction in cooling tower water to The Groups close attention to biodiversity is evidenced by 3 617,000m through changes to the process chemistry.
our development of Cambridge Research Park, where a An increase in the use of renewable fuels of 34,000 tonnes comprehensive landscape and nature conservation manageto 87,000 tonnes over the year.
The Park has been built on brown land A reduction in the sulphur dioxide released from the solid and includes six inter-linking lakes and a wildlife refuge for many species including Great-Crested newts.
During 2002, fuel boilers of 252 tonnes to 146 tonnes by switching from coal to wood.
2,075 trees and 161,300 shrubs were planted.
A reduction in the amount of ash sent to landfill of Waste management plans are now adopted at all developments in conjunction with our appointed waste management 15,000 tonnes to 10,000 tonnes principally due to the use of wood chips which are virtually ash free.
The use of BREs SMARTWaste tool at 250 Bath Road has done much to improve understanding of where Other achievements include the recycling of some 1,500 efficiencies can be made with packaging and timber mostly fluorescent tubes and the diversion of 8.5 tonnes of packaging pallets providing greatest scope.
waste and shredded paper from landfill to fibre fuel.
The new Further evidence of the Groups focus on resource efficiency non-fossil fired extension to the CHP plant commissioned is reuse of onsite demolition material.
During 2002, over during 2002, effectively doubles SHPs renewable fuel 4,300 tonnes of crushed concrete and brick were re-used in capacity.
