financial review Dimension Data is listed on the London The balance of revenue is made up of Gross margin Stock Exchange and the JSE Securities the sale of network infrastructure and A headline review of gross margin belies Exchange and is required to comply with directly related services which still the performance of the Group and the UK reporting and corporate governance represents the largest element of Group vast strides that have been made in the requirements.
turnover, particularly in the USA and implementation of Group strategy.
This particular aspect of the gross margin for 2002 is 21.5% 2001: The accounting policies used in the business has encountered the greatest 23.4%.
In the six months ended 30 preparation of the September 2002 pressure on margins as channels to September 2001, gross margin was financial statements are consistent with market have commoditised and 22.6%.
It declined in the six months ended those applied in the previous year, except integrators have cut both their 31 March 2002 to 22.4% and declined for deferred taxation, which is now stated infrastructure and services margins in further in the six month period to 30 on a full liability basis in accordance with order to retain and win business.
FRS 19 and comparative financial information has been restated as The Groups acquisition strategy, which Whilst market conditions did play a role in necessary.
has successfully established its global the decline as explained later, the primary footprint and a reasonably even spread of reason for the trend is due to a change in Group Operating Performance revenue from the six regions in which it the regional mix and revenue type.
The Turnover increased contribution of the USA from The more a region has diversified its In an environment of difficult trading 17% to 24% reflects the impact of the offerings away from network infrastructure conditions and continued economic acquisitions of Proxicom, Premier and and integration to higher value-added decline, total turnover declined by 11.1% Matrix made during the 2001 financial year, services, the better its gross margin is from US$2,460 million to US$2,187 million.
which have now been included for the full likely to be.
The skills required to deliver This decline in turnover has masked the period.
More than 50% of the Groups network infrastructure and integration can, success that the Group has achieved in turnover now comes from developed by and large, be extended to the managed implementing its strategy of moving markets and the geographic diversification services and outsourcing environments towards more services and solutions based provides some insurance against cyclical, where the value-add to the customer is turnover.
Annuity revenue defined as all regional and seasonal fluctuations.
greater and gross margins are better.
revenue of a contract nature where the Since the revenue contributions of the contract extends beyond a year or, as in Although South Africa continues to be an regions vary, the higher the relative the case of recurring annual maintenance important contributor to the Group, the increase in contribution from lower margin revenue, revenue that has a high statistical current years contribution has been regions, the less likely it is that overall likelihood of recurring has grown as a severely impacted by the weakness of the Group margins will improve.
percentage of total revenue in each region.
rand relative to the US dollar.
The dollar Annuity revenue now represents 25.8% of strengthened by 22% relative to the rand Overheads Group revenues 2001: 21.2%.
Other and South Africas contribution to total Fixed overheads for the year were services, such as professional and turnover has declined from 18% in 2001 to US$416 million compared to a 2001 application services, increase the value- 14% in 2002 as a result.
annualised fourth quarter actual of add component of Group offerings to US$530 million and budgeted costs of 39.9% 2001: 36.7% of Group revenue.
ANNUAL REPORT 2002 27 Approximately US$25 million investment Worldwide African Investment Holdings placing on their channel partners.
We do in new lines of business and business Pty Ltd exercised their put option, in not anticipate that suppliers will decrease solutions, building up global systems and respect of Plessey, against Dimension terms further and expect creditors can be capabilities and the DD Way has been Data on 4 October 2002 and provision has maintained at existing levels.
This represents been made for valuation losses incurred in expenditures which have had no this transaction.
The Group had US$894 million in cash at recognisable revenue benefit in the year the beginning of the year.
The largest under review but which are likely to Operating exceptional items outflows during the year related to the generate revenues in future periods.
A As a result of the further rightsizing US$234 million repayment of loan notes similar amount is expected to be invested exercise embarked upon by the Group, we outstanding for the acquisition of the in the new financial year.
have incurred significant severance and remaining interests in Dimension Data associated costs amounting to Network Services Ltd formerly Taxation US$30.4 million.
Chernikeeff Networks Ltd in 2000 and a Whilst the Group reported an overall loss further net US$174 million of acquisitions before adding back goodwill amortisation In the prior year, the Directors considered and disposals which included settlement and impairment and exceptional items, it prudent to record a provision of US$8 of certain deferred consideration liabilities.
certain territories in which the Group million against long outstanding and operates reported profits.
As a doubtful debtors in its China subsidiary.
Operational cash flow was negatively consequence the Group has recorded an After finalisation of the review early in the impacted by a once-off cash outflow of overall tax charge.
current period, it was decided to increase some US$74 million which was used to this by US$15 million to US$23 million and settle lease liabilities for excess space The Group has significant deferred tax to reflect this as an operating exceptional requirements which the Group acquired assets, the majority of which are not item.
This provision was later increased by with the acquisition of Proxicom Inc in recognised within the Group financial a further US$2.9 million to reflect 2001.
Notwithstanding this outflow, the statements on the basis that their uncertainty over the collectability of Group generated cash from operations of recoverability cannot be forecast with certain amounts due by Worldcom.
US$29 million during the year.
sufficient certainty to meet the recognition criteria under FRS 19.
However, the Group Liquidity and Capital Resources At the year end the Group had cash has recognised deferred tax assets with Debtors have been well controlled during reserves of US$373 million.
Against this respect to tax losses on short term timing the year and reduced from US$711 million the Group had liabilities of US$103 million differences where the Group considers that to US$565 million.
Measured in days sales including accrued interest for the it is more likely than not that these assets outstanding, debtors have decreased from convertible debentures redeemable in can be recovered within the foreseeable 68 days at 30 September 2001 to 59 days December 2002, US$42 million for future.
As at 30 September 2002 the net at 30 September 2002.
Africa at 31 days deferred consideration liabilities and deferred tax asset was US$18.9 million sales outstanding 2001: 49 and USA at US$28 million for a put option that existed 2001: US$4.4 million.
The year ended 30 46 days 2001: 72 were the main over the shares in Plessey Pty Ltd. September 2002 is the first full year for contributors to the favourable decline.
Accordingly, the free cash position of the which the new accounting standard for Group at 30 September 2002 was deferred tax has been adopted.
The impact Stock has also been well controlled and US$200 million.
There was also US$43 thereof is detailed in Note 1 to the annual has decreased slightly to US$99 million million of near cash and near cash financial statements.
This decrease is investments on the balance sheet at 30 net of an investment of US$6 million in September 2002 2001: US$26 million Goodwill and provisions maintenance stocks to support the which has been excluded from the Goodwill is amortised over a maximum increased activity around the operational calculation of free cash.
In accordance with services, Uptime and Insite.
FRS 11, the Group updated its impairment The Group has sufficient cash resources tests performed at 30 September 2001 A decrease in trade creditors days to meet its existing commitments.
and 31 March 2002 which resulted in an outstanding from 79 in 2001 to 54 in 2002, However, taking into account seasonal impairment to the carrying value of reflects current market conditions and the cash requirements and restrictions on goodwill by an amount of US$1.8 billion.
pressures that technology vendors are cash in South Africa and Asia, as well as 28 DIMENSION DATA FINANCIAL REVIEW uncertain market conditions and a lack of is corporate policy to remain as liquid as Global Risk operating visibility in key geographic possible to take advantage of acquisition The Group operates in over 30 countries markets, the Board believes that it is opportunities, certain funds have been around the globe and is therefore prudent to take advantage of the current invested in short term deposits to susceptible to different political, financial low interest rate environment to secure minimise the effects of fluctuating interest and economic risks in each region.
To ensure rates and achieve a satisfactory return for Business practices differ from region to that the Group has sufficient resources to shareholders.
region and this is most evident in the withstand the continuing uncertainty in the payment of debt.
market, while at the same time introducing Currency Risk enhanced financial flexibility, the Board The Group has operations in over 30 Operating globally may have increased the intends, subject to shareholder approval, countries and receives revenues and exposure to political instability and different to issue a new convertible bond of incurs costs in numerous currencies.
As a business practices but we have taken US$100 million.
Details of the bond are consequence, movements in exchange steps to mitigate this risk and continue to included in a circular which was mailed to rates, particularly in the US dollar South monitor the regional performances.
African rand exchange rate affect the Groups results.
When Dimension Data Capital reduction invoices in local currency, and has a The balance sheet of the Company foreign currency exposure to suppliers, it reflects share premium of US$4.8 billion generally uses forward foreign exchange and a profit and loss deficit of US$4.3 contracts to hedge its foreign exchange billion.
Under these circumstances the risk or adjusts the prices charged to Board is unable to declare dividends to clients to take account of exchange rate shareholders and wishes to position the fluctuations.
In addition, many of the Company to be able to pay dividends to selling prices of the products supplied by shareholders in the future.
Accordingly, a the Group are linked to the US dollar, and decision has been taken to appeal to the the purchase of these products is often Courts to reduce the share premium paid for in US dollars.
The Group also account to eliminate the profit and loss incurs operating expenses in numerous account deficit.
Such a transaction other currencies, the most significant of requires shareholders approval, which will which are the South African rand, the be requested at the forthcoming Annual Australian dollar, the Singapore dollar, General Meeting.
Interest Rate Risk The following table reflects the average As the Group is in a net cash positive and year end exchange rates against the position, it is exposed to the effects of US dollar of SA rand, the Australian dollar, fluctuating deposit interest rates.
Whilst it sterling and Euro: Exchange Rates Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2002 2001 Currency Average Period end Average Period end South African rand 10.606 10.560 8.226 8.995 Australian dollar 1.850 1.841 1.949 2.023 Sterling 0.664 0.641 0.692 0.681 Euro 1.059 1.019 1.122 1.094 ANNUAL REPORT 2002 29
