Operating & Financial Review Operating and financial review The downturn in world financial markets, and in global economies in general, meant trading conditions in 2002 were exceptionally difficult.
Full year revenues were down 25.1 million on 2001.
This includes an 8.3 million decline in advertising revenues and a 7.5 million reduction in training and event revenues which benefited from the biennial Vinisud wine convention, with the remaining decline coming from subscriptions, offset by a 0.6 million increase in sponsorship revenues.
A principal driver of the revenue declines was the spending and headcount reductions across the global investment banks.
In addition, training courses were further hit by a reduced willingness to travel following the September 11 terrorist attacks in the United States.
To compensate for the fall in revenues the group embarked on an extensive cost reduction programme at the beginning of the year.
The sale or closure in 2001 of Semaphore, Influent and Investor Access, as well as a number of other magazines and internet businesses this year, resulted in savings of 2.2 million.
Permanent headcount at September 30 2002 was 1,358, a fall of nearly 20% since September 2001.
There were also significant cost savings on print, paper, facility and event costs, space and technology.
At ISI, the first profitable trading month was achieved in September.
The loss for the year was 0.8 million against 4.5 million in 2001.
Revenues grew by 8% over the prior year in difficult trading conditions.
The previous restructuring of the business and headcount reduction have achieved a significant reduction in the cost base.
Results have benefited from a large increase in the depth of the service: some 6,000 data providers are carried compared with 1,800 when the business was acquired in 1999.
Strategy In 2001 the group set out its strategy for growing profits to a target level of 50 million.
The first part of this strategy focused on restoring operating margins to the levels achieved before the significant investment in ISI and after other new media businesses.
Actions taken to Page 4 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Operating & Financial Review continued implement this part of the strategy have included the closure of loss-making businesses, the restructuring of under-performing businesses, the elimination of low-margin products and improvements in management quality.
These actions are largely complete and the additional focus in 2002 on reducing the costs base means the group is well positioned to benefit from increases in revenues and margins once markets improve.
The rest of the strategy concentrates on growing the business, both organically and through acquisitions, particularly in non-financial sectors.
Acquisitions and disposals In November 2001, the company acquired some of the trade and assets of Tempest Consultants.
This significantly expands Institutional Investors position as the pre-eminent source of market research based rankings of sell side analysts as well as increasing the research offering.
It also helped Institutional Investor run its first All-America Research Team awards dinner in November 2002, an event which attracted significant press coverage following the speech by Eliot Spitzer, the New York Attorney General.
Institutional Investor completed a reorganisation of its newsletter and journal portfolio.
This resulted in the closure of three titles and the sale of a further five.
Institutional Investor now publishes 30 newsletters and journals with further launches in the pipeline.
The company continues to pursue acquisition opportunities consistent with its strategy of increasing its critical mass in sectors characterised by global markets, a demand for high quality information, and high levels of capital investment and marketing.
The flow of potential transactions has been as high as ever but closing transactions has been more difficult because vendor price expectations generally fail to reflect market conditions.
In 2003 there will be an increased focus on acquisitions in non-financial sectors, particularly energy and pharmaceuticals.
Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Page 5 Operating & Financial Review continued New business investment New business spend during 2002 was sharply down on 2001.
This was largely the result of the reduced investment in new media businesses following the strategic decision in 2001 to focus only on internet businesses that had a clear path to a sustainable profit, with the emphasis on subscription-driven revenues rather than advertising.
As a result, both the II Searches and Pharmalive database businesses are now profitable and growing.
Meanwhile investment in more traditional products has continued, albeit at a lower level than usual because of the exceptionally difficult market conditions.
Products launched during the year include training courses for the pharmaceutical sector, awards dinners and conferences in the energy sector through the recently acquired Gulf Publishing, delegate-based events under the Institutional Investor brand and local language products for the Chinese market.
This investment will continue in 2003 as the business positions itself for maximizing the returns once markets improve.
Marketing and circulation It has been a particularly difficult year for marketing.
The company has continued to invest in building subscription revenues through a combination of direct mail, telesales, and e-marketing.
However, marketing spend was down on 2001.
This was partly due to the tough markets, but also because direct mail was ineffective, particularly in the US, due to the extra security measures put in place after the events of September 11 and the subsequent anthrax scares.
Marketing spend in 2003 is expected to return to more normal levels.
During the year the central marketing department was reorganised to further improve its effectiveness.
Risk management Risk management processes have always been firmly embedded in the groups operating activities.
Risk areas are the subject of regular review at board and senior management meetings and this year specific risks addressed have included: Page 6 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Operating & Financial Review continued brand and reputational risk health and safety IT security and disaster recovery financial risks, particularly currency, interest and tax exposures data protection managing employment issues The move to new offices in New York, at a cost of more than 5 million, for Institutional Investor, Internet Securities, Euromoney Training and Business Traveller, has resulted in a significant improvement in the IT environment and physical security.
An ongoing challenge will be to ensure that other parts of the business achieve the same standards.
There has also been an increased focus on disaster recovery in light of the heightened fears over terrorist acts.
Debt The group has traditionally funded its operations using a mixture of its strong operating cash flows, retained earnings and debt.
Year end debt levels were 10.4 million lower than last year, despite a continued programme of acquisitions and new investment.
Interest cover was nearly seven times against an internal benchmark of five times, providing significant acquisition capacity.
Tax and treasury The groups tax and treasury committee meets twice a year and is responsible for recommending policy to the board.
The committee comprises the companys chairman, managing director, and finance director as well as the finance director and deputy finance director of Daily Mail and General Trust plc.
The groups treasury policies are directed to giving greater certainty of future costs and revenues through the hedging of foreign currency and interest rate risks, and ensuring that the group has both adequate liquidity for working capital and debt capacity for acquisitions.
Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Page 7 Operating & Financial Review continued The treasury function does not act as a profit centre, nor does it undertake any speculative trading activity.
It operates within policies and procedures approved by the board and monitored by the tax and treasury committee.
Interest rate swaps and caps are used to manage the groups exposure to fluctuations in rates on its floating rate borrowings.
The maturity profile of these derivatives is matched with the expected future debt profile of the group.
The groups policy is to swap up to 80% of its term debt into fixed rates and at September 30 2002 the group had 70% of its net debt fixed through interest rates hedges.
As long-term interest rates are usually higher than short-term rates this hedging strategy has the effect of increasing the interest charge, but it also provides significant protection against the volatility in the interest rate market.
The group is exposed to foreign exchange risk in the form of transactions in foreign currencies entered into by group companies and by the translation of the foreign currency results of overseas subsidiaries into sterling for reporting purposes.
The group does not hedge the translation of the results of foreign subsidiaries, but does endeavour to match foreign currency borrowings to investments in order to provide a natural hedge for the translation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
Approximately two-thirds of the groups revenues are received in US dollars.
Group subsidiaries do not normally hedge transactions in foreign currencies into the functional currency of their own operations.
However, the group has in place a series of forward currency contracts up to 12 months ahead to hedge surplus US dollar cash flows.
Details of the financial instruments used are set out in note 18 to the accounts.
The groups tax rate has historically benefited from the tax amortization of goodwill arising on US acquisitions.
In 2002, the effective tax rate fell to 15.7% excluding the effect of goodwill amortization and exceptional items compared to 22.0% in 2001.
This reflects a number of factors Page 8 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Operating & Financial Review continued including the change in geographical mix of taxable profits, the adoption of FRS 19 Deferred Taxation and the release of certain provisions in respect of prior years.
In addition, the groups US acquisition structure was confirmed with the relevant tax authorities, resulting in the release of prior years tax provisions of 6.8 million and a reduction of approximately 3% in the effective tax rate for 2002 and future years.
Generally under UK corporation tax rules all exchange gains and losses are taxable on an accruals basis.
To hedge the cash flow effect of the tax on these exchange gains and losses, the group has entered into a forward contract selling US$14 million in exchange for sterling, maturing on March 27 2003.
The cash flow consequence of a movement in exchange rates, which creates a taxable gain or loss, is eliminated by the cash effect of an equal gain or loss on the forward contract.
Richard Ensor Managing Director November 20 2002 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Page 9
