36 36 GKN plc GKN plc 2002 2002 FINANCIAL REVIEW Basis of review In August 2001 the Group demerged its Industrial Services businesses.
This transaction was fully described in last years report and accounts and pro forma financial information was presented for the continuing businesses in order to provide comparability of results of those businesses.
For 2002, separate financial statements with pro forma 2001 comparatives are shown on pages 40 to 45 and this review discusses the figures in those statements.
The full financial statements including the 2001 results of the Industrial Services businesses up to the date of the demerger are set out on pages 46 to 74.
In this review and elsewhere in the annual report, in addition to the statutory measures of earnings, we have included references to profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items since we believe this shows most clearly the underlying trend in performance.
Accounting policies The only change in accounting policy during the year arose from the implementation of FRS 19 Deferred Tax which requires deferred tax to be recognised on most types of timing difference.
The financial impact on the results was not material and is discussed in the tax section of this review.
Prior year figures have been restated accordingly.
Sales and operating profit Sales and operating profit both before and after goodwill amortisation and exceptional items are discussed by business in the Operating Review on pages 22 to 25.
Totalsales were 4,452 million compared with 4,337 million last year, an increase of 115 million 2.7%.
The impact of currency, acquisitions, divestments and changes in status was not material and the underlying increase was 3.0%.
Nigel Stein, Finance Director left, with Mike Shaw, Head of Taxation.
37 GKN plc 2002 Automotive sales of 2,950 million were 106 million 3.7% above Interest was covered 6.6 times 2001 5.0 times by operating profit lastyear with an underlying increase of 4.2%.
As described in the before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Operating Review, 2002 was a year of uncertain market conditions, Profit before tax with lower demand in European markets contrasting with unexpectedly Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was resilient demand in North America.
267 million compared with 245 million in 2001, an increase of 9%.
Aerospace sales of 1,502 million were much in line with last year, After goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, profit before tax was with increases in military sales being offset by reduced civil demand.
This compared with the 2001 figure of 107 million.
Operating profit after goodwill amortisation and exceptional items Taxation was 230 million 2001 161 million, a 43% increase.
Taxation increased to 77 million from 64 million in 2001.
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items The rate of tax expressed as a percentage of profit before goodwill of 315 million was 9 million 2.9% above 2001 with an underlying amortisation and exceptional items for the year was 30.0% increase of 2.6%.
Automotive operating profit on this basis increased compared with a 2001 figure of 27.4%, the increase being largely by 10 million 5.3% to 197 million while Aerospace showed a attributable to a reduction in credits arising from settlement of marginal reduction from 119 million to 118 million.
This was after prior year tax liabilities.
As noted above, FRS 19 Deferred Tax charging an 11 million share of redundancy and reorganisation was implemented during the year and, as a result, has contributed costs in AgustaWestland in the first half of the year.
an additional 1.5% to the 2002 tax rate.
Notwithstanding this charge, AgustaWestland performed well, The underlying rate in 2003 and beyond is expected to show a achieving operating profits above lastyears underlying level, modest, progressive increase as a result of future changes in the adjusted for a non-recurring charge from Aerospace subsidiaries geographical mix of profits.
There may, however, be some favourable to Helicopters of 8 million in 2001. impact from the satisfactory resolution of outstanding tax issues.
Our Aerospace subsidiaries had a mixed year with good performances Taxrelief on exceptional items was 3 million 2001 3 million.
by the military, largely US, businesses being negated by difficult The effective tax rate based on profits after goodwill amortisation conditions in the European plants which predominantly serve the and exceptional items was 42.8% 2001 59.8%.
Adjusting for the non-recurring 8 million income from Helicopters in 2001, Aerospace subsidiaries operating profits of The impact of FRS 19 on the prior year balance sheet was to increase 23 million were slightly down from 24 million in the previous year.
the net deferred tax provision by 50 million.
Exceptional items Earnings Exceptional costs charged to operating profit in the period totalled Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 37 million.
They related to restructuring actions announced in increased by 5.0% to 25.2p after these items 13.7p: 2001 5.3p.
October 2001 but only implemented in 2002 and arose in both Dividend Automotive and Aerospace businesses.
The cash cost of operating A final dividend of 7.6p per share is proposed.
Together with the exceptional charges in the period was 52 million due mainly to interim dividend of 3.7p the total dividend for the year will be 11.3p, the timing of severance payments in connection with restructuring an increase of 2.7% over the equivalent figure for last year.
The total announced in 2001. dividend is covered 2.2 times by earnings before goodwill amortisation Exceptional losses arising on the sale or closure of businesses and exceptional items 2001 2.2 times.
The main elements were a combination of cost Cash flow and asset write-downs of 7 million on the closure of the OffHighway Operating cash flow, which GKN defines as cash inflow from Systems cabs business, partially offset by a profit of 5 million on operating activities adjusted for capital expenditure and proceeds the sale of the Groups shareholding in GKN Ayra Cardan SA to Dana from the disposal of fixed assets, was again very strong.
This Corporation in return for their shareholding in GKN Driveshafts Ltd. years figure of 174 million is somewhat ahead of last years Goodwill amortisation pro forma amount of 210 million, allowing for the one-off receipt Amortisation of goodwill was 48 million 2001 43 million which in 2001 of 49 million of customer advances and the 52 million includes an 11 million accelerated write-down in respect of a Sinter cash cost of exceptional operating costs in 2002 pro forma Metals plant acquired in January 2001 and therefore in its first year 2001 27 million.
Given the difficulties in Sinter Metals North Tight management control led to a reduction of 29 million in working America over the intervening period, the goodwill on the purchase capital and capital expenditure was reduced to 213 million pro of this plant has been written down substantially.
No other goodwill forma 2001 246 million.
This represented 120% of depreciation, impairments have arisen during the year.
a reduction from the 149% of the previous year, as a number of major Interest investments were completed.
Net interest payable by subsidiaries was 47 million 2001 Dividends from joint ventures and associates were 45 million 2001 59 million.
10 million of the reduction arose from the benefits 49 million with the major receipt being from AgustaWestland of lower foreign currency interest rates, as the Group hedges its which has a policy of 100% distribution of earnings unless otherwise balance sheet, effectively switching its borrowings into the currency agreed by the shareholders.
in which its assets are held.
This allowed it to benefit from low US dollar interest rates, the largest such currency.
This benefit cannot The net impact of acquisitions and divestments on cash flow was be assumed to recur as the Group has reduced its level of foreign an outflow of 75 million 2001 136 million leaving a net cash currency asset hedging, although some compensation may be inflow for the year of 72 million pro forma 2001 29 million.
gained from recent reductions in sterling interest rates.
38 GKN plc 2002 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Treasury management Risk management GKN co-ordinates all treasury activities through a central function The Group is exposed to a variety of market risks, including the whose purpose is to manage the financial risks of the Group as effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest described below and to secure shortand long-term funding at the rates.
In the normal course of business, the Group also faces risks minimum cost to the Group.
The central treasury function operates that are either non-financial or non-quantifiable, including country within a framework of clearly defined Board approved policies and and credit risk.
procedures, including permissible funding and hedging instruments, The Group uses interest rate swaps, swaptions, forward rate exposure limits and a system of authorities for the approval and agreements, netting techniques and forward exchange contracts to execution of transactions.
It operates on a cost centre basis and manage the primary market exposures associated with its underlying is not permitted to make use of financial instruments or other assets, liabilities and anticipated transactions.
derivatives other than to hedge identified exposures of the Group.
Speculative use of such instruments or derivatives is not permitted, Counterparty credit risk and none has occurred during the year.
The Group is exposed to credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to financial instruments.
Credit risk The central treasury function prepares a formal report biannually is mitigated by the Groups policy of only selecting counterparties to the Board, and prepares formal monthly reports for the Finance with a strong investment graded long-term credit rating, normally at Director and other senior executives of the Group.
In addition, least AA or equivalent, and assigning financial limits to individual the gross and net indebtedness of the Group is reported on a counterparties.
weekly basis to the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, whilst liquidity, interest rate, currency and other financial risk exposures Interest rate risk are monitored daily.
The central treasury function is subject to an The Group operates an interest rate policy designed to optimise annual internal and annual external review of controls.
interest cost and reduce volatility in reported earnings.
This policy is achieved by maintaining a target range of fixed and floating rate Funding and liquidity debt for discrete annual periods, over a defined time horizon.
This The Group funds its operations through a mixture of retained is achieved partly through the fixed rate character of the underlying earnings and borrowing facilities, including bank and capital market debt instrument, and partly through the use of straightforward borrowings and leasing.
The relative proportions of equity and derivatives forward rate agreements, interest rate swaps and borrowings are governed by specific Board approved parameters.
As reported previously, it is the Groups policy to These are designed to preserve prudent financial ratios, including keep the parameters governing interest rate fixing under review interest, dividend and cash flow cover, whilst also minimising the from time to time to take account of movements in the interest rate overall weighted average cost of capital to the Group.
environment and also changes in the disposition and nature of the All the Groups borrowing facilities are arranged by the central Groups operating assets.
The Groups current policy is to require treasury function and the funds raised are then lent to operating interest rates to be fixed for 30% to 70% of the level of underlying subsidiaries on commercial arms length terms.
In some cases borrowings forecast to arise over a 12-month horizon, reducing operating subsidiaries have external borrowings, but these are on a tapering basis to a minimum of nilfixing for debt maturities supervised and controlled centrally.
The Groups objective is to extending beyond three years on a rolling basis.
maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility, At 31 December 2002, 75% of the Groups gross financial liabilities through borrowing at a range of maturities from both capital were at fixed rates of interest due to the timing of the bond issue.
This has since been reduced to below the 70% ceiling during the Bank borrowings are principally in the form of committed multifirst few weeks of 2003.
The weighted average period in respect of currency bilateral revolving credit facilities with a group of relationship which interest has been fixed was 12.9 years.
banks, and with a range of maturitiesfrom 364 days to five years.
Currency risk Borrowings under these facilities are unsecured and were denominated The Group has transactional currency exposures arising from sales in sterling, euro and Japanese yen at 31 December 2002. or purchases by operating subsidiaries in currencies other than the During the year the Groups debt maturity profile was improved by subsidiaries functional currencies.
Under the Groups foreign exchange tapping the existing 300 million 6.75% bond maturing in 2019 for a policy, such transaction exposures are hedged once they are known, further 50 million and issuing, in two tranches, a new 325 million mainly through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
The level of hedges may be varied from time to time as the volume of At the year end the Group had committed borrowing facilities of underlying trading also varies.
Differences arising on such variations 1,490 million, of which 873 million was drawn.
The weighted are taken to the profit and loss account either as a credit or a charge.
average maturity profile of the Groups committed borrowings The Group has a significant investment in overseas operations, was 11.3 years.
particularly in continental Europe, and the Americas.
As a result, the sterling value of the Groups balance sheet can be affected by This leaves the Group well placed to fund its strategic growth plans movements in exchange rates.
The Group therefore seeks to mitigate and to withstand any sudden changes in liquidity in the financial the effect of these translational currency exposures by matching the markets.
None of the Groups borrowing facilities are linked to net investment in overseas operations with borrowings denominated specific credit ratings ascribed by rating agencies.
in their functional currencies, except where significant adverse The Group also has access to substantial lines of uncommitted interest differentials or other factors would render the cost of such funds which are used principally to manage day-to-day liquidity.
This is achieved by borrowing either Wherever practicable, pooling, netting or concentration techniques directly in either the local domestic or eurocurrency markets, or are employed to minimise gross debt.
indirectly through the use of rolling annual forward foreign exchange 39 GKN plc 2002 contracts.
Borrowings created through the use of such contracts The next formal actuarial valuation of the scheme on an SSAP 24 amounted to 656 million at 31 December 2002 and were basis will take place in April 2003 and it is therefore not possible denominated in US dollars 64% and euro 36%.
to give precise guidance on the likely contribution rate for 2003 and beyond.
However, the Groups plans for 2003 assume a further Recognising the risk to the Groups overall level of borrowings if increase in contributions of up to 20 million bringing the total there were to be sudden swings in exchange rates, in 2003 the annual cash cost to over 53 million.
This increase is well within Group has reduced its level of hedging in some currencies to a the cash flow and balance sheet capability of the Group.
Under SSAP 24 the charge to profit for the UK scheme was Goodwill 17 million 2001 14 million.
The charge in 2003, which will At the year end the balance sheet showed goodwill of 470 million not be known until after the valuation in April, is estimated to rise in relation to subsidiaries and a further 114 million within the by approximately 15 million.
equity value of joint ventures and associates.
Overseas pensions Net borrowings FRS 17 also values post-retirement benefits in other parts of the At the end of the year the Group had net borrowings of 834 million Group, including those countries where schemes are unfunded and it 2001 885 million.
These included the benefit of customer advances is already the practice to provide for the liability in the balance sheet.
of 42 million 2001 50 million, which are shown in short-term creditors in the balance sheet.
There were no net borrowings in joint The principal regions involved are the US and continental Europe ventures, which held substantial cash balances at 31 December 2002. and the detailed assumptions underlying the FRS 17 additional net liabilities in those territories of 36 million and 18 million The reduction in net debt seen in the year was encouraging and arose respectively, are set out in the note to the accounts.
from the strong performance in operating cash flow.
The net cost of acquisitions and divestments was 75 million.
A one-off benefit of Summary 66 million arose as a consequence of our balance sheet hedging policy.
In total, at 31 December 2002 on the FRS 17 basis, there would have been an overall additional liability on all pension post-retirement Shareholders equity obligations of 527 million 2001 169 million.
This is after Shareholders equity was 950 million at the end of the year allowance for the net 157 million 2001 144 million already compared with 970 million as restated for the impact of FRS 19 included in net liabilities on the balance sheet and a deferred tax at the end of 2001.
Retained profits were 17 million which were credit of 202 million 2001 87 million which, it should be noted, more than offset by 43 million adverse impact of currency.
has been restricted by the forecast availability of UK taxable profits.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits The impact on the profit and loss accountofadopting FRS 17 would Pension and post-retirement costs in these accounts have been have been insignificant.
GKN has not benefited from abnormally accounted for on an SSAP 24 basis.
The total charge to Group low pension charges nor taken a pension contribution holiday in profit in respect of defined benefit schemes was 49 million recent years.
Joint ventures The progressive implementation of FRS 17 Accounting for Retirement The equity value of joint ventures will also be affected by the Benefits, has been accompanied by considerable debate about implementation of FRS 17 and the adjustment at the end of its suitability as a measure of present and future pension liabilities.
2002 would have reduced shareholders funds by 58 million.
In line with the latest guidance from the Accounting Standards Board, the Group has not adopted FRS 17 in these accounts, but is Share options disclosing fully the effects had it done so.
These are shown in note Both the UK Accounting Standards Board and the International 26 to the accounts on pages 68 to 71 which covers both the balance Accounting Standards Board published exposure drafts during the sheet and profit and loss account impacts.
year which will require the value of all share options granted after 7 November 2002 to be charged to the profit and loss account.
These UK pensions are likely to become standard for accounting periods commencing Much of the external focus is on the Groups UK pension scheme after 1 January 2004.
On the basis that existing option arrangements which has approximately 60,000 members of whom only 10% are continue but with a reduced level of discount on the all-employee currently in service with the remainder either deferred or current sharesave scheme, the future annualised cost of all current schemes, pensioners.
As a UK defined benefit scheme this is run on a funded including the long-term incentive plan, is estimated to be in the basis with funds set aside in trust to cover future liabilities to region of 3 million in 2003 rising incrementally to some 8 million members.
The scheme was in surplus on both an SSAP 24 and in 2005.
Due to substantial falls in world stock markets and declines in interest rates used to calculate Financial resources and going concern the net present value of liabilities, the FRS 17 figures now show At 31 December 2002 the Group had available, but undrawn, a significant deterioration to a gross deficit of 551 million.
After committed borrowing facilitiestotalling 617 million.
taking account of deferred taxation, this reduces to 415 million.
Having assessed the future funding requirements of the Group, the Recognising that in the short term at least, some of this deficit Directors are of the opinion that it is appropriate for the accounts is unlikely to be made up simply through the recovery in asset to be prepared on a going concern basis.
values, the Group has already been making higher payments into this fund.
In addition to the regular 15 million cost of current service entitlements, in 2002 the Group increased its discretionary contributions to 18 million 2001 8 million bringing total annual company contributions to the fund in the year to 33 million.
