Operating and financial review Last year we said it would be difficult to predict the Increased profit from the UK prospects for 2002, particularly for our largest division and Australia helped to offset in the USA.
We therefore put in place early in the year a number of practical measures to help compensate the effect of falling volumes for the effects of potentially lower demand for our in the USA.
These prudent steps, which focused on cost control, operational efficiency and price improvement, paid off through the year and helped the group hold pre-tax, pre-exceptional profit at 350.3m, within 0.7m of the prior year, despite a 4.3% decline in total revenue and an adverse exchange effect of 9.0m.
Basic earnings per share before exceptional items were 35.1p 5.4%.
Continuing trading profit before goodwill and exceptional items of 495.7m was 2.8% below last year.
The slight decline in profit reects the benets of the geographic spread of our operations: volume-led declines in North America of 42.3m and Asia of 5.7m were largely offset by increases in Europe of 13.5m and Australia of 20.4m.
Contributions from acquisitions We have 50 years of proven reserves at current production levels totalled 16.8m, with profit from heritage operations which demonstrates the sustainable nature of both our profit stream down 6.1% to 478.9m.
Operations are classied as and the cash generative nature of our assets.
acquisitions for the first 12 months of Hanson ownership and thereafter they are included in heritage.
Mineral reserve base mT Worldwide proven reserves The downturn in the US economy and the subsequent North America 8,256.5 fall in demand for heavy building materials began in late Europe 2,460.6 2001.
During 2002 we saw aggregates volumes fall Australia 639.0 by 11.5% as the market suffered its first annual decline Asia 469.6 for 11 years.
Our mainstream markets remained tough Total 11,825.7 throughout the year, but were particularly difficult in Note: The above table refers only to proven reserves.
Hanson also holds other reserves which do not yet have necessary permits for extraction.
November and December as the weather returned to more normal patterns in comparison to a very mild 2001.
This impacted on volumes in Texas, California and the North East in particular.
However, our US earnings performance was creditable given the prevailing market conditions.
US heritage margins fell by only 1.2% to 16%, demonstrating our ability to manage our businesses in a period of falling demand.
Our businesses in Europe performed well, with earnings growth of 9.6% and heritage margin improvement of 0.4% achieved.
The largest division, UK aggregates, contributed earnings growth of 5.1% and a heritage margin increase of 0.4% before reorganisation costs, despite a decline in overall product volumes of 4.1%.
14 Operating and financial review Demand tailed off from the middle of the year after a strong start, reecting general economic conditions and the impact of the UK Governments aggregates levy.
The 1.60 a tonne levy, introduced in April 2002 on all construction aggregates, was recovered in full but had an impact on sales of some lower grade products.
profit and margin growth was also achieved in Spain and the newly-restructured UK building products division, which brought together the concrete products and brick businesses.
The notable progress made in Australia was very welcome after a difficult year in 2001.
Volume and price gains across all products contributed to a significant increase in profitability, but earnings from our Asian operations were curbed by difficult market conditions, particularly in Hong Kong.
Acquisition contributions came, in the main, from the concrete pipe and products businesses Centennial in Canada and Choctaw in the USA.
In addition UK We are well placed to make acquisitions comprised a bagged aggregates operation, a soft mud brick factory and additional hollow-core further strategic bolt-on ooring operations.
In Continental Europe we acquired new quarry operations in Spain and the Czech Republic.
acquisitions and to increase All of these acquisitions complement and enhance our capital investment.
existing operations in key markets, consistent with our growth strategy.
These strategic bolt-ons are proving to be excellent additions to the current portfolio and have already exceeded initial expectations.
Alongside our acquisition programme, we continued with the disposal of underperforming and non-core assets, realising 120.7m.
The most notable of these were the sale of our Continental European bricks business for 39.3m and the sale of our 50% share in North Texas Cement Company in January 2003 to our joint-venture partner for 78.8m.
As expected, and despite the difficult trading environment in our major US markets, we have made significant progress again this year in reducing our net debt.
The strong cash ow generated by our assets has enabled us to increase our spend on bolt-on acquisitions.
We continue to invest in plant and equipment and mineral reserves whilst at the same time reducing our net debt by 259.8m to 1,169.9m.
We have now rebuilt fully our balance sheet ratios following the acquisition of Pioneer in 2000 and are therefore well placed to re-focus on investing in our operations in 2003.
2003 will be another demanding year for Hanson.
We are planning for marginally lower volumes in the USA, but expect to extract further value from the reorganised UK operations and continue the positive trends in Australia.
We will also be looking to accelerate our bolt-on acquisition programme and increase value-adding capital investment.
Our continuing strong cash ow provides significant capacity to execute this strategy in a disciplined manner.
