Corporate social responsibility The Allied Domecq website describes Environmental performance All employees in Allied Domecq are given As one of the worlds leading drinks and Quick Service how we apply our environmental, health We operate globally in sectors that allow us a copy of our Code of Business Conduct and safety standards around the world.
to build powerful, exciting brands.
Wherever and are expected to abide by the spirit as Restaurant companies, our vision recognises the Our record and performance can speak we are, we apply the same high standards well as the letter of the code.
I am delighted to support of protection for our workforce, and respect of the code are in the Corporate social importance of social and environmental considerations the principle of going beyond compliance for the environment.
responsibility report on the website.
to developing sustainable business at all levels of our business strategy.
A full account of our performance in these We encourage all local businesses to be Richard Turner, President, Global Operations areas is published in the Environment section active members of their communities.
We do not have a central team allocating donations or giving support to charities as The adoption of ISO 14001 as the global we believe that people at the local level are production standard has committed the best placed to decide what is appropriate, Beyond compliance This year we published a new global business to making continual improvements within a global framework.
As one of the worlds leading drinks and Quick marketing code that applies to all alcohol in the way in which we manage the production Service Restaurant companies, our vision brands, in all markets.
Some of its provisions process to minimise environmental impacts.
Our Quick Service Restaurants business recognises the importance of social and go beyond national legislation.
In every case Some 80% of the global business has plans is involved in many communities through environmental considerations at all levels we will abide by national laws and codes and targets for water use improvements, active programmes with its franchisees.
Sustainability in but where our own standards are higher, waste reduction and energy efficiency.
For example, Dunkin Donuts has entered action for any multinational business is about we will apply them rigorously.
We have a relationship with Coffee Kids, a non-profit understanding that economic goals are communicated the requirements of the As new businesses are acquired they are organisation helping families in coffeeinextricably linked to environmental and social code to all in our marketing team and to the brought into the plan.
For example over the producing regions of Mexico and Central performance.
Our aim is continual improvement agencies they employ.
Regional marketing next year we will be helping wine companies America.
We are currently developing an in our social and environmental impacts.
directors are required to report annually such as Bodegas y Bebidas to comply with integrated strategy across all three Quick on mechanisms they have in place for group policy.
Service Restaurants that enables us to most We aim to make a positive contribution to implementing the code and for ensuring We actively participate in benchmarking benefit the communities in which we operate.
the economic success of the communities compliance.
surveys by a number of organisations Workplace in which we operate, to their social including the FT BiE index, FTSE4Good, Dow Corporate social responsibility begins David Scotland has recently been given enrichment and long term environmental The code is published on our website.
Jones Sustainability Indexes, the World Index at home.
In the same way that we have board responsibility for monitoring and health.
And we communicate the need to We welcome the views of our stakeholders and STOXX.
promoted global environmental standards, shaping our community involvement operate according to high ethical standards on our achievement in maintaining the high OHSAS 18001 is being implemented as and future reports will report on progress.
standards that we set for ourselves.
the common health and safety standard for the business.
By the end of 2002, 80% of But we believe we should be judged by what Allied Domecq has also become the first the company worldwide will be accredited, we do, not by what we say.
major drinks company to use the power including all of our major manufacturing sites of its advertising to encourage sensible in the US, Canada, Spain, Mexico, UK, We have taken part in a number of surveys consumption of its brands.
In 2002, we Korea, France and Portugal.
that measure our social footprint and are introduced spirits campaigns that carried included in the FTSE4Good and the Dow messages recommending moderation, and All businesses in Allied Domecq have an The unanimous decision of the Jones Sustainability indexes.
We have led the which tie in to the total marketing message.
This ensures that employees board to develop a culture of social drinks industry in the FT BiE environmental Some examples are: are given balanced information about the responsibility throughout the whole index for the past three years.
impact of misusing alcohol on their own organisation is an exciting development Ballantines health and the potential consequences for the company.
I am delighted to be Here we can include only the highlights Go play, play in moderation for them and their families.
They also have the director responsible for making of what we have done this year.
More confidential access to treatment if they it happen.
We will be known by our information is available on our website Tia Lusso have difficulty controlling their own drinking.
You just know to drink in moderation David Scotland, President, Wines We have endorsed the United Nations Brands and consumers Sauza Diablo Declaration on Human Rights and our policy We are proud of our brands and our industry, Dont ignore your inner voice, on non-discrimination, respect for diversity I take pride in our brands and the industry Environmental management system but readily acknowledge that alcohol is drink Sauza responsibly and equal opportunities is given in full in the I work in.
Actions undertaken by any part Number of sites accredited with ISO 14001 not just any other product.
Whilst there are Corporate social responsibility report on of this organisation that dilute either well known health benefits accruing from Target 2003 40 our website.
my sense of pride or create a negative moderate consumption of alcohol, there are view of the brands are unacceptable well known dangers resulting from excess or 2002 30 Business integrity and will be corrected.
We act responsibly Integrity is key to our relationship with all of Kim Manley, Chief Marketing Officer in the marketing and promotion of our brands, 2001 27 our stakeholders.
Just as we expect suppliers to ensure that we are not contributing to and contractors to uphold our standards for the problem.
7 2000 human rights, health, safety and environmental protection, they have the right to fair treatment 2 1999 in return.
24 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 25 Board of directors Statement of directors Board committees responsibilities Gerry Robinson Non-Executive Chairman Peter A Jacobs Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Audit committee Appointed a non-executive director and non-executive chairman Joined the group as a non-executive director in 1998.
He retired statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view P A Jacobs chairman of Allied Domecq in 2002.
He is also a non-executive director of as chief executive of BUPA in 1998 and as chairman of Hillsdown of the state of affairs of the company and the group and of the D H Brydon Granada and chairman of the Arts Council of England.
He is also chairman of LA Fitness and WT profit or loss for that year.
In preparing those financial statements Sir Ross Buckland formerly chairman of Granada and chairman of British Sky Holdings and a non-executive director of Bank Leumi UK and the directors are required to: A D Malpas Broadcasting Group and ITN.
Aged 53. of Health Quality Services.
G J Robinson Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Summary terms of reference: to assist the board in exercising Philip Bowman Chief Executive David Malpas its responsibilities for accounting, financial reporting and financial Joined the group in November 1998 as an executive director Joined the group as a non-executive director in 1997.
He retired Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable control and to keep the work of internal and external audit and was appointed chief executive in August 1999.
He is also as managing director of Tesco in 1997.
He is also chairman and prudent: under review.
a non-executive director of British Sky Broadcasting Group of Dresdner Income Growth Investment Trust and a director State whether applicable accounting standards have been and Burberry Group and a member of the UK Industrial Advisory of Wincanton.
Aged 62. followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Remuneration committee Board of Alchemy Partners.
He was formerly an executive explained in the financial statements: and A D Malpas chairman director of Bass and chairman of Liberty.
David Scotland D H Brydon Joined the group as a director of Allied Domecq Spirits & Wine Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis Sir Ross Buckland Donald H Brydon in 1992 and appointed a director of Allied Domecq in 1995. unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will P A Jacobs Joined the group as a non-executive director in 1997 and He became president, Allied Domecq World Wines in 2002.
He is continue in business.
G J Robinson is chairman of Allied Domecq pension trusts.
He is the senior also a non-executive director of Photo-Me International.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting non-executive director of Allied Domecq.
He is a non-executive Summary terms of reference: to set terms of employment, records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time director of Amersham and also chairman of AXA Investment Richard G Turner including remuneration, for directors and to consider candidates the financial position of the company and the group and to enable Managers.
Appointed president, Global for appointment to the board.
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Operations of Allied Domecq Spirits & Wine in 1995.
They have general responsibilities for Sir Ross Buckland appointed a director of Allied Domecq in June 1999.
Executive committee taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard Joined the group as a non-executive director in 1998.
He retired This committee comprises mainly the executive directors.
the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and as chief executive of Uniq formerly Unigate in March 2001.
Summary terms of reference: to formalise group strategy, run He is also a director of Mayne Group, Goodman Fielder and General counsel and company secretary.
the day-to-day operations of the group, approve projects within Clayton Utz.
Aged 59. capital expenditure limits delegated by the board and lead the management development process.
Graham C Hetherington Joined the group in 1991.
Joined Allied Domecq Spirits & Wine Financing committee in 1995 and was appointed finance director of Allied Domecq This committee comprises mainly the executive directors.
He became a director of Allied Domecq in June 1999 and was appointed group finance director in Summary terms of reference: to exercise the powers of the August 1999.
Aged 43. company concerning the financing of approved acquisitions and the refinancing of debt.
26 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 27 Directors reports Directors report Research and development The directors are pleased to present their Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 August 2002.
The amount spent by the group on research and development during the period was 1m but this does not include the full cost of new product development.
Business review and future developments The Chairmans statement and the Operating and financial review on page 3 and pages 14 to 23 provide a review of the business Creditor payment policy and likely future developments.
The companys policy, in relation to all of its suppliers, is to settle the terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction, to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and to abide by those terms provided it is satisfied that the goods or services were supplied Acquisitions in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The company does not follow any particular code or standard on payment practice.
Details of the acquisitions during the year are shown in note 25 of the accounts on pages 62 and 63.
Creditor days have not been calculated as the company had no trade creditors at 31 August 2002.
The companys invoices for goods and services are settled by subsidiaries acting as agents for the company.
Main trading activities The groups main trading activities are the production, marketing and sale of Spirits & Wine and the franchising of Quick Service Restaurants.
Directors The names and brief biographical details of the directors as at 28 October 2002 are given on page 26.
During the year Todd Martin resigned Dividends from the group and Sir Christopher Hogg retired as a director: Gerry Robinson was appointed as a non-executive director.
In accordance An interim dividend of 4.9p per share was paid on 26 July 2002 and the directors are pleased to recommend a final ordinary dividend with the articles of association, Richard Turner, David Malpas, Donald Brydon and Gerry Robinson retire at the forthcoming AGM and offer of 8.1p per share, making a total for the year of 13.0p.
The final dividend will be paid on 7 February 2003 to shareholders on the register themselves for election or re-election.
Political and charitable contributions Annual General Meeting No political donations were made to EU political parties or organisations during the year.
Charitable contributions in the UK totalled 108,000.
The AGM will be held on 4 February 2003 at Le Meridien Grosvenor House Hotel, Park Lane, London W1K 7TN.
Details of the business In addition the Allied Domecq Trust gave 72,000 to charitable causes.
to be considered at the AGM and the notice of meeting are included in the accompanying chairmans letter.
Auditor Share capital KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor of the company.
A resolution for the re-appointment of the Details of the companys share capital and options over the companys shares under the groups employee share plans are given in note 22 auditor, at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the directors, will be proposed at the AGM.
of the accounts on pages 60 and 61.
As at 31 August 2002 the company had authority to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares.
By order of the board Shareholders approval is being sought for the renewal of this authority.
Leonard A Quaranto Substantial interests General counsel & company secretary The company has been notified of the following disclosable interests in Allied Domecq ordinary shares: 28 October 2002 AXA Sun Life Investment Management Limited 41,267,691 shares 3.73% Suntory Limited 37,834,591 shares 3.42% Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Limited 33,268,490 shares 3.006% Employees Allied Domecq operates a policy of equal opportunity and continues to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment made by disabled persons.
Employees who become disabled will, wherever possible and practicable, be retained in employment and, where necessary, appropriate training will be provided.
Employees are encouraged to become shareholders in the company.
Grants of options over a total of 8,110,144 shares were made to eligible employees under the companys employee share option plans during the year and rights were granted to employees under the companys share appreciation rights plan.
The company launched a new Inland Revenue approved share incentive plan in the UK in February 2002 and the International SAYE Scheme was extended to employees in Korea during the year.
Communications and involvement Considerable emphasis is placed by the group on communications with its employees.
In addition to obtaining a comprehensive range of attitudes and views from employees through employee opinion surveys, group companies involve and consult them with regard to the activities and performance of their businesses and any matters of concern to them.
It is normal practice to use formal joint consultative bodies locally for one-to-one and group meetings.
Allied Domecq has a European Council which acts as a forum for Pan-European consultation and discussion.
Health, safety and welfare The group recognises that occupational health and safety management is among one of our highest corporate responsibilities.
A significant number of group companies have now established health and safety management systems based on OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series and have achieved, or are working towards, external certification.
Further development of the groups audit processes has taken place over the past year and during 2003 we will again globally benchmark our health and safety activities in order to measure our impacts and further progress our targets and key performance indicators, towards our goal of continual improvement.
The groups full health and safety report is now posted on the companys website at www.
28 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 29 Directors reports Corporate governance Internal control Introduction The Turnbull guidance for directors on internal control was issued in September 1999.
The directors of Allied Domecq PLC are committed to the high standards of corporate governance set out in the Principles of Good The board confirms that it has established a process that meets the Turnbull guidance.
The process has been in place for the whole of the Governance and Code of Best Practice, which together comprise the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services year to 31 August 2002 and, as part of this process, the board has received and reviewed regular reports during the year on internal control Authority.
The directors are accountable to the shareholders for ensuring that these principles are understood and implemented throughout and risk and has reviewed the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control.
the companys operations and this statement describes the manner in which Allied Domecq PLC has applied the Principles and Provisions of the Code during the financial year.
The board of directors has final responsibility for the system of internal control maintained by the group.
The responsibility for establishing and operating detailed control procedures within each operating business lies with the operating board and local management.
The approach Executive and non-executive directors to internal control is risk based, with risk management processes including an evaluation of the likelihood and impact of risks.
This system Executive directors are engaged on employment contracts subject to 24 months written notice given by either party.
Non-executive directors provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material loss and includes the safeguarding of assets, the maintenance of proper are appointed for three year terms and are generally limited to six years of service.
In accordance with the companys articles of association, accounting records, the reliability of financial information, compliance with appropriate legislation, regulation and best practice, and the all directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals identification and mitigation of business risks.
of no more than three years.
The non-executive directors fee levels are determined by the board of directors, whilst the executive directors Group and local management are responsible for the identification and evaluation of key applicable business, operational, compliance and salary levels are determined by the remuneration committee.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis, taking into account the overall risk environment, and may be associated with The remuneration policy and the terms and conditions of service of the executive and non-executive directors appear in the remuneration a variety of internal or external sources including control breakdowns, disruption in information systems, competition, natural catastrophe report on pages 32 to 37.
As stated in that report, Allied Domecq is in compliance with Schedules A and B of the Combined Code relating and regulatory requirements.
Group businesses participate in periodic strategic reviews which include consideration of long term financial projections and the evaluation of business alternatives.
Operating units prepare annual budgets: performance against budget is actively monitored both at the level of the Organisation and functions of the board and key committees board of Allied Domecq Spirits & Wine Limited and the Quick Service Restaurants executive and the board, supported by regular forecasts.
The board is responsible for the overall direction, strategy, performance and management of Allied Domecq PLC.
It is comprised of four executive directors and five non-executive directors.
Throughout the financial year, the roles of chairman and chief executive officer have A process of annual control self-assessment and hierarchical reporting provides for a documented and auditable trail of accountability from been held separately.
The chairman is a non-executive director.
the local business unit to regional management to executive management.
This process includes an internal control questionnaire which is completed for all business units and reviewed by regional management.
The questionnaire is tailored by region to reflect the potential risks The board and its committees have formal terms of reference setting out their authorities and duties.
and the control environment of the region and each region has appointed a business risk champion to challenge, validate and collate the All board members have access to the advice and services of the general counsel & company secretary and, in accordance with agreed responses into regionally owned reports.
These self-assessment tools provide for successive assurances at increasingly higher levels procedures, are also able to obtain independent professional advice as required at the companys expense.
of management and, finally, to the board.
On appointment, new directors are invited to participate in an external professional programme for directors and offered other The process and the supporting documentation are reviewed by the internal auditors for completeness, accuracy and compliance with appropriate training.
Planned corrective actions, where applicable, are independently monitored for timely completion.
All of the non-executive directors bring a wide range of experience to the board and participate fully in decisions on key issues facing the Through these mechanisms, risk assessment and internal control have been embedded in ongoing operations.
All non-executive directors are considered by the board to be independent of management and free from any business or other is continually monitored, risks identified in a timely manner, their financial implications assessed, control procedures re-evaluated and relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
corrective actions agreed and implemented.
The board generally meets at least six times a year focusing on strategic issues and financial performance.
The board has a formal schedule Relations with shareholders of matters reserved to it for decision and decisions are communicated widely throughout the Allied Domecq group of companies.
Included The board believes it is important to respond adequately to all the queries of both institutional and private shareholders.
At the AGM within this formal schedule of matters is responsibility for the groups risk management strategy.
All board members are provided with shareholders are offered an opportunity to raise with the board and the respective committee chairmen any specific questions they have sufficient information on a timely basis in order to ensure their ability to discharge their duties.
In addition, meetings are also held between individual directors and institutional shareholders at various times during The board of Allied Domecq Spirits & Wine Limited and the Quick Service Restaurants executive generally meet at least monthly.
At the AGM the company indicates the number of proxy votes lodged on each resolution and the notices covering each AGM are groups, together with the executive committee of the board, formulate strategy and oversee day-to-day operations of the group, approve sent to the shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
projects within capital expenditure limits delegated by the main board, and lead the management development process.
Going concern The board has established a number of committees, each of which has formal terms of reference.
Membership of board committees is shown After making enquiries, the directors, at the time of approving the financial statements, have determined that there is reasonable expectation on page 27. that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors have The board has not established a separate nomination committee.
However, the duties normally undertaken by such committee have been adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
delegated to the remuneration committee.
Compliance with combined code The remuneration committee is comprised of five non-executive directors responsible for determining the remuneration policy and the terms The company was in compliance throughout the financial year with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code except and conditions of service of the executive directors.
It also reviews external appointments offered to executive directors.
The committee that executive directors are engaged on employment contracts subject to 24 months written notice given by either party.
It is not currently generally meets at least three times per year.
Committee members are not eligible for any share options, bonuses or pension entitlements.
proposed that the notice period for existing executive directors should be reduced.
The remuneration committee reviewed this policy in 2000 The committee has access to the services of independent advisers as required.
and decided in principle that the companys future policy would be for new executive directors to be subject to service agreements requiring The audit committee monitors and reviews the system of financial and operational controls of the group.
It also considers the groups not more than 12 months notice given by either party.
If it is necessary to offer longer notice or contract periods to new executive directors compliance with the Combined Code and oversees the objectivity and effectiveness of the auditors.
The committee is comprised of five recruited externally, such periods will reduce to 12 months after the initial period.
No new executive directors have been appointed since non-executive directors.
The committee can request the external auditors, executive directors and any other officers of the group to attend the policy was reviewed.
Additionally, the groups internal and external auditors have direct access to the committee to raise any matters of concern.
Our auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has reviewed the directors statement on the companys compliance to the extent required by the Listing Rules The committee is required to meet at least twice each year and met three times during the financial year ended 31 August 2002.
The and its report appears on page 38. committee receives periodic reports summarising audit issues noted and corrective actions planned and reports from the internal audit function, the external auditors and management.
It also reviews the provision of non-audit services to the group by the external auditors and, during the financial year, considered the groups disclosures related to its listing on the New York Stock Exchange.
The responsibilities of the audit committee are currently being reviewed as part of the companys overall review of the implications of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 enacted by US Congress on 30 July 2002.
30 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 31 Directors reports Remuneration report Benefits The company was in compliance throughout the financial year with the code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code appended Details of benefits are given on page 35.
The term benefits includes the provision of a car and fuel or car allowance, private health, life to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, except that executive directors are engaged on employment contracts subject to and other insurances and allowances in lieu of pension contributions if applicable.
24 months written notice given by either party.
It is not currently proposed that the notice period for existing executive directors should be reduced.
The remuneration committee reviewed this policy in 2000 and decided in principle that the companys future policy would be for Performance-related bonuses new executive directors to be subject to service agreements requiring not more than 12 months notice given by either party.
If it is necessary The company operated a deferred bonus plan in the year to 31 August 2002 for directors and certain senior executives.
Bonuses for the year to offer longer notice or contract periods to new executive directors recruited externally, such periods will reduce to 12 months after the initial under review were based on earnings per share growth and completion of key management objectives.
The bonuses paid are shown in the period.
No new executive directors have been appointed since the policy was reviewed.
Throughout the year under review, the company has complied with, and given full consideration to, Schedules A and B of the best practice Under the deferred bonus plan for the year to 31 August 2002, the bonus payable to participants was the equivalent of 14% of their annual provisions annexed to the Combined Code.
basic salary for every 1% of real growth in the companys earnings per share.
The maximum bonus receivable based on earnings per share growth was 70% of basic salary.
An additional discretionary bonus of up to 10% of salary is available under the plan on the achievement The role of the remuneration committee of certain key management objectives.
The remuneration committees role is to establish terms of employment and remuneration packages for each executive director.
It seeks Under the deferred bonus plan 25% of the award will be automatically deferred into Allied Domecq PLC shares.
It will be matched one for one to encourage the enhancement of the companys performance and to ensure that directors are fairly, and responsibly, rewarded for their by the company after three years, subject to the executive remaining an employee of the company.
Up to an additional 25% of the award may individual contributions.
The remuneration committee consults with the chief executive, who may be invited to attend its meetings, be voluntarily deferred for three years into shares, with the company again providing a matching investment on the same terms.
and it takes advice from external sources in order to determine and develop its policies.
Performance targets and key management objectives are set by the remuneration committee annually.
The remuneration committee keeps remuneration under regular review and as part of this process makes reference to a group of approximately 20 international companies as a standard of comparison.
Long term remuneration The constituent companies of the comparator group are of a size and complexity relevant to that of Allied Domecq.
They include both direct Allied Domecq currently has a number of long term remuneration vehicles in place in order to incentivise participants to promote the long competitors and other businesses that trade on a worldwide basis.
The company competes with this group when recruiting and retaining term success of the business.
Executive directors are currently eligible for discretionary grants of share options under an approved and an executives.
The comparator group is amended as appropriate when considering remuneration in the context of different markets.
unapproved executive share option scheme and awards under the long term incentive scheme.
The remuneration committee determines under which scheme eligible participants may be granted awards, and may, at its discretion make simultaneous awards under more than one The remuneration committee also keeps under regular review the companys policies for senior management remuneration and development.
The remuneration committee makes these awards with reference to business strategy, the role and responsibility of the individual and the total expected value of the awards and, following external consultation, relevant market practice.
Remuneration committee composition and remuneration The remuneration committee is comprised exclusively of independent non-executive directors and its members are: Share options The company operates the following option schemes, in order to incentivise participants to promote the long term success of the business: A D Malpas chairman D H Brydon a SAYE Scheme 1999 This scheme is based on a three or five year savings contract and is open to all UK employees.
Options are granted Sir Ross Buckland at an exercise price of not less than 80% of the market value.
The scheme is being replaced by the Share Partnership Plan described on P A Jacobs page 34.
G J Robinson b International SAYE Scheme 1999 This scheme is based on an 18 month, three year or five year savings contract and is open to all No member of the remuneration committee has any personal financial interest, other than as a shareholder, in the matters to be decided, employees in certain jurisdictions.
Options are granted at an exercise price of not less than 80% of the market value.
and no day-to-day involvement in running the companys business.
Remuneration committee members are paid fees as non-executive c Inland Revenue Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 1999 Discretionary options up to a value of 30,000 per participant may be directors but do not receive any share options, bonuses or pension entitlements.
granted at an exercise price not less than market value and under normal circumstances remain exercisable between the third and tenth The remuneration of each of the non-executive directors is determined by the board as a whole within the overall limits set by the articles anniversaries of the date of grant.
Non-executive directors do not participate in or vote on any discussion relating to their own remuneration.
d Executive Share Option Scheme 1999 Discretionary options are granted at an exercise price not less than market value and under normal circumstances remain exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant though shorter life options may Remuneration policy be granted.
The board is seeking shareholder approval of a new US schedule to this scheme under which options may be granted to Allied Domecq PLC is in the FTSE 100 index and operates on a global scale.
US executives that may qualify as Incentive Stock Options for the purposes of Section 422 of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986 In order to attract and retain management with the appropriate skills to provide shareholder value for the future, the group aims to ensure that as amended, and qualify for favourable tax treatment.
its pay and benefit practices are competitive, that they motivate employees at all levels and that they recognise and reward high standards e Share Appreciation Rights Plan 1999 This alternative to a share option plan is operated in countries where securities or tax laws prevent of performance.
or restrict the use of the executive share option schemes.
Discretionary SARs are granted at an exercise price not less than market value All variable remuneration for all senior executives is determined by the achievement of specific performance objectives.
The long term and under normal circumstances remain exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant though shorter life incentives are aimed at aligning executive interests with those of shareholders.
Full details of the remuneration packages of the directors are given on page 35.
The interests of each director in the share capital of the The remuneration committee sets performance conditions for executive directors participation in the discretionary option schemes.
For 1999 company including share options are shown on pages 36 and 37. and 2000 grants, options will only become exercisable if the Total Shareholder Return change in value of the shares plus gross dividends paid, treated as re-invested on Allied Domecq shares equals or exceeds that of the median Total Shareholder Return achieved by the Base salary constituents of the FTSE 100 Index over any consecutive three year period between the dates of grant and exercise.
Following the 2001 AGM, In determining the directors remuneration, the remuneration committee takes into consideration the pay levels in the comparator group, however, the underpinning performance conditions of the schemes have been linked to sustainable earnings growth measured over three the responsibility involved in a particular job and the performance of an individual director.
If the performance condition is not satisfied it may be proportionately increased over extended periods of four and five years.
If the performance condition is not satisfied after five years the option will lapse.
Where larger grants are made, and where appropriate, it is the intention of the remuneration committee to attach supplemental performance conditions to such awards.
There were no option grants made to executive directors in the year under review.
32 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 33 Directors reports Remuneration report continued Directors remuneration and interests Long Term Incentive Scheme Remuneration Awards under the long term incentive scheme are made through the grant of options at a nominal cost, which will vest subject to performance The remuneration of the directors for the years to 31 August 2002 and 2001 was as follows: conditions set by the remuneration committee at award.
Year to Year to 31 August 31 August Awards made to executive directors during the year ended 31 August 2002 will vest subject to Total Shareholder Return performance over a 2002 2001 three year period relative to a comparator group of companies.
Total Shareholder Return performance at the median of the comparator group 000 000 will vest 40% of an award, increasing on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting for performance at upper quartile or above.
For performance Salaries and benefits 2,148 2,253 below the median level awards will not vest.
In addition, awards will only vest if the remuneration committee is satisfied that underlying financial Performance-related bonuses 1,869 2,047 performance is satisfactory.
Fees to non-executive directors 342 337 The comparator group for the long term incentive scheme is set for each award by the remuneration committee.
For the awards made during Compensation for loss of office 1,991 the year ended 31 August 2002 a group of 13 UK-based companies including Allied Domecq have been identified from the food, drink and The amount in respect of compensation for loss of office during the year ended 31 August 2002 includes an additional agreed amount of 1,266,000 over and above the 1,020,000 tobacco industry: accrued in respect of A J Hales during the year ended 31 August 1999.
1,096,000 of the total amount in respect of A J Hales relates to the cost of increasing his annual pension Associated British Foods Imperial Tobacco entitlement and the remainder relates to salary, benefits and other costs.
Also included within compensation for loss of office is an agreed amount of 724,925 in respect of T D Martin being 25 months salary plus amounts in respect of pension allowance and unused vacation.
Six Continents Scottish & Newcastle British American Tobacco SAB Miller formerly South African Breweries Cadbury Schweppes Tate & Lyle Performance-related Diageo Unilever Basic salary fees Benefits bonuses Total emoluments Gallaher Group Whitbread Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 Aug 31 Aug 31 Aug 31 Aug 31 Aug 31 Aug 31 Aug 31 Aug Share Partnership Plan 2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001 This plan is an Inland Revenue approved share incentive plan, which has been initially introduced in the UK as a replacement for the SAYE Note 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Scheme 1999.
Eligible employees are invited to purchase shares on a monthly basis from gross pay and the company matches the Executive directors: employees investments on a one for four basis.
P Bowman 1,7 610 576 279 262 738 720 1,627 1,558 G C Hetherington 2,7 298 275 83 19 366 342 747 636 Service agreements Philip Bowman, Graham Hetherington, David Scotland and Richard Turner have service agreements requiring not less than 24 months notice T D Martin resigned 30 November 2001 3 80 322 63 163 75 382 218 867 of termination to be given by either party.
D Scotland 4,7 330 326 96 24 333 323 759 673 It was the policy for the company to appoint executive directors subject to a service agreement requiring not less than 24 months notice R G Turner 5,7 288 273 21 13 357 280 666 566 given by either party.
The remuneration committee reviewed this policy in 2000 and decided in principle that the companys future policy would be for new executive directors to be subject to service agreements requiring not more than 12 months notice given by either party.
Non-executive directors: If it is necessary to offer longer notice or contract periods to new executive directors recruited externally, such periods will reduce to 12 D H Brydon 6 43 43 43 43 months after the initial period.
The remuneration committee does not currently feel it appropriate that the notice period for the existing Sir Ross Buckland 28 28 28 28 executive directors should be reduced.
Sir Christopher Hogg retired 31 March 2002 117 200 117 200 It is the policy of the company to appoint non-executive directors for an initial period of three years renewable for a further period of three P A Jacobs 33 33 33 33 years.
The board has to ratify any further period of appointment after this six year period.
These appointments are subject to election and A D Malpas 33 33 33 33 re-election at the relevant AGM.
G J Robinson appointed 1 February 2002 88 88 Gerry Robinson has a letter of appointment as non-executive chairman which requires not less than 12 months notice of termination to be Notes given by either party.
P Bowmans benefits include a 256,200 2001: 240,800 allowance in lieu of pension contributions.
Donald Brydon, Sir Ross Buckland, Peter Jacobs and David Malpas do not have service agreements with the company.
G C Hetheringtons benefits include a 60,663 2001: nil allowance in lieu of pension contributions plus advisers costs related to the lump sum payment in lieu of unfunded pension benefits described on page 36.
T D Martins benefits include a 19,266 2001: 78,125 allowance in lieu of pension contributions and 33,414 2001: 53,793 accommodation costs.
Additionally, his benefits External appointments include a product sample allowance taxable under US law.
The remuneration committee also considers invitations to executive directors to serve as non-executive directors of other leading companies.
D Scotlands benefits include a 70,263 2001: nil allowance in lieu of pension contributions plus advisers costs related to the lump sum payment in lieu of unfunded pension The company encourages its directors to take up such positions subject to them being conducive to personal development, the time benefits described on page 36. spent being reasonable and there being no potential conflict of interest.
The policy relating to fees is that generally they may be retained by 5.
R G Turners benefits include a telephone rental allowance and spouse travel costs related to the period he was temporarily based in North America.
Additionally, it was agreed the director.
that Mr Turner would be paid a special bonus of 50,000 in recognition of his performance as interim President of Allied Domecq Spirits & Wine North America and this is included in the bonus above for the year to 31 August 2002.
In addition, he is chairman of the Allied Domecq pensions trusts for which he receives a fee of 15,000 per annum.
The performance-related bonus figures shown above for the current executive directors include the deferred and matching elements of the bonus which are shown below and Philip Bowman does not participate in any company sponsored pension plans.
will be used to purchase shares in the company.
These shares will be released to the employee after three years and the matching shares will be conditional, except under Other executive directors participate in non-contributory pension schemes which provide pensions of up to two thirds of their pensionable exceptional circumstances, on continued employment with the group.
salaries at normal retirement age of 60.
The actual proportion depends on length of service.
They are also eligible for dependants pensions Deferred Matching and lump sum payments on death.
amount investment Total P Bowman 246,000 246,000 492,000 Benefits from the Allied Domecq Executives Pension Fund in respect of Graham Hetherington and David Scotland are limited to the Inland G C Hetherington 122,000 122,000 244,000 Revenue Earnings Cap as they joined the Fund since 1 June 1989.
Death benefits in excess of those provided by the Fund are provided D Scotland 66,600 66,600 133,200 by insurance policies taken out by the Company.
R G Turner 61,400 61,400 122,800 Directors pension entitlements are shown on page 36.
34 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 35 Directors reports Pension entitlements Deferred bonus plan awards The pension entitlements of the directors were as follows: As at 31 August 2002 the executive directors were interested in the following shares pursuant to matching awards made under the companys deferred bonus plan: Accrued pension Increase in Transfer value of at 31 August 2001 Accrued pension accrued pension increase in Accumulated accrued At 31 August At 31 August before settlement at 31 August 2001 during the year accrued pension pension entitlement 2002 2001 see note 1 after settlement excluding inflation increase during the year at 31 August 2002 Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Release date 000 pa 000 pa 000 pa 000 pa 000 pa P Bowman 24,276 24,276 01.09.03 G C Hetherington 83 29 3 25 33 67,873 01.09.04 D Scotland 95 28 3 41 32 G C Hetherington 23,343 23,343 01.09.03 R G Turner 188 188 4 53 196 32,239 01.09.04 Notes D Scotland 14,472 14,472 01.09.03 1.
An agreement was reached with G C Hetherington and D Scotland whereby each agreed to give up their rights to the unfunded portion of their pension benefits, in respect of both past and future service, in exchange for a lump sum of 1,151,000 and 1,479,600 respectively.
The decrease in accrued pension as at 31 August 2001 shown above reflects 18,267 01.09.04 the change in pension accrued to date as a result of this agreement.
The pension entitlement shown above is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year.
The increase in accrued pension during the year excludes any increase for inflation.
The transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
No contractual contributions were due to have been Total 220,583 86,367 paid by directors during the period.
Members of the Allied Domecq Executives Pension Fund have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions to secure additional pension benefits.
Neither the contributions Share options and long term incentive awards nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table.
c 138,691 138,691 0.1p 02.11.04 01.11.11 Total 470,362 138,691 609,053 At 31 August 2002 the Allied Domecq employee trusts held 24,514,993 2001: 17,221,999 unallocated ordinary shares in the company on discretionary terms for the benefit of certain group employees.
The executive directors were treated as interested in these shares in their capacity as potential beneficiaries.
b 304,093 304,093 342p 01.11.02 31.10.09 The above table includes interests in bonus shares awarded under the companys deferred bonus plan and partnership shares purchased pursuant to the companys share c 102,941 102,941 0.1p 08.05.04 07.05.11 partnership plan and associated matching shares.
The directors beneficially own such shares, however certain of these shares are forfeitable in specific circumstances.
The table excludes interests in matching shares under the companys deferred bonus plan and interests in the companys share option and long term incentive schemes disclosed on page 37. c 119,487 119,487 0.1p 02.11.04 01.11.11 R G Turner purchased a further 213 shares and P Bowman purchased a further 77 shares between 1 September 2002 and 28 October 2002.
No director had a non-beneficial interest Total 410,731 119,487 530,218 in shares or stocks of the company at any time either during the year ended 31 August 2002 or between 1 September 2002 and 28 October 2002.
Notes a SAYE Scheme 1999. b Executive Share Option Scheme 1999. c Long Term Incentive Scheme 1999.
The aggregate value of gain made on the exercise of share options by all directors during the year was nil.
The middle market price of the ordinary shares at 31 August 2002 was 409p and the range during the year to 31 August 2002 was 325p to 468p.
36 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 37 Independent auditors report to the members of Allied Domecq PLC Accounting policies Year to 31 August 2002 We have audited the accounts on pages 39 to 66.
Basis of accounting The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention and comply with accounting policies generally accepted in the United Kingdom Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors UK GAAP.
The accounts adopt Financial Reporting Standard FRS 17 Retirement Benefits in line with the transitional timetable laid down The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report.
As described on page 27 this includes responsibility for preparing the accounts by the standard.
FRS 19 Deferred Tax has been adopted in full and required a restatement of prior year results as described in note 23. in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in Pages 69 to 72 describes the significant differences between UK GAAP and US generally accepted accounting principles US GAAP the UK by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
and presents a reconciliation of net income and shareholders equity from UK GAAP to US GAAP as a result of such differences.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the accounts, if the company has not kept proper Basis of consolidation accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or Allied Domecq PLC the group or company accounts consolidate the accounts of the company and its interests in subsidiary undertakings.
the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
Interests in associated undertakings are included using the equity method of accounting.
The results of businesses acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated for the period from, or up to, the date control passes.
We review whether the statement on pages 30 and 31 reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on Acquisitions internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk On the acquisition of a business, or an interest in an associate, fair values, reflecting conditions at the date of the acquisition, are attributed and control procedures.
to the net assets acquired.
Adjustments are also made to bring accounting policies in line with those of the group.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or Intangible fixed assets material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions of a business since 1 September 1998 is capitalised and amortised by equal instalments over its anticipated useful life, but not exceeding 20 years.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 September 1998 was charged directly to reserves.
On Basis of audit opinion disposal of a business, any attributable goodwill previously eliminated against reserves is included in the calculation of any gain or loss.
Other We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on purchased intangible assets are capitalised and amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line basis.
Where intangible assets, a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates such as brands, are regarded as having indefinite useful economic lives, they are not amortised but are subject to annual impairment reviews.
and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are capitalised at cost.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of assets by equal We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide instalments over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: Land and buildings the shorter of 50 years or the length of the lease: us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or distilling, maturing and storage equipment 20 to 30 years: other plant and equipment and fixtures and fittings 5 to 10 years: and computer other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Opinion Fixed asset investments In our opinion the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at 31 August 2002 and of the profit Fixed asset investments are stated at cost, less provision for any permanent diminution in value.
of the group for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc Turnover Chartered Accountants Turnover represents sales to external customers including excise duties but excluding sales taxes and franchise income.
Registered Auditor Stocks London 28 October 2002 Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises purchase price or direct production cost, together with duties and manufacturing overheads.
The cost of spirits and wine stocks is determined by the weighted average cost method.
Stocks are included in current assets, although a portion of such stocks may be held for periods longer than one year.
Deferred tax Full provision is made for deferred tax assets and liabilities arising from timing differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
Financial instruments The group uses financial derivative instruments to manage exposures to movements in interest and exchange rates.
Transactions involving financial instruments are accounted for as follows: i Gains or losses arising on forward exchange contracts are taken to the profit and loss account in the same period as the underlying transaction.
Premiums paid or received on foreign currency options are taken to the profit and loss account when the option expires or matures.
ii Net interest arising on interest rate agreements is taken to the profit and loss account over the life of the agreement.
iii Gains and losses on foreign currency debt and foreign exchange contracts held for the purposes of hedging balance sheet translation exposures are taken to reserves.
Foreign currencies Monetary assets and liabilities arising from transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the date of transaction.
Subsequent movements in exchange rates are included in the group profit and loss account.
The results of undertakings outside the UK are translated at weighted average exchange rates each month.
The closing balance sheets of undertakings outside the UK are translated at year end rates.
Exchange rate differences arising from the translation of foreign currency denominated balance sheets to closing rates are dealt with through reserves.
Pension and post employment benefits Pension and post retirement medical benefit costs are charged to the profit and loss account on a systematic basis over the service life of employees, with the advice of actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.
38 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 39 Group profit and loss account Group balance sheet Year to 31 August 2002 At 31 August 2002 Year to 31 August 2002 Year to 31 August 2001 restated Before Before goodwill Goodwill goodwill Goodwill and and and and 31 August 31 August exceptional exceptional exceptional exceptional 2002 2001 items items Total items items Total restated Note m m m m m m Note m m Continuing activities 3,184 3,184 2,879 2,879 Fixed assets Acquired activities 150 150 Intangible assets 12 1,316 618 Tangible assets 13 877 767 Turnover 1 3,334 3,334 2,879 2,879 Investments and loans 14 126 87 Operating costs goodwill amortisation 6 38 38 12 12 Associated undertakings 15 71 75 Mexican excise rebate 6 213 213 47 47 other 6 2,739 84 2,823 2,358 9 2,367 Total fixed assets 2,390 1,547 Current assets Continuing activities 567 125 692 521 26 547 Stocks 16 1,302 1,203 Acquired activities 28 34 6 Debtors due within one year 17 736 689 Debtors due after more than one year 17 332 316 Operating profit from continuing operations 595 91 686 521 26 547 Cash at bank and in hand 169 111 Share of profits of associated undertakings 15 15 15 22 22 Total current assets 2,539 2,319 Trading profit 1 610 91 701 543 26 569 Creditors due within one year Profit on sale of businesses 7 6 6 Short term borrowings 20 971 770 Profit on ordinary activities before finance charges 610 91 701 543 32 575 Other creditors 18 1,022 1,189 Finance charges 8 130 130 90 90 Total current liabilities 1,993 1,959 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 480 91 571 453 32 485 Net current assets 546 360 Taxation 9 120 46 166 113 15 128 Total assets less current liabilities 2,936 1,907 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 360 45 405 340 17 357 Creditors due after more than one year Minority interests equity and non-equity 24 13 13 13 13 Loan capital 20 1,776 1,195 Profit earned for ordinary shareholders for the year 23 347 45 392 327 17 344 Other creditors 18 90 48 Ordinary dividends 11 141 127 Total creditors due after more than one year 1,866 1,243 Retained profit 251 217 Provisions for liabilities and charges 19 284 255 Earnings per ordinary share: Net assets 786 409 basic 10 36.8p 32.6p Capital and reserves diluted 10 36.7p 32.6p Called up share capital 22 277 267 normalised 10 32.6p 31.0p Share premium account 23 165 26 Merger reserve 23 823 823 Profit and loss account 23 1,087 871 Shareholders funds equity 706 341 Minority interests equity and non-equity 24 80 68 786 409 Approved by the board on 28 October 2002 and signed on its behalf by: Gerry Robinson, Graham Hetherington, Chairman Director 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 41 Group cash flow information Group statement of total recognised gains and losses Year to 31 August 2002 Year to 31 August 2002 Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 August 31 August 31 August 31 August 2002 2001 2002 2001 Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities Note m m Note m m Operating profit 686 547 Profit earned for ordinary shareholders for the year 392 344 Goodwill amortisation 38 12 Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments 23 18 Exceptional operating costs 64 9 Deferred taxation origination and reversal of timing differences 12 2 Depreciation 75 56 Total recognised gains and losses for the year 357 328 Increase in stocks 94 72 Prior year adjustment 23 53 Increase in debtors 22 55 Total recognised gains and losses recognised since last Annual Report 304 328 Increase decrease in creditors 71 43 The statement of recognised gains and losses for the year ended 31 August 2002 has been restated for the adoption of FRS 19 Deferred Tax Expenditure against provisions for reorganisation and restructuring costs 36 34 note 23.
Other items 22 3 Net cash inflow from operating activities 760 423 Group cash flow statement Net cash inflow from operating activities 760 423 Group note of historical cost profits and losses Dividends received from associated undertakings 11 9 Year to 31 August 2002 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 26 133 76 Taxation paid 26 178 34 There is no difference between the profit earned for ordinary shareholders as disclosed in the profit and loss account and the profit stated on an historical cost basis.
Capital expenditure and financial investment 26 712 118 Acquisitions and disposals 26 586 635 Equity dividends paid 133 163 Cash outflow before use of liquid resources and financing 971 594 Management of liquid resources 21 6 Group reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds Financing 26 798 488 Year to 31 August 2002 Decrease in cash in the year 194 112 Year to Year to 31 August 31 August Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2002 2001 restated Decrease in cash in the year 194 112 Note m m Increase in liquid resources 21 6 Shareholders funds at the beginning of the year 341 190 Increase in loan capital 649 488 Total recognised gains and losses for the year 357 328 Movement in net debt resulting from cash flows 822 594 Prior year adjustment 23 53 Exchange adjustments 98 8 Ordinary dividends 141 127 Movement in net debt during the year 724 602 Ordinary share capital issued net of costs 149 Opening net debt 1,854 1,252 Goodwill written back on disposals 3 Closing net debt 28 2,578 1,854 Net movement in shareholders funds 365 151 Shareholders funds at the end of the year 706 341 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 43
