Financial Review The rate of conversion of operating profit to operating cash flow was a highly commendable 123%.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT In a difficult trading environment turnover on continuing operations was marginally ahead of last year with the operating margin in the Group declining during the period to 10.1%, a movement largely attributable to changes in the business mix within divisions.
In particular, the increase in the proportion of temporary placements in Hays Personnel reduced the reported margin in the division from 13.5% to 11.4%.
Underlying margins in Hays Personnel remained unchanged.
The reduced margin resulted in profit from continuing operations before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items being 14% lower at 246.0 million.
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items were 15% lower at 9.40p.
Segmental reporting of the Group profit and loss account has been enhanced this year to provide investors with greater clarity.
As a consequence the results of Hays Mail and Express have been disclosed separately.
Group companies maintained their excellent record of minimising exposure to corporate failures, with no significant bad debts recorded in the period.
This is indicative of the quality of the Groups client base and tight credit control.
DISPOSAL OF NON-CORE OPERATIONS The Group has continued to focus its operations by disposing of non-core businesses.
As well as the chemicals activities, the Group disposed of its retail installations, clinical and French co-manufacturing activities.
After writing off most of the associated goodwill last year, the overall loss on disposal was restricted to 0.1million.
Net cash proceeds from disposals during the year totalled 52.8 million and a further 46.7 million from the disposal of the chemicals activities remains due in the form of loan notes.
OPERATING EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS The Group incurred costs and damages of 6.4 million in settling the claim from Royal Mail that its fide facto monopoly for letters weighing less than 350 grams and costing less than 1.00 was being infringed.
The settlement will enable Hays Mail and Express to focus on pursuing the opportunities that arise from deregulation.
Demand for IT consulting services reduced significantly over the last year, which brought into question the carrying value of goodwill and other assets in the Hays Consulting & Solutions business.
The business retains the capabilities that enable it to provide an integrated service offering, but we do not expect strong demand to return quickly to the IT sector in general.
A prudent approach is therefore being taken to the capitalisation of goodwill in relation to this business resulting in an exceptional charge of 53.0 million, the majority of which is non-cash and relates to the write down of goodwill.
The net cash outflow in relation to this item during the year was 0.3 million.
INTEREST Net interest payable in the year reduced from 26.3 million to 19.2 million, primarily due to strong working capital controls, the generation of cash from operations, cash inflows from disposals and some benefits from improvements in underlying interest rates.
As the majority of our long-term debt is at fixed interest rates, the impact of lower interest rates during the year was on our short-term borrowings.
TAXATION The Group adopted FRS 19 Deferred tax during the year, requiring us to account for deferred tax on a full provision basis.
Tax on profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items of 71.6 million represents an effective tax rate on ordinary activities of 30.9%.
This is consistent with the cash tax rate and the expected composite rate across the various countries in which we operate.
PENSIONS The Group accounted for pension costs during the year under SSAP 24, but has also made the detailed disclosures required in the second year of the transitional arrangements under FRS 17.
These disclosures show a net FRS 17 deficit after deferred tax of 67.3 million.
The deficit has arisen mainly as a result of turbulence in the stock market and low interest rates, combined with a prudent view of the likely growth in employee salaries.
The deficit is expected to reduce as market conditions improve and the Group will consider the appropriate funding rate after updating the actuarial valuation.
The resultant increase in pension contributions could be 2 million to 3 million per annum.
The defined benefit Hays Pension Scheme was closed to new members on 1 July 2001.
Employees are now invited to participate in the Hays Stakeholder Pension Plan which is a money purchase scheme with broadly similar employer contributions.
Hays plc 22 CASH FLOW AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURE Strong working capital controls, particularly over trade receivables, contributed to cash flow from operating activities of 303.8 million, with cash generation before investing activities of 141.9 million 2001 127.8 million.
The rate of conversion of operating profit to operating cash flow was a highly commendable 123%.
Our strong cash generation provided us with the opportunity to invest for future growth.
In the year, total capital expenditure of 81.5 million included a further 7.0 million for sortation and other equipment in Hays Mail and Express, 9.2 million to support new crate management contracts and a 12.6 million investment in facilities and new systems for the Hays IMS business.
TREASURY MANAGEMENT Group operations continue to be financed from retained earnings, bank borrowings and long-term loans.
Where required, debt is generally raised by the Group Treasury Department and lent on to operating subsidiaries on commercial terms.
The Group Treasury Department operates as a cost centre and manages the Groups treasury exposure to reduce risk in accordance with policies approved by the Board.
The Group does not engage in speculative transactions.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are interest rate movements, liquidity, currency and counterparty risk.
Derivative contracts, currency swaps and interest rate swaps are selectively used to mitigate the Groups financial exposure.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks as summarised below.
The Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its borrowings and deposits is selectively managed, principally using interest rate swaps.
Group borrowings are primarily denominated in sterling and euros.
The Group operates a policy of fixing the interest rate on core long-term debt, whilst shorter term debt and cash are maintained at short-term interest rates.
The Group maintains a balance between continuity and flexibility of funding by arranging borrowings with a range of maturities.
The Groups primary syndicated loan facility was renewed in June 2001, to provide funding of up to 450 million for five years.
As at 30 June 2002 the Group had gross borrowings of 352.8 million, resulting in net debt of 232.0 million.
No significant new debt facilities were arranged during the year.
The Group has substantial operations overseas, particularly in Continental Europe, and its profits and net assets are all affected by movements in exchange rates.
The Group aims to mitigate its exposure arising from the translation of foreign currency by borrowing foreign currencies to match 90% of foreign currency assets.
At 30 June 2002 foreign currency borrowings represented 89% 2001 103% of the net carrying value of foreign currency assets.
Exposure to currency risk at a transactional level is minimal with most dayto-day transactions being carried out in local currency.
Counterparty risk arises from the investment of surplus funds and the use of derivative instruments.
To manage this risk, the Group restricts transactions to banks that have a defined minimum credit rating and limits the exposure to each bank.
All derivative transactions are executed under agreements conforming to standards set by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association.
The Group has complied throughout the year with borrowing covenants under all of its facilities.
INVESTMENT CRITERIA The Group adopts a disciplined approach to assessing prospective investments to ensure that commercial risks and rewards and capital efficiency are an integral part of investment appraisal.
This ensures that our management is focused on delivering returns in excess of our weighted average cost of capital.
Neil McLachlan Group Finance Director 9 September 2002 Financial Highlights from Continuing Operations 2002 2001 Turnover 2,434.4m 2,430.1m Operating Profit 246.0m 286.8m Operating net assets 556.8m 537.8m Employees average number 26,934 27,173 before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items Hays plc 23
