Interserve Plc Financial directors report Annual report 2002 22 The Chairmans statement and Review of operations provide an During the year 0.7 million has been returned to the Group in overview of the Groups results for 2002.
Other financial repayment of loan stock principal and interest.
matters of significance are referred to below: Acquisitions and Disposals Restatement of 2001 Segmental and Geographic Analysis Investment activity centred upon PFI activities referred to In line with the Interim results, the segmental analysis for 2001 above.
During the year Climate Equipment, Wests Engineering has been restated to enable clearer comparison with 2002.
Design and Tilbury Phoenix were all sold, as referred to in the The net pension credit of 4.0 million in 2001 had been Chairmans statement.
Turnover and operating profits from apportioned across the divisions: the restatement shows this these activities are included in the discontinued operations credit as a single amount compared to nil for 2002. analysis within the Profit and loss account.
The 2001 comparative analysis of discontinued operations, which During 2001 the access business, previously under the control previously related only to How Fire, sold in October 2001, and of the Equipment Services division, was transferred to the Wests Engineering Design, sold in January 2002, has been Industrial Services division and thus turnover and operating revised accordingly to take account of these further disposals.
profits from this activity were partly in Equipment Services and partly in Industrial Services.
So as to ease comparison between 2002 and 2001, the whole of the turnover and Profit and Loss Account operating profit of the access business for 2001 has now been Earnings for continuing activities before interest, taxation, included within Industrial Services.
depreciation, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items EBITDA was 67.9 million and covered net interest payable 17 times.
Application of New Accounting Standards The Group has adopted FRS 19 Deferred Tax and, in Total operating profit is net of charges for exceptional items accordance with the accounting standard, the charge against and goodwill amortisation totalling 10.7 million of which profits for 2001 and opening shareholders funds has been 9.7 million is for goodwill amortisation.
The balance relates to restated.
The effect has been to reduce the comparative costs incurred in reducing the cost base predominantly in earnings per share by 2.4p and shareholders funds at Industrial Services.
The charge for net interest reduced from 6.7 million to The transitional arrangements of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits 4.0 million.
Within this the Groups proportion of interest have been adopted and are shown in note 6b to the Report and borne within the PFI Investment companies was 1.7 million Accounts.
This is the second year of transitional disclosure and 2001: 1.7 million, net of the cost of relevant interest as well as providing balance sheet information, the disclosures capitalised during the course of the construction phase of now set out the implications to the profit and loss account as if 5.0 million 2001: 2.3 million.
the standard were to have been implemented in full in 2002.
The overall charge for taxation, calculated in accordance with UITF abstract 34 Pre-contract costs has also been FRS 19, is 12.6 million: of this 13.1 million relates to profit implemented.
This abstract has caused no appreciable impact before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation and on the results of the Group: at 31 December 2002 third party represents a tax charge of 27 per cent 2001: 30 per cent.
bidding costs carried forward relating to contracts whilst nominated as preferred bidder amounted to 2.7 million.
These costs principally related to the Peterborough prison Balance Sheet contract which achieved financial close on 14 February 2003 Shareholders funds, restated for FRS 19 as referred to above, and have subsequently been recouped.
have increased by 7.6 million to 203.6 million, principally due to retained earnings of 9.9 million.
Additionally there was a charge of 1.7 million arising from the purchase of 710,000 PFI PPP Investments shares for cancellation as reported in note 25 to the Accounts.
In the Review of operations reference is made to our 29.1 million committed investment in 13 PFI projects which had reached financial close by the year end.
Of this Net Debt and Cash Flow 14.3 million had been invested by the year end and the Net debt at the year end was 42.8 million, as reported in note balance is expected to be invested during the course of the iv of the Notes on the consolidated cash flow statement.
The share of gross liabilities of 226.3 million This compares with 62.8 million as at the end of last year.
This principally relates to the non-recourse debt within those improvement of 20.0 million includes 11.4 million from the businesses used to fund the capital building programmes and net benefit of the sales of businesses during the year as referred working capital requirement.
A further 10.7 million is to above.
A net 3.0 million was invested in PFI investments expected to be invested in respect of the three contracts which and 1.7 million for shares for cancellation during the year.
The had reached Preferred Bidder status at the year end.
net aggregate outflow in working capital, being stocks, work in progress, debtors and creditors, was 1.0 million in 2002 Interserve Plc Financial directors report continued Annual report 2002 23 2001: 16.5 million.
The average bank debt during the year Liquidity risk was 82.1 million, a reduction of 10.0 million from the It is Group policy to ensure that there are sufficient committed average 92.1 million during 2001. facilities to fund a minimum of 120 per cent of the Groups forecast borrowing requirements for at least the next 12 months.
At the year end, the Group had sufficient facilities Pensions to cover this policy requirement having committed facilities of The principal pension scheme up until October 2002 was the 132 million principally comprising a five-year revolving loan Interserve Pension Scheme the Scheme, which offered agreement with a final maturity date in July 2004, of which defined benefits for eligible employees across the Interserve 96.5 million was undrawn at year end.
The Group is presently Group.
From November 2002 the defined benefits section of the involved in discussions to replace that facility.
Short-term Scheme was closed to all but a very few new entrants and flexibility is achieved by overdraft facilities.
those employees who, under agreement, TUPE transfer to the Group from the public sector.
From the same date a defined contribution section was established for all new eligible Foreign currency risk employees.
As a result of the strength of the equity market The Group has a number of overseas subsidiaries whose over many years the employer has benefited from a revenues and expenses are denominated principally in local contribution holiday.
The defined benefits section of the currencies.
Given the geographic diversity of these overseas Scheme continues to be substantially invested in equities subsidiaries and the cost of taking an alternative approach, it is because of their anticipated higher returns in the long term.
Group policy not to seek to protect the Groups balance sheet During 2003 a full actuarial valuation of the Scheme will be or profit and loss account from a sterling appreciation against carried out and, dependent upon the outcome of that report, these currencies unless the sterling value of overseas earnings employers contributions are likely to resume.
or banking covenants is felt to be seriously at risk.
Limited hedging of overseas investments is made on a regular basis.
Exchange Rates It is Group policy that all material foreign currency trading In preparing the accounts, profits and losses from overseas exposures are fully hedged and that expected foreign currency activities are translated at the average exchange rates applying dividend receipts for the next 12 months are selectively during the year.
The balance sheet is translated at year-end hedged.
Hedging may be effected by buying or selling foreign exchange rates.
The Groups policy concerning foreign currency currencies, either spot or forward, or by buying foreign risk is set out below.
The impact of fluctuations in exchange currency options.
There were no material trading exposures rates during the course of the year, compared with 2001, did that were unhedged at year end and no hedging of expected not have a significant effect upon the reported results.
dividends to be paid during 2003 has been carried out.
Treasury The Group operates policies approved by the Board to reduce financial risks to within acceptable parameters, to ensure that sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to control the use of financial instruments used to manage the Groups risk.
The Group does not undertake any trading activity in financial instruments and restricts the depositing of surplus funds to banks that are strongly rated.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk.
The policies for managing each of these risks are summarised below and further detail is given in note 23 to the Accounts.
Interest rate risk The Groups borrowings are predominantly in sterling at floating rates of interest.
It is Group policy to ensure that, on a rolling six-monthly basis between 50 and 80 per cent of expected net debt levels over the following two years should be either fixed or capped through the use of interest rate swaps or caps.
The Financial Director must approve levels of cover outside these parameters.
During the course of 2002 rates have been left uncapped given the general expectations for UK and global interest rates.
New interest rate swaps or caps will be considered during the current year in accordance with Group objectives.
