Giles Kerr Finance Director Financial review 2002 has proved to be both a challenging and exciting year for Operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill Amersham.
We have again shown our resilience to the difficult amortisation was 310 million, seven per cent higher than last economic conditions, posting a solid set of results with good sales year.
Following a number of years of significant increases growth and double digit growth in earnings per share.
Amersham in R&D investment, we have reduced our R&D expenditure Health and the protein separations business area in Amersham growth to six per cent to match more closely the general Biosciences have again delivered strong performance.
This continued investment in R&D reflects our strong commitment to the development of the In March 2002 we purchased Pharmacia Corps 45 per cent product portfolio.
In Amersham Health there have been new shareholding in Amersham Biosciences for 704 million, taking initiatives in life cycle projects, partnerships and in-licensing, Amershams ownership of the business to 100 per cent.
This as well as internal research and development.
In Amersham represents a significant development for Amersham and Biosciences, the rate of growth in R&D was lowered to three completes the merger process started in 1997.
For the first per cent following significant investment in discovery systems time we have the opportunity to share fully our managerial over the last three years.
The total operating profit before skills and technical competence across the whole of Amersham.
R&D costs, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation was The purchase was financed by the proceeds of an issuance of 494 million, also up by seven per cent from last year.
57.5 million new shares, which generated 397 million, together with existing cash resources and drawings under our Interest costs have been reduced this year as the net debt has committed bank facilities.
The transaction has had a small been held in currencies with lower interest rates.
We have also accretive impact on earnings in the year.
taken a charge of 2.4 million against the carrying value of listed investments following a reduction in their market value Following the purchase of Pharmacia Corps 45 per cent stake during the year.
We hold a small number of equity positions in Amersham Biosciences our net debt is 182 million at in companies with which we have collaboration agreements, 31 December 2002, up from 25 million last year end, but with the total value of our listed trade investments standing down from the 259 million reported at 30 June 2002. at 6 million at the year end.
We continue to assess the performance of the business on a Profit before tax was 300 million before exceptional items like for like basis with the impact of exceptional items, goodwill and goodwill amortisation, up from 279 million in 2001. amortisation, foreign exchange and disposed businesses removed.
The impact of foreign exchange, after hedging, in the year was neutral when compared to 2001.
Profit before tax including Results overview exceptional items and goodwill amortisation was 264 million, Sales during 2002 were 1,618 million, up seven per cent at down from 314 million in 2001.
Goodwill amortisation constant exchange rates, excluding the impact of disposed increased by 25 million in 2002 and in 2001 there were businesses.
The sales growth was broadly distributed across both net exceptional credits of 47 million.
businesses, with Amersham Health up eight per cent on last year and Amersham Biosciences up by six per cent.
Our businesses In 2002 we have recognised as an exceptional item a deferred continue to benefit from the geographical breadth and robustness tax asset of 9.2 million, relating to the utilisation of prior of their market positions.
Within Amersham Health the patented period tax losses following the formation of a consolidated product portfolio achieved over 20 per cent growth.
Within tax group in the US.
In 2001, we realised a pre-tax exceptional Amersham Biosciences, protein separations sales grew by profit of 47 million.
Included within the 47 million is 15 per cent with sales accelerating through the year.
Sales in 55 million profit generated by the sale in September 2001 discovery systems fell by one per cent, with the challenging of our remaining 29 per cent stake in Nycomed Pharma.
conditions seen in the life sciences industry impacting in particular Exceptional operating costs incurred in 2001 totalled 9 million on instrument sales, which were down significantly on 2001, and these are analysed in note 3 to the financial statements.
whilst sales of consumables and reagents remained good.
Amersham plc 31 The groups tax rate, before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, was 31.4 per cent 35.8 per cent after goodwill amortisation.
Following the introduction of FRS 19 Deferred Taxation during 2002, the 2001 tax charge has been restated to 34.7 per cent previously 33.1 per cent.
The 3.3 per cent reduction in effective tax rate reflects the tax efficiencies derived following the purchase of the minority stake in Amersham Biosciences and the favourable settlement of a number of prior year items, which contributed approximately 1.1 per cent to the reduction.
Earnings per share were 29.9p before exceptional items and net liability, while significant, can be managed comfortably goodwill amortisation, compared with 26.6p last year restated within the liquidity of the group going forward.
Had we to reflect the impact of FRS 19 Deferred Taxation on EPS, adopted FRS 17 in 2002, then the charge would have been representing a growth of 12 per cent at actual exchange rates broadly the same as under the current accounting standard and 15 per cent at constant exchange rates.
It should also be noted that the net liability required of shares increased from 634.4 million to 684.7 million, primarily to be disclosed under FRS 17 is not necessarily the basis on as a result of the issue of shares to finance the minority stake which the funding decisions of the pension plans within the acquisition in Amersham Biosciences.
Overall, basic earnings per group are made.
In particular, the triennial valuation of the share, after exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, have companys UK plan will be made in 2003 and we expect the decreased from 33.2p as restated following the introduction of outcome of the valuation to be adopted in 2003.
Cash flows and investment activities We paid an interim dividend of 2.65p per share and the Board is 2002 2001 recommending a final dividend of 5.15p per share, bringing the m m total dividend to 7.80p for the year, an increase of ten per cent.
Cash flow from operations before This is in line with our policy of growing dividends progressively exceptional items 346 342 in line with earnings providing dividend per share cover does not Capital expenditure and investments fall below three times or exceed four times.
Given that exchange prior to disposal of Nycomed Pharma 152 106 rate fluctuations often have a significant and unpredictable Asset disposals 3 22 impact on our results, it has also been part of our policy to grow Dividends received, taxation and interest 58 54 dividends in line with the underlying growth rate in earnings Free cash flow 139 204 rather than actual earnings including exchange effects.
Disposal of Nycomed Pharma net of costs 3 118 Acquisitions 749 4 Financial Reporting Standards Exceptional items 12 During 2002 we implemented Financial Reporting Standard Shares issued 408 16 FRS 19 Deferred Taxation, and have included the further Equity dividends paid 52 42 relevant disclosure requirements of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
Other 8 Cash flow before drawdown repayment Prior to implementing FRS 19 provision was made for deferred of debt 249 304 taxation, using the liability method, on all material timing differences to the extent that it was probable that a liability or asset would crystallise.
Following the implementation of Whilst cash flow in 2002 is lower than in the particularly strong FRS 19, liabilities will be recognised for most types of timing year of 2001, cash flow from operations before exceptional differences regardless of whether they are anticipated to reverse items was slightly higher than in 2001, resulting from profit in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets will be recognised growth offset by additional working capital through the building to the extent that it is more likely than not they will be of inventories in Amersham Health.
The introduction of FRS 19 has not had any generate operating cash in excess of operating profits.
Capital significant impact on the groups balance sheet.
We have expenditure has been increased in 2002 with a large investment however restated the effective tax charge for 2001 to take in manufacturing capacity in Amersham Health.
Asset disposals account of the new accounting standard, increasing last years in 2001 included the cash realisation on the sale of the groups effective tax rate from 33.1 per cent to 34.7 per cent and US research facility TARC.
Tax paid was lower in prior periods reducing 2001 earnings per share before exceptional and due to the availability of tax credits which reduced the payments goodwill amortisation from 27.2p to 26.6p.
required, but there were lower interest payments in 2002.
Overall free cash flow is therefore 65 million lower than in 2001.
FRS 17 will change the way that companies account for pensions and other retirement benefits.
During 2002 the introduction of Acquisitions include the 709 million including costs paid the standard was deferred until accounting periods ending after to purchase the 45 per cent holding in Amersham Biosciences.
However, the transition disclosure period has There are also a number of other acquisitions that are detailed been extended until this time and so there are further new in note 24 to the financial statements which make up the disclosures required for the first time in 2002, which are 40 million balance of acquisitions.
These relate primarily to contained in note 29 to the financial statements.
In common the acquisition of new technologies in filtrations, informatics with many of our peer companies, the fall in equity markets and the CodeLink arrays.
The company issued 57.5 million has had a significant impact on our net liability under FRS 17, new shares, to help finance the purchase of the 45 per cent which has increased from 24 million to 127 million taking minority holding in Amersham Biosciences.
into account provisions we have on our balance sheet for pensions, primarily for unfunded plans in territories where it is Net cash outflow before repayment of debt was 249 million, not normal practice to have funded arrangements.
This level of compared to a cash inflow of 304 million in 2001.
With the 32 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 purchase of the minority holding in Amersham Biosciences partially financed by using existing cash resources and drawings under committed bank lines, net debt at 31 December 2002 is 182 million.
This is reduced from the net debt of 259 million reported at 30 June 2002.
Net debt is 92 million lower as a result of exchange movements following the significant weakening of the US dollar in which we have borrowings and the strengthening of the Norwegian krone in which we have monetary assets.
The cash flow generated by our businesses is analysed in the following table: 2002 2001 Interest rate management m m The groups interest charge is exposed to movements in interest rates as well as debt levels.
We maintain a policy of Business cash flows holding between 30 and 70 per cent of debt at fixed rates.
Amersham Health 142 175 The group uses currency and interest rate swaps to manage its Amersham Biosciences 51 91 interest rate exposures on debt and cash positions.
The interest Corporate 54 62 rate profile of the group is shown in note 20 to the financial Free cash flow 139 204 statements.
At 31 December 2002, after taking into account interest rate swaps, 45 per cent of debt was at fixed rates.
Amersham Health continues to provide good solid cash flow The average maturity of this fixed rate debt was 1.5 years.
Cash generation this year was 33 million lower than in 2001 after building inventory and increasing capital Currency management expenditure to expand manufacturing capacity and support our The groups manufacturing activities and costs are strategy of packaging differentiation.
Amersham Biosciences concentrated in a small number of countries, primarily the US, cash flow is lower in 2002, following an increase in working Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom.
Sales income is capital from a low base in 2001 and a modest growth in capital spread more widely.
Overall we have net income in US dollars, expenditure.
Corporate cash flow includes interest and taxes euros and Japanese yen and net costs in sterling, Swedish paid and the dividend received from the NMP joint venture.
Treasury policy and liquidity The groups principal financial exposures are to movements in currency exchange rates.
These comprise transaction Treasury policy and objectives exposures arising from currency cash flows and translation Our treasury activities are co-ordinated and managed by exposures arising from the conversion of the results of foreign the group treasury department in accordance with policies subsidiaries.
Transaction exposures are hedged on a rolling approved by the Board.
These policies are reviewed regularly six-month basis, primarily by forward foreign exchange and have not changed significantly over the past year.
In addition, where sterling has deviated department operates under close management supervision significantly from its long-term purchasing power parity rates, and is subject to review by the risk and operational review strategic hedging is undertaken for periods of up to three years.
It does not operate as a profit centre and no We took advantage of the strength of the US dollar in the early speculative transactions are undertaken.
months of the year, by selling forward a proportion of our anticipated US dollar income for the next three years in Financial instruments accordance with our strategic hedging policy.
Translation The group uses financial instruments, primarily forward foreign exposures on the net monetary assets of foreign subsidiaries exchange contracts and interest rate swaps, in the management are generally hedged by borrowings and deposits with group of currency and interest rate exposures.
An analysis of net monetary assets by functional been established, including levels of authority, regarding the currency is shown in note 20 to the financial statements.
type and use of financial instruments to manage these exposures.
Translation exposures on the results of foreign subsidiaries The Board has approved these procedures.
The group controls are not hedged.
Equity investments in certain subsidiaries credit risk by entering into transactions involving financial and associated companies are hedged by financial instruments instruments only with authorised counter-parties of strong in the currencies of those investments.
Counter-party positions are monitored regularly.
During 2002, reported sales growth in sterling was adversely Funding impacted by the weakening of the dollar and the yen against Group treasury manages the group requirement for debt sterling, but the impact on reported profit before tax was funding.
The group finances its operations through a variety neutral as a result of the currency hedging programme.
In general, subsidiaries Assuming current rates of exchange prevail for the remainder borrowing requirements are funded by loans from group of 2003, there will be an adverse impact on Amershams sales treasury, except where precluded by local regulations.
In of 40 million and on profit before tax of 30 million.
February 2002 the company entered into a new $750 million syndicated bank facility committed to February 2007.
In March the company issued 57.5 million ordinary shares at 700 pence each, raising 397 million after expenses.
The principal borrowings during the period were $193 million 123 million of private placement loan notes and drawings under the new revolving bank credit facility.
At 31 December 2002, the group had net debt of 182 million and undrawn committed facilities of 404 million.
Giles Kerr Finance Director Amersham plc 33
