Divisional Structure 10 -11 Johnson Matthey Johnson Matthey has operations in 34 countries and employs around 7,000 people worldwide.
It is organised into four global divisions: Catalysts & Chemicals, Precious Metals, Colours & Coatings and Pharmaceutical Materials.
Catalysts & Chemicals Precious Metals Colours & Coatings Pharmaceutical Materials Our Precious Metals Division is Colours & Coatings Division is Pharmaceutical Materials Division Catalytic Systems organised into two groups: Platinum ranked among the worlds top three is a global, integrated supplier of active Catalytic Systems comprises and Gold and Silver, and incorporates integrated suppliers of decorative pharmaceutical ingredients, which Johnson Mattheys global autocatalyst, Johnson Mattheys precious metals products and associated raw materials provides services to pharmaceutical heavy duty diesel and stationary marketing, fabrication and refining for ceramics and glass.
The division is companies through every phase of the source emission control businesses.
structured into three businesses: Glass, development of a new product.
We are the worlds leading Structural Ceramics and Speciality Serving their respective markets manufacturer of catalysts for vehicle Platinum Coatings, which are organised around in the US and Europe, the divisions exhaust emission control and a leader Consists of our worldwide the key markets that we serve.
West Deptford and Macfarlan Smith in catalyst systems for the reduction of platinum marketing and fabrication operations provide customers with volatile organic compound emissions activities.
Marketing is headquartered in Glass bulk manufacturing services from from industrial processes.
London with support facilities in Based in the Netherlands, our Phase Three clinical trials through Manufacturing takes place in the USA, Philadelphia and Hong Kong.
We are the Glass business manufactures black commercialisation of a patented or UK, Belgium, Mexico, Argentina, South worlds leading distributor of platinum obscuration and silver conductive generic drug.
The division has leading Africa, Malaysia, India and China.
R&D group metals and the sole marketing enamels for automotive glass.
It also positions in the manufacture of facilities are in the USA, UK, Sweden, agent for Anglo Platinum, the worlds makes enamels and decorative controlled substances and platinum Japan and Brazil.
Our precious metal products for other glass based anticancer drugs.
platinum fabrication business makes a applications such as bottles and The divisions Pharm-Eco Chemicals wide range of platinum group metal architectural glass.
Laboratories business provides Process Catalysts manufactures products primarily in the UK and USA.
contract research and development supported and homogeneous Structural Ceramics and small scale manufacturing services catalysts, fine chemicals and Gold and Silver Our Structural Ceramics business from pre-clinical through to Phase electrochemical products such as Comprises our worldwide gold manufactures colours, glazes and frits Three clinical trials.
catalysts for fuel cells and gas and silver refining and bullion for the tile and sanitaryware industries, detectors.
Our platinum group metal manufacturing operations.
Johnson and includes our zircon business.
pgm refining business recovers spent Matthey is the market leader in the catalysts and other secondary material refining of gold and silver.
The Speciality Coatings and also refines primary pgms from business serves the worlds mining Speciality Coatings supplies global mining operations.
Manufacturing industries and recycles secondary colours, glazes, decals and decorative facilities are in the USA and UK.
We are also a leading precious metal products to Research Chemicals business is manufacturer of high purity small gold manufacturers of fine china in the UK based in the USA and UK.
bars for investment and jewellery and around the world.
Gold and silver refining a wide range of inorganic pigments Fuel Cells operations are located in the UK, USA, and pigment dispersions for use in Johnson Matthey is the world Canada, Australia and Hong Kong.
printing inks, paints, automotive leader in catalysts and catalysed finishes, woodstains and plastics.
Catalysts & Chemicals Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Catalysts & Chemicals Division produced a very strong performance with operating profit 17% up on 2000 01 at 94.7 million.
The division consists of the groups Catalytic Systems, Chemicals and Fuel Cells businesses.
metals and FibreCat an anchoring technology for homogeneous Catalytic Systems catalysts.
The year also saw the launch of Johnson Matthey Catalytic Systems, which includes Johnson Mattheys global car Catalytic Services, a new business offering fee based contract catalyst, heavy duty diesel and stationary source emission control development and optimisation of catalytic processes.
businesses, had another strong year.
In North America, sales of new The expansion and upgrading of pgm refining facilities on both vehicles fell and catalyst volumes declined in our fiscal year.
Our sides of the Atlantic continues apace.
New smelting technology has business performed well in this more difficult market, benefiting from been installed in the UK that further improves Johnson Mattheys the introduction of new technology.
There was growth in the heavy competitive advantage in insoluble metals refining.
An innovative duty diesel retrofit market during the year and we made gains in technology for catalyst recovery using a patented processing market share.
The well publicised problems of the US power technique has been developed in collaboration with Chematur AB industry led to increased investment in small turbine generating and will be launched later this year under the trade name Aquacat.
capacity and growth in the market for catalysts for this application.
The Research Chemicals business achieved excellent results In Europe, vehicle sales fell slightly in our fiscal year.
Our recent with good growth in the Alfa Aesar catalogue business and a strong investment in new manufacturing technology has brought the contribution from the acquisition of Avocado Research Chemicals in opportunity to develop new, more advanced products with cost February 2002.
Avocado, based in Heysham, UK, is a leader in the effective manufacturing routes.
Customer acceptance of these manufacture and supply of organic compounds for use in research innovations resulted in growth in our market share.
Its well established catalogue predominantly serves European regions sales were well up on prior year.
The new customers in the fine chemical and pharmaceutical industries as well manufacturing facility, opened last year in Royston, UK, increased its as in contract and academic research.
There was also a considerable increase in demand for catalysts made in South Africa.
As a result we have Fuel Cells expanded our plant near Johannesburg.
The Fuel Cells business continues to make excellent progress The investment programme to replace our manufacturing working in close collaboration with key customers to improve the capacity with our new production technology, which allows more performance and durability and to reduce the cost of fuel cell accurate control of materials and greater flexibility of product design components.
Early commercial fuel cell products have started to is nearing completion.
Production lines incorporating the new become available for premium back up power and portable technology have now been installed at all of our plants around the applications, and we expect that by the middle of this decade joint world.
During the year we completed our ninth manufacturing facility efforts with customers will produce commercial products for an in Shanghai, China.
This new plant was opened in June 2001 and is increasing number of premium markets in the small stationary sector.
At entirely based on our new technology.
the same time our automotive customers will be producing small fleets of vehicles to validate this new technology in the field.
This will lead to Chemicals mass-produced products for the transport sector at the end of this The Chemicals business had a good year achieving growth in decade and into the next.
both revenues and profits in the face of mixed market conditions.
Our worldclass R&D and testing facilities at Sonning Common, The platinum group metal pgm refining business performed very UK have achieved dramatic improvements in the performance of our well benefiting from strong demand, particularly from primary fuel cell products.
These advances are placing us in a strong producers.
However, the catalyst and chemical products businesses position to command a significant share of this new market as it were affected by a downturn in some of the end markets that they reaches commercialisation.
Work was completed during the year on serve.
Two novel polymer fibre technologies, resulting from our a new plant for testing and developing fuel processors at West investment in Oy Smoptech AB in Finland, were commercialised Whiteland, USA.
The year also saw good progress on the first phase during the year and offer good prospects for growth: Smopex a of our investment in a dedicated Membrane Electrode Assembly range of customised metal scavengers to aid recovery of precious MEA manufacturing facility at Swindon, UK.
12 -13 Johnson Matthey performance Turnover Operating Profit Research and Development In Catalytic Systems we continue to invest in research and development 1,468m 94.7m and in testing capacity to match our regenerated manufacturing base and retain market leadership.
During the year R&D activities have 1,303m 80.9m centred on improved three way catalysts for petrol vehicles and the development of products for lean burn engines, especially diesels.
Heavy duty diesel engines are a focus for regulation in the coming years and we are investing in R&D to facilitate technical partnerships with the engine makers.
R&D programmes in the Chemicals business continue to deliver new products and technologies to customers and more efficient processes at our plants.
During the year these efforts resulted in the launch of new ranges of platinum group metal heterogeneous selective oxidation catalysts and highly active platinum on carbon catalysts for a wide 2001 2002 2001 2002 variety of hydrogenation and other reactions.
The business ligand library continues to grow and a novel palladium based homogeneous catalyst has been developed in anticipation of increased demand for catalysts to carry out difficult coupling reactions.
