Anite plc 04 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements We believe that the underlying drivers for the Wireless division namely, the Chief Executives review inexorable growth in mobile data resulting from smartphones and devices being used for functions that have been traditionally undertaken by PCs, and the complexity of devices and network technologies means that growth opportunities will exist for many I am pleased to report that Anite had a good year with years to come, notwithstanding the challenging macroeconomic business environment.
continued growth in revenue and profitability.
Strategy Our strategy is to position Anite as a global We continued to invest significantly in new products leader in wireless test solutions and to in each of our three businesses: this helps to reinforce capitalise on the opportunities that emerge from the development and roll-out of LTE our current strong market positions and also expand 4G technology and its successors.
Our into adjacent market areas that we believe have Wireless division contributed an increased proportion of Anites total revenue 85% good potential.
Our customers are demanding a broader range of more sophisticated wireless testing products to help them develop more complex mobile devices.
We have significant skills, knowledge and technology which will be used to expand our addressable markets as mobile technology continues to evolve.
Wireless The Board believes that our Wireless division operates in a long-term growth market, which has high barriers to entry and relatively few major competitors.
This enables it to generate good profit margins and return on investments.
We are committed to maintaining market leadership by continuing to invest in R&D in anticipation of the trends that we see developing in this market.
Christopher Humphrey Chief Executive The Board anticipates that the majority of the divisions growth will be organic.
It will come from underlying growth in its respective markets, investment in its products to win market share, and lengthy and cumulative product and technology life cycles.
Organic growth in the past three financial years has been supplemented by selective acquisitions of specific product sets.
The acquisitions of Invex, in January 2011, and Propsim, in January 2013, increased the Groups product portfolio in its existing and adjacent wireless markets.
