Directors report - Business review - Group overview Group highlights Financial highlights Pennon Group Revenue Assets We create value for our shareholders 1,201.1m 4.7bn by continuing to develop our two -2.6% environmental utility infrastructure Dividend businesses, South West Water Profit before tax 7.3% and Viridor, and by the efficient financing and strong management 198.2m of the Group as a whole.
Financial highlights South West Water Revenue Profit before tax The water and sewerage services 498.6m 152.1m provider in Devon, Cornwall 5.2% 7.5% and parts of Dorset and Somerset delivering strong operational and financial performance.
Financial highlights Viridor Revenue Profit before tax One of the leading UK recycling, 703.8m 36.5m renewable energy and waste -7.5% -36.6% management businesses achieving further significant progress in its long-term contract and energy from waste activities.
4 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Group overview Highlights of the year Strategy Strategy in action In a challenging year, delivered profit Our strategy is to promote the success Committed to an annual dividend increase before tax before exceptional items of the Group for the benefit of our of 4% above inflation up to 2014 15 only marginally below the previous year shareholders, customers and other Continued focus on our two stakeholders through our focus on water Group capital expenditure up 61% environmental utility infrastructure and sewerage services, recycling, renewable to 439 million businesses undertaking sustainable energy and waste management.
We aim activities which make a positive impact 300 million hybrid capital issue to be a pre-eminent provider of customer on communities and the environment provides substantial additional funding services to high standards of quality, and strengthens balance sheet 439 million invested in key infrastructure efficiency and reliability.
supporting the development Group businesses well positioned of the UK economy for the future.
Group well funded with efficient long-term financing.
Highlights of the year Strategy Strategy in action Ongoing outperformance At the core of South West Waters strategy Pure Water providing safe of efficiency targets is the companys commitment to delivering and reliable water supplies the services its customers depend on in Strong operational performance Pure Service increasing levels the most cost-effective and sustainable way.
despite extreme weather events of customer satisfaction and maintaining reliability of assets to protect the service 88% improvement in Service improvements made over the last 20 years Incentive Mechanism SIM score since the opening K5 position Pure Environment protecting and enhancing the environment 60 million reinvested to enhance protection for bathing waters, Financial Management outperforming private sewers and help customers the regulatory contract, rigorously controlling in most need.
costs underpinned by efficient funding.
Highlights of the year Strategy Strategy in action Strong progress in long-term Viridors strategy is to transform Substantial further progress during Public Private Partnership PPP waste, adding value through recycling 2012 13 in the development and roll-out energy from waste EfW strategy and renewable energy generation.
of Viridors PPP EfW pipeline Significant current headwinds Capital expenditure of 292 million in recycling and ongoing trend on Viridor growth projects, mainly EfW decline in landfill - aggressive action Recyclate traded increased by 5.6% to reduce costs to 1.9 million tonnes.
Exceptional charges - total 150 million net of tax Four more key long-term PPP EfW contract developments.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 5
