04 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 At a Glance The Groups portfolio of categories across a range ofdeveloped and developing markets forms the platform for our future growth.
Africa Asia Europe Revenue Revenue Revenue 362.7m 174.9m 345.6m 2012: 362.2m 2012: 161.6m 2012: 335.1m Africa remains the Groups largest region The Asian markets in which we operate Our business in Europe comprises a broad and in Nigeria, Africas most populous provide a naturally balanced geographic range of categories and markets.
Personal country circa 170 million people and portfolio, containing both mature and Care in the UK is serviced by our Personal ourbiggest single market, we continue emerging markets with excellent Wash Centre of Excellence facilities in tooperate in four categories: Personal opportunity for growth.
Manchester and focuses on the Imperial Care, Home Care, Electricals and Food Leather, Carex, Mum & Me and Original and Nutrition.
Indonesia is the fourth most populous Source brands.
Polands growth is country in the world with a population of generated by the Home Care business The Personal Care and Home Care circa 248 million and the largest economy andalso by the growing Personal Care businesses have established local brands inSouth East Asia.
Our Cussons Baby brand business.
The Food and Nutrition category with ongoing renovation programmes isthe market leader and our distribution is represented in Greece by Minerva and leading to continued maintenance and network also enables our other Personal associated brands.
growth of our market share.
The Electricals Care brands to be delivered to consumers business leads the core refrigerator and throughout the region.
Australia represents The Beauty division is a global business freezer market.
Within the Food and a more mature market where we have based in London which markets and sells Nutrition category we have two joint leading positions in the Home Care category Sanctuary, St Tropez, Charles Worthington ventures: Nutricima, with Glanbia Plc through our dish and fabric care products and Fudge brands.
The divisions main operating predominantly in the nutritional and a growing Personal Care business.
We markets are the UK, US and Australia.
beverage sector: and PZ Wilmar, with have recently added the Raffertys Garden Wilmar International Limited operating babyfood brand to this portfolio to start our inthe branded oils and spreads market Food and Nutrition category in Asia.
Our fromcrude palm oil now refined locally.
businesses in Thailand and the Middle East are smaller and less well established but In Ghana and Kenya our established havegood growth potential.
businesses and brands are well placed to benefit from anticipated future growth inthese countries and the wider region.
05 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our Brands Africa Ghana Kenya Nigeria Home Care Personal Care Page 14 for more info Zip Premier Morning Fresh Joy Flamingo Carex Camel Venus Duck Robb Canoe Imperial Leather Cussons Baby Food & Nutrition Nunu Electricals Coast Haier Thermocool Yo!
TEC Bliss Olympic Asia Australia Indonesia Thailand Home Care Personal Care Morning Fresh Original Source Radiant Carex Trix Imperial Leather DUO Pure Cussons Baby Food & Nutrition Cussons First Years Raffertys Garden LB1 Page 16 for more info Europe UK Greece Poland Home Care Personal Care Morning Fresh Imperial Leather E Original Source IXI Carex Luksja Food & Nutrition Mum & Me Minerva Benecol Beauty Division Global St. Tropez Sanctuary Charles Worthington Fudge Page 18 for more info
