02 Annual Report 2013 The Restaurant Group plc At a glance over 1,000 Strong brands focused on new jobs the casual eating-out market created 43m meals served 17 new openings in 2013 4 new openings in 2013 5 new openings in 2013 232 restaurants 73 restaurants 10 restaurants Frankie & Bennys brings together classic Mexican for fun, fantastic food, amazing Coast to Coast takes its inspiration from the American and Italian style with food and drink atmosphere for a good time, guaranteed.
Lincoln Highway, which spans the United States that always provides great value for money.
The Chiquito menu offers a great range of of America from New York to San Francisco.
The kitchen buzzes with bustling activity as authentic Mexican & Tex-Mex dishes in a lively This is reflected in our great range of authentic the chefs prepare dishes from our broad menu environment, with fantastic music.
The dcor food and drinks, all served with superb hospitality pizzas, pastas, burgers, grills and other favourites draws inspiration from Mexican architecture and and service.
We offer the best of classic American while, in typical stateside fashion, service at Latin style.
Some restaurants have a rustic and food Aberdeen Angus beef burgers, deep dish Frankie & Bennys is second to none!
Settle into relaxed feel while others demonstrate the buzz style Chicago pizzas, distinctive steaks, amazing a cosy booth to enjoy a casual family meal or and graphic energy of contemporary Mexico City.
seafood dishes, wraps and South-West American a catch up with friends and observe the clatter Chiquito favourite dishes include nachos, burritos, specials.
Coast to Coast is more than just a and chatter of the open kitchen and the familiar enchiladas and our signature sizzling fajitas, as well restaurant, with a great bar serving speciality classic 50s and 60s soundtrack playing in the as the old favourites burgers, ribs, salads and cocktails and a wide range of beers, spirits and background.
The restaurant walls are filled with hand-cut steaks from the grill.
We specialise in traditional milkshakes.
The music is an eclectic family snapshots and memorabilia showing life on great food, good times and fantastic cocktails mix of Motown and American Rock, songs you the lower east side of the Big Apple, helping you to ensure every meal is a fiesta.
Chiquito is open may not have heard in a little while, but are into a New York state-of-mind.
First opened in for lunch, lazy afternoons and lively evenings, so absolutely guaranteed to lift your spirits and 1995 in Leicester, Frankie & Bennys has become whether youre out shopping, meeting friends after make you smile.
We currently have ten restaurants one of the best known casual dining brands in the work or planning a party its the only place to be!
open and see significant opportunities to United Kingdom, and trades successfully in leisure Trading in the UK for over 20 years, Chiquito grow Coast to Coast into a great brand.
and retail locations, standalone sites and at six continues to attract a broad mix of young adults, airports.
The estate comprises of 232 restaurants couples, teenagers, families and large parties.
spread across the country from Aberdeen to Over 70 leisure, retail and stand-alone restaurants St Austell.
cover the UK with more openings planned.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2013 03 53 Scotland 53 South East 103 Midlands 54 29 Frankie & Bennys 37 Frankie & Bennys 38 Frankie & Bennys 09 Chiquito 14 Chiquito 10 Chiquito 07 Garfunkels 20 Pub restaurants 03 TRG Concessions 08 TRG Concessions 29 TRG Concessions 03 Coast to Coast 42 03 Coast to Coast 06 Northern Ireland 06 North West 67 05 Frankie & Bennys London 32 Frankie & Bennys 01 Chiquito inside the M25 46 09 Chiquito 67 15 Frankie & Bennys 08 TRG Concessions Wales 21 07 Chiquito 17 Pub restaurants 13 Frankie & Bennys 13 Garfunkels 01 Coast to Coast 03 Chiquito 05 Pub restaurants 05 Pub restaurants North East 42 05 TRG Concessions 54 32 Frankie & Bennys 01 Coast to Coast South West 25 28 09 Chiquito 16 Frankie & Bennys 01 Coast to Coast East Anglia 28 06 Chiquito 21 15 Frankie & Bennys 01 Garfunkels 46 05 Chiquito 02 TRG Concessions 02 Pub restaurants 05 TRG Concessions 25 103 01 Coast to Coast Pubs 4 new openings in 2013 5 new sites opened in 2013 21 restaurants 49 pub restaurants 60 sites including 5 Filling Station Really great pubs are timeless, familiar and very TRGs Concessions business has a market-leading Garfunkels founded in Londons West End in British.
Everybody knows what their perfect pub reputation for developing partnerships to deliver 1979, Garfunkels is proud to be the original British looks like.
Each of ours has its own style and catering solutions that meet the needs of our caf restaurant serving breakfast, lunch and dinner personality, and youll always find a warm welcome, clients and their customers.
Currently operating all day every day.
Wake up to a traditional British set against a backdrop of ageless interiors.
Mostly from 60 outlets in the UKs busiest airports, other fry-up or a warming bowl of porridge, we have set in beautiful rural or semi-rural locations, each transport locations and shopping centres, we great coffee too, made just the way you like it.
For pub has a local feel and many are set in intriguing have more than 20 years of experience providing lunchtime our salad bar really hits the spot, its fast, buildings with fascinating histories.
We dont want exceptional hospitality to the travelling public.
its fresh and you can make it any way you want to.
all our pubs to look and feel the same instead we Our specialist operating knowledge and flexibility And of course theres Garfunkels classics like preserve the character of the building, which after ensures successful performance across our rotisserie chicken, hand-battered fish and chips all was what attracted us to the property in the first diverse brand portfolio, covering a wide range of and tasty topped burgers fresh from the grill.
We serve a wide selection of cask ales which popular categories including table service, counter Everything has been chosen because we just love changes frequently and always try to include a local service, sandwich shops, pubs and bars.
Principally located across Central brew or two.
We have decent but not over the top client and customer needs we deliver existing London, each Garfunkels restaurant offers a place wines and the essence of our freshly prepared food TRG brands, create bespoke concepts and to relax and take a break from the hustle and bustle is classic British dishes, complemented by more establish partnerships to franchise brands from outside, with a loyal following of visitors, local exotic influences from other parts of the world: third parties as appropriate.
Building on our track residents and workers who have been eating at what we believe is modern British cookery.
record of innovation, partnership and performance Garfunkels for years.
Seasonal and local specials mean the menu ahead of sector growth will ensure we remain Garfunkels restaurants offer a friendly welcome always offers new choices alongside trusted a market leader in this exciting sector.
and broad menu in a warm contemporary setting, favourites each time you visit.
Theres friendly, just what you need after a hectic shopping trip in engaging service from the moment you arrive, the West End or the perfect way to complement a ensuring that all your needs are taken care of.
We believe that, when done well, classic pubs will never go out of fashion, and that opportunities to expand in the sector are available for experienced operators with the right offer for customers.
