hiGhliGhts OF the yeAr June In strong debt markets we increased the size of our senior debt facility to $1.8bn and refinanced our long-term junior debt at 6.5% for 10 years.
This achieved the dual benefit of reducing our interest cost by 8m per year and 8m extending our average debt maturity.
This financial strength positions us reduCtiOn well to take advantage of favourable market conditions in the US.
in interest July A-Plant was involved extensively during the construction of the Olympic Park, providing a wide range of equipment.
In addition, during the Olympic and Paralympic Games, our close working relationship with LOCOG led to the successful deployment of over 20,000 cones, more than 3,500 road signs and over 10km of barriers to help ensure the safe and smooth running of the games.
november Sunbelts strategy of scalable specialty bolt-on acquisitions continued with the acquisition of JMR Industries, a specialist company providing services to the oil and gas industry in Texas.
This business will spearhead our growth in the oil and gas services industry and we have supplemented this with the acquisition of Raider Pumping Services in March.
november $40m The strength of the Sunbelt specialty proposition was critical in our OF Fleet response to Super Storm Sandy and the recovery effort.
Our pump and deplOyed power operation mobilised fleet from across the country and in preparation in respOnse for and the aftermath of the storm mobilised 400 trucks and deployed 180 tO super people and $40m of fleet in New York and surrounding areas.
stOrM sAndy december 50% inCreAse in The first half of the year was one of records in terms of operating interiM dividend performance.
Sunbelt had record levels of utilisation and fleet on rent as we brought in over $400m of new rental fleet.
This resulted in record Group profit before taxation of 141m for the first half year, more than the full year profit of 131m for the prior year, itself a record.
This enabled us to increase the interim dividend by 50%.
March $100m As utilisation and fleet on rent metrics reached seasonal records, we OF Fleet spend pulled forward $100m of fleet spend to meet the high levels of demand.
pulled FOrWArd tO Meet deMAnd Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 5
