Our business in brief Local knowledge driving global strength A strategy that consistently delivers Built on our brands and a passion for beer SABMiller has become a global leader by doing business locally, Informed by deep local market insights, we invest in building producing high quality products as ef ciently and sustainably as andnurturing local beer brands which earn the long-term possible across a mix of developed and developing markets.
supportand affection of our customers and consumers.
To be the most admired company The physical characteristics of beer, Our vision Local inthe global beer industry.
a perishable product that is bulky totransport, dictate that brewing is knowledge apredominantly local enterprise around the world.
International brands comprise only a small To own and nurture local and Our mission proportion of global beer volumes, international brands that are the and the growth of craft beers in rstchoice of the consumer.
many developed markets indicates that interest in local brands is on the rise.
At SABMiller we understand and Our people are our enduring celebrate the inherently local qualities Our values advantage.
of the beer industry, nurturing and Accountability is clear and developing brands that address the personal.
speci c tastes of consumers which We work and win in teams.
are often unique to their location, We understand and respect re ecting their heritage, nationality ourcustomers and consumers.
Creating a balanced and attractive Our local approach to brand Our strategic Global global spread of businesses.
management does not preclude Developing strong, relevant brand aglobal approach to generating priorities strength portfolios that win in the local theef ciencies necessary to invest market.
for growth and local competitive Constantly raising the pro tability advantage.
We routinely test, update of local businesses, sustainably.
and reapply global standards and Leveraging our skills and global best practice across a range of scale.
disciplines, from technical standards and distribution, to marketing, sales, finance and people management.
For more information on our strategic priorities and For more information on the performance of our brands, howwemeasure against them, see page 15. see pages 18 to 35.
2 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Delivering strong revenue and earnings Creating long-term sustainable value growth in 2013 We generate value by establishing leading positions in strategically attractive markets that offer long-term growth Investment in additional production capacity, commercial opportunities, building and sustaining successful local brands capability and distribution reach supported strong growth in aspart of comprehensive portfolios.
We maximise the ef ciency ourdeveloping markets, while a focus on operating ef ciencies of our businesses and utilise our extensive local supply chains helped us achieve growth in pro t margins.
Total beverage toensure that the communities in which we operate participate volumes grew by 7% to 306 million hectolitres, with lager volumes inour growth and development.
up 6% and soft drinks volumes up 15%.
Reported group revenue growth We build long-term value by ensuring Operational of10% with organic, constant Understanding that our brands maintain a continuous currency group revenue up 7%.
connection and relevance to their highlights consumer Group revenue per hectolitre hl target consumers, supported by tastes up3% on an organic, constant innovation within the beer category currency basis.
todevelop new products, brands, Lager volumes rose 3% on an packs and price points to meet the organic basis with growth in all evolving expectations of consumers, divisions except North America.
wholesalers and our retail partners.
Organic, constant currency EBITA growth of 9%, with reported EBITA growth of 14%, re ecting the inclusion of Fosters and other business combinations, partially offset by adverse currency movements.
EBITA margin improvement of 70 basis points bps to 18.6%, with organic, constant currency EBITA margin improvement of 40 bps.
Progress with the Fosters From strategic alliances that span integration and synergies remains Building continents, to individual relationships ahead of schedule, with lager with corner-shop retailers, our ability theright volume growth in the continuing to build and sustain long-term brand portfolio in the fourth quarter partnerships partnerships is a core strength of the versus the prior year.
At the local level we are Adjusted earnings up 12%, engaged in a shared endeavour with withadjusted EPS up 11% governments, distributors, retailers, to238.7UScents per share.
suppliers and the community at large Declines in pro t before tax and to support the social and economic pro t attributable to owners of the development of the countries in parent re ect exceptional non-cash which we operate.
For more information on our financial performance, For more information on how we create long-term seepages 36 to 43. sustainable value, see pages 14 and 44 to 47.
