Group at a glance A balanced spread of businesses Latin America Europe North America 1 1 1 32% contribution to group EBITA 12% contribution to group EBITA 12% contribution to group EBITA Regional of ce: Miami, USA Regional of ce: Zug, Switzerland Regional of ce: Chicago, USA Our primary brewing and beverage Our primary brewing operations cover MillerCoors is a joint venture with operations cover six countries across eight countries the Czech Republic, Molson Coors Brewing Company, South and Central America Hungary, Italy, Poland, Romania, formed in 2008 by bringing together Colombia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Slovakia, Spain Canary Islands and the US and Puerto Rican operations Honduras, Panama and Peru.
In each of these countries, we are the In the majority of these countries, Headquartered in Chicago, number one brewer by market share.
weare the number one or two brewer MillerCoors is the second largest We are also the third largest brewer by market share.
brewer in the USA, with 29% of the inArgentina, and we export to Bolivia, A further 16 countries including beer market.
Russia, Turkey and the Ukraine are Our wholly owned Miller Brewing We bottle soft drinks for The covered in a strategic alliance with International business is based in Coca-Cola Company in El Salvador Anadolu Efes through brewing, soft Milwaukee, USA and exports our and Honduras, and for Pepsico drinks or export operations.
brands to Canada and Mexico and International in Panama.
We export signi cant volumes to throughout the Americas.
afurther seven European markets, For more information see page 18.
For more information see page 24. ofwhich the largest are the UK andGermany.
For more information see page 21.
Africa Asia Paci c South Africa 1 1 1 12% contribution to group EBITA 13% contribution to group EBITA 19% contribution to group EBITA Regional of ce: Johannesburg, Regional of ce: Hong Kong Regional of ce: Johannesburg, SouthAfrica SouthAfrica CR Snow, our partnership with Our brewing and beverage operations ChinaResources Enterprise, Limited, The South African Breweries Pty Ltd in Africa cover 15 countries.
A further is the largest brewer in China.
SAB is South Africas leading 2 21 are covered through a strategic Carlton & United Breweries CUB producer and distributor of lager alliance with the Castel group and we isa leading Australian brewer, which andsoft drinks.
also have an associated undertaking we acquired in December 2011.
It also exports brands for distribution in Zimbabwe.
We are the second largest brewer across Namibia.
In most of these countries we are the inIndia.
Our soft drinks division is South number one brewer by market share.
We have an operation in Vietnam Africas leading bottler of products We bottle soft drinks for The andwe export to various markets forThe Coca-Cola Company.
Coca-Cola Company in 20 of our including South Korea and Singapore.
We have hotel and gaming interests African markets in alliance with Castel through our associate, Tsogo Sun For more information see page 30. in 14 of these markets.
Holdings Ltd, the largest hotel and gaming group in South Africa.
For more information see page 27.
For more information see page 33.
2 Carlton & United Breweries is the Australian beverage business of Fosters.
