Our Group at a Glance Spectris comprises four highly-efficient and  business segments, which reflect the applications and end-user industries we serve.
How we work Our four segments are united by the same KPIs, financial discipline, and rigorous operating purpose, the same values, and the same corporate principles, but each business is focused on its strategy.
They all work according to a strong own products, markets and customers.
common framework of controls, management Laboratory off-line businesses Our products help customers to improve accuracy and speed of materials analysis in the laboratory and in process manufacturing as well as academic research applications.
We also provide test and measuring equipment for research and development applications.
Materials Analysis Test and Measurement Materials Analysis provides products that enable customers to Test and Measurement supplies test, measurement, and analysis determine structure, composition, quantity and quality of particles equipment and software for product design optimisation, and materials, during their research and product development manufacturing control, and environmental monitoring systems.
processes, when assessing materials before production, or For customers in the automotive and aerospace industries, during the manufacturing process.
Our products help customers our products and applications help them to design and test to improve accuracy and speed of materials analysis in the new products whilst reducing time to market.
We see a growing demand for the application of our electronics industry, our equipment and software enable solutions in quality and processcontrol.
customers to refine the performance and accuracy of their products and to test them in the production process.
In the environmental monitoring market, the desire for higher standards of community comfort is creating additional demand.
Sales Operating profit Sales Operating profit 362.4m 63.3m 348.7m 54.8m 2012: 348.1m 2012: 63.0m 2012: 345.4m 2012: 55.4m Industries: Metals, minerals & mining Industries: Automotive Pharmaceuticals & fine chemicals Aerospace Academic research institutes Consumer electronics Environmental noise monitoring Operating Malvern Instruments Operating Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration Particle Measuring Systems HBM companies: companies: PANalytical Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 08 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Group sales Group profit % % Materials Analysis 29 Materials Analysis 30 Test and Measurement 26 Test and Measurement 29 In-line Instrumentation 24 In-line Instrumentation 22 Industrial Controls 21 Industrial Controls 19 Sales are reported.
Process manufacturing businesses Our products and applications provide precision measurement and control in challenging operating environments, ensuring process quality, asset uptime, safety, and improved yield.
We also provide automation and control products for the discrete manufacturing industries.
In-line Instrumentation Industrial Controls In-line Instrumentation provides process analytical measurement, Industrial Controls provides products and solutions that asset monitoring and on-line controls for both primary processing measure, monitor, control, inform, track, and trace during and the converting industries.
Our products and applications the productionprocess.
Sales in this segment are mainly provide precision measurement in challenging operating financed through customers operating expenditure budgets, environments, ensuring process quality, asset uptime, safety, so this segment is the least exposed to the industrial capital and improved yield.
Sales Operating profit Sales Operating profit 265.7m 51.2m 221.0m 45.4m 2012: 266.5m 2012: 52.3m 2012: 217.2m 2012: 46.2m Industries: Process industries Industries: General manufacturing Energy & utilities Industrial distributors Pulp & paper Machine builders Converting, web & packaging Operating Beta LaserMike Operating Microscan Brel & Kjr Vibro Omega Engineering companies: companies: BTG Red Lion Controls NDC Infrared Engineering Servomex Excludes Fusion UV.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 09 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
