Sports Direct plc Annual Report 2013 4 SPORTS DIRECT AT A GLANCE the group operates through four strategic business segments: uk sports retail, international retail, premium lifestyle and brands.
UK SPORTS RETAIL 1,575m 75% of total revenue the groups uk stores other than field & trek supply a wide range of competitively priced sports and leisure equipment, clothing, footwear and accessories under a mix of brands.
we stock third-party brands including adidas, nike, reebok and puma.
group-owned brands include dunlop, slazenger and lonsdale.
we also sell licensed-in brands.
as at 28 april 2013 uk sports retail operated out of 396 stores in the united kingdom excluding northern ireland.
the majority of stores trade under the sportsdirect.
com fascia, although field & trek stores trade under their own fascia.
we have continued to develop our specialised in-store areas with a substantial unitary rollout for our dunlop and everlast brands.
our sherunsheruns areas also benefited from a rollout of the karrimor running footwear zone, featuring an integrated product information and selection panel.
the groups extensive interests outside the uk include wholly INTERNATIONAL RETAIL owned retail outlets, joint ventures with other retailers and stores within another retailers store.
during the year, as part of the accelerated growth programme in our european 185m subsidiary, we opened 19 new stores in europe and entered four new countries, including a new store in iceland with a 9% of total revenue joint venture partner and wholly owned stores in slovakia, hungary and the czech republic.
our strategy remains to identify partners in new territories while continuing to expand our operations in the countries where we currently trade.
during the year we have continued our expansion of the PREMIUM LIFESTYLE premium lifestyle division.
in July 2012 we purchased the flannels group, and in february 2013, 114 stores and certain assets were acquired from the administrators of the fashion 128m retailer republic.
both acquisitions expand the breadth of our premium offering.
post year end we have also acquired the 6% of total revenue remaining 20% stake in cruise clothing limited.
the groups portfolio includes a wide variety of world-famous BRANDS sport, fashion and lifestyle brands.
the groups retail division sells products under these group brands in its stores, and the brands division exploits the brands through its wholesale 209m and licensing businesses.
10% of total revenue the brands division continues to sponsor a variety of prestigious events and retains a base of globally-recognised, high-profile sportsmen and women.
5 OUR BUSINESS MODEL our business model is focused on long-term sustainable growth.
whilst the central focus remains on growing and developing the core uk retail business, development of our brands and international retail are also key priorities.
our offering has developed further in specialist sports categories and more fashion-based retailing.
we are constantly refurbishing and upgrading our stores, in order to provide our customers with a compelling consumer experience.
the continued development of our dedicated specialist areas and on-going collaboration with nike, adidas and puma on in-store concepts are further examples of this.
acquisitions and strategic investments in related businesses are an important developing brand awareness is a key factor in ensuring a sustainable future, and part of our strategy.
opportunities to develop into new product categories or the appropriate level of investment in advertising and technology is an important markets, or to strengthen our position in existing areas, will continue to be component towards achieving this.
considered on a case by case basis.
our international presence continues to grow through over 300 brand licensing we aim to maintain our position as the market leader in the uk sports retail partners, our online presence and on-going european store openings.
the business model provides guidance for the group to implement an appointment of internationally recognised celebrities and sporting professionals effective growth strategy to maintain and develop the success achieved so far.
as key ambassadors also promotes our brands endorsement on a global basis.
it compares our recent successes with our future ambitions in order that we can assess how to progress in the future.
the group has significant momentum and we must ensure that our product offering and customer proposition continue to grow and develop in order to retain our current customer base and to attract more customers in the future.
the groups KEY PRINCIPLES: identify brand acquisitions and property enhancement invest store portfolio and employees develop website and mcommerce, enhanced product ranges promote group-owned brands achieve targets and group success GROUP BRANDS sports & leisure LEE WESTWOOD dunlop brand ambassador lee westwood endorses dunlop clothing only CARL FROCH ibf and wba super-middleweight champion lonsdale brand ambassador CARL FROCH ibf and wba super-middleweight champion lonsdale brand ambassador GROUP BRANDS fashion & lifestyle
