Paul Orchard-Lisle, Interim Non-Executive Chairman 2013 Financial Highlights Operating Revenue m PBT m Cashflow m EPS pence 572.4 32.5 41.4 9.0 2012 491.7 2012 35.4 2012 59.0 2012 8.5 Revenue Profit Before Tax Operating Cashflow Earnings Per Ordinary Share Comparative figures restated to Normalised comprising the From continuing operations.
Basic earnings per share from exclude discontinued chilled underlying operating profit of continuing operations.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 1 Interim Chairmans Statement I Paul Orchard-Lisle The Groups trading performance over the last year enables me to present a positive report.
We remain focussed on delivering substantial shareholder value in accordance with the development plans agreed in 2011, and the ongoing proper governance of the business.
Trading Results Group turnover rose from 491.7m to 572.4m and the Our Board continuously reviews divisional performance underlying profit before tax was 32.5m compared with alongside market conditions to make sure that we make the 35.4m in the previous year.
Group profit before tax before right strategic decisions for each of our businesses.
discontinued operations for the year was 36.0m compared with 29.2m in the previous year.
The discontinuation of the Dividend chilled transport network led to a loss after tax of 13.4m An interim dividend of 2.0p was paid on 7 December 2012.
A more detailed analysis of the Board is proposing a final dividend of 4.0p per ordinary share, Group and Divisional trading results follows in the Chief giving a total dividend for the year of 6.0p.
Executives Report and the Operational & Financial Review.
Outlook The Board The Group continues to respond robustly to the ongoing and There have been a number of Board changes over the past year challenging economic conditions.
Whilst issues in the Chilled including Jesper Kjaedegaard stepping down at last years AGM, Transport network and the absence of disposals in Estates William Stobarts reappointment to the Board in September 2012 marginally held back the performance at the half year, at the end and in January 2013, David Beever resigned from the Board to of the year Transport & Distribution and Biomass were ahead of devote time to his other interests.
Following the acquisition of the last year.
This was matched with the maturing of investments at Autologic business in August 2012, Avril Palmer-Baunack was London Southend Airport and the continued internal value appointed an Executive Director and Deputy Chief Executive.
On delivered by our Infrastructure & Civil Engineering division.
21 January 2013 she was appointed Executive Chairman, Our underlying core Transport & Distribution business is strong replacing Rodney Baker-Bates.
Mr Baker-Bates remains a Nonand Biomass is growing year on year within a relatively new Executive Director of the Group.
Ms Palmer-Baunack resigned sector whose speed of growth has been arguably hindered by as Executive Chairman on 2 April 2013 and left the Group on 15 the slow pace of Government Renewable Obligation legislation.
Alan Kelsey resigned as a Non-Executive Director on Stobart Air has made great headway in establishing its initial key 23 April 2013.
I was appointed Interim Non-Executive Chairman user base, predominantly through our excellent partnership with on 15 May 2013 following Ms Palmer-Baunacks departure from easyJet.
Our strong and diverse property portfolio, already the Group on that date.
In April, the Board initiated a search, delivers an attractive income return.
We will however take market supported by consultants, for a new Non-Executive Chairman.
led opportunities to realise its capital value.
We have been pleased by the interest shown in the appointment and expect to make an announcement in the near future.
We also With the investment phase of our four year strategy substantially anticipate the appointment of one or more new Non-Executive complete our focus now moves to optimising performance and Directors to support in the next stage of our strategy.
delivering maximum value for shareholders from the excellent base that we have built.
The Board recognises fully that it has been tasked with delivering enhanced shareholder value in accordance with the strategy that we outlined at the time of the capital raising in May 2011.
Our operating divisions are all performing well and are on track to deliver returns in line with the overall strategic plan.
Paul Orchard-Lisle Interim Non-Executive Chairman I 16 May 2013 Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 2
