02 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 At a Glance SuperGroup Plc is the owner of the Superdry brand and operates in the branded fashion clothing sector.
Superdry targets the young fashion market with affordable, premium quality clothing and accessories for both men and women in the 15 to 25 age bracket, although the brand has become increasingly appealing to a much broader group as it develops its breadth of product ranges.
Superdry focuses on high quality fashionable products fusing vintage Americana and Japanese inspired graphics with a British style.
Superdry clothes are characterised by: super-soft hand feel cotton with authentic vintage washes: premium fabric with vintage detailing: world leading hand-drawn graphics: and tailored fits with diverse styling.
The Group operates from 401 retail locations globally including 113 owned stores in the UK and Europe, 162 franchised and licensed stores and 126 concessions.
Superdry has a significant and growing retail presence around the world: Europe Asia Middle East Rest of World Austria Netherlands Hong Kong Egypt Australia L Belgium Norway India Jordan Canada Denmark Republic of Ireland Indonesia Kuwait Colombia Finland Slovenia Georgia Lebanon Panama France Spain Malaysia Qatar South Africa Germany Switzerland Philippines Saudi Arabia USA L Greece UK Singapore United Arab Emirates Venezuela Hungary South Korea Italy Thailand Luxembourg Taiwan L : License Complementing the store presence, the Group operates 16 international Superdry websites including 15 local language sites: Belgium Dutch and French France Norway Canada English and French Italy Spain Denmark Germany Sweden Finland Netherlands Switzerland French and German The Groups business model is to establish a presence in a geographical territory through the Wholesale business which can include: franchises, independent retailers, concessions, licences and the internet.
As the brand develops traction with the consumer and achieves recognition, the Group seeks to replace wholesale activity with a retail model of owned stores in territories where that is appropriate.
In the UK the Group has stated its intention to achieve this goal in the long-term and has reduced its franchised stores to three and the number of independent retailers stocking Superdry products continues to decline through natural attrition.
In Europe the acquisition of SuperGroup Europe BVBA has provided a platform, through an existing portfolio of stores and an experienced local management team that will allow the development of both Retail and Wholesale revenues.
The Groups strategy is to grow revenues and profits though the following: expanding the UK and European standalone retail estate: delivering an e-commerce platform that increases its penetration of Group revenue: driving international franchised store expansion: extending the product range: and developing an infrastructure that delivers operational efficiency and a platform for growth.
