8 TRaViS PERKiNS aT a glaNCE A major plc, which can trace its roots back over 200 the grOupS BuSineSSeS in 2014 years, Travis Perkins is a leading company in the builders merchant and home improvement markets, general Merchanting and is the uKs largest product supplier to the building is the Groups core business operating under the and construction market, one of the largest industries Travis Perkins fascia.
It supplies products for all types in the uK.
It operates 17 businesses from more than of repair, maintenance and improvement projects 1,900 sites across the uK and Ireland.
In june 2013 RMI as well as new builds.
It has developed it entered the FTSE 100 for the first time.
exclusive own label products, the largest of which As explained on page 31 the Group has recently is 4Trade.
The customers of General Merchanting refocused its strategic objectives to underpin businesses are primarily professional tradesman, shareholders value creation in light of the emerging ranging from sole traders to national housebuilders economic recovery.
As part of this review, and with whose key requirements are product range and effect from 1 january 2014, the Groups divisions availability, competitive pricing and customer service.
The financial and operating INDuSTRy sections of the Annual Report have been prepared General building using the divisional structure in place throughout materials 2013.
Further detail on the realigned divisional structure is set out on page 31.
Travis Perkins is a leading In 2013 Travis Perkins comprised a strong company in the builders POSITION Number 1 portfolio of businesses which were organised into merchant market, and is a four divisions, General Merchanting, Specialist main supplier to the building Merchanting, Consumer and Plumbing and heating.
Travis Perkins supplies more BRANChES than 100,000 product lines 643 around Share of group revenue the uK to trade professionals and self-builders.
Plumbing & Heating General Merchanting INDuSTRy Kitchen Consumer specialists Specialist Merchanting Benchmarx Kitchen & joinery was opened in 2006.
It is a trade only specialist outlet POSITION Share of group EBIT Number 2 supplying kitchens and joinery products that meet the needs Plumbing & Heating General Merchanting of businesses of many sizes from specialist joiners through BRANChES to local authorities and 85 around the uK national housebuilders.
Consumer Specialist Merchanting the grOupS miSSiOn Continue to deliver better returns by putting in place and growing the best businesses, with outstanding people providing comprehensive building material solutions to everyone, creating, maintaining, repairing and improving the built environment helping to build Britain.
TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Contracts INDuSTRy 9 DIy and home has three main brands: Keyline, CCF and BSS and improvement these businesses are known for their knowledgable wickes opened its first store product retailer staff and excellent delivery service.
in 1972 and now has over 200 stores throughout the INDuSTRy POSITION uK.
wickes was acquired by Civils, heavy building Number 2 the Group in February 2005. materials and There are currently 10,000 drainage solutions Keyline is one of the largest products in the wickes suppliers of civils, heavy range which are available to STORES building materials and POSITION order in-store, online or by 229 around drainage solutions in the uK Number 1 the uK telephone.
with a nationwide network that delivers thousands of product lines to trade INDuSTRy BRANChES professionals and specialist Retailer of tools 87 around and hardware contractors.
the uK Toolstation is a rapidly growing retailer, founded in 2003, operating from nearly POSITION INDuSTRy 150 stores.
Its fully integrated Number 2 Interior building solutions multichannel operating commercial offices, model is class leading and CCF is one of the uKs leading residential, healthcare, enables the business to offer STORES distributors of interior building education, hotels, the lowest prices and best 147 around products to the construction airports, retail, food the uK availability.
CCF has an extensive product range from POSITION ceilings, drywall and flooring, INDuSTRy Number 2 to insulation, partitioning and Retailer of fire protection products which ceramic tiles Tile Giant is one of the uKs can be supplied from stock fastest growing suppliers and delivered nationwide.
BRANChES of ceramic tiles which are POSITION 31 around available to both the public Number 2 the uK and the trade.
Tile Giant was founded in Staffordshire and has grown to over 100 stores INDuSTRy STORES nationwide.
Tile Giant was Pipeline and heating 108 around acquired by the Group solutions the uK in 2007.
BSS Industrial Pipeline POSITION & heating Solutions is Number 1 Plumbing and heating a specialist distributor supplies the trade with plumbing, heating, ventilation, of pipeline, heating and air conditioning and related products.
Plumbing mechanical services Trade Supplies and City Plumbing Supplies are the BRANChES equipment serving customers 64 around main brands in the division which supplies a wide across all industrial sectors the uK range of customers including domestic plumbers, within the uK and Ireland.
independent merchants, large contractors and public services.
It is the joint number 1 business in its sector.
As well as selling branded products the Consumer division has developed very successful own brand division supplies domestic building and decorative products such as BOSS and IFlO.
It differentiates its proposition through a higher proportion of own brand products, low prices and good availability supplemented by the key brands required by DIyers and the trade.
STRATEGIC REPORT TRaViS PERKiNS aT a glaNCE INDuSTRy INDuSTRy 10 Plumbing Tools and hardware and heating wholesaler Birchwood Price Tools BPT City Plumbing Supplies is a is a leading wholesaler of BRANChES lOCATIONS major nationwide plumbing power tools, hand tools and 193 around 3 distributing and heating merchant serving the uK site equipment as well as a around the uK the contract market and the developer of products which general plumbing and heating are sold within the Group trades.
The business offers and to third parties.
BPT was high quality products and formed in April 2009 as the expertise to the trade.
result of a merger between Birchwood Products and Price Tools and was acquired by the INDuSTRy Plumbing Group in December 2010. and heating INDuSTRy Plumbing Trade Supplies Plumbing BRANChES and heating PTS sells a wide range 311 around of bathroom, heating and the uK plumbing products to both Connections was established lOCATIONS the private and public in the early 1980s to supply 1 distributing sectors, including national pre-packed plumbing fittings.
around the uK housebuilders and sole It currently has over 4,500 trading plumbers.
product lines sourced from leading manufacturers around INDuSTRy the world.
Plumbing, heating and bathrooms INDuSTRy F & P wholesale is the leading heating spares distributor of plumbing, heating DISTRIBuTION City heating Spares ChS is and bathroom products into CENTRES a spares business launched BRANChES 9 across the independent merchant by the Group in 2010.
283 facias the uK sector and retailers of fires Trading from counters within around the uK and bathrooms.
The business selected plumbing and distributes a wide range of general merchanting branches the uKs leading brands plus a throughout the uK, ChS offers number of popular own brands its customers expert advice including Pro heating and and thousands of parts for ancillary products and Fresssh same day or first thing next bathrooms.
INDuSTRy heating spares INDuSTRy Direct Heating Spares Renewables technology Direct heating Spares DhS lOCATIONS In 2013 the Group acquired is a leading distributor of 1 unit Solfex Energy Systems distributing domestic heating spares in limited, a distributor of lOCATIONS around the uK the uK with national coverage.
The The business is focused on around the uK business trades from one site improving the supply and in the north west of England.
service of domestic heating spares to the trade.
TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 11 David wrafter, branch manager, Travis Perkins, Rowley Regis STRATEGIC REPORT
