Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Overview of performance during the year Introduction 2013 was a year of good strategic progress and operational achievement.
This remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2013 Continuing adjusted EPS grew by 12.8% to 53.6p, Events profit margin complies with UK governance requirements including the Large and remained strong at 32.2% and organic revenue growth was 3.7%.
Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Wedisposed of our Data Services business Delta and substantially Regulations 2008 as amended, the rules of the UK Listing Authority restructured our Marketing Services activities to focus on the and the provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code.
professional communities our events serve.
We ended the year withsignificantly higher quality earnings and with the business better The report comprises two sections: positioned for structural growth.
Section 1 The Directors Remuneration Policy Report, which In respect of Executive Director bonuses for the year, 99.5% of financial contains details of the remuneration policy that will apply from the objectives were achieved.
For the CEO 74.9% of personal objectives date of the AGM.
were met, and for the CFO 69% of personal objectives were met.
This Section 2 The Directors Annual Remuneration Report, which resulted in bonus payments of 93.3% of maximum bonus for the CEO sets out details of how the remuneration policy was implemented resulting in a cash bonus of 784,042, with 25% 261,347 forfeit in for the year ended 31 December 2013, and how we intend the lieu of deferral and 91.85% of maximum bonus for the CFO resulting in policy to apply for the year ending 31 December 2014. a cash bonus of 383,920 and 25% 127,973 deferred into shares.
At the AGM in May 2014, the Directors Remuneration Policy Performance share awards, granted in April 2011, were based on Reportwill be put to a binding shareholder vote and the Directors relative TSR performance.
UBMs TSR did not outperform the median Remuneration Report will be put to an advisory shareholder vote.
of the comparator index and therefore none of the awards will vest in Theresults of these votes will be disclosed in the 2014 April 2014.
Bonus Investment Plan Matching awards, granted in April RemunerationReport.
UBMs EPS growth was below the threshold of 5% per annum above RPI and therefore none of the The following information has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP: awards will vest in April 2014.
Single total figure for remuneration: LTIPs granted during 2013: Payments to past Directors: Loss of office payments: Directors shareholdings and share interests: Total interests in shares and Scheme interests.
SECTION 1 THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Our reward philosophy To provide remuneration that attracts, motivates and retains executives Greg Lock with the appropriate skills and talent to deliver UBMs strategy and Chairman, Remuneration Committee create long-term shareholder value.
Our reward principles Alignment with UBMs strategy Our short and long-term incentives are primarily based on performance measures which are linked to Group and Divisional strategic KPIs, so that our remuneration policy incentivises and rewards Executive Directors and management to deliver UBMs vision.
The 2014 annual bonus will be subject to operating profit and revenue growth targets, to encourage profitable growth.
The financial underpin that applies to the annual bonus plan, and the malus provision under the LTIP, ensure that reward is only provided for robust and sustainable performance.
LTIP awards will be subject to a ROACE measure alongside EPS and TSR.
This will incentivise earnings growth and the maintenance of an efficient and sustainable level of return on capital.
Alignment with shareholders A significant proportion of our executives remuneration is performance-based, focused towards the long term and delivered in UBM shares to ensure that the interests of management are aligned with those of our shareholders.
Alignment with the wider Group The reward principles that govern Executive Directors reflect the broader reward philosophy and principles of the Group.
When determining remuneration for Executive Directors the Committee considers the pay and conditions of the wider employee population.
UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45
