Vesuvius plc 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 group at a glance We are a truly global Group, with a business model based upon production at close proximity to our customers Americas 32% EMEA 3,008 68% Employees Revenue 672.3m Production sites 16 2012: 671.8m Sales offices 18 R&D centres 2 23% Americas 77% Revenue 481.3m 2012: 499.2m Asia-Pacific Key to map Revenue 55% 45% Production Sites 356.9m Sales Ofces 2012: 376.5m R&D Centres 1.
Employee numbers as at 31 December 2013, excluding JVs Steel Foundry www.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 03 IntroductIon to vesuvIus Europe, Middle East and Africa 5,400 Employees Production sites 36 Sales offices 45 Asia-Pacific R&D centres 6 2,443 Employees Production sites 17 Sales offices 28 Key to map R&D centres 3 Production Sites Sales Ofces R&D Centres 1.
Employee numbers as at 31 December 2013, excluding JVs www.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 Vesuvius plc 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Steel division Foundry division The continuous casting of steel is a highly demanding Vesuvius Foundry division, trading as Foseco, is a world leader process that is critically dependent upon consistent product in the supply of consumable products and associated services quality and optimised production.
Vesuvius provides systems, for use in the foundry casting industry.
products and services that allow steel mills to control the The foundry process is highly sequential and, similar to flow of molten metal in the continuous and ingot casting the continuous casting of steel, is critically dependent on processes.
Our products protect the steel from oxidation and consistency of quality and productivity optimisation.
The chemical contamination, increasing efficiency and productivity, Foundry divisions solutions allow foundries to reduce defects enhancing quality, reducing environmental footprint and and hence reduce labour-intensive fettling and cleaning, improving the safety of the casting process.
minimise metal usage requirements hence reducing Steel Flow Control supplies products used to channel cost, energy usage and mould size, influence the metal and control the flow of molten steel from ladle to tundish solidification process increasing metal performance and and from tundish to mould: slide-gate refractories for reducing the weight of pieces and automate the moulding furnace, ladle and tundish: slide gate systems: temperature and casting process for gains in productivity, ease of measurement and slag level detection: tundish and mould reproduction and overall yield.
fluxes: and control devices to monitor and regulate steel flow The conditioning of molten metal, the nature of the mould into the mould.
used and, especially, the design of the way metal flows into These products have been designed to resist extreme the mould are key parameters in a foundry, determining both thermomechanical stress and corrosive environments.
The the quality of the finished castings and the labour, energy majority of these products are consumed during the process of and metal usage efficiency of the foundry.
Vesuvius provides making steel and, consequently, demand is primarily linked to consumable products and associated services to foundries steel production volumes.
Products of the Advanced Refractories product line include specialist refractory materials for lining steelmaking vessels such as blast furnaces, ladles and tundishes.
These are in the form of powder mixes, which are spray-applied onto the vessel to be lined monolithics and, to a lesser extent, refractory shapes e. g. bricks, pads and dams.
Vesuvius is one of the worlds largest manufacturers of monolithic refractory linings for vessels subject to extreme temperatures, corrosion and abrasion.
Key success factors in the Advanced Refractories product line are installation technologies, products adapted to fit customers processes and effective and efficient logistics services.
These factors are successfully combined by Vesuvius R&D centres, its knowledge of customers processes and its project management capability to deliver market-leading solutions to our customers.
