William Hill PLC 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS ReMUNeRATION RepORT Dear shareholder, However, despite our strong results in 2013, profit before interest and tax, our Following my appointment as Chair primary annual bonus measure, did not of the Remuneration Committee the meet the stretching targets set by the Committee in January 2013, I am pleased Committee, including a Threshold level to present the Directors Remuneration which would permit the Committee Report for the financial period which to also consider performance against ended on 31 December 2013. personal objectives.
Therefore no annual We have undertaken a maJor bonus awards have been made to the During 2013, William Hill established a revieW of our remuneration second home territory in Australia and Chief Executive or the Group Finance arranGements durinG the Director in respect of 2013, despite both completed the acquisition of Playtechs year.
We firmly believe that 29% stake in William Hill Online.
We also executives meeting many of their individual our proposed remuneration performance objectives for the year.
delivered another strong set of results.
poliCy Will ensure that our Over the past five years, William Hill has eXeCutive team are inCentivised Approach for 2014 been transformed from a predominately to GroW our business and The Committee is fully aware of the UK Retail business to an international deliver above market returns importance of incentivising and retaining leader in our sector, particularly with our to shareholders over the neXt members of our industry-leading executive online operations.
The Board has also started a Given these changes, during 2013 search for a successor to Ralph Topping who has confirmed his intention to retire.
the Committee decided to review remuneration arrangements for senior We need to be able to offer appropriate remuneration packages to new recruits executives.
This was a comprehensive review of all aspects of remuneration including a new Chief Executive in a very competitive market for talent.
and how it could support the further development of William Hill.
The Committee also wants our current Chief Executive to be appropriately We see significant growth opportunities, particularly in mobile and in selected incentivised to drive the business forward over the remainder of his tenure, and to markets outside the UK.
We recognise, however, the challenges we face, leave a strong foundation in place for his successor.
In determining our proposals including the likely introduction of a new Point of Consumption Tax POCT in the for 2014, the Committee recognised that executive director remuneration, UK affecting our Online business from December 2014.
The gambling industry particularly incentive provision, was significantly behind market levels for an is at a critical juncture and the Board is focused on unlocking and fully exploiting increasingly international company of our complexity and size.
We were also guided opportunities as they arise to enable the Group to continue delivering above market by what we felt was best for the on-going success of William Hill whilst recognising returns for our shareholders.
changing expectations regarding Highlights from 2013 remuneration policy amongst investors.
The Groups strong earnings per share EPS growth and upper quartile total shareholder return TSR performance over the last four years have resulted in 2010 and 2011 PSP awards vesting in full, based on performance to 31 December 2013.
The Committee considers that the long-term incentive payouts are representative of performance over the respective periods.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
