02 Introduction Group at a Glance Over 75 years, from post-war regeneration and the advent of nuclear engineering to high speed rail and the integrated sustainable cities of the future, our peoples drive to ask why has delivered design, engineering and project management excellence on some of the worlds most complex challenges.
Our business segments United Kingdom North America The Group is managed according to a regional model and this management We deliver engineering and technically We provide infrastructure planning, structure is reflected in our segmentation.
integrated design, together with project engineering, construction management, and cost management services, to a wide environmental consulting, urban planning, range of clients in the public, regulated and programme management services to and private sectors.
Our areas of state and local government clients, federal operation include, aerospace, defence, agencies and private businesses.
education, environment, infrastructure design, transportation and water.
Relative size of segment by revenue Relative size of segment by revenue Revenue Revenue 900.3m 389.7m Employees Employees 9,374 3,039 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Introduction 03 Middle East Asia Pacific and Europe Energy In the Middle East we provide a full In Asia Pacific we provide engineering, Our Energy business operates across range of design, engineering and project planning, urban design, architecture and multiple geographies with our main management services for buildings, rail design services.
In mainland China our centres in the UK, North America, transportation and other infrastructure focus is on urban planning, alongside Australia and the Middle East.
We provide programmes from our eight centres across architecture and landscape architecture engineering and project management the region.
In Hong Kong we deliver services services and we are actively increasing in urban rail development and highways our presence and capabilities in the bridges design.
Our European business energy market, including addressing comprises operations in Denmark, Ireland, allied issues such as climate change, Norway, Poland, Portugal and Sweden.
Relative size of segment by revenue Relative size of segment by revenue Relative size of segment by revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue 162.2m 164.8m 151.9m Employees Employees Employees 1,979 2,055 1,376 Employee notes 1.
F ull time equivalent staff at 31 March 2013 including agency staff.
There are an additional 76 staff undertaking Group functions.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Introduction
