Our business at a glance Industrial The Industrial sector presently includes ceramic tile Xaar is a world leader in the development of inkjet technology decoration, decorative laminate, and advanced additive and a manufacturer of piezoelectric drop-on-demand manufacturing processes.
industrial inkjet printheads, the key component in a digital printing system.
Unlike analogue printing, digital printing requires no physical master image to copy from, and hence enables economic short run, or variable data, printing.
The Revenue printhead is the device which converts the electronic image data into the physical image on the substrate.
To achieve this, 98.2m Xaar technology is a combination of high speed mixed signal 2012: 55.0m electronics, micro-mechanics, and fluid dynamics.
Contribution to 2013 adjusted revenue Our flagship printhead is the Xaar 1001, but our full range includes numerous other printheads.
A typical industrial inkjet machine could be firing up to 300 million drops of ink per 73% 2012: 64% second thats over 1 trillion drops per hour, all controlled within the picolitre range of volume and the micron range of placement accuracy a picolitre is a millionth of a millionth Packaging of a litre, and a micron is a millionth of a metre.
The Packaging sector presently includes primary labels, secondary labels, coding and marking, and direct-to-shape printing.
Revenue 15.7m 2012: 12.0m Contribution to 2013 adjusted revenue Xaar sells its technology in component form the printhead 12% to Original Equipment Manufacturers OEMs who produce 2012: 14% and sell the end digital printing product to the end market.
In addition to our close engagement with OEMs we also actively Graphic Arts partner and co-develop with fluid suppliers, hardware and software integrators, and substrate suppliers to deliver a The Graphic Arts sector presently includes Grand Widerobust and attractive total solution to the end user.
Our technology is used all over the world in a wide range of manufacturing applications.
We design and manufacture our printheads in the UK and Sweden, exporting over 90% of our production to customers Revenue around the world.
We also develop and sell ink systems, electronics, and fluid optimisation services to accelerate 13.3m inkjet system development and adoption.
2012 13.1m Contribution to 2013 adjusted revenue 10% 2012: 15% 4 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Ceramic tile production Decorative laminates Advanced additive manufacturing 2 Ceramics is a 10.5 billon m market currently and Decorative laminates is estimated to be at Applications include demand for the fine coating, 2 digital conversion was estimated to be around 7.9 billon m of annual output with c. 1,600 patterning and printing of functional fluids onto 40% at the end of 2013.
There are c. 10,000 production lines around the world supplying numerous substrates in numerous industries.
production lines around the world, with almost simulated wood materials to the furniture and The square meterage of these types of half of these in China.
Decoration is the key feature building industries.
Decoration is often the key applications is smaller than many mainstream which sells the tile.
Xaar digital inkjet solution feature which sells the board plank finished item printing processes: however, the value of the provides an end result which is superior in terms and digital quality is now being demonstrated fluid deposition process is considerably higher.
of image quality, at a lower cost, plus with the which matches the analogue process, thereby Applications are challenging and push inkjet to advantages of flexibility, inventory reduction, offering the opportunity for more economic its known limits and beyond in fields such as and larger tile size capability.
Tile manufacturing short run work to be undertaken whilst reducing nano imprinting, solar cell manufacturing and operates in a harsh industrial environment with inventories and improving time to market.
Xaar has been high reliability duty cycle requirements: hence any is the only digital solution which meets the high working with multiple partners in laboratories technology deployed needs to be appropriately reliability and high duty cycle requirements all over the world exploring what may be possible robust.
The market has been moving to digital needed within this industry.
Digital adoption in the future.
Technical progress is promising but inkjet decoration over the last ten years but is still at the very early stages in this application, volume commercial implementation of many of the pace of change has recently accelerated and the rate of adoption is expected to grow these applications is still believed to be some significantly because the Xaar 1001 with TF over the next few years.
Technology delivers both quality and cost advantages over traditional analogue methods within a robust architecture suitable to this harsh environment.
Coding and marking Primary label Direct-to-shape Coding and marking is an application of printing Primary label printing is estimated to be Direct-to-shape is a new application 2 predominantly monochrome bar codes and a market producing over 55 billion m annually, where the bottles and containers are directly logos on outer case secondary packaging of with only 5% of this market converted to digital imaged without the need for a label.
This is an established and printing to date.
The change driver is the delivery emerging sector will undergo first field trials stable business based on bulk piezo which of lower cost per copy on run lengths up to during 2014.
The solution is aimed at shortening competes with alternative technologies 100,000 impressions versus only 50,000 time to market whilst simultaneously reducing including laser and thermal inkjet.
There is a large range inventory and unit costs versus existing of substrates and inks in this application which methods.
This approach also enables mass adds complication to the conversion process: customised marketing and event targeting.
however, over the past year progress in this space is clear.
Adjusted revenue m Grand Wide-format graphics Grand Wide-format graphics GWFG 160 includes both internal and external signage and advertising, including billboards, posters 140 and point of sale advertising.
It is the most mature industrial inkjet market, active for over 120 15 years.
Xaars growth to date has been based on its original set of bulk piezo products, which 100 delivered annual growth from 2003 to 2007.
To stimulate further material growth for Xaar 80 new product developments are required to enhance the portfolio, the first of which is 60 expected to launch during 2014.
40 20 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Industrial Packaging Graphic Arts Royalties www.
