Investment Advisers review Foreign exchange impact Underlying asset Summary of valuation As shown in Table 2 below, the reported performance methodology foreign exchange gain on investments of 12.1 million reduced to a net 1.6 million The fully operational investments held by Investment valuations are calculated at the gain after other foreign exchange related the Company delivered a steady performance halfyear and at the financial year end by the movements, including the impact of the during the year.
Earnings before interest, Investment Adviser and then reviewed and foreign exchange hedging programme.
tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA approved by the Board.
Investments are for these investments increased by 2.8% reported at the Directors estimate of fair The Indian rupee depreciated marginally on a like-for-like basis relative to the prior valueat the reporting date.
against sterling in the year, resulting in net year.
EBITDA for the European investments foreign exchange losses of 0.9 million for the The valuation principles used are based increased by 3.4% on the prior year.
The Board monitors both the rupee onInternational Private Equity and Venture Specically, AWG, Eversholt and Oystercatcher exposure and the cost benefit of hedging that Capital valuation guidelines, generally using saw year-on-year increases of 2.1%, 2.8% and exposure on a regular basis.
adiscounted cash ow DCF methodology 8.4% respectively.
except where a market quote is available, The euro appreciated by 1.5% against sterling The 2.8% overall gure is calculated on a which the Board considers to be the most during the year, but the resulting foreign weighted average basis and the investments appropriate valuation methodology for exchange gains were partially offset through included in this analysis are those that have unquoted infrastructure equity investments.
the foreign exchange hedgingprogramme been operational and held by the Company Where the DCF methodology is used, the undertaken to provide mitigation from for one year or more: AWG, Eversholt, resulting valuation is checked against other movements in that exchange rate, resulting Oystercatcher, Elgin underlying project valuation benchmarks relevant to the in a net positive impact of only 2.5million.
companies and Octagon and, within the particular investment, including for example: 3i India Infrastructure Fund, Adani Power, Overall, the net impact for the year was a Krishnapatnam Port, Soma Enterprise, earnings multiples: foreign exchange gain of 1.6 million 2012: GVK Energy and KMC Roads.
recent transactions: quoted market comparables: and regulated asset base multiples.
Table 2 Impact of foreign exchange movements on portfolio value year to 31 March 2013, m Net rupee impact Translation of assets US$ 6.3 6.3 Translation of assets 5.8 5.8 Reported foreign exchange gain on investments 12.1 1 Asset valuation US$ rupee 7.2 7.2 Movement in the fair value of derivative financial instruments hedging 3.3 3.3 Other foreign exchange movements 10.5 Net foreign exchange gains losses 0.9 2.5 1.6 1 Contained within Unrealised profits losses on revaluation of investments in Table 3 on page 40.
22 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Investment Advisersreview AWG Discounted cash ow and Dalmore Capital Fund and The discount rate used to value AWG was discount rates 3i India Infrastructure Fund reduced to reect: i the valuations achieved As at 31 March 2013, 97.5% of the portfolio The Companys investment in Dalmore and in inrecent transactions in the UK water sector wasvalued on a DCF basis.
The weighted the India Fund was valued as the Companys eg Sutton and East Surrey Water : ii the sale average discount rate applied at that date share of net assets held by those funds.
Within of Morrison Facilities Services, valued at a was12.0% March 2012: 12.6%, deriving from the India Fund valuation, Adani Power, which higher discount rate compared to the core arange of 8.2% for an operational PFI asset has been a listed company since August 2009, water and wastewater business: iii the to19.0% for a project within the 3i India was valued on a mark-to-market basis using Companys continued ability to renance its Infrastructure Fund.
Chart 9 shows the closing bid prices.
All other assets were valued debt in the market at attractive rates, as movement in the weighted average discount on a DCF basis, with the exception of a portion reected in the continued narrowing of the rate applied to the portfolio at the end of of Soma Enterprises valuation, which was spread between AWG bond yields and UK gilts: each six-month period since the Companys calculated using earnings multiples, and a and iv the reduced uncertainty in relation to inception.
small element of the Krishnapatnam Port the regulatory licences.
valuation, derived from the value attributable The discount rate applied to each investment to a put option, which provides downside Oystercatcher isreviewed at each valuation date.
The discount rate used to value Oystercatcher selected reects the risk inherent in the was reduced to reect a fide-risking of the business, taking into account sustained investment following the successful movements in the risk-free rates of return renancing of the acquisition debt facility inthe relevant country and appropriate risk in March 2013.
The discount rate to value premia.
Risk-free rates equating to 10 30-year Oystercatcher had been increased in March government bond yields in our relevant 2012 due to the approaching renancing.
markets have remained at since the September 2012 valuation and, as such, India this did not drive changes to the discount The discount rates applied to value projects rates applied at 31 March 2013. across the India Funds portfolio, based on Our assessment of risk premia and current their stage of development, remained broadly market pricing, however, resulted in the unchanged.
The discount rates used to value following changes to discount rates being some individual projects within KMC Roads applied at the end of the year: were reduced, as development milestones were reached.
In addition, the discount rate used to value Krishnapatnam Port was reduced slightly to reect greater confidence in cargo volumes.
These changes had no material impact on the overall discount rate applied across the India Fund.
Chart 9 Portfolio weighted average discount rate % 19.0 13.8 13.2 12.6 12.5 12.4 12.0 8.2 Mar 08 Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 Mar 13 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 23
