OUR STRATEGIC BUSINESSES ARE STRATEGIC REPORT RETAIL BANKING, CORPORATE BANKING OVERVIEW: AND INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT.
AT A GLANCE Bank of Georgia is the largest bank in Georgia with approximately one-third of market share by assets, loans and deposits see page 16 for more details and our strategic businesses accounted in 2013 for 79.6% of the Groups revenue and 86.4% of the Groups assets as of 31 December 2013.
Our synergistic businesses primarily comprise our Insurance and Healthcare and Affordable Housing businesses.
Our non-core businesses primarily comprise banking operations in Belarus.
94% of our business is based in Georgia, our main country of operations.
RETAIL CORPORATE BANKING BANKING THE STRUCTURE OF OUR BUSINESS For more information on our business activities, see page 36 We operate the largest retail bank in Georgia Bank of Georgia is the countrys largest serving more than 1.2 million customers corporate lender with unmatched sector through 202 branches, 496 ATMs and 985 knowledge and local expertise.
Our dedicated Express Pay Self-Service Terminals and bankers serve more than 7,200 businesses have a sales force of more than 2,000. in the country, extending loans and other In order to better serve the different needs of credit facilities to businesses in various our customers, in addition to the traditional sectors of the economy such as trade, banking services, Retail Banking offers energy, industry and tourism, among others.
These Our Corporate Banking business offers the include the well-recognised brands Solo most comprehensive range of products and Banking, a premier banking service, and the services in the country to provide flexibility and most recently launched Express Banking, choice to our corporate clients.
Corporate which aims to expand our payment services Banking serves as the countrys leading trade through various distance channels including finance business and provides leasing ATMs, Express Pay Terminals, internet and services through the Groups wholly-owned mobile banking and the provision of simple subsidiary Georgian Leasing Company GLC.
and clear products and services to our existing customers as well as the emerging bankable population.
See pages 38 and 39 for more information.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 2 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 Share in Groups revenue 2013, % Share in Groups profit 2013, % Share in Groups assets 2013, % 0.3 2.0 2.3 3.7 7.5 6.0 0.3 11.5 5.6 1.3 10.6 1.8 40.1 48.4 48.2 35.0 29.4 46.0 Retail Banking Retail Banking Retail Banking Corporate Banking Corporate Banking Corporate Banking Investment Management Investment Management Investment Management Insurance and Healthcare Insurance and Healthcare Insurance and Healthcare Affordable Housing Affordable Housing Affordable Housing Other Other Other Excludes inter-segment eliminations.
Other includes Belarusky Narodny Bank BNB, BG Capital BGC, Liberty Consumer and Corporate Centre.
INVESTMENT INSURANCE AND AFFORDABLE MANAGEMENT HEALTHCARE HOUSING Investment Management consists of our Our wholly-owned Insurance and Healthcare Our Affordable Housing business develops, Asset and Wealth Management business subsidiary Aldagi is Georgias leading life and sells and manages residential apartments and our Research platform, launched in 2012. non-life insurance and healthcare provider.
through the Banks wholly-owned Our Investment Management business is also Aldagis operations are made up of two subsidiary m2 Real Estate.
m2 Real Estate complemented by an advisory brokerage distinct, but strategically aligned, business develops residential property on real estate service.
These businesses combine our platforms: Aldagi Insurance and Aldagi assets previously repossessed by the Bank, superior knowledge and capabilities in Healthcare.
Aldagi Insurance covers more than outsources the construction and architecture the Georgian and neighbouring markets 800,000 insured clients through its extensive works while focusing on project management both in terms of reach and expertise.
distribution channels, country-wide agency and sales.
The Banks real estate business is Our Research department currently network and strong sales force.
Aldagi in place to meet the unsatisfied demand for covers Georgian and Azeri economies Healthcare is the largest healthcare provider housing while stimulating our mortgage lending and publishes Georgian sector research.
in Georgia with 36 healthcare facilities and business.
Having successfully completed its Our Asset and Wealth Management 1,907 hospital beds as of 31 March 2014. first two residential projects with an IRR of business comprises private banking above 30% for both projects, m2 Real Estate services to high-net-worth individuals has become the most recognisable and in Georgia and the provision of information trustworthy residential housing brand in relating to Investment Management the country.
products and services internationally, through the representative offices in London, Budapest, Istanbul and Tel Aviv.
Investment Management serves international clients from more than 60 countries.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 3
