BP at a glance BP delivers energy products Finding Developing and extracting oil and gas oil and gas and services to people around the world.
First, we acquire exploration rights, Once we have found then we search for hydrocarbons hydrocarbons, we work to bring Through our two main operating segments, beneath the earths surface.
Upstream and Downstream, we nd, develop and produce essential sources of energy, turning them into products that people need.
We also buy and sell at each stage of the hydrocarbon value chain.
In renewable energy, our activities are focused on biofuels and wind.
We also have a 19.75% shareholding in Rosneft.
Business model For more information on our business model see page 12.
Our group key performance indicators KPIs are shown on page 18.
Some of the financial KPIs are not recognized GAAP measures, but are provided for investors because they are closely tracked by management to evaluate BPs operating performance and to make financial, strategic and operating decisions.
Our Upstream segment manages exploration, Group Upstream development and production activities through BP p. l. c. is the parent company of global functions with specialist areas of the BP group of companies.
worldwide headquarters is in London.
See Upstream page 25. e Upstream proved reserves 2 $23.5bn $21.1bn $16.7bn 43,000km 4 1 profit attributable to operating cash replacement cost profit new exploration access a BP shareholders ow before interest and tax % 16.2 3.2 2.3 3 2 3 gearing net million barrels of oil million barrels of oil Upstream major project start-ups b c f debt ratio equivalent per day Liquids equivalent per day 1.
Equity-accounted entities 745 Total 5,094 a See footnote a on page 56. b Net debt is not a recognized Natural gas 31 GAAP measure, see 3.
Subsidiaries 5,894 e Financial statements Million barrels of oil equivalent.
Natural gas is converted to oil equivalent 4.
Equity-accounted entities 434 fewer reported Note 28. at 5.8 billion cubic feet bcf 1 million barrels.
Excludes BPs share of Total 6,328 losses of primary c See footnote g on page 24.
See Rosneft on page 36. d d f containment Compared with 2012.
Liquids comprise crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and bitumen.
2 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Strategic report Strategic report All data provided on pages 2-5 is at or for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Transporting and trading Manufacturing Marketing oil and gas fuels and products fuels and products We move hydrocarbons using pipelines, We rene, process and blend We supply our customers with fuel for ships, trucks and trains and we capture hydrocarbons to make fuels, lubricants transportation, energy for heat and light, lubricants value across the supply chain.
to keep engines moving and the petrochemicals required to make a variety of everyday items.
Fuels Lubricants Petrochemicals Investing in renewable energy International oil and We develop and invest in biofuels and operate a gas markets wind business.
BPs lower-carbon businesses are managed through our Alternative Energy business.
Biofuels Downstream Our Downstream segment operates hydrocarbon value chains covering three main businesses fuels, lubricants and petrochemicals.
See Alternative Energy page 37. g Operating capital employed $2.9bn 1.8 7.4 1 3 replacement cost profit million barrels of oil rened million tonnes of biofuels total sugar 2 before interest and tax per day cane crush capacity per annum % 13.9 40 1,590MW h million tonnes of petrochemicals of our lubricants sales were net wind generation capacity produced in the year premium grades 1.
Petrochemicals $5.4bn g h Operating capital employed is total assets excluding goodwill less total liabilities, Includes 32MW of capacity in the Netherlands, which is excluding finance debt and current and deferred taxation.
managed by our Downstream segment.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 3
