Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 At a glance The group has two divisions.
Vanquis Bank comprises both the well-established UK credit card business and our pilot operation in Poland.
The Consumer Credit Division encompasses the traditional home credit business which stretches back to the companys foundation in 1880, alongside the recently launched Satsuma loans business extending our offering into the fast-growing online instalment loans arena.
Quick facts Our business 1.6bn 2.6m year-end 3,600 customers receivables employees See pages 40-41 for more Our marketplace 69bn major 18% lent to changes to of total UK lending non-standard regulatory was to the nonSee pages 28-31 credit sector framework standard market for more sector Our corporate lend care strong responsibility appropriately for our customers governance and communities See pages 32-39 for more 04 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Provident Financial Group Consumer Vanquis Bank Credit Division Satsuma Provident UK Overseas Personal Credit loans What we do What we do What we do Vanquis Bank is the leading supplier of credit cards in the Provident Personal Credit Satsuma loans is our non-standard credit market.
We give new customers a low offers home credit loans, new, online instalment credit limit, as low as 250, and only increase that when we have typically of a few hundred loan product.
We collect sufficient experience of the customer handling their account pounds, through a network repayments by continuous responsibly.
We maintain a high level of contact with customers, of 9,000 local agents who payment authority, once a from the initial call welcoming the customer to Vanquis Bank and call each week at 1.5 million week only, on a day agreed continuing throughout our relationship.
customers homes in the with the customer.
Agents are UK-based call centre is Our products primarily paid commission always there to discuss any on what they collect, not issues customers may have.
Visa credit cards with a representative 39.9% APR.
what they lend, so it is in Just like our home credit 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5-year, fixed-rate deposit accounts for savers.
their interests not to lend product, the total amount more than customers can repayable is fixed at the Customer profile repay.
The total amount outset, so there are no extra Socio-economic groups C1, C2 and D, 52% men, annual household repayable is fixed at the charges whatsoever.
income of 15,000 to 30,000, typically full-time employment, outset, so there are no extra mostly tenants, average balance of 780, 88% customer Our products charges whatsoever.
satisfaction, loans used for internet spending, utility everyday Online loans repayable in spending.
Our products weekly instalments over Amounts, typically of a few 13 or 26 weeks.
Loans are Vanquis Bank in Poland hundred pounds, in the form for up to 300 for new We are testing the market in Poland with the Vanquis Bank credit of cash, shopping vouchers customers with a maximum card.
Following the passporting of our UK banking licence into or our 24 7 re-loadable of 800 for customers with Poland in April 2012, we have been operating at a pilot level to MasterCard.
whom we have built up testthe various channels of distribution and to build and refine some experience.
We have now successfully developed the Customer profile credit tools necessary to deliver our target returns.
The current Customer profile Socio-economic groups focus is on the development, marketing and distribution of the C2, Dand E, 62% women, 54% women, average product proposition.
average household net customer net weekly weekly income of 280, income of 363, generally part-time casual manual in full-time or part-time employment, mostly tenants, employment, mostly living average loan of 500, with parents, taking an 93% customer satisfaction, average loan of 260, loans used for Christmas, typically using the loans household items, holidays.
for personal items, family, vehicle repairs.
