Schroders at a glance We have built a diversified business across client types, asset classes and regions.
We believe this offers defensive characteristics at a time of challenging markets and aboveaverage growth potential in the long term.
We are diverse in terms of Clients We manage assets on behalf of institutional and retail investors, financial institutions and high net worth clients from around the world.
No client accounts for more than two per cent.
Assets under management Awards European Asset Management Firm of the Decade 2000 2010 Financial News Awards for Excellence in Institutional Asset Management Investment Innovation of the Year UK Pensions Awards 2013 Institutional 55% Intermediary 34% Investment Management Wealth Management 11% Award Winner Charity Times Awards 2013 We have a long-term focus Creating enduring client relationships We seek to build long-term relationships with our clients and to gain a deep understanding of their investment objectives.
Supported by a strong At 31 December 2013, shareholders equity was 2.3 billion.
Maintaining a strong financial position enables us to take a long-term view of growth financial position opportunities.
We have no debt and hold capital significantly in excess of regulatory requirements.
2.3 billion Shareholders equity 2012: 2.1 billion 2 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Overview Assets Geography We invest in a broad range of asset classes across equities, We operate from 37 offices in 27 different countries, managing fixed income, multi-asset, alternatives and property.
In addition local and international investment products for local and to institutional segregated mandates, we offer over 650 funds international clients.
Assets under management Awards Assets under management Awards Best Multi-asset Fund Fund Manager of the Year House Australia Morningstar UK Money Management Lonsec Awards Best Larger Equity Best Fund House Larger House Equity Spain Morningstar UK Morningstar Spain Gold Award Asia Pacific Winner UK Equity ex Japan Equity Lipper Awards Europe Portfolio Adviser Fund Awards 2013 Equities 45% UK 41% Multi-asset 20% Winner UK Equities UK Asia 24% Winner UK Equity Equity Small & Mid Cap Lipper Awards Austria Fixed Income 17% Europe and Middle East 20% Lipper Awards UK Americas 15% Emerging Market Debt, Commodities and Property 7% Wealth Management 11% By client domicile See page 4 for more information Investing in innovation Growing our business We develop investment products and solutions to We focus on the long term as we invest in meet the changing needs of our clients.
We also future growth opportunities for our business.
invest our own capital in building a track record in new investment strategies before bringing them to the market.
Investment capital is the capital held in excess of operational Schroders in London is rated Highest Standards by the independent and regulatory requirements.
It allows us to invest in both organic ratings agency, Fitch.
This is the highest possible rating for an asset and inorganic growth opportunities.
Investment capital declined manager and recognises our long history, diversified business model in 2013, following the acquisition of Cazenove Capital see page 5. and financial stability.
Investment capital In 2013, Schroders was again named one of Britains most m admired companies for its financial 2011 837 strength by Management Today.
