4 OVERVIEW AT A GLANCE PROVIDING A CLEAR LINE OF SIGHT OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES OUR PERFORMANCE Our strategy is founded on the two pillars of Disciplined We have delivered tangible results against our Capital Allocation and Operational Excellence which, if strategic objectives, but recognise that there underpinned by an efficient and prudent capital structure remains more to do.
and lean overhead base, should translate into attractive shareholder returns.
For more information see page 11.
In November 2011, we published our four strategic priorities to deliver our goals.
OUR BUSINESS We sold 591 million of assets at an RESHAPING THE average 4.7 per cent above December 2012 MODEL EXISTINGPORTFOLIO book values and at atopped-up yield of 7.2per cent.
We want to be the best European We generated a total property return TPR owner-manager and developer of To focus on high-quality, modern of 10.7 per cent.
Our UK portfolio TPR was warehousing and light industrial assets warehouse industrial properties 14.0 per cent outperforming the IPD UK in the strongest markets and to be a leading incomebenchmark TPR of 12.7percent.
BUY SMART DELIVERING PROFITABLE We acquired 141 million of land and standing GROWTH THROUGH We acquire land and buildings in assets, the latter at a yield of 7.1 per cent.
DEVELOPMENT AND European countries and regions We deployed 108 million into our ACQUISITION which offer attractive income and development pipeline, completing 15 projects, capital growth potential.
85 per cent let at 31 December 2013, To take advantage of development and generating 6.6 million of rent when fully let.
acquisition opportunities which meet or exceed ADD VALUE Our pipeline contains 18 projects which are our targetrates of return and enhance the 60per cent pre-let.
quality of our portfolio We manage each of our assets to enhance their capital and income returns through lease initiatives, We reduced Group net debt by 631 million, REDUCING NET DEBT AND refurbishment and development.
INTRODUCING THIRD reducing our look-through LTV to 42 per PARTY CAPITAL cent from 51 per cent at 31 December 2012.
SELL WELL We created the SEGRO European Logistics We assess the future return Partnership joint venture, seeding it with To create a capital structure which seeks to and risk prole of each of our 1 billion of Continental European big box enhance our return on equity on a sustainable assets and will sell if we believe logistics assets and development land.
basis throughout the property cycle without that disposal will generate a taking undue risk higher risk-adjusted return than continuing to hold the asset.
27 million of rental income contracted DRIVING OUR OPERATIONAL compared to 21 million of take-backs PERFORMANCE excluding Neckermann.
Like-for-like net rental income fell 1.5 per cent.
To improve total property returns through Cost ratio rose to 24.2 per cent excellent asset management and customer 2012: 22.9 per cent despite a 7 per cent fall service, whilst keeping tight control on costs in administrative expenses.
EPRA vacancy rate is 8.5 per cent 2012: 8.2 per cent.
76 per cent of our customers rated us good or excellent 2012: 72 per cent.
FOR MORE DETAIL, SEE: FINANCIAL REVIEW PAGE 48 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 5 OUR KPIs OUR FUTURE OUR RISK AWARENESS We will continue to manage the Group in line Equity market volatility and relative 43.2% with our four strategic priorities.
performance of peers can impact the TOTAL performance of SEGROs shares.
SHAREHOLDER We will deploy our asset base, capital structure RETURN and management expertise to generate Our performance is also dependent on attractive returns in 2014 and beyond, without macro-economic conditions as well as changes taking undue risk.
in government policies and in the commercial real estate environment.
We will continue to sell our non-core assets The investor appetite for commercial real but we will also sell core assets if their risk estate could impact the valuation of our 10.7% 312P 42% TOTAL EPRA NAV LTV return prole does not meet our targets.
assets, our ability to sell at prices in line PROPERTY PER SHARE with current valuation and our ability to RETURN There were 440 million of non-core assets acquire assets at prices which meet our on the balance sheet at 31 December 2013 return criteria.
A poor macro-economic environment could impact our tenants ability to pay their rent.
We will continue to source new acquisitions We are dependent on equity and debt markets for funding, as well as on our ability 10.7% 17.
7P in our core markets which enhance our 8.5% TOTAL EPRA EPS EPRA return and risk prole.
to raise proceeds from disposals.
PROPERTY VACANCY RETURN RATE We have 18 development projects in Any disruption to equity or debt capital our pipeline at 31 December, which markets could limit our ability to fund are 60 percent pre-let at 31 December acquisitions and developments.
We will add to our development programme in 2014.
We retain our longer-term term target Our LTV is dependent both on the quantum of a 40 per cent look-through LTV ratio.
of debt on our and our joint ventures 42% LTV balance sheet, which depends on the level The LTV could uctuate depending on the of capital investment, our ability to sell timing and extent of acquisitions, disposals assets, and on the value of our assets which and development expenditure.
depends on the health of the commercial real estate environment and the pricing of other asset classes.
We aim to generate positive rent roll Our operational performance is dependent growthfrom standing assets.
on the financial health of our customers and 17.
7P 24.2% 76% EPRA EPS TOTAL CUSTOMER other stakeholders.
We target a vacancy rate of between COST RATIO SATISFACTION 6percent and 8 per cent over the A weak or uncertain economy can long-term.
cause occupiers to reduce their space requirements and may impact their ability We retain our target total cost ratio of 8.5% 10.7% topay rent and other property charges.
20percent although achieving this is EPRA TOTAL dependent on both cost control and The actions of competitors can impact our VACANCY PROPERTY RATE RETURN thelevel of gross rental income.
operational performance, inuencing rental levels and yields.
We aim to at least maintain our level ofcustomer satisfaction.
KPIs PAGE 12 FINANCIAL REVIEW PAGE 48 PRINCIPAL RISKS PAGE 32
