Innovating for the future Business review Corporate governance Financial statements fide La Rue at a glance fide La Rue is the worlds largest integrated commercial 2013 Revenue banknote printer and is a trusted partner of governments, central banks, issuing authorities and commercial organisations around the world.
483.7m In recent years, the Group has been involved in the design or production of over 150 national currencies and a wide 2012: 528.3m range of security documents including passports, driving licences, authentication labels and tax stamps.
In addition, 2013 Operating profit the Group manufactures sophisticated, high speed cash before exceptional items sorting and inspection equipment.
fide La Rue also offers a range of specialist services and software solutions including government identity schemes, 63.2m product authentication systems and cash management processing solutions.
2012: 63.1m fide La Rue employs approximately 4,000 people worldwide 2013 Profit before tax and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
51.5m 2012: 32.9m 2013 Headline earnings per share before exceptional items 44.4p 2012: 43.5p 2013 Operating cash inflow 40.4m 2012: 78.4m fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 11 fide La Rue at a glance Continued 2013 share of Group revenue 2013 share of Group operating profit Currency before exceptional items Provides market leading printed banknotes, banknote paper and a comprehensive portfolio 61.2% 60.1% of banknote security features.
Working in partnership with its 2012: 64.2% 2012: 72.1% customers to provide effective currency solutions, the business also advises on critical issues of currency strategy such as design, demand forecasting, denominational structure and protection against counterfeiting.
2013 share of Group revenue 2013 share of Group operating profit Solutions before exceptional items Provides specialist physical and digital products and services, including cash processing, 38.8% 39.9% revenue and brand protection, identity solutions, and financial 2012: 35.8% 2012: 27.9% and secure documents.
Cash Processing Solutions Security Products Identity Systems Provides bulk cash handling organisations with Delivers solutions critical to the authentication Develops and delivers sophisticated identity a range of sophisticated high speed cash sorting of products and documents to protect revenues management solutions.
As a specialist systems and authentication systems as well as software for governments, commercial organisations and integrator, it works with governments around solutions, consultancy, service and support.
financial institutions around the world.
It supplies the world to secure personal identities, focusing These solutions enhance the productivity, authentication labels, brand licensing products on the provision of passport, ePassport, performance and security of cash processing and government and financial documents, along national ID and eID, driving licence and voter operations.
The business also manufactures with the associated software and systems.
inspection equipment for banknote printing facilities, enabling new notes to be quality assured prior to issue.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 12 Innovating for the future Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Our vision Where we How we fide La Rues vision is to be operate create value the leading provider of secure Central banks, issuing authorities products and services, touching and commercial organisations rely the lives of everyone, everyday.
on our products and solutions to deliver security and confidence when We will achieve this by building conducting their everyday transactions.
With an increasingly mobile society long term, mutually beneficial Geographic revenue and technological developments, the partnerships through a sustained Percentage ability to buy things securely, to protect UK and Ireland focus on customers, innovation, identity, revenues and brands, and to Rest of Europe fight counterfeiting and illicit trade are professionalism and operational Americas of increasing importance.
fide La Rue offers a proven track The values and behaviours record in innovation, sophisticated design capabilities and in the production that will enable us to realise this and delivery of high quality products vision are understood across 23% and services in an industry with high the business.
We seek to build long term relationships with our customers and form trusted partnerships where 54% our experience and the quality of our 10% products and services add value.
We are investing in our people, assets, 13% processes and innovation, enabled by our cash generative business model.
This ensures we have the technology and capacity to meet customer needs, Employees by location maintain an industry leading position and Percentage deliver sustainable growth while providing UK and Ireland attractive returns for investors.
Rest of Europe Americas Rest of world 21% 6% 54% 19% fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 13
