I 2 3 4 Strategic Report DEVROS BUSINESS AT A GLANCE WE USE OUR COLLAGEN TECHNOLOGY TO MAKE CASINGS THAT ARE CONSISTENTLY BETTER Our business model Why our business exists What our customers do Who we sell to Devros collagen casings are used to Devros customers manufacture Devros revenue comes primarily from manufacture all varieties of sausage.
branded and own-label sausage the sale of collagen products directly Historically, animal intestines were products worldwide, reaching to food manufacturers and, in some used as casings for sausage, but over consumers through retail and food markets, local distributors.
Devro sells to the past 50 years the use of collagen service outlets.
over 1,500 customers in more than 100 casing has increased, as it enables food countries, with a product range in excess manufacturers to automate production How we create value of 500 individual items, covering eight and reduce costs.
It is better suited Devro creates value by converting a principal types of application.
to contemporary food hygiene and basic raw material, collagen, from the traceability requirements, and technical inner layer of cattle and sow hides, into Approximately one-third of Devros sales specifications can be determined a homogeneous gel and extruding it to are in emerging markets and two-thirds in advance.
tightly controlled dimensions, before are in developed markets.
Over 100 being compressed and packed for supply Devro employees work in customerto customers.
Devros manufacturing facing operations as sales and technical processes are unique, evolved over advisers.
many years of technical development.
Our business process Extracting Collagen Applied Technology Manufacture Devro is a world leader in the Collagen used for casing is taken from The production of collagen casing is a manufacturing technology of this the hides of carefully selected animals complex technological process.
Our officially approved for human combines expertise and innovation to casings are consistent, reliable and consumption.
produce casings that allow our versatile to suit the needs of both customers to make better sausage.
sausage manufacturers and consumer preferences.
2 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Why our customers choose Devro The market we are in Getting the balance Devro is one of five significant global To satisfy our customers producers of collagen casings in the world market, with a number of smaller demands, we use our knowledge local or regional competitors.
Additional of how to manipulate the value is created for the customer complex chemistry of collagen by collaborating with specialist food to balance the requirements machinery manufacturers and suppliers of food producers for of food ingredients, to optimise product performance.
strength and size stability with consumer preferences What makes us different for tenderness and bite.
Devro differentiates itself from competitors by developing innovative new products, by working closely with customers to enhance their manufacturing efficiencies, and by providing high-quality technical support to customers.
Sales, Marketing & Distribution Customer Products to Consumers Devro products are sold across all continents in over 100 countries.
We sell Devros innovation and casing directly to food manufacturers and via performance allow our customers to agents and distributors.
produce differentiated products for the consumer.
Our casings consistently score highly for appearance, colour, bite and overall acceptance in independent research and consumer testing.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 3
