At a glance Our divisions Two strong businesses Operating through Linden Homes, we are Following a period of expansion over the three aleading housebuilder.
We develop individual years to June 2012, the Group now delivers Housebuilding homes in prime locations nationwide and around 3,000 homes annually to customers in have a strong presence in the south of its chosen regions.
England and the eastern counties.
Key developments for the business in the Creating distinctive homes that complement financial year included King Harry Park and their local surroundings, we take pride in Mosaic in St Albans:Nash Mills Wharf in attention to detail and the quality of our Hertfordshire: Cholsey Meadowsat Cholsey, houses and apartments.
We typically build Oxfordshire: Burntwood Square in onbrownfield sites and can take on the most Brentwood, Essex: Milbury Reachin Exeter, complex developments by using the skills Devon: Purifier House in Bristol: and Saint ofour construction division, reinforcing our Nicholasgate in Beverley, East Yorkshire.
industry leading offering and differentiating usin the new homes market.
 anticipated for 2014 include Boyn Hill in Maidenhead and With a keen focus on customer service, Oakbrook in Langley, both in Berkshire: wehave built our business oncommitment Millbrook Park, Finchley andAshlar Court, toour customers.
Our success has been Hammersmith, both in London: Northfields in demonstrated by our level of satisfied Colchester, Essex: Riverside in Goldalming, customers andthis has been recognised by Surrey: City Glade, St Loyes in Exeter: and Folders Meadow, West Sussex Linden Homes winning a host of high profile Oasis in Lincoln, Lincolnshire.
awards over the last 12 months.
Revenue Linden Homes hasan Up 2.9m excellent reputation, award-winning quality, delivering homesin prime locations and a sound strategy for disciplined growth and higher 640m margins.
Greg Fitzgerald Chief Executive Profit from operations Profit margin 2013 performance: Housebuilding Up 11% Up 11% Linden Homes, our housebuilding business had a record year, with profits, average selling 2,932 13.1% price, year end sales in hand and landbank all reaching new highs.
The business enters 83.5m the new financial year in excellent shape, withthe prospect of further growth and Home completions highermargins.
Down 107 units Landbank Completions Up 8% by sector Private 2,244 Affordable 688 2,932 11,300 02 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Business review Our construction division is a major UK for clients in the water, highways, remediation, contractor.
We have adiversified workload in oil and gas, and energy from waste markets.
Construction the public, regulated and privatesectors, and look to develop long-term client relationships The construction division also includesour that allow us to work in partnership to deliver multi-disciplined group of chartered best value.
We have a strong reputation for surveyors: andour national piling specialists.
providing whole-life solutions, high standards of project delivery, an ability to innovate and In addition, our Investments business invests the diversity of our activities.
in public private partnerships, creating construction and facilities management Construction operates mainly under the opportunities for the Group, while benefiting Galliford Try and Morrison Construction from our strong balance sheet.
brands, and is organised into building, partnerships and infrastructure divisions.
Building serves clients in the health, education and commercial markets across the UK.
Partnerships is our specialist affordable housing contractor, with a strong business in the south and north east and a growing presence elsewhere.
Infrastructure Tidemill School, Deptford Lounge and carries out civil engineering projects, primarily Resolution Studios, South East London Revenue With our broadrange of Down 1.3% capability, strong regional positions, long-term customer relationships and focus on risk management, we are well placed to grow when 913m markets improve.
Ken Gillespie Construction Division Chief Executive Profit from operations Profit margin 2013 performance: Construction Down 20% On plan Construction performed well in difficult markets.
The business won a number of 913m 1.7% significant new contracts, allowing it to maintain its order book, and enters the new 15.1m year with a solid position.
Order book Maintained Cash Revenue by activity Strong performance Building 407m Partnerships 90m Infrastructure 416m 1.7bn 145m Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 03 At a glance Strength in diversity delivering a competitive advantage An integrated service offering Our internal trading charter encourages our divisions to work together, creating combinations of skills that are attractive to our clients and which keep profit within the Group.
For example, construction is increasingly supporting housebuilding on complex and challenging sites and with building apartments.
At Gresham Mill pictured left four construction business units worked with Linden Homes to rejuvenate a former printworks, creating 70 apartments and 18 townhouses, including a water turbine to produce 10% of the homes electricity needs.
At Gloucestershire County Cricket Club pictured below our Building division is delivering nearly 150homes for housebuilding, as well as improvements to the cricket ground.
A construction business spread across markets Construction benefits from the diversity of its markets.
As the public sector market has become more difficult, the private sector has increased and regulated work has continued to come through.
Wearestrong in the water sector, with recent projects including odourreduction at Beckton, Europes largest sewage treatment works pictured below : and upgrades and extensions to Liverpool Wastewater Treatment Works right.
We were also recently reappointed to a major water and environmental management framework with the Environment Agency for 201317, with a significantfuture workload expected.
04 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Business review The diversity of our business and ourdivisions complementary skills give us an unique set of competitive advantages, allowing us to create value for our shareholders andclients.
A sophisticated affordable housing offer The affordable housing market is evolving, withclients increasingly looking to form joint ventures and to share risk and returns on developments.
Our combination of Linden Homes and affordable housing in housebuilding and our partnerships business in construction gives us a full suite of capabilities, making us an attractive partner to our clients.
Connect at Haywards Heath pictured below and Roden Court in Crouch End, London left, are just two of our many affordable housing projects.
The developments utilised the strengths of Linden Homes and Partnerships respectively.
Benefits of a diverse Group In recent years, construction has benefited from being part of a diverse Group.
Our growth in housebuilding has allowed construction to be selective in difficult markets, helping it to manage risk and protect its margins by focusing on high-quality work, such as our contracts that helped London prepare for the 2012 Olympic Games pictured below.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 05
