GeNus at a GLaNce A WORLD-LEADING BUSINESS Genus plays an important role in Genuss Competitive Advantage the worlds agricultural economy.
Our products enable our Our competitive edge comes from owning and controlling proprietary lines of breeding animals and using biotechnology to continuously improve customers to meet the growing them.
We combine this product and scientific excellence with a global demand for pork, beef and milk, supply chain, technical service, and distribution and sales network, driven by urbanisation and rising ensuring we can meet our customers needs and help them to maximise populations and incomes, and to their benefits from our products.
cope with tightening limits on the The majority of our competitors are traditional co-operatives, making land and water resources available Genus unique as a listed company.
Our business model and multi-species for food production.
approach allow us to continually strengthen and leverage our technology platform more broadly, thereby delivering value to customers and shareholders alike.
Our success has given us market-leading positions.
We have 25% of the porcine market, more than double our nearest competitor, as well Our Vision as 25% in beef and 8% of global dairy sales.
We sell under well-known trademarks, PIC for pigs and ABS for dairy and beef cattle, in more Pioneering animal genetic than 70 countries worldwide.
improvement to help nourish theworld.
What We Do How We Operate Genus is a world leader in applying With headquarters in Basingstoke, UK, Genus companies operate in 30 biotechnology to advance the countries on six continents, with research laboratories located in Madison, science of animal breeding Wisconsin, USA.
We also sell to customers in another 40 countries through and genetic improvement.
Our technology is applicable Genus operates through three business units: to all livestock species and we currently commercialise it in the Genus PIC services porcine customers in North America, Latin America dairy, beef and pork sectors.
and Europe Genus ABS services dairy and beef customers in North America, Latin To do this, we breed the worlds best America and Europe pigs and bulls, scientifically selecting Genus Asia focuses on the fast-growing Asian market, in both the porcine livestock whose offspring will and bovine segments increase value for farmers and food producers around the world, with A shared research and development function supports our operating divisions.
the ultimate goal of making pork, beef and milk more affordable, better quality and safer for consumers.
In the porcine market, we offer genetically superior boars and sows that produce high-quality and efficient offspring, with higher carcass value and desirable characteristics such as feedefficient growth or leaner meat.
In the dairy and beef markets, our primary product is bull semen, which we produce in-house in five locations worldwide.
Artificial insemination from semen straws produces high-quality cattle, enabling our customers to improve their herds and their efficiency.
Genus global sales and operations 04|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 t n strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts c o u i t d a o i r t P n d t e T n e r e e s e i c l m a h i e e n D S v R i e o c r r a v p l i c m S e I u s c p i t p e o c t n i r n t e t e e G n m l e a e G m Improved productivity.
In dairy and beef, Genus ABS Our Business Model leverages both its distribution and sales networks directly with inhouse employees, independent representatives or distributors, to efficiently reach our customers and build brand loyalty.
technical support services Ensuring our products meet customers expectations is critical, so experienced technical service teams support our distribution and sales efforts.
These teams ensure the product is right and help our customers to achieve the best results.
This creates a winning situation for us and our customers, enhancing customer loyalty.
We support our customers with technical services in important areas such as nutrition, reproduction, health management and genetics.
For example, in dairy, our global Genetic Management System helps customers through sire selection, to create the progeny that will develop their herd in the way they wish.
Our Reproductive Management System team also helps customers to improve reproduction, a critical contributor to their profitability.
In porcine, we provide performance comparisons across our customers, so they robust Genetic improvement the affordability and quality of pork, can benchmark their operational Generating robust and continuous beef and milk.
We employ more than performance and the impact of genetic improvement is at the 100 scientists and skilled technicians, genetics against industry peers.
heart of our business model.
and have a track record of working We are leveraging genomics successfully in partnership with Key account Management to accelerate our delivery of universities, consortia and others.
In porcine, we are increasingly valuable genetic improvements.
working in long-term relationships realised Product Differentiation with our customers, under multiIn porcine, we base our core genetic Consumers around the world have year royalty contracts.
This aligns improvement programme in two different preferences and our our goals with our customers nucleus farms, in Canada and the US.
genetic improvement programmes key performance metrics, as We combine quantitative sciences deliver a wide range of products they pay Genus based on the with leading-edge biotechnology, and services tailored to them.
performance and value we deliver.
while adopting a discovery without Successful product development It also reduces volatility in our walls approach to external genes, therefore starts from our customers results, by mitigating the impact where they can add to our portfolio perspective.
Understanding of cyclical price reductions or and meet customer needs.
their needs helps us to develop cost increases in pig production.
outstanding and differentiated In 2013, 74% of porcine volumes Our dairy and beef product products and services, and we aim to were under royalty contracts.
development creates elite bulls get our products to market quickly, from a range of progeny-testing so we can rapidly transfer the best In bovine, we sell the majority of and young-sire programmes.
We genes to our customers systems.
our semen on a per dose basis and are adapting our genetic selection use our service offerings to create programme to focus on traits Global supply chain longer-lasting relationships.
Our of high economic importance In our porcine business, we customer segmentation and focus to our customers and to gain outsource more than 95% of our on account management allows greater control over the genes.
pig multiplication requirements us to increasingly focus on the to third-party producers or customers who place the highest These development programmes customers.
Our network of value on these relationships.
are supported by our research multiplication partners is a division, which aims to develop significant strength, allowing us proprietary technologies in areas to meet demand for our genetics such as gender skew and disease while reducing our exposure to resistance, which help to increase farming and commodity risk.
