REVIEW oF THE YEAR At a glance We are the leading pub retailer and brewer in the UK, focused on delivering the best value, service and quality to all our customers.
Our business Our strategy Greene King is the leading pub retailer Our overall objective is to be considered and brewer in the UK.
the best pubs and beer business in the UK.
Our strategy to drive growth and returns 2,000 200 toourshareholders has three main elements: We run 2,250 managed and We have been brewing Expand our biggest and fastest growing business, tenanted pubs, restaurants award-winning ales for Retail, to 1,100 sites and at the same time increase and hotels morethan 200 years the overall quality of the estate by increasing our exposure to long-term growth categories such as food, wine and coffee.
Greene King is made up of three main businesses: Reduce the size of our tenanted estate to 1,200 while Our Retail business comprises the pubs, restaurants taking more control over the licensee offer and and hotels that we manage across the UK.
introducing innovative agreements into the estate.
Our Pub Partners business offers people the Deliver long-term market out-performance through opportunity to run their own pubs across the UK industry-leading investment and innovation in our ona tenanted, leased or franchised basis.
Our Brewing & Brands business operates breweries in Bury St Edmunds and in Dunbar.
Operationally our strategy is to deliver outstanding value, exceptional service and unbeatable quality across We employ around 22,000 people across the UK, all of our businesses.
andwehave 2,500 apprentices working at Greene King.
M oRE ABoUT oUR BUSINESS M oRE ABoUT oUR STRATEGY pages 6 and 7 pages 12 and 13 2 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2013 www.
co. uk Our brands Our markets We have a number of well-known pub We compete in the drinking out, eating andrestaurant brands and ales.
out and staying outmarkets in the UK.
In each market, we have again outperformed 200 No.
1 theoverall market over the last 12 months: There are now over We brew the UKs no.
1 Food sales growth of 9.7% against the market up1.6%.
200Hungry Horse premium ale and Scotlands pubrestaurants across leading ale brand Drink sales growth of 6.7% against the market up1.3%.
thecountry Our accommodation business delivered RevPAR growth of 2.0% against the market down 0.5%.
Our range of pub, restaurant and ale brands includes the following: This has been achieved in another difficult trading environment, with consumer confidence low and Popular national pub restaurant and restaurant volatile and limited or no real household disposable brands such as Hungry Horse and Loch Fyne income growth.
And although the government scrapped the beer duty A range of historic coaching inns, elegant country escalator in the budget, the industry remains a heavily houses and old timbered buildings which form part regulated one with the latest government consultation of our Old English Inns hotels.
on the proposed statutory code for tenanted pub companies Well-known ale brands such as Greene King IPA, potentially bringing significant changes to the industry.
Old Speckled Hen and Abbot Ale, as well as Belhaven Best in Scotland.
We also operate unbranded local pubs, ranging from sport led local pubs to those that offer a more premium pub dining experience.
o PERATIoNAL REVIEW MoRE ABoUT oUR MARKETS pages 14 to 24 pages 8 and 9 3 www.
co. uk Annual report 2013 GREENE KING PLC
