AMEC at a glance With revenues of some 4.0 billion, we operate in around 40 countries, workingfor customers ranging from blue-chip companies to national and local governments.
We support assets such as oil & gas production facilities, minesand nuclear power stations, from inception to decommissioning.
Our operations We report on a geographic basis.
This structure promotes collaboration andso maximises growth opportunities.
Americas Our largest business unit, Europe Principally UK based with Growth Regions We expect each withthe best balance across our some activities elsewhere.
Strong ofour business units to grow, markets.
Our oil &gasbusiness is position in oil & gas, with marketbutseeGrowth Regions as well-positioned: we are a market leading position in North Sea havinggreatest potential.
Oil & leader in mineable oil sands: a leader brownfield activities.
Leading position gasinthe Middle East is growing in consulting and EPCM in mining: in the UK nuclear market, where currently though the Australian have good positions in solar and services range from new build right mining market remains tough.
bioprocess: and are a leading player through todecommissioning.
m Read more from page 35 m Read more from page 36 m Read more from page 37 1 1 1 Revenues EBITA Average employees 12% 9% 13% 31% 56% 25% 66% 37% 51% Americas Europe Growth Regions 1 2013 figures, excluding Investment Services and centre.
For basis of preparation seepage 40 Our customers include ExxonMobil National Grid Bluewater GDF SUEZ Nuclear Decommissioning BG Authority NDA Imperial Oil BP Newmont Mining Corporation K&S Potash Canadian Natural Resources RTI International Limited CNRL Kuwait Oil Company KOC Shell ConocoPhillips Marine Well Containment Company MWCC Syncrude Dominion MeadWestvaco ZADCO EDF 04 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Our global reach Our philosophy is simple.
If we do good work for our customers, we will win more good work.
In addition, we want to grow by expanding our capabilities and enhancing our geographic footprint.
We look to promoteopportunities to sell our services across all of our markets and in each of our geographies.
AMEC offices Our four markets We provide similar services in each of our four markets oil & gas, mining, clean energy, and environment & infrastructure E&I winning work through strong customer relationships and our proven ability to deliver successfully, even in harsh or remoteenvironments.
Clean Energy Environment & Oil & Gas Mining Infrastructure E&I Clean energy provides an Growth is driven by the General macro long-term rise in energy uncertainty is affecting increasingly significant The overall environmental part of the global energy consulting and demand.
Resources are the near-term outlook for becoming increasingly the mining industry, mix, its growth driven by engineering market increasing demand for includes services difficult to access which increasing volatility.
plays to AMECs expertise Long-term fundamentals power and environmental provided to all four of remain robust, supported concerns.
Our E&I in complex engineering and harsh locations.
by increasing expertise, depth of market alone consists of urbanisation in emerging technology understanding four sectors: water, Technology is facilitating markets.
and strong customer transportation the development of tight relationships provide infrastructure, oil and shale gas.
further growth government services, and opportunities.
1 Revenue by markets 12% 24% Clean Energy Environment & Infrastructure 14% Oil & Gas 50% Mining 1 2013 figures, excluding Investment Services and centre.
For basis of preparation seepage 40 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 05
