04 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Overview ITV at a Glance ITV is an integrated producer broadcaster, operating ITV Total Revenues ITV EBITA the largest commercial family of channels in the UK.
In addition to traditional broadcasting on our channels, we deliver our content on demand through numerous 133m platforms, both directly and via ITV Player.
Through ITV 857m Studios we produce content for both our own channels 1,896m and third parties in the UK and increasingly overseas.
487m Our distribution business sells finished programmes and formats worldwide.
Broadcast & Online ITV Studios Broadcast & Online ITV Studios ITV broadcasts a wide variety of content on its family of ITV Studios is the Groups international content free to air FTA channels consisting of ITV, the largest business.
It is the largest production company in the commercial television channel in the UK, and the digital UK and produces programming for ITVs own channels channels, ITV2, ITV3, ITV4 and CITV.
In 2014 we will launch and for other broadcasters such as the BBC, Channel 4 ITVBe, our new FTA lifestyle and reality channel.
ITV Studios also operates in five international family of channels attracted a total share of viewing of locations, the US, Australia, Germany, France and the 23.1% in 2013, the largest audience of any UK commercial Nordics, producing content for local broadcasters in broadcaster.
Programming is primarily funded by these regions.
This content is either locally created IP television advertising revenues.
ITV has the largest share or created elsewhere by ITV, mainly the UK.
We have of our estimate of the UK television advertising market at made a number of acquisitions in the UK, US and the 45.4% in 2013.
Nordics as we look to build our international business.
Global Entertainment, ITVs distribution business, In addition to linear broadcast, ITV delivers its content licenses ITVs finished programmes and formats and across multiple platforms.
This is either through ITV third party content internationally.
Player, available on ITVs website, itv.
com, and platforms such as Virgin and Sky, or through direct content deals with services such as Lovefilm and Netflix.
ITVs content is now available on 19 platforms and in 2014 we will launch our new pay channel, ITV Encore, on Sky.
ITV Strategy Our vision remains to create world-class content which we can make famous on our channels, and exploit across multiple platforms, both free and pay, in the UK and internationally.
We have a clear and consistent strategy which is based on four key strategic priorities as follows: Create a lean, cr Ma e ximise audienc atively e and revenue Drive new revenue streams by 1 3 exploiting our content across organisation multiple platforms, free and pay Read more on Strategic Priority One on page 19 Read more on Strategic Priority Three on page 27 Maximise audience and revenue Build a strong international 4 2 share from our existing free-tocontent business air broadcast business Read more on Strategic Priority Two on page 23 Read more on Strategic Priority Four on page 31 23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 04-05 ITV at a glance.
