KCOM Group PLC Our business at a glance Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Using our knowledge and insight, we aim todeliver inspiring customer experiences across the markets we serve What we do We provide communications services to organisations and consumers through four brands, organised into two segments KC segment Kcom segment Our KC brand provides Our Kcom brand works with Our Smart421 brand communications services to theUKs biggest names, delivershighend consultancy, consumers and businesses in Hull providing them with the integration and management and East Yorkshire.
As well as communications services that ofbusinesscritical systems for phone and broadband packages, enable organisations tobe enterprise customers.
these include business services flexible, efficient and more such as hosting and security.
In 2012, the first phase of KCs installation of During the year, Kcom launched a portfolio of Smart421 employs its businessagility and superfast fibre broadband, using Fibre to the cloud-based Workplaces services.
Based on passion for delivery to helpits customers solve Premise FTTP technology, made the UKs Ciscos Hosted Collaboration Services, they give business and technical problems reliably.
fastest download speeds available to more Kcom customers a world-class communications It specialises in consultancy to help customers than 15,000 homes and businesses.
platform and tools they can adapt and integrate optimise their enterprise architecture for greater according to their needs and IT environment.
With customer take-up well above initial flexibility and return on investment and the expectations, the Group has committed to The new services give customers the scalability provision of managed services that improve pass a further 30,000 premises by March 2015 and robustness of the cloud, complementing system performance and reliability.
and the latest phase of the deployment Kcoms enterprise platforms and solutions, It has extensive knowledge and expertise in isunder way.
carrier-class connectivity, next-generation numerous sectors including telecommunications, network operation and management capability.
During the year there was continued strong financial services, energy and utilities, transport demand for KCs bundled phone and broadband Kcoms innovative approach and exceptional and logistics andthe public sector.
services as more customers recognised the customer service helped it secure significant improved value for money they offer.
contract renewals and new contracts during the year.
com More on pages 12 and 13 More on pages 14 and 15 More on pages 16 and 17 02 2 KCOM ar13 front RB.
indd 2 6 20 2013 11:14:47 AM Overview KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Where we operate Who we work with We serve customers across the Our customers are central to all UK from our eight main locations that we do Our main locations As well as tens of thousands of 1 Brighton 5 Ipswich consumers and small businesses, 2 Exeter 6 London our customers include public 3 Hemel Hempstead 7 Reading sector organisations and some 4 Hull 8 Wakefield of the UKs biggest names across arange of sectors: Our Eclipse brand provides Asda communications services to small and mediumsized businesses Dominos connecting them to customers, partners and suppliers, improving Dorset Public productivity and flexibility, and Services Network helping them grow.
East Midlands Public 4 Services Network 8 During the year, Eclipse continued its evolution Manchester Airport from a traditional broadband supplier to aprovider of broader internet-based 5 communications services.
Morrisons 3 6 7 Existing customers drive an increasing proportion of new business revenue, reflecting Eclipses National Farmers 1 2 commitment both to expanding its product UnionMutual portfolio and providing outstanding customerservice.
Phones4U The continued development of its Partner Portaland unique Sentinel broadband United Utilities monitoring tool has helped Eclipse to We employ more than extendfurtherits reseller channel.
University Hospitals Birmingham Visit: www.
uk 1,800 Read our customer case studies More on pages 18 and 19 people across the UK in our brand review pages 03 2 KCOM ar13 front RB.
