16% 20% 35% Group at a glance W hat we do Laird has two divisions, Performance Materials and Wireless Systems.
The divisions share certain technologies for example, Radio Frequency RF engineering facilities in key regions and corporate resources.
They collaborate in addressing certain common markets such as automotive and IT infrastructure.
Performance Materials What we do Revenue The division designs and supplies a full range of electromagnetic interference EMI shielding materials, 342.8m thermal management solutions and signal integrity products 6% 2012, 324.7m SIP, providing critical protection for a wide range of electronic devices, allowing them to function and connect effectively.
These products isolate and protect sensitive electronic components and systems from electronic emissions Revenue by market segment and stop them from interacting with other components, IT Telecom and filter and remove electromagnetic noise and improve Smartphone a devices performance through the efficient management Other of heat.
Consumer Medical Markets Transportation Our Performance Material products are supplied to a broad range of markets including IT and telecom, smartphone, consumer, medical and transportation.
Collaboration Our differentiation capabilities of innovation, Both divisions partner with our customers reliable fulfilment and speed are prevalent across both divisions as an extension of their design process is key Wireless Systems What we do Revenue The division designs, manufactures and supplies a broad range of products, systems, and software solutions that 194.2m enable wireless communication such as antennae, embedded 1% 2012, 195.5m wireless modules, telematics products, M2M devices, wireless automation and control systems, along with software solutions to support asset management systems across a broad range of markets.
Revenue by market segment Markets Transportation Industrial Our Wireless Systems products are supplied to a wide range IT Telecom ofcustomers requiring reliable connectivity solutions in Other markets such astransportation, industrial and IT telecom.
4 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p01-29 v17.
indd 4 11 03 2014 18:04 5% 4% 24% 6% 19% 61 % 10% Part of our strategy is to ensure our strategic differentiation of innovation, reliable fulfilment and speed is valued by our customers.
Through the businesses collaborating together we can offer a more comprehensive range of solutions to customers and ensure we maintain our competitive position.
Our products Signal integrity Emi Thermal management Electronic devices give off Electronic applications generate Our ferrite-based product family preserves high quality signal integrity electromagnetic emissions as a heat that can adversely affect a by-product of electrical or magnetic devices performance.
Our thermal by removing and filtering unwanted management materials and active or harmful electromagnetic activity that can interfere with the operation of other devices.
cooling solutions provide a way to noise generated by active manage and actively control heat in components such as oscillators EMI shielding products isolate sensitive apparatus from these a variety of electronic applications.
and microprocessors, as well as EMI escaping from any electronic electromagnetic fields.
product through DC direct current power lines.
Customers recognise our precision engineering Our divisions share economies capability across the whole ofour business of scale in our R&D and supply chain Our products Telematics m2m Wireless Automation and Control infrastructure Antennae We design and manufacture The high-reliability wireless remote We provide high performance industry-leading smart antennae control systems that we design and indoor and outdoor antennae solutions, combining advanced, supply, serve the railroad, mining, solutions.
In-building wireless low-profile antennae with wireless and industrial markets globally.
antennae are particularly applicable radios, Input Output IO circuitry These remote control systems in environments where aesthetics and firmware to enable applications are specifically designed for any and wide angle coverage are from asset tracking to pay-as-youequipment where the operator can necessary for successful wireless drive insurance and from fleet remotely operate heavy machinery deployment.
Their small size management to theft recovery.
We also allows them to be hidden almost provide fully hosted networked anywhere, providing an invisible applications software that enables solution for most applications.
customers to monitor their remote controlled assets in real-time.
Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 5 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p01-29 v16.
