aT a glance Marstons operates over 2,000 pubs across the UK, many at the heart of thriving local communities.
We run five breweries each producing distinctive local ales of genuine provenance.
We employ around 13,000 people nationwide.
2 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report 16% 16% 42% 7% 45% Group Revenue Share % Pub Pro t Mix % 42% Destination and Premium Destination and Premium 32% Taverns Taverns Leased Leased Brewing 16% 16% 7% 42% 45% Group Revenue Share % Pub Pro t Mix % Destination and Premium 42% 32% Taverns Destination and Premium Leased Taverns Brewing Leased PUbs breWing The besT Place arOUnD here PreMiUM beers We operate pubs and bars under different business models anD lOcal ales managed, franchised, tenanted and leased in one business Our five breweries, situated in the North of division.
This maximises our operating flexibility and ensures that England, the Midlands and the South of we are better placed to apply our consumer insights throughout England, underpin our strategy and enable us the business.
We invest in new-build pub-restaurants which to brew high quality, distinctive beers with true meet increasing demand for informal dining, and align our authenticity and provenance.
community pubs to the changing needs of todays pub customers.
We are proud of our pubs, and we want our branDs customers simply to think of them as the best place around here whatever the business model, format or brand.
Our We have a permanent range of 18 cask beers principal pub segments are described below.
and brew a further 50 or so every year on a seasonal basis.
Pedigree and Hobgoblin remain our national drive brands and feature DesTinaTiOn anD PreMiUM 349 PUbs in the top 20 bottled beer brands.
Destination pubs are larger, food-led managed pubs and include our new-build pub-restaurants with two main brands Marstons PreMiUM casK anD bOTTleD ale Two for One and Milestone.
We aim to offer great value and high levels of service in a traditional pub environment ideal for day We are market leaders in premium cask ale to day convenience, special treats and celebrations.
Around 50 with a market share of 18% and, in bottled ale, pubs also offer rooms.
our market share has increased to 24%.
The 7 million investment in our new bottling line at Our Premium pubs and bars include Pitcher & Piano popular Burton upon Trent, which opened in October with young adults attracted to lively bars in premium locations.
2013, will support our objective to increase our market share to 30% by 2017.
TaVerns 1,316 PUbs serVice The Taverns segment is our community pub estate and includes franchised, managed and tenanted pubs.
We believe the We pride ourselves on customer service and franchise model is ideally suited to the community market, quality providing a full in-house distribution and combining the entrepreneurial flair of great licensees with the Beer Quality Technician service.
This allows us to benefits of Marstons economies of scale and insights, and we control the quality of service as well as reinforcing expect most of our Taverns pubs to be operated under this our localness credentials.
Our aim is to deliver the model over time.
Great community pubs are about socialising, perfect pint every time.
entertainment, good value food and drink and licensees who know their customers.
leaseD 385 PUbs Some of the best pubs in our estate, many of which are distinctive and characterful, are best operated by highly skilled lessees who run these pubs independently with exceptional service and high quality offers.
The fact that we have a relatively small leased estate of less than 400 pubs contributes to our ability to foster good working relationships with our lessees.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 3
