Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Meggitt PLC We have audited the financial statements which comprise the consolidated Basis of audit opinion profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by statement, the consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses, the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test the note of Group historical cost profits and losses and the related notes.
basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A statements and the auditable part of the remuneration report.
It also to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the remuneration report the includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements auditable part.
made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us and accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the statements and the auditable part of the remuneration report are free from remuneration report.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part presentation of information in the financial statements.
of the remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for Opinion and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section In our opinion: 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any of the Company and the Group at 31 December 2004 and of the profit other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a the Companies Act 1985: and true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable those parts of the remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A part of the remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the with the Companies Act 1985. directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent  LLP misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors The other information comprises only the financial highlights, chairmans Reading statement, chief executives operating review, financial review, board of 1 March 2005 directors, report of the directors, directors statement on corporate governance, the unaudited part of the remuneration report and the five year record.
We review whether the directors statement on corporate governance reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
The maintenance and integrity of the Meggitt PLC website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2004 37
