Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are required to prepare financial of financial statements may differ from Companys corporate website where used The maintenance and integrity of the Misys plc statements which give a true and fair view of legislation in other jurisdictions.
It is also the for the electronic publication of financial website is the responsibility of the Directors.
the state of affairs of the Group and the Directors responsibility to: statements.
The work carried out by the auditors does not Company as at the end of the financial year involve consideration of these matters and, maintain adequate accounting records: The Directors confirm that suitable accounting and of the profit and cash flows of the Group accordingly, the auditors accept no policies, consistently applied and supported by safeguard the assets of the Group and the for the year to that date.
The requirements are responsibility for any changes that may have reasonable and prudent judgements and Company: specified in the United Kingdom Companies occurred to the financial statements since they estimates, have been used in the preparation take reasonable steps to prevent and detect Act 1985 and in applicable accounting were initially presented on the website.
of the financial statements and that applicable fraud and other irregularities: and standards.
Legislation in the United Kingdom accounting standards have been followed.
governing the preparation and dissemination ensure the maintenance and integrity of the Independent auditors report to the members of Misys plc We have audited the financial statements 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no We review whether the Corporate governance reasonable assurance that the financial which comprise the Profit and loss account, the other purpose.
We do not, in giving this report reflects the Companys compliance with statements and the auditable part of the Statement of cash flows, the Statement of total opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any the seven provisions of the Combined Code Remuneration report for Directors are free from recognised gains and losses, the Reconciliation other purpose or to any other person to whom issued in June 1998 specified for our review by material misstatement, whether caused by of movements in equity shareholders deficit this report is shown or into whose hands it may the Listing Rules of the Financial Services fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming funds, the Balance sheets, the Accounting come save where expressly agreed by our prior Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are our opinion we also evaluated the overall polices and the related notes.
We have also consent in writing.
not required to consider whether the Boards adequacy of the presentation of information audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of statements on internal control cover all risks in the financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 and controls, or to form an opinion on the financial statements give a true and fair view OPINION contained in the Remuneration report for effectiveness of the Companys or Groups and whether the financial statements and the In our opinion: Directors the auditable part.
Corporate governance procedures or its risk auditable part of the Remuneration report for and control procedures.
the financial statements give a true and fair Directors have been properly prepared in RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS view of the state of the affairs of the accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
AND AUDITORS BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION Company and the Group at 31 May 2004 We also report to you if, in our opinion, the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the We conducted our audit in accordance with and of the profit and cash flows of the Directors report is not consistent with the Annual Report and the financial statements in auditing standards issued by the Auditing Group for the year then ended: financial statements, if the Company has not accordance with applicable United Kingdom Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, kept proper accounting records, if we have not the financial statements have been properly law and accounting standards are set out in on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the received all the information and explanations prepared in accordance with the Companies the statement of Directors responsibilities.
amounts and disclosures in the financial we require for our audit, or if information Act 1985: and The Directors are also responsible for preparing statements and the auditable part of the specified by law regarding Directors those parts of the Remuneration report for the Remuneration report for Directors.
remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
Directors required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A Our responsibility is to audit the financial It also includes an assessment of the significant We read the other information contained in the to the Companies Act 1985 have been statements and the auditable part of the estimates and judgements made by the Annual Report and consider the implications for properly prepared in accordance with the Remuneration report for Directors in Directors in the preparation of the financial our report if we become aware of any apparent Companies Act 1985. accordance with relevant legal and regulatory statements, and of whether the accounting misstatements or material inconsistencies with requirements and United Kingdom Auditing policies are appropriate to the Companys the financial statements.
The other information Standards issued by the Auditing Practices circumstances, consistently applied and  LLP comprises only the Directors report, the Board.
This report, including the opinion, has adequately disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered unaudited part of the Remuneration report for been prepared for and only for the Companys Auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to Directors, the Chairmans statement, the members as a body in accordance with Section London obtain all the information and explanations Operating and financial review, the Corporate which we considered necessary in order to 22 July 2004 responsibility statement and the Corporate 80 provide us with sufficient evidence to give governance report.
