Report of the independent auditors Auditors report to the shareholders We are not required to consider whether the Boards of Mitchells & Butlers plc statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, We have audited the Groups financial statements for the or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups 52 weeks ended 25 September 2004 which comprise the corporate governance procedures or its risk and Group profit and loss account, Statement of total recognised control procedures.
group gains and losses, Note of historical cost group profits and losses, Reconciliation of movement in group shareholders We read the other information contained in the Annual funds, Group balance sheet, Company balance sheet, Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 33. financial statements.
This other information comprises the These financial statements have been prepared on the basis Operating and Financial Review, Directors Report, unaudited of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, Corporate the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that Governance statement, Audit Committee Report and the is described as having been audited.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements This report is made solely to the Companys members, or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required Basis of audit opinion to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors of the significant estimates and judgements made by the The Directors are solely responsible for preparing the Annual Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, Report, including the financial statements which are required and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to be prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and law and accounting standards as set out in the statement of adequately disclosed.
Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the the information and explanations which we considered part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be of the Financial Services Authority.
audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation statements give a true and fair view and whether the of information in the financial statements and the part of financial statements and the part of the Directors the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Opinion We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair Report is not consistent with the financial statements, view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, as at 25 September 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the if we have not received all the information and explanations 52 weeks then ended, and the financial statements and the we require for our audit, or if the information specified by part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions Ernst & Young LLP, Registered Auditor, London of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing 30 November 2004 Rules, and we report if it does not.
Mitchells & Butlers 25 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004
