com 63 Report of the auditors Independent auditors report to the members of mmO plc Basis of audit opinion 2 We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash ow statement, the issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts which have been prepared under the historical cost convention and and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of the accounting policies set out in the statement of accounting the report on directors remuneration.
It also includes an assessment policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the report on the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the directors remuneration the auditable part.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom information and explanations which we considered necessary in law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable directors responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the preparing the report on directors remuneration.
report on directors remuneration are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of auditable part of the report on directors remuneration in accordance the presentation of information in the financial statements.
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This Opinion report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the In our opinion: Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 March 2004 giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other and of the profit and cash ows of the Group for the year purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into then ended: whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior the financial statements have been properly prepared in consent in writing.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and those parts of the report on directors remuneration required by We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the auditable part of the report on directors remuneration have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act  LLP 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has London not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all 17 May 2004 the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only: the directors report, the unaudited part of the report on directors remuneration, the Chairmans statement, the operating and financial review and Notes the corporate governance statement.
The maintenance and integrity of the mmO plc website is the 2 responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes, that may Code issued in June 1998 specified for our review by the Listing have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation its risk and control procedures.
