Independent Auditors Report To the shareholders of NEXT plc Accounts for the year ended 31 January 2004 We have audited the Group's accounts for the year ended 31 January 2004 which comprise the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, Group Balance Sheet, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Company Balance Sheet, Accounting Policies, the related notes 1 to 35 and Group Companies.
The accounts have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities within the Corporate Governance statement.
Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors' Report is not consistent with the accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors' remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
This other information comprises the Directors' Report, Chairman's Statement, Chief Executives Review, unaudited part of the Remuneration Report, Corporate Governance statement, Half Year and Sector Analysis, Five Year History and Notice of Meeting.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 31 January 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the accounts and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Ernst & Young LLP Birmingham Registered Auditor 25 March 2004 48
