Independent auditors report To the members of Northern Foods plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the accounts of Northern Foods plc for the 53 weeks We conducted our audit in accordance with UK auditing standards ended 3 April 2004 which comprise the profit and loss account, the issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, balance sheets, the cash flow statement, the statement of total on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in recognised gains and losses and the related notes 1 to 30, together with the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report described the reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt, the as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders funds and estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of accounting policies.
These accounts have been prepared under the the accounts and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the the circumstances of the company and the group, consistently applied information in the part of the Directors remuneration report that is and adequately disclosed.
described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors been audited are free from material mis-statement, whether caused report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Opinion As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the companys In our opinion: directors are responsible for the preparation of the Annual report and the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the accounts in accordance with applicable UK law and accounting the company and the group as at 3 April 2004 and of the profit standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the other of the group for the 53 weeks then ended: and information contained in the Annual report including the Directors the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and described as having been audited have been properly prepared the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. been audited in accordance with relevant UK legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true Leeds and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been 2 June 2004 properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the directors is not consistent with the accounts, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company and other members of the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider Notes whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
on whether any changes may have occurred to the financial statements since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors We read the Report of the directors and the other information contained but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
in the Annual report for the above year as described in the contents section, including the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Northern Foods plc Independent auditors report 23
