Report of the Auditors INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NORTHGATE PLC We have audited the financial statements of Northgate plc for the year governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the ended 30 April 2004 which comprise the consolidated profit and loss Report of the Directors and the other information contained in the annual account, the balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, the report for the above year as described in the contents section including statement of total recognised gains and losses, the accounting policies the unaudited part of the Report on Remuneration and consider the and the related Notes 1 to 26 together with the reconciliation of net cash implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent flow to movement in net debt and the notes to the consolidated cash flow misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
These financial statements have been prepared under the Basis of audit opinion accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing in the part of the Report on Remuneration that is described as having been standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Report on accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work Remuneration described as having been audited.
It also includes an has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for Directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information have formed.
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial Respective responsibilities of statements and the part of the Report on Remuneration described as having Directors and auditors been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud As described in the Statement of Directors responsibilities, the Companys or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
statements and the part of the Report on Remuneration described as having They are also responsible for the preparation of the other information been audited.
contained in the annual report including the Report on Remuneration.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Report Opinion on Remuneration described as having been audited in accordance with In our opinion: relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs standards.
of the Company and the Group as at 30 April 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a the financial statements and that part of the Report on Remuneration true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the described as having been audited have been properly prepared in Report on Remuneration described as having been audited have been accordance with the Companies Act 1985. properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the Directors is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept Deloitte & Touche LLP proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law Leeds regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and 5 July 2004 other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Company's compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 21 22 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004
