Independent auditors report n We review whether the statement of compliance on corporate Independent auditors report to the governance reflects the Companys compliance with the seven members of Pennon Group Plc provisions of the Combined Code issued in June 1998 specified for We have audited the financial statements which comprise the our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority Group profit and loss account, the Group balance sheet, the and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider Company balance sheet, the Group cash flow statement, the whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks accounting policies and the related notes.
We have also audited and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors remuneration and control procedures.
n Basis of audit opinion n Respective responsibilities of Directors We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards and auditors issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and the financial statements in accordance with applicable and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the of the Directors remuneration report.
It also includes an Directors responsibilities statement.
The Directors are also assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by responsible for preparing the Directors remuneration report.
the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
auditable part of the Directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing information and explanations which we considered necessary in Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for the Directors remuneration report are free from material no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial come, save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial n Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view report have been properly prepared in accordance with the of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 March Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the 2004 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, then ended, have been properly prepared in accordance with the if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have Companies Act 1985 and those parts of the Directors not received all the information and explanations we require for remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware  LLP of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the financial statements.
The other information comprises only Bristol the Chairmans statement, the Business review, the Financial 24 June 2004 review, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, the statement of compliance on corporate governance and the Report of the Directors.
