Independent auditors report to the members of Arla Foods UK plc We have audited the group's financial statements for the 18 month period Basis of audit opinion ended 30 September 2004 which comprise the group profit and loss We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing account, group statement of total recognised gains and losses, group Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes balance sheet, company balance sheet, group cash flow statement, examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt, reconciliation of disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors' movements in equity shareholders funds and the related notes 1 to 29. remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting in the remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
policies are appropriate to the group's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's members and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors' report and with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not statements and the part of the remuneration report to be audited are free accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity the company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of for the opinions we have formed.
the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the remuneration report to be audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, including the Opinion financial statements which are required to be prepared in accordance with In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards as set out in the state of affairs of the company and of the group as at 30 September statement of directors' responsibilities in relation to the financial statements.
2004 and of the results of the group for the 18 month period then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the remuneration report Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and Companies Act 1985. regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give Nottingham a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of 30 November 2004 the remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors' report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors' remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the company's compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises the chairman's statement, the operating and financial review, the corporate governance statement, the unaudited part of the remuneration report and the directors' report, We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
33 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
