NOTE 28 CONTINUED 2 Post-retirement medical benefits continued Disclosures in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 17, Retirement Benefits continued 2004 2003 Analysis of amount recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses: m m Experience gain loss on liabilities 1.3 0.1 Loss on change of assumptions 0.7 1.0 Actuarial gain loss recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses 0.6 1.1 Currency translation adjustment 0.6 0.8 Total gain loss recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses 1.2 0.3 History of experience gains and losses: 2004 2003 Experience gain loss on liabilities m 1.3 0.1 Percentage of liabilities 26.5% 1.7% Actuarial gain loss recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses m 0.6 1.1 Percentage of liabilities 12.2% 19.0% Had the provision for post-retirement medical benefits been calculated in accordance with FRS17, reported net assets and the profit and loss reserve, as at 1st February 2004, would have been reduced by 0.1 million 2003: 0.4 million.
29 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS8, Related Party Transactions, from disclosing transactions between the Company and other group undertakings as all such transactions have been eliminated fully on consolidation in these financial statements.
30 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS On 6th February 2004, the Group acquired the business and assets of GFE Manufacturing, a company based in Illinois, US, involved in the manufacture of lighting rigs for the fire-fighting industry, for a consideration of $4.5 million.
The acquisition will enable Akron Brass, part of the Industrial Products Division, to extend the product range available to customers in North America.
GFE Manufacturing reported sales in 2003 of approximately $4.0 million.
31 SUMMARY OF DIFFERENCES BETWEEN UK AND US GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES GAAP The Group accounts are prepared in accordance with UK GAAP which differs in certain significant respects from US GAAP.
A description of the relevant accounting principles which differ materially is given below.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets Under UK GAAP, prior to the introduction of FRS10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets in 1998 which requires goodwill and intangible assets to be capitalised and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives, goodwill arising on acquisitions was permitted to be written off against retained earnings.
Since the introduction of FRS10, goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful economic life which, in the case of BuckHickman InOne, is 20 years.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is reviewed for impairment at the end of the first full year after an acquisition and in other years if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Under US GAAP, prior to the introduction of FAS142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were capitalised and amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Accordingly, on the acquisition of Premier in 1996, 596 million of the excess purchase consideration over net asset value was recorded as a customer list intangible asset with the remaining 1,193 million recorded as goodwill.
The customer list was being amortised over 20 years, and goodwill amortised over 40 years.
On the acquisition of BuckHickman InOne in July 2001, 21.3 million of the excess purchase consideration over net asset value was recorded as a definite lived customer list intangible asset, 8.2 million recognised as an indefinite lived intangible asset, with the remaining 23.1 million recognised as goodwill.
The Company adopted FAS142 in full on 4th February 2002.
FAS142 requires that goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are no longer amortised, but instead assessed annually for impairment by applying a fair value based test.
Definite lived intangible assets continue to be amortised over their estimated useful lives.
FAS142 requires intangible assets to be reassessed as either definite lived or indefinite lived intangible assets on the date of adoption of the standard.
Accordingly, the Company continues to recognise the Premier customer list as a definite lived intangible asset with no change in the estimated useful life.
Similarly, the customer list intangible asset and the trademark intangible asset, recognised on the acquisition of BuckHickman InOne, continues to be recognised as definite lived and indefinite lived intangible assets, respectively, with no change in the estimated useful life of the customer list.
The Company performed its transitional goodwill impairment test as required by FAS142 as of 4th February 2002, being the adoption date.
The result of the transitional impairment test was the recognition of goodwill impairment of 728.0 million, which in accordance with the transitional provisions of the standard, was recorded as a cumulative effect change in accounting principle.
The Company has elected to carry out the annual impairment test required by the standard on 31st July each year.
The impairment test on 31st July 2003 resulted in the recognition of a further goodwill impairment of 39.3 million 31st July 2002: nil.
The indefinite lived trademark intangible asset has also been tested for impairment in accordance with the standard although no impairment was indicated.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS PREMIER FARNELL PLC 65 CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
