34 Premier Foods plc Independent auditors report to the members of Premier Foods plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise We read the other information contained in the annual the profit and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash report and consider the implications for our report if we ow statement, the statement of total recognised gains become aware of any apparent misstatements or material and losses, the reconciliation of movements in shareholders inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other deficit and the related notes which have been prepared information comprises only those sections set out in the under the historical cost convention as modied by the table of contents, including the chairmans statement, the revaluation of certain xed assets and the accounting chief executives review, the financial review, the biographies policies set out in the statement of accounting policies.
of directors and senior management, the directors report, We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 the unauditable part of the directors remuneration report of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in and the corporate social responsibility report.
the directors remuneration report the auditable part.
We review whether the corporate governance statement Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors reects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and report and the financial statements in accordance with we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards whether the boards statements on internal control cover are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness The directors are also responsible for preparing the of Premier Foods plcs corporate governance procedures or directors remuneration report.
its risk and control procedures.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and Basis of audit opinion the auditable part of the directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant has been prepared for and only for the companys members to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other and judgements made by the directors in the preparation purpose or to any other person to whom this report is of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting shown or into whose hands it may come save where policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all statements give a true and fair view and whether the the information and explanations which we considered financial statements and the auditable part of the directors necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to remuneration report have been properly prepared in give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report the auditable part of the directors remuneration report are to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud with the financial statements, if the company has not kept or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we proper accounting records, if we have not received all the also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation information and explanations we require for our audit, of information in the financial statements.
or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
35 Premier Foods plc Independent auditors report to the members of Premier Foods plc Fundamental uncertainty in Opinion respect of the product recall In our opinion: In forming our opinion, we have considered the adequacy of the financial statements give a true and fair view of the disclosures made in the financial statements concerning the state of affairs of the company and the group at the recall of products possibly contaminated with the illegal 31 December 2004 and of the profit and cash ows dye Sudan 1.
Given the recent nature of the recall, the of the group for the year then ended: limited number of claims received and the inherent uncertainty associated with such situations, it has not been the financial statements have been properly prepared possible to quantify fully the claims against the company and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the level of recovery from suppliers and insurers.
those parts of the directors remuneration report required The financial statements have been prepared assuming no by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 material financial exposure will result from the product recall.
have been properly prepared in accordance with the The validity of this assumption depends on the level of Companies Act 1985. claims against the company and the response from its suppliers and the insurers of both the company and its suppliers.
The directors, having taken legal advice, have made a preliminary assessment of the quantum of the claims and the expected recovery from their suppliers, their suppliers insurers and the companys own insurers.
 LLP As a result of this assessment, the directors believe that Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors no material financial exposure will arise from the recall.
London The financial statements do not include any adjustments 18 March 2005 that would result, to the extent that any claims are not covered by the companys insurers, or its suppliers and Notes: their insurers.
Details of the circumstances relating to this a The maintenance and integrity of the Premier Foods plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration fundamental uncertainty are described in note 28. of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any Our opinion is not qualied in this respect.
changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
