Independent auditors report to the members of Premier Oil plc We have audited the financial statements of Premier Oil plc for We read the directors report and the other information contained the year ended 31 December 2004 which comprise the profit and in the Annual Report for the above year as described in the loss account, the balance sheets, the cash flow statement, the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors statement of total recognised gains and losses, the reconciliation Remuneration Report and consider the implications for our report of movements in shareholders funds, the statement of accounting if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material policies and the related notes 1 to 23.
These financial statements inconsistencies with the financial statements.
have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the directors Basis of audit opinion Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the of the directors Remuneration Report described as having been companys members those matters we are required to state to audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are to anyone other than the company and the companys members appropriate to the circumstances of the company and the group, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors information and explanations which we considered necessary As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the companys directors are responsible for the preparation of assurance that the financial statements and the part of the the financial statements in accordance with applicable United directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or for the preparation of the other information contained in the other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated Annual Report including the directors Remuneration Report.
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the financial statements and the part of the directors Remuneration part of the directors Remuneration Report described as having Report described as having been audited.
been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
Opinion In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial affairs of the company and the group as at 31 December 2004 statements and the part of the directors Remuneration Report and of the profit of the group for the year then ended: and described as having been audited have been properly prepared the financial statements and part of the directors Remuneration in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to Report described as having been audited have been properly you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by Deloitte & Touche LLP law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors company and other members of the group is not disclosed.
London 23 March 2005 We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
30 Premier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2004
