co. uk INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ARRIVA PLC Independent auditors report to the members of Arriva plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Group profit and loss account, the Group balance sheet, the company balance sheet, the Group cash flow statement, the reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders funds, the statement of total recognised gains and losses, the note of historical cost profits and losses and the related notes to the accounts which have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain fixed assets, and the accounting policies set out in the statement of Accounting Policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors Remuneration Report the auditable part.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the Directors Remuneration Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or in to whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Operating Review, the Financial Review, the Corporate Responsibility Review, the Corporate Governance statement, the Directors Report and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
The maintenance and integrity of the Arriva plc website is the responsibility of the directors, the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the Group at 31 December 2004 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Newcastle upon Tyne 14 March 2005 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 33
