Independent auditors report to the members of RAC plc We have audited the financial statements opinion, the directors report is not assessment of the significant estimates on pages 44 to 78.
We have also audited consistent with the financial statements, and judgements made by the directors the information in the directors if the Company has not kept proper in the preparation of the financial remuneration report that is described accounting records, if we have not statements, and of whether the as having been audited.
received all the information and accounting policies are appropriate to explanations we require for our audit, the Groups circumstances, consistently This report is made solely to the or if information specified by law or applied and adequately disclosed.
Companys members, as a body, in the Listing Rules regarding directors accordance with section 235 of the remuneration and transactions with We planned and performed our audit Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work the Group is not disclosed.
so as to obtain all the information and has been undertaken so that we might explanations which we considered state to the Companys members those We review whether the corporate necessary in order to provide us with matters we are required to state to them governance statement on pages 32 to sufficient evidence to give reasonable in an auditors report and for no other 34 reflects the Companys compliance assurance that the financial statements purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC and the part of the directors by law, we do not accept or assume Code specified for our review by the remuneration report to be audited are responsibility to anyone other than the Listing Rules, and we report if it does free from material misstatement, whether Company and the Companys members not.
We are not required to consider caused by fraud or other irregularity or as a body, for our audit work, for this whether the Boards statements on error.
In forming our opinion we also report, or for the opinions we have internal control cover all risks and evaluated the overall adequacy of the formed.
controls, or form an opinion on the presentation of information in the financial effectiveness of the Groups corporate statements and the part of the directors Respective responsibilities governance procedures or its risk and remuneration report to be audited.
of directors and auditors control procedures.
The directors are responsible for Opinion preparing the Annual Report and the We read the other information contained In our opinion: directors remuneration report.
As in the Annual Report, including the described on page 42 this includes corporate governance statement and the financial statements give a true responsibility for preparing the financial the unaudited part of the directors and fair view of the state of affairs of statements in accordance with applicable remuneration report, and consider the Company and the Group as at 31 United Kingdom law and Accounting whether it is consistent with the audited December 2004 and of the profit of the Standards.
Our responsibilities, as financial statements.
We consider the Group for the year then ended: and independent auditors, are established implications for our report if we become in the United Kingdom by statute, the aware of any apparent misstatements the financial statements and the part Auditing Practices Board, the Listing or material inconsistencies with the of the directors remuneration report Rules of the Financial Services Authority, financial statements.
to be audited have been properly and by our professions ethical guidance.
prepared in accordance with the Basis of audit opinion Companies Act 1985.
We report to you our opinion as to We conducted our audit in accordance whether the financial statements give with Auditing Standards issued by the KPMG Audit Plc a true and fair view and whether the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Chartered Accountants financial statements and the part of the includes examination, on a test basis, Registered Auditor directors remuneration report to be of evidence relevant to the amounts and 8 Salisbury Square, London, EC4Y 8BB audited have been properly prepared disclosures in the financial statements 16 February 2005 in accordance with the Companies Act and the part of the directors remuneration 1985.
We also report to you if, in our report to be audited.
It also includes an RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2004 43
