APPROVAL OF THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The directors are responsible for the maintenance of proper accounting records and the preparation, integrity and fair presentation of the financial statements of Randgold Resources Limited and its subsidiaries.
The financial statements, presented on pages 65 to 86, have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and include amounts based on judgements and estimates made by management.
The directors also prepared the other information included in the annual report and are responsible for both its accuracy and its consistency with the financial statements.
The directors also have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The going concern basis has been adopted in preparing the financial statements.
The directors have no reason to believe that the group will not be a going concern in the foreseeable future based on forecasts and available cash resources.
The viability of the company and the group is supported by the financial statements.
The financial statements have been audited by the independent accounting firm,  LLP, United Kingdom, which was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of shareholders, the board of directors and committees of the board.
The directors believe that all representations made to the independent auditors, during their audit were valid and appropriate.
 LLPs audit report is presented below.
The financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 8 March 2005 and are signed on its behalf by: P Litard DM Bristow Chairman Chief executive Jersey, Channel Islands 8 March 2005 REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF RANDGOLD RESOURCES LIMITED We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of the company and its subsidiaries the group as of 31 December 2004, and the related consolidated statements of income, cash flows and changes in shareholders equity for the year then ended.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the group's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.
This opinion has been prepared for and only for the companys members in accordance with Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or in to whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing.
Those Standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the items listed in the contents section of the annual report, excluding the 2004 audited financial statements.
We also, at the request of the directors because the company applies the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules as if it is a listed company incorporated in the United Kingdom, review whether the corporate governance statement on pages 52 to 55 reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Financial Reporting Council Combined Code, specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on interfinal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the company and the group as of 31 December 2004, and of the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and Companies Jersey Law 1991.
 LLP London, United Kingdom Chartered accountants 14 March 2005 PAGE SIXTY-FOUR FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
