36 Operating and Financial Review continued Net debt 2004 m Opening net debt 700.5 Free cash ow 36.3 Acquisitions, investments and disposals 44.8 Conversion of convertible loan 65.0 Foreign currency translation 33.2 Other 4.1 Closing net debt 606.7 Net debt at 31 December 2004 was 606.7m compared with 700.5m at 31 December 2003.
Net debt as a percentage of shareholders funds was 149% compared to 153% at 31 December 2003.
Pensions FRS 17 In accordance with the provisions of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, at 31 December 2004 the deficit on the Groups defined benefit plans was 24.3m 2003 50.1m after deferred tax.
Treasury policy Rank seeks to achieve certainty of value on its foreign currency purchases and sales by buying or selling forward a portion of its estimated net currency requirements up to a year ahead, or longer where an external currency exposure exists, or is forecast to exist.
Balance sheet currency exposure in respect of investments in overseas subsidiaries is minimised by hedging the underlying asset postion with currency borrowings or through the use of currency swaps.
Rank seeks to protect itself against material adverse movements in interest rates by undertaking controlled management of the interest rate structure on Group investments and borrowings.
This exposure is managed by fixing interest rates on a portion of the Groups borrowings dependent on the level of gearing.
The Directors review and agree the broad policies and guidelines for all significant areas of treasury activity, including key ratios, funding and risk management.
Implementation of these policies is carried out by the Group treasury department, under close management direction.
The treasury function is not operated as a profit centre.
Rank uses off-balance sheet financial instruments, including foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps, in its management of exchange rate and interest rate exposures.
Off-balance sheet financial instruments are only used to hedge underlying commercial exposures.
Therefore, while these instruments are subject to the risk of loss from changes in exchange rates and interest rates, such losses would be offset by gains in the related exposures.
Rank does not speculate in derivative financial instruments.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses on foreign exchange forward contracts that hedge firm third party commitments are recognised in income in the same period as the underlying transaction.
Net interest paid or received on interest swap contracts is included in net interest expense.
Further information on borrowings and financial instruments is contained in notes 18 and 19 to the accounts.
