INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RECKITT BENCKISER plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Basis of audit opinion profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash flow We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued statement, the consolidated statement of total recognised gains by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, and losses, the reconciliation of movements in total shareholders on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures funds, the accounting policies and the related notes, excluding in the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors note 4c.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation Remuneration Report the auditable part.
of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors and adequately disclosed.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide standards are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable Remuneration Report are free from material misstatement, whether part of the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with relevant caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom auditing we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including information in the financial statements.
the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Opinion Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this In our opinion: opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2004 hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year in writing.
then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and with the Companies Act 1985: and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report required by We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding the Directors Remuneration Report and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and  LLP consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial London statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans 21 March 2005 statement, the Chief Executives review, the financial review, report Notes on corporate social responsibility, biographies of the Board of The maintenance and integrity of the Reckitt Benckiser website is Directors and Executive Committee, Report of the Directors, the the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the five-year does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, summary and shareholder information.
the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC presented on the website.
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal in other jurisdictions.
control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
