INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPOR T We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reflects the Independent Auditors report to the members of Redrow plc Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code We have audited the financial statements which comprise the issued in June 1998 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the consolidated profit and loss account, the Group and Company balance Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes which required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control have been prepared under the accounting policies set out in the statement cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of of accounting policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required by the Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the control procedures.
Remuneration report the auditable part.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial and accounting standards are set out in the Statement of Directors statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration report.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made Remuneration report.
by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys part of the Remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration report are free purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity for any other purpose or to any other person other than the Company to or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where the presentation of information in the financial statements.
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a In our opinion: true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditablethe financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs part of the Remuneration report have been properly prepared in of the Company and the Group at 30 June 2004 and of the profit and accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financialthe financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we with the Companies Act 1985: and have not received all the information and explanations we require for ourthose parts of the Remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in and transactions is not disclosed.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report,  LLP the unaudited part of the Remuneration report, the Chairmans statement, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the Chief Executives review, the Financial review, the Corporate Social Manchester Responsibility review and the Corporate Governance statement.
