Statement of directors responsibilities 19 19 Company law requires the directors to prepare financial prepare the financial statements on the going concern statements for each financial year which give a true and fair basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group view of the state of affairs of the company and the group and will continue in business.
of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting statements, the directors are required to:- records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time select suitable accounting policies and then apply the financial position of the company and to enable them to them consistently: ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for make judgements and estimates that are reasonable taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to and prudent: safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and state whether applicable accounting standards have been detect fraud and other irregularities.
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: Report of the independent auditors to the members of Renishaw plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 20 to 35. consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial We have also audited the information in the Directors statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act Basis of audit opinion 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing required to state to them in an auditors report and for no Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and Company and the Companys members as a body, for our the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
and the Directors remuneration report.
As described above, this includes responsibility for preparing the financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom information and explanations which we considered necessary law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are the Financial Services Authority and by our professions free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud ethical guidance.
or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial information in the financial statements and the part of the statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial Directors remuneration report to be audited.
statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are properly prepared in accordance with the Opinion Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial In our opinion: statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting the financial statements give a true and fair view of the records, if we have not received all the information and state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 30th explanations we require for our audit, or if information June 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the year then specified by law regarding directors remuneration and ended: and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors We review whether the statement on page 17 reflects the remuneration report to be audited have been properly Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of KPMG Audit Plc Marlborough House the Groups corporate governance procedures, or its risk and Chartered Accountants Fitzalan Court control procedures.
Registered Auditor Cardiff We read the other information contained in the Annual report, 21st July 2004 CF24 0TE including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report and
