 for the financial statements Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each iv prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue and of the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those in business.
financial statements, the directors are required to: The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which i select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the ii make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply iii state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to statements: and prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Independent auditors report to the members of Rolls-Royce Group plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 52 to 85.
We have also remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited audited the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become having been audited.
aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, in financial statements.
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those Basis of audit opinion matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the directors policies are appropriate to the group's circumstances, consistently applied and remuneration report.
As described on this page, this includes responsibility for adequately disclosed.
preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable United We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material ethical guidance.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in report to be audited.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company Opinion has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified affairs of the Company and the Group as at December 31, 2004 and of the profit by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of not disclosed.
the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in We review whether the corporate governance statement on pages 33 to 36 accordance with the Companies Act 1985. reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal KPMG Audit Plc control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Chartered Accountants, Registered Auditor Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
London We read the other information contained in the Annual report, including the February 9, 2005 corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors 86 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2004
