Independent Auditors Report Rotork 31 to the Members of Rotork p. l. c. Annual Report 2004 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ROTORK p. l. c. We have audited the financial statements on we have not received all the information and We planned and performed our audit so as pages 32 to 59.
We have also audited the explanations we require for our audit, or if to obtain all the information and explanations information in the directors remuneration information specified by law regarding which we considered necessary in order to report that is described as having been directors remuneration and transactions provide us with sufficient evidence to give audited.
with the Group is not disclosed.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors This report is made solely to the Companys We review whether the corporate governance remuneration report to be audited are free members, as a body, in accordance with statement on pages 19 to 21 reflects the from material misstatement, whether caused section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our Companys compliance with the nine provisions by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In audit work has been undertaken so that we of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review forming our opinion we also evaluated the might state to the Companys members those by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does overall adequacy of the presentation of matters we are required to state to them in not.
We are not required to consider whether information in the financial statements and an auditors report and for no other purpose.
the Boards statements on internal control the part of the directors remuneration report To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion to be audited.
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate other than the Company and the Companys governance procedures or its risk and control Opinion members as a body, for our audit work, for procedures.
In our opinion: this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We read the other information contained the financial statements give a true and in the Annual Report, including the corporate fair view of the state of affairs of the Respective responsibilities of governance statement and the unaudited Company and the Group as at 31 directors and auditors part of the directors remuneration report, December 2004 and of the profit of the The directors are responsible for preparing and consider whether it is consistent with Group for the year then ended: and the Annual Report and the directors the audited financial statements.
We consider the financial statements and the part of remuneration report.
As described on page the implications for our report if we become the directors remuneration report to be 17, this includes responsibility for preparing aware of any apparent misstatements or audited have been properly prepared in the financial statements in accordance with material inconsistencies with the financial accordance with the Companies Act applicable United Kingdom law and accounting statements.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom Basis of audit opinion KPMG Audit Plc by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the We conducted our audit in accordance with Bristol Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Chartered Accountants and by our professions ethical guidance.
An audit includes examination, Registered Auditor on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the 1 March 2005 We report to you our opinion as to whether amounts and disclosures in the financial the financial statements give a true and fair statements and the part of the directors view and whether the financial statements remuneration report to be audited.
It also and the part of the directors remuneration includes an assessment of the significant report to be audited have been properly estimates and judgements made by the prepared in accordance with the Companies directors in the preparation of the financial Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our statements, and of whether the accounting opinion, the directors report is not consistent policies are appropriate to the Groups with the financial statements, if the Company circumstances, consistently applied and has not kept proper accounting records, if adequately disclosed.
