SABMiller plc 53 Independent Auditors Report to the members of SABMiller plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks profit and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash flow and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses companys or groups corporate governance procedures or its and the related notes which have been prepared under the risk and control procedures.
historical cost convention and the accounting policies set out in the statement of accounting policies.
We have also audited the Basis of audit opinion disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards Act, 1985 contained in the directors remuneration report issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes the auditable part.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
It also The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and includes an assessment of the significant estimates and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies statement of directors responsibilities.
The directors are also are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently responsible for preparing the directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the auditable part of the directors remuneration report in information and explanations which we considered necessary accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been of the directors remuneration report are free from material prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act, 1985 and or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other statements.
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come, save where expressly agreed by our prior consent Opinion in writing.
In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial of the state of affairs of the company and the group at 31 March statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial 2004 and the profit and cash flows of the group for the year statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration then ended: the financial statements have been properly report have been properly prepared in accordance with the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act, 1985: and Companies Act, 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, those parts of the directors remuneration report required by the directors report is not consistent with the financial Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act, 1985 have been statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act, 1985. records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We read the other information contained in the annual report London as described in the contents, including the unaudited part of the 7 June 2004 remuneration report, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code issued in June 1998 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider
