62 Independent Auditors Report Basis of audit opinion Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Consolidated Profit and Loss Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the Account, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Company Balance Sheet, the Consolidated amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of the Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and the Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders' Funds and the related notes which judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of have been prepared under the historical cost convention and the accounting policies set whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company's circumstances, out in the statement of accounting policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Remuneration Report the auditable part.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in Remuneration Report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the statement of directors' responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the In our opinion: Remuneration Report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a the Group at 30 September 2004 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other then ended: purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may Act 1985: and come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair those parts of the Remuneration Report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also Act 1985. report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors' Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications  LLP for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Newcastle upon Tyne Financial Review, the Directors' Report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report, the 22 December 2004 Chairman's Statement, the Chief Executive's Review, the Corporate Social Responsibility and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Company's compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code issued in June 1998 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's or Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
