Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 51 Independent Auditors Report To the members of Scottish & Newcastle plc We have audited the Groups financial of the Directors is not consistent with the We planned and performed our audit statements for the year ended financial statements, if the Company has so as to obtain all the information 31 December 2004 which comprise not kept proper accounting records, and explanations which we considered the Group profit and Loss Account, Group if we have not received all the information necessary in order to provide us sufficient Balance Sheet, Company Balance Sheet, and explanations we require for our audit, evidence to give reasonable assurance Group Cash Flow Statement, Statement or if information specified by law or that the financial statements and the part of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, the Listing Rules regarding directors of the Directors Remuneration Report Note on Historical Cost profits and Losses, remuneration and transactions with to be audited are free from material Reconciliation of Movement in Shareholders the Group is not disclosed.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud Funds and the related notes 1 to 40.
These or other irregularity or error.
In forming We review whether the Corporate financial statements have been prepared on our opinion we also evaluated the overall Governance Statement reects the the basis of the accounting policies set out adequacy of the presentation of information Companys compliance with the nine therein.
We have also audited the information in the financial statements and the part provisions of the 2003 FRC Code in the Directors Remuneration Report that of the Directors Remuneration Report specified for our review by the Listing is described as having been audited.
Rules of the Financial Services Authority This report is made solely to the Companys and we report if it does not.
We are not Opinion members, as a body, in accordance with required to consider whether the Boards In our opinion: Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. statements on internal control cover all The financial statements give a true Our audit work has been undertaken risks and controls, or form an opinion on and fair view of the state of affairs so that we might state to the Companys the effectiveness of the Groups corporate of the Company and of the Group members those matters we are required governance procedures or its risk and as at 31 December 2004 and of the to state to them in an auditors report control procedures.
profit of the Group for the year then and for no other purpose.
To the fullest We read other information contained ended: and extent permitted by law, we do not accept in the Report and Accounts and consider The financial statements and the part or assume responsibility to anyone other whether it is consistent with the audited of the Directors Remuneration Report than the Company and the Companys financial statements.
This other information to be audited have been properly members as a body, for our audit work, comprises the Chairmans Statement, prepared in accordance with the for this report, or for the opinions we the Chief Executives Questions and Companies Act 1985. have formed.
Answers, the Report of the Directors, Ernst & Young LLP Respective responsibilities unaudited part of the Directors Registered Auditor of directors and auditors Remuneration Report, Operating and Edinburgh The directors are responsible for preparing Financial Reviews, Corporate Governance 23 February 2005 the Report and Accounts, including the Report, Five Year Record and the other financial statements which are required to items listed in the table of contents.
We Notes: be prepared in accordance with applicable consider the implications for our report The maintenance and integrity of the United Kingdom law and accounting if we become aware of any apparent Scottish & Newcastle plc website is standards as set out in the Statement misstatements or material the responsibility of the directors: the of Directors Responsibilities in relation inconsistencies with the financial work carried out by the auditors does to the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not involve consideration of these matters not extend to any other information.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial and, accordingly, the auditors accept no statements and the part of the Directors Basis of audit opinion responsibility for any changes that may Remuneration Report to be audited We conducted our audit in accordance have occurred to the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and with United Kingdom Auditing Standards since they were initially presented on the regulatory requirements, United Kingdom issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules An audit includes examination, on a of the Financial Services Authority.
test basis, of evidence relevant to the Legislation in the United Kingdom amounts and disclosures in the financial governing the preparation and We report to you our opinion as to whether statements and the part of the Directors dissemination of financial statements may the financial statements give a true and Remuneration Report to be audited.
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
fair view and whether the financial It also includes an assessment of the statements and the part of the Directors significant estimates and judgements Remuneration Report to be audited have made by the directors in the preparation been properly prepared in accordance of the financial statements, and of whether with the Companies Act 1985.
We also the accounting policies are appropriate report to you if, in our opinion, the Report to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
