We are not required to consider whether the Independent Auditors Report boards statements on internal control cover all risks and to the members of Scottish Power plc controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the We have audited the Accounts which comprise the Accounting companys or groups corporate governance procedures or its Policies and Definitions, the Group Profit and Loss Accounts, risk and control procedures.
the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, the Note of Basis of audit opinion Historical Cost Profits and Losses, the Reconciliation of We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards Movements in Shareholders Funds, the Group Cash Flow issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Statement, the Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow to Movement in examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Net Debt, the Group Balance Sheet, the Statement of Principal and disclosures in the Accounts and the auditable part of the Subsidiary Undertakings and Other Investments, the Company Remuneration Report of the Directors.
It also includes an Balance Sheet and the related notes.
We have also audited the assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies the directors in the preparation of the Accounts, and of whether Act 1985 contained in the Remuneration Report of the Directors the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups the auditable part.
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report the information and explanations which we considered and Accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of reasonable assurance that the Accounts and the auditable part of directors responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for the Remuneration Report of the Directors are free from material preparing the Remuneration Report of the Directors.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or Our responsibility is to audit the Accounts and the auditable error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall part of the Remuneration Report of the Directors in accordance adequacy of the presentation of information in the Accounts.
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Opinion Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices In our opinion: Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for the Accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with the company and the group at 31 March 2004 and of the Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
profit and cash flows of the group for the year then ended: We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility the Accounts have been properly prepared in accordance for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is with the Companies Act 1985: and shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly those parts of the Remuneration Report of the Directors agreed by our prior consent in writing.
required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act We report to you our opinion as to whether the Accounts 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the give a true and fair view and whether the Accounts and the Companies Act 1985. auditable part of the Remuneration Report of the Directors have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the Directors is not consistent with the Accounts, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received  LLP all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration Glasgow and transactions is not disclosed.
25 May 2004 We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and Accounts and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or Notes: material inconsistencies with the Accounts.
The other a The maintenance and integrity of the Scottish Power plc information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Chief website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried Executives Review, the Business Review, the Financial Review, out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these the Corporate Governance statement, and the unaudited part of matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility the Remuneration Report of the Directors.
for any changes that may have occurred to the Accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the the Combined Code issued in June 1998 specified for our review preparation and dissemination of financial statements may by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 147
