33 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SEVERN TRENT PLC We have audited the financial statements which comprise the group Basis of audit opinion profit and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards the statement of total recognised gains and losses, movements in issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes shareholders funds, reconciliation of net cashflow to movement in examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts net debt and the related notes.
We have also audited the disclosures and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of contained in the directors remuneration report the auditable the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in part.
the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement information and explanations which we considered necessary in of directors responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable preparing the directors remuneration report.
assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report are free from material misstatement, Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our auditable part of the directors remuneration report in accordance opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom of information in the financial statements.
Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Opinion companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of In our opinion: the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other affairs of the company and the group at 31 March 2004 and of purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into the profit and cash flows of the group for the year then ended: whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior the financial statements have been properly prepared in consent in writing.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and those parts of the directors remuneration report required by Part We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the auditable part of the remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also  LLP report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper Birmingham accounting records, if we have not received all the information and 7 June 2004 explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the directors report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the chairmans statement, the group chief executives review, the review of operations, corporate responsibility, financial review, directors responsibility in relation to financial statements and the five year summary.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code issued in June 1998 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys or the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
