6169 UK GAAP 2004. qxd 7 12 05 1:57 PM Page 32 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members Basis of audit opinion of Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc: We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom We have audited the financial statements of Shire Pharmaceuticals auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2004 which comprise audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant the consolidated profit and loss account, the balance sheets, to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having of total recognised gains and losses and the related Notes 1 been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant to 32.
These financial statements have been prepared under the estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies information in the part of the Directors remuneration report that are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the is described as having been audited.
Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. information and explanations which we considered necessary Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable to the Companys members those matters we are required to assurance that the financial statements and the part of the state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Directors remuneration report described as having been audited To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors As described in the Statement of Directors responsibilities, Opinion the Companys Directors are responsible for the preparation In our opinion: of the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of for the preparation of the other information contained in the affairs of the Group and the Company as at 31 December 2004 annual report including the Directors remuneration report.
and of the loss of the Group for the year then ended: and Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been the financial statements and part of the Directors remuneration audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and report described as having been audited have been properly regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Deloitte & Touche LLP statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report Reading described as having been audited have been properly prepared 24 March 2005 in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
