40 SkyePharma Annual Report 2004 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SkyePharma PLC We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit and loss Basis of audit opinion account, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement of total We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the recognised gains and losses, the reconciliation of movements in shareholders Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of funds and the related notes which have been prepared under the historical cost evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements convention and the accounting policies set out in the statement of accounting and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors remuneration report Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the auditable part.
the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us and accounting standards are set out in the statement of Directors with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report.
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
of the Directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Opinion Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared In our opinion: for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other of the company and the Group at 31 December 2004 and of the loss person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give those parts of the Directors remuneration report required by Part 3 a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared part of the Directors remuneration report have been properly prepared in in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements,  LLP if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, London or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and 31 May 2005 transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the corporate and financial highlights, report of the Directors, the chairmans statement, the review of operations, the financial review, the corporate Governance statement, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report and the reconciliation to US accounting principles.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
